
Indicators in Back Pain 

Back pain usually starts with signals or indicators. For instance, if your back hurt at one time and stopped, and later it started it again, you received your indicator at the start. In short, the first time your back started hurting is the sign. You want to pinpoint when the first pain started. Once you pinpoint the starting date, you will need to consider what inspired your back pain. For instance, did you fall? Were you in a motorized accident? 

Once you find the trigger of your back pain, you want to consider the symptoms. Did you feel pain? Did you feel weak? Was your back stiff or numb? 

Now you can use the indicators to discover where the pain started. Did the pain start at the lower back? Was the pain at the top area? Did the pain cause additional pain, such as around the neck? Was the pain intermittent? Did the pain consistently cause stress? Did the pain shoot to other areas of the body? 

Did the pain get worse, when you walked, stood, sit, or lie down? Did the pain decrease, or did it increase? 

When you first hurt your back did the pain stop, or did it frequently hurt? Did the pain cause long-term problems? Did the pain leave right away? 

When you first injured your back, did the symptoms change gradually? Did the symptoms interrupt your daily duties? How did the symptoms change? How did the symptoms interrupt your daily duties? 

Answering the questions can help you inform your doctor, as well as understand the cause of your condition. If you were in an accident and sought medical support when you first damaged your spine, you may want to consider what tests were used to spot your condition. What did you doctor find? 

If you sought medical support and your doctor recommended treatment, what was that treatment? How did the treatment help your back condition? If the treatment helped your condition, can you try the remedies now? 

Is your back pain caused from surgery, joint conditions, musculoskeletal disorders, or disease? 

Does your job require mandatory lifting of heavy objects? Is your job emotional stressful? Do you stand long hours? Do you sit long hours? 

How are your exercise habits? Do you workout often. Do you engage in stretch exercises? What is your stress level? Do you do something active to relieve stress? 

Is there a hereditary back problem in your history? 

Once you ask questions related to your back condition you might want to mark points that you can mention later to your doctor. Noting the problems can help you and your doctor find the cause. Often patients fail to do this, which is why many back pain problems go unnoticed. 

If your back pain has recently started again after the initial indicator, you may use treatments at home to relieve the pain, unless it is demanding. Rest is a common treatment doctor prescribes to reduce back pain. I am a fan to chiropractor support, yet some people have issues with this notion, therefore if you feel a chiropractor can benefit you, seek support. Massage and physical therapy is also recommended to reduce back pain. In many areas, massage therapists are available, which charge reasonable fees. Check your areas to learn more about massage therapy. Common stretch exercises can reduce back pain, which has emerged from tension. If you overworked the muscles, you may want to rest and do a few exercises later. 

Whatever you do, avoid ignoring the indicators. Once pain starts in the back, note the area and discuss the problem with your doctor. 

