
Musculoskeletal Disorders and Back Pain 

Musculoskeletal Disorders is a developmental collision, or impact that causes fear of dismissal and/or rejection, alterations in body images, dependency, and embarrassment, which emerges, from the body structural changes and the function of the body. The emotional and mental status is affected, which causes emerge from the impacts in developmental and economic changes. 

Now, you may ask, how this relates to back pain, however if you consider that range of motion (ROM) is interrupted, posture, and other elements of the skeletal are restricted, thus you see back pain. 

Usually when a person experiences impacts from economics, it causes a disruption of workflow, as well as job loss. The changes in economics include hospitalization cost, special equipment expenses, home health care cost, and restrains on vocations. Often when a person has musculoskeletal disorders it causes restrictions on heavy lifting, limited activities, limited ROM, immobility, stress, and so forth. The factors of risk include early menopause, aging, and illness. 

Musculoskeletal disorders cause lower back pain, since the skeleton, skeletal muscles, ligaments, tendons, joints, synovium, cartilages, and bursa is interrupted. 

The skeleton alone makes up “206 bones.” The bones are flat, short, long, and at times asymmetrical. The bones produce calcium, phosphate, magnesium, etc, which the bone marrow produces RBC, or red blood cells. The bones and fluids work with the muscles by providing them support and the ability to move. Protected internal organs also function from these bones. 

The bones rely on the skeletal muscles, which supply motion and posture. The muscles contract through tighten and shorten process. Each muscle attaches to bones via the tendons and start contracting when stimulated by muscle fiber and the motor unit, or neurons. We get out energy from the contractions and actions. 

When the skeletal muscles, skeleton, and other elements of the body are interrupted, it can lead to musculoskeletal disorders. The symptoms emerge, which include low back pain, fatigue, numbness, limited mobility, stiff joints, swelling, fever, and so on. 

During the physical exam, the doctor will search for edema, abnormal vitals, limited ROM, inflammation, poor posture, Tophi, muscle spasms, and so forth. Skin breakdown, deformed skeletal, weak, and rigid muscles, abnormal temperature, and skin discoloration can link to musculoskeletal disorders as well. 

The doctor usually orders a variety of tests to spot such conditions. The test includes graphic recordings that show the muscles and its contractions, as well as activity tests to review the muscles. About 2/3 of the general population suffers with musculoskeletal disorders. 

Doctors will also order bone scans, arthrocentesis, arthroscopy, EMG (Electromyography) blood chemistry tests, studies of hematologic, X-rays, and so forth to search for musculoskeletal disorders. 

Since musculoskeletal disorders affect the body, it will also diminish the mental and emotional health. Doctors consider the disorders heavily, since it impacts social, economics, and development. In addition, risks are involved, which include obesity, malnutrition, stress, and so on. 

According to experts, musculoskeletal disorders may link to deficiencies in calcium, potassium, phosphate, nitrogen, protein, glucose bicarbonate, and so on. Rheumatoid factors are considered when blood chemistry tests are performed, since doctors believe that this disorder is, in some instances behind musculoskeletal disorders. 

Still, we must consider neurological conditions. Doctors who study the nervous system have outlined disorders of the nerves in various ways. The pain often starts in one area when neurological disorders are present, yet will move to other regions. The action makes it difficult for experts to discover the cause, since the pain travels. 

Neurological disorders may start with numb disks, or pain in the leg region. The pain however is not the starting point; rather it is a sign that you have a neurological condition. The pain typically emerges from other areas of concern, such as the disk. 

