Rheumatoid arthritis and Back Pain 

Rheumatoid arthritis causes back pain to occur. The disease is a systemic disease that causes inflammation, which targets the synovial joint liners. This is where back pain starts. Rheumatoid arthritis may link to genetic transmissions or autoimmune illnesses according to etiology aspects. Physically speaking Rheumatoid arthritis inflames the synovial membranes, which often affects the pannus. This action causes destruction in the ligaments, bones, and the cartilages. Once the pannus is hit, fibrotic tissues start to replace the pannus. Calcification also replaces the pannus, which results in joint subluxation conditions. Calcification is abnormal hardening, which causes swelling and joint stiffness. 

Symptoms; 
Once potential Rheumatoid arthritis is detected the doctor considers the symptoms before moving to diagnostics. The patient may experience anorexia (Eating disorder), malaise, fatigue, limited range of motion (ROM), subcutaneous nodules, pain and swollen joints, and rises in body temperature. The joints may also demonstrate mirrored images, which is noted when the symmetrical joints swell. Stiffness in the waking hours often occurs as well, which is followed by “paresthesia of the” feet and hands. Patients also demonstrate signs of crepitus, inflamed lymph nodes, pericarditis, leukopenia, and splenomegaly. 

Pericarditis causes swelling. As you can see with so much swelling, the pain will spread out reaching the back. Rheumatoid arthritis itself causes stiffness of the muscles and joints, which creates immeasurable pain. Most times the problem occurs from injury and/or infections. 

How doctors discover Rheumatoid arthritis?
Doctors conduct tests, including x-rays, latex fixation, gamma globulin, synovial fluid analysis, and hematology tests. If the tests show positive results, such as spacing between narrow joints, erosion of bones, platelet, WBC, ESR increases, IgM and IgG increases, decrease of opaque and viscosity, and rheumatoid, thus a diagnostic is set. 

Once the diagnostics are concluded management, interventions, stress reduction, etc are incorporated to treat the patient. 

Management often leads to heat/cold therapy, gold therapy, etc. Gold therapy is used to intervene with infections reaching the inner central of the muscle layers, thus averting them from reaching the wall of the heart. The joints are often extended when and kept in form. Skin care, emotional care, etc are also prescribed. 

How to reduce pain: 
You will find helpful information at the Foundation of Arthritis. In the meantime, doctors often prescribe stress-reduction strategies. As well, the patient is advised to avoid stress, infections, colds, and remedies that have no concrete discoveries that help Rheumatoid arthritis. 

Environmental stress should also be reduced to slow swelling, redness, and pain. Doctors prescribed range of motion exercises, warm compressors, heat therapy, etc to treat Rheumatoid arthritis. Try a few stretch exercises and stay clear of people who elevate your emotions. 

It is important when you are diagnosed with any disorder, including Rheumatoid arthritis that you seek emotional and mental support. Express your feelings, otherwise suppression will only increase your symptoms, as well as pain. In addition, you want to learn to live in a calm environment, as well as provide comprehensive care for your feet and skin. Make it a daily habit. If the condition worsens, you may have to endure surgical procedures, such as synovectomy and/or joint replacement. 

Unfortunately, Rheumatoid arthritis can lead to carpal tunnel syndrome. The disease carpal tunnel syndrome starts in the hands, yet the pain will spread. 

In addition to Rheumatoid arthritis, gouty arthritis can cause back pain. Any form of arthritis limits movement, which causes damage to the joints, cartilages, connective tissues, muscles, bones, etc. Anytime these skeletal and linking elements in the body are interrupted back pain follows. To understand how arthritic symptoms cause back pain, learn more about gouty arthritis. 


