

Taking Action to Reduce Back Pain 

The song, “My ankle bone is connected to my knee bone,’ comes to mind each time I write articles on back pain. Now I know why. Each bone within the structures of the skeletal muscles plays a vital part in our health. If any of these bones, muscles, tendons, etc are disturbed it can lead to serious back problems. Back problems include slipped herniated disks, broken back, fractures, and so on. Each condition is caused from a string of actions, activities, incorrect movement, overexertion, etc, which exceptions include disease. 

Back pain is complex, since various aspects of the human makeup creates such pain. For instance, connective tissues can lead to serious back pain, quicker than bursa bruising. The baffling mechanisms behind back pain has lead scores of doctors off shore, since many struggle to see that the central nervous system alongside the spinal columns play a vital part in back pain creation. 

According to statistics over a million people on a daily ricketier scale suffers either minor or severe back pain. About ½ or more of these people could have prevented back pain, and found relief without seeking medical treatment. The other half of this unstable, million scale may endure back pain for their course of their life, since they fail to use practicality in resolving the problem. 

In some cases, such as a 1/3 of the ricketier scale of people, surgery is performed to correct the problems. Surgery often leads to major complications, including severe back pain. Go figure, yet surgical procedures are unhealthy and its history has proven this notion. Even if you damage a shoulder ligament or tendon, you can take measures to avert surgery and relieve your pain. 

Did you know that loosing weight could reduce back pain? Obesity is spreading throughout the world and in every corner, thus adding pressure to the muscles, which lead to back pain. “Oh my feet are killing me,’ which is commonly heard. What this person fails to realize is that he/she may be overweight, wearing the wrong shoes, and overexerting the bearing joints. We can stop this pain in its track by wearing correct shoes, loosing weight, and remove excessive weight from the weight-bearing joints and muscles. The problem is more and more people are gaining weight, since our FDA has allowed additives in to meats, which promote cravings. Practicality tells us that organics is the way to stop FDA and meat manufacturers in their tracks, as well as stopping obesity to a large grade. 

In view of the fact, you can graduate my dear “Sir Watson,” from elementary and move up to college. 

How to relieve pain from slipped herniated disks? 
You can choose the right way or the wrong way to relieve herniated disk damage. The wrong way can include alcoholism and drugs, which lead to bigger problems. 

Ultimately, you can ignore the problem, continue adding weight and pressure to the area, and finally spend the rest of your life, lying down. On the other hand, you can learn how to lean and bend correctly, curl to relieve pain, loose weight (If applicable), wear correct fitting shoes, and so forth. 

Did you know that curling up in a proper fetal position can reduce pain and agony at the back caused from herniated slipped disks? Well, get on your side and curl those knees up to your chest so you can find out for yourself. When you finish, let me know how you feel. When curling into a fetal position, place a cushion or pillow amid your knees and avoid folding tightly. Do not elevate the hips. 

