The Outline of the Spine Defining Back Pain 

Outline of the spine: 
I believe that outlining the spine can help you see the elements that make up our person, as well as give us the ability to perform daily. The spine at the top includes two vertebras and separates by the cervical vertebrae. Between the joining vertebrae are disks and the associating nerve roots. Down toward the center back is the thoracic vertebrae, which below it is the body of the spine. Joining these elements below is the neuroformen, which is slightly higher than the disk that separates the two spines. Below the disk are the nerve roots and to the other side are the lumbar vertebrae. Below the nerve roots is the facet joints and almost adjacent is the pelvis. Below the joints is the sacrum, which adjacent is the sacroiliac joint. The coccyx sits at the bottom of the second vertebrae and completes the spinal column. 

Having an outline of the spine can help one appreciate how the back is structured and to see areas that could lead to back pain. 

As we look at the outline, it can help us to appreciate that the spine makes up elements that help us to move, bend, slope, and twist, which each movement can cause back injuries. 

Within the structure of the spine, we have separate bones. The total count is “34,” which these bones connect with the spinal unit, facet joints, vertebral body, disks, spinal unit, and the facet joints at the lower section. 

The coccyx alone makes up the fuse bones, which is around five or less. The bones rest at the base of the spine. The fuse bones are the tailbone in basic language and disable us, since the limb does not poise the spine. Rather the spine is our balance mechanism. Now, when we loose poise, it could cause falls. 

The coccyx is at risk, since it could break and lead to coccygodynia. Coccygodynia is a back condition that causes serious pain. 

How the coccyx is broke? 
The coccyx can be broke when a car accident occurs. In addition, trauma impacts can break the coccyx, as well as falling backwards. 

How can I tell if I have coccygodynia? 
A stabbing pain often occurs in the back, which sometimes the pain is sharp. This is a clear indication that potential damage has occurred to the coccyx. If you have difficulty sitting, you may have coccygodynia also. If sitting is difficult, likely you will feel pressure at the right side. Sometimes bowel movement is difficult as well. 

What should I do if these symptoms arise? 
Ask your doctor to test you, using x-rays. If the x-ray is negative however, you may have only bruised your coccyx. 

Additional fused bones climb the steps up the spine, making up another five bones. The sacrum meets in this area, which is a bone as well. The sacrum is a triangular-like bone at the lower back and joins with the hipbone on either side, forming the pelvis. The sacrum connects to the only area of the back limbs at the lower region. At the outer area of the pelvis rests the iliac bones. The larger bones connect to the joints known as sacroiliac. The joints are part of the hip ilium bones and the joints between the sacrum and the ilium. 

The joints at this area shape similar to a horses saddle and interfaces the pelvis sides flanking between the pelvis and sacrum. Why are we discussing this area, since it really does not make up the spine? Because, this region is the single common section of the connective parts to the spine, where the lower back pain starts due to asymmetric, and deformity. 

