Title: 
5 Easy Ways to Increase Your Business Using a Toll-Free Number

Word Count:
310

Summary:
Toll-free numbers can be used by business owners to increase sales, but also promote goodwill among potential customers. Read this article on the advantages that a toll-free number may represent for your business.


Keywords:
toll-free number, long distance calls, long-distance number, business toll free number


Article Body:
Toll-free numbers allow customers to contact your business without them having to pay for their call.  Studies have shown that consumers are more likely to call a business with a toll-free number than those who only have a long-distance number, and 90% of Americans say that they use toll-free numbers.  By following these five easy steps, you can discover for yourself how a toll-number can help your business grow.

1. Expand your market.  Toll-free numbers allow you to use the same number for receiving local toll and state-to-state calls.  This gives you the opportunity to market your business nationwide.  Even if you don't provide service in certain areas, toll-free numbers have the flexibility to block calls from those areas.

2. Advertise your number.  Toll-free numbers lend an air of legitimacy and professionalism to your business.  By using a toll-free number, your business may appear larger and more established to the consumer which will make him/her trust you more.

3. Initiate a direct response mechanism for impulse buyers.  By allowing your customers an avenue to immediately react to your company's efforts calling for their action, this prompts significant increases in phone orders.  It has been found that these buyers generally order more merchandise and higher ticket items nearly every time they call.

4. Qualify your buyers.  Toll-free numbers enable your business to use time more efficiently and effectively.  With a toll-free number, you know that someone who has called your business is already interested in what you have to offer.  You spend less time trying to find interested prospects and let the number find them for you.

5. Analyze your call detail.  Toll-free numbers allow you to track calls and access all of a call's details such as the number, time, date and duration of every call.  This information cannot be blocked and is an excellent tool for generating leads which can lead to more sales.


