Title: 
A Quick Guide to Spy Phone Software

Word Count:
365

Summary:
These days everyone owns a mobile phone, but few of us realize that this innocent gadget can be turned into a hidden spy inside our own homes and offices.


Keywords:
spy phone, spyphone, spy cell phone, spy sms


Article Body:
Spyphone is a 100% software based solution which users can download and convert any latest Nokia phone into a sophisticated spy device within a minute. Such device may have several spy features.

If you call a spy phone from a predefined number, it makes no visible or audible indication that it is in operation, and you can listen to any conversations or discussions in progress around the spy phone. Conversations within 5 to 10 metres of the spy phone are completely audible. The software can be activated or deactivated by sending a silent sms to the converted phone and works on GSM networks only.

Yet another interesting spy feature is called sms forwarding. Upon installation of the spy software on the target phone, it enables to receive duplicate copies of all incoming and outgoing text messages that will be forwarded directly to the predefined number.

The spyphone software controls the basic functions of the cell phone such as incoming call handling, backlight, log engine and installation logs. No hardware tweaking of any kind has to be made and that there are no special steps for customising the cell phone. The software is also invisible to the end user. Moreover, no parts of the software can be traced to be installed on the phone or logs of incoming calls.

What could you use the spy phone for? In truth, the list is endless. You might want to check up on someone periodically, listening out for out-of-place sounds, and even intercepting real time calls between 2 parties. It can be used for listening to conversations in the office whilst away on travel. You might also use it monitor your children, wife or husband.

You may come up with a question, how to protect myself from such spy? Here is the answer. At present such spy software can be installed on Symbian based smartphones only. Never leave your smartphone unattended. Do not give the phone to someone you do not know. If you suspect that spy software is installed on your phone, bring the phone immediately to the nearest service centre. The most popular spy phone models are: 3250, 5500, E50, E60, E61, E61i, E62, E65, E70, N73, N76, N77, N80, N91, N95, 7610, 6600, 6670, 6110, 6120, 6121.


