Title: 
Advantages & Disadvantages of Bluetooth

Word Count:
623

Summary:
While using the Bluetooth feature, you can run through a lot of advantages to and at the same time and run to a lot of disadvantages also.


Keywords:
bluetooth,technology


Article Body:
While using the Bluetooth feature, you can run through a lot of advantages to and at the same time and run to a lot of disadvantages also. With about every great technology, there has to be something in there that makes it not perfect. There's probably no such thing of a perfect product. A few advantages and disadvantages of Bluetooth includes the following.

Advantages:

Widely Used: Bluetooth is now really popular and keeps getting more popular as time passes by. It is now widely used across countries and almost by everyone. Companies are taking the benefit by using this in their new and future products to make life much easier for everyone. Pretty much very soon, you will be noticing quite a bit of technology will be wireless due to Bluetooth. As it is already, but most likely it will be more dominant. You can use Bluetooth on laptops, cell phones, music players, headsets, printers and a lot more other products.

Feature Simplicity: You do not need to know much about technology in order to run Bluetooth. Anyone that doesn’t have no knowledge about the new technology can still be able to use the Bluetooth feature due to its simplicity and the ease of use. I think that the simplicity of it and the fact that it's wire free makes it very widely used and utmost popular.

Free of Charge: Best of all, you do not have to pay a penny for the service! It's not an extra cell phone or cable bill that you have to add to your budget. Simply by the technology and you're done! All you need to do is connect it with what you are using. There hasn't been any reporting lately on companies charging a monthly fee or any fee for people to use the Bluetooth feature and I don't expect it.

Go Wireless!: It allows you to stay cord free and do not have to worry about finding the correct place to connect that extra long cord. Avoid having to have a ton of cords wherever you go. You may still need a few cords but not as much as you would without Bluetooth. You can also go to the internet wirelessly with this feature when you're out somewhere outside of your home.

Your in Control: Even though you are able to exchange data across your cell phones, you still have the ability to keep your information private. In order to make a transfer or allow someone to access the files on your phone, you will have to give them access by accepting or rejecting the request through your phone. If you have the Bluetooth feature enabled on your phone and not disabled while using it, others that you may not even know request to send you a file.

Disadvantages:

Battery Use: This occurs mostly on your cell phone but also occurs in other technology such as music players. You're using up more battery power when you leave your Bluetooth enabled on your phone all day. To disregard all this, the best thing that you can possibly do is disable it once you are completed with the transfer. It only takes a few seconds to enable and disable so it wouldn't hurt to disable it once you are done using it.

Bluetooth Internet: Throughout all devices, when using Bluetooth internet, the connection can sometimes run very slow so Bluetooth internet is not highly suggested for all cases.

As you can notice that there are quite a bit of advantages and fewer disadvantages. Overall, Bluetooth is a great thing to be using on all your devices that supports it. You can do so much with it and includes cutting all the cords attached to your devices.


