Title: 
An Overview Of The Blackberry

Word Count:
499

Summary:
Unless you have spent part of the past few years in a cave or under a rock, you have heard of the Blackberry. However, and with that said, even though you may have heard of the Blackberry, you may now know exactly what a Blackberry is in essence. Therefore, this article has been prepared to provide you with some basic information about the Blackberry.

In basic terms, a Blackberry is a line of mobile communication devices that allow you to undertake a number of different ta...


Keywords:
blackberry,blackberries,pda,hand held pda,handheld pda,rim,nextel blackberry


Article Body:
Unless you have spent part of the past few years in a cave or under a rock, you have heard of the Blackberry. However, and with that said, even though you may have heard of the Blackberry, you may now know exactly what a Blackberry is in essence. Therefore, this article has been prepared to provide you with some basic information about the Blackberry.

In basic terms, a Blackberry is a line of mobile communication devices that allow you to undertake a number of different tasks through the use of the Blackberry itself. For example, a Blackberry is designed to allow you to read and respond to email. On top of reviewing, reading and sending email, there are many other functions that can be performed with a Blackberry. Indeed, on so many levels, the Blackberry truly is an all purpose piece of personal communications equipment.

In promoting the Blackberry, its manufacturer has described the Blackberry as a “complete package” that includes airtime, software and a mobile communication element that allows you to undertake a wide variety of tasks -- from the palm of your own hand. Presently, the Blackberry widely is available in the United States, Canada and United Kingdom. Present plans are in place for the Blackberry to be introduced in other countries the world over in the very immediate future. 

Technically speaking, the Blackberry in the United States and Canada relies on either the narrowband PCS 800 Mhz DataTAC network or the narrowband OCS 900 Mhz Mobitex network for its functionality. In the United Kingdom, the Blackberry operates on the the GPRS network.

Many who have taken to the Blackberry have sung its praises because it is easy to use. It has a very user friendly interface and an easy to manipulate keyboard (unlike many similar products that have tragically difficult keyboards). With few exceptions, a person who tries a Blackberry ends up very fond of the Blackberry. Oftentimes a person who has a Blackberry can be found to remark that he or she cannot imagine getting by without a Blackberry.

If you are interested in owning a Blackberry, you should spend some time shopping around in both the brick and mortar world and on the Internet and World Wide Web. In this day and age, there is a wide array of different retailers that offer Blackberry products for sale both in the real world and in cyberspace. By taking the time to shop around, you may even be able to find a Blackberry at a discounted price.

On the Net, there are retailers that cater specifically to the selling of Blackberry products. In addition, any number of auction and overstock sites may be found to have Blackberry products in their inventories.

In the brick and mortar world, a Blackberry can be found at any number of consumer electronic stores -- large and small. By paying attention to sales and specials, you may even have the chance to obtain a Blackberry at a discounted price in the brick and mortar world.


