Title: 
Antennas Of The New Age

Word Count:
551

Summary:
Antennas have been around for a long time. Before the birth of cable television, homes would need it to just to get a signal. The person would need to put this on the roof and adjust it from time to time to get better reception. Satellite television has also changed this making these crude yet useful devices obsolete.

The computer age has followed suit. There was a time that an individual had to dial up just to get an internet connection. With the development of wireless r...


Keywords:
antennas


Article Body:
Antennas have been around for a long time. Before the birth of cable television, homes would need it to just to get a signal. The person would need to put this on the roof and adjust it from time to time to get better reception. Satellite television has also changed this making these crude yet useful devices obsolete.

The computer age has followed suit. There was a time that an individual had to dial up just to get an internet connection. With the development of wireless routers that come with a WiFi antenna, work using the computer can be done without the need to connect any wires.

Another term that is used for Wifi antennas are omnidirectional antennas. Some users who have this at home have said that it is better to have this replaced with a different kind. This is because the current antenna has difficulty reaching long distances since the signaling power needs to extend in many directions. 

One solution to address this problem is getting an external omnidicrectional antenna that is much more powerful than the old one. This gives internet access to people who have more than one computer located in different areas of the house. 

Universities and other offices use stronger devices allowing its workers to work via the web. This can be done to send emails or other important files that are essential for the entire business operation. 

A strong antenna may pose a problem for the person at home. This is because the signal could reach people who live near the house and use it to gain internet access without the knowledge of the individuals who purchased the unit. In order to solve this, one should check if the external antenna is really needed. Also, aiming it a place where people in the house can only use it. 

Another way of letting people have internet access at home or in the office is by adding another access point. The person would need to connect the wireless router to one that has an Ethernet cable. This is because a wireless version and the kind that needs wires are not able to work with each other directly. 

The use of a repeater and an amplifier can also strengthen the signal in one’s home or in the office. This can be done by attaching it to the access point and in no time, the individual and others may enjoy doing some surfing in the net. 

These devices can be bought at the nearby cyber shop or one can surf the net and buy it online. Before getting it, the individual should canvass around to get the best price available. The person should also think if it is really needed for one’s home.

Antennas come in different sizes and shapes. These are used for a variety of things such as listening to a program on the radio or for people to communicate in places that do not have telephones or cellular phones. 

Various instruments have also been used to amplify the signal. The person should just choose the kind that is really needed depending on the purpose then making use of it. The potential of it is endless and it’s use in giving people wireless internet access is another marvel that people will benefit from.


