Title: 
Cable TV – Your Area Information Source

Word Count:
440

Summary:
Discover some of the advantages of getting Cable Tv instead of satellite.


Keywords:
cable tv,cable television


Article Body:
Many people believe that cable TV is a thing of the past. But it is alive and well today. The people who make technology possible for all of us have continued to put thought into your entertainment options through cable TV. When you sign up for cable, you can get more than two hundred high quality channels. And who could ever need more than that many channels? 

One reason that many people still prefer cable tv as their entertainment choice is the lack of interference by bad weather. Because cable is a direct link, as opposed to satellites, things like weather won’t interfere with the quality of your entertainment. And what better time is there to relax in front of your favorite shows than when it’s dreary and wet, and there’s nothing else to do.

Why get cable TV, when you can get competitive pricing for satellite instead? One reason to go with cable TV is to stay connected with your neighborhood. While local channels are available with satellite TV, there may be an extra charge for these channels. With cable, these channels are usually thrown in at no extra charge, although you should inquire to make sure that this is the case with any company you choose to do business with. In addition, your cable TV company will likely include some channels that exist only through cable. That may include updated and immediate area school news, city and county government programming, and other news and information for your area.

It may not seem like a big deal to have local channels. After all, the programming for channels that you pick normally has everything you want. Or those channels have almost everything. What they don’t have is your community news and events, unless you live in a very large town. If you want to know what the weather is going to be like for tomorrow, you don’t want to turn on the television and only find a forecast for someone three states away. You want to know what the weather in your region of your state is going to look like. Cable TV can help you with this. Local channels can also keep you aware of events and school closings in bad weather and more. 

Many people like satellite TV because of the parental control options. Some aren’t aware that the same options are available for cable tv users. This way, you can enjoy having all the channels you want, but still restrict your children’s viewing. You get to decide what channels are appropriate for their viewing, not someone in the entertainment business. This way, your television programs can parallel your values.


