Title: 
Call Canada Through a Cool Connection at Hot Rates

Word Count:
687

Summary:
How to save on long distance calls to Canada


Keywords:
call canada,long distance to canada,calling canada,phone cards to canada,calling cards to canada,phone canada,


Article Body:
Planning to go to Canada to finally go for an awesome and long-awaited vacation in Alberta with your granny? Well what are you waiting for? Book it!

Extremes of climate heat and cold symbolize Canada, a country distinguished by its multi-racial citizens. Citizens include people of: European, Indian, Arabic, American, Italian, Hispanic and Caribbean descent. The aboriginal inhabitants of Canada also add to the distinct flavor of the country. Situated in the northern side of the North American continent, Canada captivates you with its pristine, scenic beauty. From snow-capped mountains to serene lakes and rivers and wooded forests, Canada beckons you with its natural environment.

Though you are not at any rate short of funds, “No so fast!, your mind tells you. Too bad you have never placed an international call to Canada. Now you just have to forego the masterplan til somebody offers you to make that call for you. NOT! It just so happened that you are not led to this article just for any reason. Fortunately, information regarding how to make an international call to Canada abound and they were just so packed here for your convenience. And guess what? You are about to learn to save some precious dough too. So, just read on.

Easy tips to save on your international calls.

It is recommended to not make an operator assist you with your calls. This would cost you dollars when you can just spend some few cents in making that phone call. Another piece of advice is to avail of flexible prepaid long distance calling plans offered by various telecommunications sources.

Know your calling patterns. According to your habits in making international calls, whether you are a night or day caller or non-business days caller or not, informing the company that you are eyeing on to give your business will be of great help.

The real deal in placing international call to Canada:

Take note that the country code for Canada is 1. This number is also known as the routing number, prefix, and country code.

Any mistake on this number could lead you to other countries. Surely you would not want to be greeted by somebody speaking Hungarian or Japanese. That would be a waste of money too. If you do not want to suffer these consequences, better be really on your toes when dialing all the numbers you are supposed to dial.

Here is a list of the area codes in Canada:

Alberta 403

British Columbia 250

British Columbia (Lower Mainland) 604

Manitoba 204

New Brunswick 506

Newfoundland 709

Nova Scotia 902

Ontario (London) 519

Ontario (North Bay) 705

Ontario (Ottawa) 613

Ontario (Thunder Bay) 807

Ontario (Toronto Metro) 416

Ontario (Toronto Vicinity) 905

Prince Edward Island 902

Quebec (Montreal) 514

Quebec (Quebec City) 418

Quebec (Sherbrooke) 819

Saskatchewan 306

Simple Steps to Call Canada:

Dial the international access code – 011 (no need to dial this code if you are calling from USA).
Dial Canada’s country code – 1.
Dial the city code of the place you want to connect with. (e.g.: Alberta city code is 403 and Manitoba city code is 204.)
Dial the remaining digits.

Avoid calling direct unless you are well-off enough to not mind spending a hefty amount on making that simple and effortless international call. A prepaid phone service is a lot more practical. Also, if you despise dialing too many numbers, most prepaid call services do not require you to dial any pin. Just shop around for the best rates.

Despite the fact that English and French are the official languages of Canada, understanding the local parlance can be quite daunting. For instance, a ‘mickey’ is not a cartoon character, but a small bottle of booze; and the Royal Mountain police are referred to as the ‘Mounties’.

Aside from this effort in learning the instructions in placing a call to Canada while saving money, you might want to go that extra mile to make your international calling experience a bit more rewarding than the usual. Go greet the person you’re calling with a homely "Bonjour" since French is also one of the major languages used in Canada. It won’t just surprise your call’s recipient. It might also just make his or her day.


