Title: 
Call Germany at Rates that Cheer like German Beer

Word Count:
400

Summary:
Ways to save on calls to Germany


Keywords:
call germany,germany,calling germany,phone germany,calling card to germany,phone card to germany,long distance to germany,international calls to germany,phone rate to germany,cheap calls to germany


Article Body:
Feel drawn to Germany’s sylvan valleys and pristine alpine peaks? Does Beethoven’s music beckon you? Do you swoon over by Germany’s grandiose architecture and enchanting art and culture? Or do you just yearn for a taste of the country that brews the best beer in the world.

Now, connecting with Germany, and making calls to friends and family is quick and extremely cheap. Amongst a population of an estimated 81,338,000 people, German is the standard language of communication and has several slight variations in regional dialects. With education being compulsory till the age of 18, Germany has an astounding literacy rate of 99%.

Simple Steps to Call Germany:

* Dial the international access code – 011.

* Dial Germany’s country code – 49.

* The ‘0’ at the start of the city code does not need to be dialed.

* Dial the remaining digits.

Guten Tag (pronounced goo ten tahk) is the phrase normally used for greeting for ‘hello’ or ‘good day’ in general German parlance. However, when you call Germany, it is the norm for Germans to answer the phone with their last names first.

Over the years, rates to Germany has declined steadily. Offers between 2 cents per minute to 4 cents per minute to call Germany are now very common among long distance providers and phone card companies. What is the catch? Again, have you heard of connection fees, monthly charges and maintenance fees? These can add up big time and can easily double the rates as promised by these phone companies. And one more thing, while Germany’s phone system is one of the most advanced in the world, be aware that there are cheap long distance carriers that can actually make the connections frustrating to consumers.

No matter your reason for calling, personal, business, or leisure call to Germany. Find a long distance telecom service provider that offers a flexible prepaid calling plan that is hassle-free and requires no switching over phone companies, cumbersome PIN dialing or paying unnecessary, hidden costs generally associated with most phone cards. With these in mind, you should be able to call Germany – and don’t bother about how you call, when you call or how much you talk

Situated in the centre of Europe, at the border of the Baltic Sea and the North Sea, Germany may seem quite a distance away, but a cheaper and reliable long distance calls should bridge the gap in a matter of seconds.


