Title: 
Download DVD To Iphone

Word Count:
401

Summary:
In order to download DVDs to your Iphone, you are going to need a computer, some special software, and the USB lead that came with your Iphone, to connect it to the computer.


Keywords:
iphone dvd, watch dvd on iphone, watch movies on iphone


Article Body:
In order to download DVDs to your Iphone, you are going to need a computer, some special software, and the USB lead that came with your Iphone, to connect it to the computer. Transferring movies from your existing DVDs to your Iphone is not at all difficult, so read on to find out how it is done.

It's worth noting that the computer you use to transfer the movies from DVD to your Iphone doesn't have to be a super hi tech piece of kit-as long as it is able to handle the movie files themselves, which are quite large, it should be fine. It is worth noting though that you will need something that has a DVD drive and a hard drive that is able to store such large files. It's not necessary for the computer you use to be connected to the internet, but you will need a piece of software called a ripper. This basically works by pulling the movie files from your DVDs and storing them to the computer, doing no harm to the dvd itself.

In order to download the dvd to your Iphone, you will first need to make sure your ripping software is able to save the movies in MP4 format, which is the only format that will work on the Iphone. Ripping software is usually really easy to use, and as soon as you have done it a few times it will become something you can do without even thinking about it. If you are lucky enough to have a nice modern hard drive with lots of space, you will be able to download the movies in one effort, and then transfer them all at once, saving you a lot of time.

As soon as you have all the movies you want on your hard drive, you will need to hook the Iphone up to the computer using the USB lead and switch the pair of them on. After a few minutes they should be ready to go, and you can use the Itunes software to transfer the movies onto the Iphone. It's a very easy process, and again once you've gone through it a few times it should become second nature for you.

This article contains all you need to know to let you begin downloading music to your Iphone, so I hope you found it useful for your own endeavours-happy downloading!


