Title: 
Download Free Iphone Songs

Word Count:
499

Summary:
As an Iphone owner, you may or may not know that you are able to download free songs from a few different places.


Keywords:
free iphone song, iphone music for download


Article Body:
As an Iphone owner, you may or may not know that you are able to download free songs from a few different places. You can't have failed to notice the popularity of the Iphone, even though it has only been with us a short while it looks set to be a runaway success, and for good reason-an Iphone can do everything the Ipod does but also give you internet access and a pretty handy cellphone.

In order to download any songs at all for your Iphone, you will need to first have some very basic hardware at your disposal. The main thing is a computer and internet connection, as at this time it's not possible to download anything directly to the Iphone from it's own internet connection. As far as specifications go, you will usually be okay with any computer as long as it's not older than say 5 or 6 years, and the internet connection is also not too demanding, though you will find that the faster your connection, the faster you can complete your downloads.

The main obstacle that stands in the way of people wanting to download free songs for their Iphone is not knowing where to get them from. You can obviously get the downloads directly from Itunes, which is fine if you want to pay out fortunes for your music collection, but most people don't know there are a few other less costly alternatives.

The first, and something that is not at all recommended, is using the torrent sites or peer to peer sites. Over the last few years many people have used sites like this for all their download needs. Unfortunately using these sites is illegal-people actually get arrested and go to jail for it. Aside from that there is also the huge risk of permanent computer damage. Sites like this are not regulated in any way, and so the users can upload anything they want. This makes them a haven for hackers and spammers, and they will often use sites like this to spread their viruses/malware through the internet. These reasons are why it's not recommended to use peer to peer sites as a place to get free Iphone music downloads.

Thankfully, there are a few alternatives to sites like these. A new kind of download site has emerged over the last year or so, and these sites are a lot safer to use than the peer to peer sites. The way it works is that the site will charge you a small fee to begin using their service, usually something like $50, and this will usually cover you for life-meaning you get unlimited free downloads for life, as soon as you become a member. This represents excellent value for money, as there are often a huge range of downloads other than music-you can get games, tv shows, movies, and obviously all the music you could want.

Hopefully this article will help you get everything you need to download free songs for your Iphone.


