Title: 
Easy and Convenient International Calls

Word Count:
405

Summary:
While being a student and living in country far away from my native town I used to spend all my saving to pay tremendous bills for international calls. You may say, that it’s not reasonable enough. Why shouldn’t I use e-mail? Of course, it’s much cheaper and convenient, but sometimes e-mail wasn’t enough for me. You know how important it is to hear the voice of someone you love. I missed my family and my friends and I couldn’t spend even few days without talking to them.


Keywords:
international, phone, cards, calls, communications, cell, online


Article Body:
While being a student and living in country far away from my native town I used to spend all my saving to pay tremendous bills for international calls. You may say, that it’s not reasonable enough. Why shouldn’t I use e-mail? Of course, it’s much cheaper and convenient, but sometimes e-mail wasn’t enough for me. You know how important it is to hear the voice of someone you love. I missed my family and my friends and I couldn’t spend even few days without talking to them.

   Luckily now I know about convenient and easy way of making international calls. Now I know about international phone cards, which save me a lot money and time helping to avoid high international rates. International phone cards are prepaid method of making international calls from anywhere. It’s convenient, safe and inexpensive. Currently I work abroad and these phone cards are really safe for my budget. I can call my family and my friends from any part of the world. And I’m really happy being not tied into those tiring commitments with the phone operators and their endless telephone bills.

   You may ask me how could it be that calling with the international phone cards is much cheaper? Let me explain you the matter. Lower cost of international calling is stipulated by so called least cost routing (LCR), which provides customers with cheap phone calls. Due to this international voice telecommunications service it became possible to make international calls at a lower price and acceptable quality.

    Well, it’s not an easy task to choose the most convenient international calling service among the variety represented on the market nowadays. International phone cards can be used both with your home phone or cell phone. It’s not a problem to find online phone cards shop, but it’s a great deal to choose the best one for you.  All the companies offering international phone cards have their websites, which provide customers not only with complete information but 24/7 customers’ support and possibility to make order online as well. All the phone service companies claim to provide you with the best service and the lowest prices. Make sure to check the rates carefully before exactly buying any of the international phone cards. Feel free to contact telephone service provider and learn more details in order to choose the most suitable and convenient international calling service.


