Title: 
FAX

Word Count:
521

Summary:
Fax online lets you receive and send faxes with the help of email, the handheld device or the web. Economically, efficiently and easily manage, send and receive faxes right from your desktop or laptop computer. It eliminates many fax-related costly expenditures - like fax machines, extra phone lines, supplies and repairs.


Keywords:
fax online


Article Body:
You can feel the benefits of internet fax for yourself. By transforming your email into your personal fax machine, you will minimise communication expenses and protect your information.

Through online fax service you can enjoy the following benefits:
Mobility: Receive and send faxes at any place where you work on your existing email account: from your office, home, client's office, or airport or hotel.
Economical: no need for fax charges for far away places , fax machine, , and moreover, no alternate phone connection required!
Technical: Having a fax number on the internet that is toll free (US and Canada), you can provide much useful service to your customers - they fax you free of cost, and it adds nothing to your pocket. Helps to give your business a professional competence.
Privacy: Faxes are received in and sent from your personal inbox of your mail account - they don't have to sit passively on the fax machine paper trash for others to see.
Convenience: Fax is "always switched on" and removes the loss of not received faxes when the line is busy or when you are far from the fax machine
Digital: Faxes are available to all at all times since they're on your system and safe.

Online faxing is perfect for

Real Estate Agents
Mobile Workers
Small Businesses
Home Offices
Job Hunters
Consultants
Community Groups
Mortgage Brokers
Fax online server is basically a group of softwares that run on a host computer that is attached with one or more modems that are fax capable.These modems are attached to telephone lines . Its main purpose is to receive data from users, convert them into faxes, and transfer them, and also to receive calls through fax and either transfer them on to users or store the relevant incoming documents . Users may talk with the server in many ways, through Internet or a network . In a large companies with voluminous fax traffic, the computer that hosts the fax server may be busy with that purpose, in which case the system itself is also called as a fax server.
Many ways are available to the user for faxes that are outgoing:
• The user can send an e-mail message to a particular e-mail address; all the messages are converted by a fax server examining that address into fax format and transfers them.
• The user command his computer to print a document by using a "fictitious printer" that sends the data to the fax server, which then transmits it, instead of producing a paper printout,
Various user interfaces are available for incoming faxes:
The user may be sent for each fax received an e-mail message , with the pages clubbed as attachments, normally in either PDF or TIFF format.
Faxes that are incoming can also be saved in a file directory that the user can check.
Email Fax Services
Features
Email Based - Receive your faxes by email over the Internet. All fax communications are easily backed up and stored for future use.
Cost Effective - At just $12,95/mth for up to 1,000 pages sent and received, a fax by email solution will save your business money.
Convenient - No additional hardware or software required


