Title: 
HDTV: Like Looking Through an Open Window

Word Count:
503

Summary:
Have you ever watched a movie on a regular TV set, and then watched the same movie on an HDTV? If so, you would have noticed a huge difference! On the HDTV viewing, you see and notice things you've never seen before, even if you've seen the same movie several times! HDTV is like looking out an open window, whereas in comparison, standard TV is almost like looking through a glass soda bottle.


Keywords:



Article Body:
Have you ever watched a movie on a regular TV set, and then watched the same movie on an HDTV? If so, you would have noticed a huge difference! On the HDTV viewing, you see and notice things you've never seen before, even if you've seen the same movie several times! The colors are brighter, backgrounds are clearer, and details are better defined. HDTV is like looking out an open window, whereas in comparison, standard TV is almost like looking through a glass soda bottle. Because of CRT (cathode ray tube) technology, TV is often referred to as "the tube".  After watching HDTV, watching standard TV is almost like trying to view through one!

HDTV, or High Definition Television, offers precision sound, original film quality picture resolution, and a wider, better detailed panoramic view. This is made possible by the use of true digital signal which is transmitted via satellite or cable directly to your unit. You'll notice that not only does HDTV offer extraordinary picture clarity and sound, but the scope of the picture just like watching a movie on the "big screen", inside a real movie theater!

The use of digital signal is what separates HDTV from your common television set. The reason why there is such a notable difference between the two is that conventional televisions operate on analog signal. Digital signals are much faster, meaning images are is refreshed more rapidly, therefore providing superb picture resolution. Analog signals are much slower. As a result, the images produced by a television using this type of signal are of low resolution. Simply put, the picture is just not as sharp and view is restricted.

Not only do HDTV’s offer superb picture quality, but HD sound is second to none. This is because Dolby Digital surround sound comes standard with HDTV. So, not only does watching an HDTV remind you of a movie theater, it also has the sound system to further enhance the experience.

Along with better quality picture and sound, HDTV’s are quite easily integrated with your computer. They are able to easily communicate directly with one another through the use of a type of data compression software such as MPEG-2. Once this software is successfully installed, a whole new world of multimedia technology is literally at your fingertips! For instance, CD-R applications can be transmitted to an HDTV, as well as HDTV programs can be downloaded onto your computer. Either way, the picture resolution is top notch and the signal is stable.

Lastly, HDTV’s are more affordable than one might assume. There are many different ways to buy or finance an HDTV system. Some companies offer money-saving offers both in-store and online. Some of these include rebate programs; others include special deals, extra gifts or incentive packages offering items such as hundreds of dollars in gift cards. There are both in-store and online promotions as well as savings with shipping and delivery. Bottom line, HDTV is affordable for almost any budget and well worth every penny!


