Title: 
How To Find The Owner Of  A  Phone Number

Word Count:
451

Summary:
A Guide to trace phone numbers, find the owner of a number and or stop prank calling


Keywords:
owner of phone number, phone number search


Article Body:
Finding out who's calling or has just called is a very handy and helpful thing, either from a safety point of view or curiosity. As long as you have the area code and the seven digit number, you should be able to locate any number’s owner, if you know where to look.

There are many reasons people turn to finding who owns a cell or land line phone number, take for example, a hypothetical situation of prank callers harassing you. Or a stalker that just wont leave you alone.

<b>Searching For That Number</b>

Your first stop should be a free reverse phone number directory.  Plenty of them are available on the Internet.  You’ll enter the entire number including the area code and hit “Search.” If the number is a published land line, you should get the information you want, including the name of the owner and the entire address of the owner.

If you’re lucky enough to get results, then your search can stop there.  In most cases, you’ll need to try a slightly different approach.

Usually, the reason you’ll run into problems is that the number belongs to a cell phone.  Because there is no central database of cell phone numbers, free reverse phone directories cannot return information on those numbers.  You also won’t be able to get information on land line numbers that are unlisted or non-published.

Don’t bother trying multiple reverse phone directories in order to find the owner of a phone number, either.  Most use the same databases, so if you don’t score results at one then you won’t fare any better at another site.

<b>Find a Phone Number Owner – With Reverse Phone Detective</b>

Instead, you may have to use a paid site.  For a reasonable fee, you can access all of the information you need about the owner of a phone number using Reverse Phone Detective. There database gives you accurate, up-to-date information using both land line and cell phone searches.  

The exclusive database includes broad coverage of the entire United States – with better results than you’ll find at most other sites.  They also give you free search assistance, access to expanded people search databases, and more.

In addition, they also give you a 100%, ironclad guarantee – if you don’t get results, you don’t pay. 

To use Reverse Phone Detectives’ reverse lookup service, you will pay a fee which gives you an unlimited number of searches inside the members’ area, plus a premium full phone report.  After you sign up, just enter the phone number you want to find, click “Search,” and you’ll have your information.  It’s that easy!


