Title: 
How To Turn Your iPod Into TV

Word Count:
321

Summary:
The Apple iPod is synonymous with mobile audio and music, and with the launching of the video-capable iPod, music lovers not only will enjoy the audio but also video.
Learn how to turn your iPod 2.5 inches screen into the equivalency of a 27 inches TV viewing while on the go!


Keywords:
apple iPod, latest trend in iPods, ipod music player, ipod viewer, turn ipod into TV, iPod goggles, microOptical goggles, iPod viewing googles,ipod as mobile TV player


Article Body:
The Apple iPod is synonymous with mobile audio and music, and with the launching of the video-capable iPod, music lovers not only will enjoy the audio but also video.

Herein lies the problem - the apple iPod screen is only 2.5 inches, and there is no doubt that viewing pleasure can be increased when we can have a bigger video screen.

How then can the iPod have a bigger viewing screen - so as to be considered a mobile TV as well?

To convert your iPod into a Mobile TV, all you need to do is to get a MicroOptical Goggles.

You can wear this goggle over your regular spectacles or eyeglasses, and where you do not feel comfortable, you can do so over your contact lenses.

The goggles is fairly light at 70 g, with a belt clip that holds the iPod and the battery pack of 3 AAA-batteries. A cable connects to the iPod headphone port.

These goggles will deliver the image from two tiny LCDs through a series of lenses directly to the eyes so that you can watch video on what looks like a 27 inch screen TV!

Now, if you are always on the go and travelling, and you need to research or study or to get information from video clips, you can now enjoy 27" equivalency viewing with the apple iPod.

The only drawback is the cost of the MicroOptical Corp Goggles, which, however is expected to drop with demand. Without the goggles, you have to tolerate the viewing from the 2.5 inch screen from the iPod, or dish out around $269 for the Goggles and start to enjoy Mobile TV using the iPod.

With the development of technology, soon the battery pack consisting of the 3-AAA size batteries will disappear, making it more light weight!

Indeed, there is nothing to hold back the iPod from developing into the music player and mobile TV player if you can afford the cost of the goggles.


