Title: 
How to Unlock a Blackberry

Word Count:
801

Summary:
Anyone who needs to unlock blackberry devices may feel a little frustrated trying to get the right information to do so. It may seem like this information is kept away from consumers and locked down like Fort Knox.


Keywords:
blackberry, unlock blackberry, unlock cellphones


Article Body:
It's Worth it to Unlock Your Blackberry

Anyone who needs to unlock blackberry devices may feel a little frustrated trying to get the right information to do so. It may seem like this information is kept away from consumers and locked down like Fort Knox. Your confusion and frustration is warranted and understandable. However, it is worth it to go through the appropriate channels to gain this information. Consumers who unlock their Blackberry phones
are able to utilize any network around the world. This saves on astronomical international charges while traveling abroad. There are no roaming charges while traveling in other countries when a Blackberry has been unlocked. Also, the resale value of one's phone is increased by fifty percent.

How Do I Unlock Blackberry Devices and what is the Cost?

There are many websites that offer to unlock blackberry devices for consumers. The typical fee is close to $65.00. There are a precious few sites that offer their service for about $25.00, but this is quite rare. Most will  perform the service remotely. All you have to do is have a USB cable available to plug into the device. Then, they can take care of the process for you with no hassle to you. In addition, some will give you the code for the unlock and you can do it yourself. Many of the sites that offer the service do so risk-free. Cost free customer support is available from most of the websites.

Other Options to Receive Unlock Codes

Sometimes EBay sellers will put up unlock codes for options. This may save you some cash in the long run. Every Blackberry that is sold has its own unlock code that is specific for the phone. The codes sometimes take between four and ten days to receive. In order to be able to successfully unlock blackberry devices one must have the IMEI number. The IMEI number can be obtained by typing in *#06# from the keyboard. A string of fifteen numbers will appear, which is the IMEI number. The IMEI number can also be obtained from the Status menu.

You're in Luck

There are a few Blackberrys where the Unlock codes are readily available for consumers on the Internet.
Here's a few that will hopefully let you unlock blackberry devices you currenly own:

Blackberry 8800 / 8300 Curve Unlock Code Directions 
How to Enter Unlock Codes for the BlackBerry 8800/8300 Curve Blackberry: 

1. Access the Settings Menu => and then Options 

2. Select Advanced Options => and then Sim Card 

3. Type MEPD using your Blackberry Keyboard (NOTE: You won't be able to see any text appear on the screen while typing MEPD) 

4. Type MEP then [ALT BUTTON] then number 2 on your Blackberry keyboard (NOTE: No text will appear on the screen while typing MEPD) 

5. A prompt "Enter Network MEP Code" will then appear on the screen. Press in the unlock code and press into the track wheel / jog dial to confirm 

6. The Blackberry is now unlocked.

Blackberry 8100 Unlock Code Directions:

1. Place the SIM into the Blackberry 8100.  

2. Power phone on and turn off the radio (Turn Wireless option to off) This is crucial. 

3. Next, pick "Options" and SELECT ADVANCED OPTIONS. 

4. Arrow down and select "SIM Card." 

5. Type "MEPPD" (what you type will not appear on the screen). 

6. Type "MEPP, next [ALT BUTTON],and then 2" (what you type will not appear on the screen). 

7. Punch in the Unlock Code 

8. Press enter 

9. Reboot your Blackberry. Your Blackberry is now unlocked. 


Blackberry 8700 Unlock Code Directions:  

1. Access Settings. 

2. Select Options. 

3. Then access Advanced Option. 

4. Then, select SIM card.

5. Type MEPD (this will not be case sensitive, and no text will appear on the screen). 

6. When the device says Network Active it's ready. 

7. Hold down the ALT Key while typing in MEPE into the device (this is not case sensitive, and no text will appear on the screen). 

8. The screen will say "Enter Network MEP Code, type in the unlock code, and press in the jog dial to confirm. 

9. Your Blackberry is now unlocked.


BlackBerry 6xxx 7xxx: ie 6230, 7100, 7290 etc. Unlock Code Instructions 

1. Access the Options menu on the Blackberry. 

2. Click on the SIM CARD menu. To be able to see this you have to type this on the keypad on phone : (The text won't appear on the screen until you press in the unlock code). 

3. Type 'MEPD' for all models, except 7100 and instead use 'MEPPD'. 

4. Normally, you will see "active" NET lock appear on the screen. To disengage this lock, type 'MEP2' respectively ('MEPP2' if phone is 7100). 

5. The Blackberry will request a code. NOTE: You must use the "alt" or "shift" key to enable numbers so example would be: m-e-p-"alt key"-2 A place to enter an unlock code will appear (if not, you didn't type in mep2 or mepp2 properly.) 

6. Enter the "NET Unlock Code" that you have.

7. At this point you have done unlock blackberry successfully.


