Title: 
How To Put Movies On Your Iphone

Word Count:
475

Summary:
If you own an Iphone and you'd like to learn to put movies on it, you've come to the right place. If you're reading this, you probably already know that the Iphone is a fantastic piece of technology-not only does it contain most of the features of the smash hit Ipod range, but it also contains the features of today's cutting edge cellphone technology.


Keywords:
iphone movies, mp4s for iphone


Article Body:
If you own an Iphone and you'd like to learn to put movies on it, you've come to the right place. If you're reading this, you probably already know that the Iphone is a fantastic piece of technology-not only does it contain most of the features of the smash hit Ipod range, but it also contains the features of today's cutting edge cellphone technology.

The ability to watch movies on your Iphone is predicted to be one of the most popular factors for people who are considering purchasing one. If you do plan to use your Iphone to watch movies, you will first need to transfer movie files that are in the correct format from your computer to your Iphone. Most people aren't in the position to have lots of MP4 format movies already stored on their computer, so in most cases it is necessary to purchase a “ripper” program, which is computer program that reads the data from a DVD and stores it on your computer. Most modern rippers have the option to save it as various kinds of files, and as long as MP4 is an option, you should be fine as this is the format the Iphone needs.

Once you have some ripping software, you should be able to transfer your existing dvd collection to your Iphone without too much trouble at all.

The other option when you are looking to put movies on your Iphone is to download them directly from the internet. A few years ago this would have seemed like sheer madness, but with easier and faster internet access than ever before, it's never been easier or more convenient to download movies to your computer. Once you have them downloaded, you can then transfer them to your Iphone as you see fit.

Many people use the various torrent and peer to peer sites to download their movies from, but many people don't realise how dangerous this can be-in more ways than one! Downloading from these kinds of sites is not only illegal, but it can seriously harm your computer, maybe kill it altogether, and if it does that to your computer imagine what will happen to your Iphone!

An altogether safer alternative is one of the newer download sites that are springing up. The way these work is that they charge you a one off fee, and once you pay it you are officially a member and they give you unlimited access to their downloads for life. It's a very neat way of downloading movies for use with your Iphone. As a bonus, you'll also usually find that many of the sites don't limit your downloads to movies only-you can get games and TV shows and even music for use with your Iphone.

Hopefully you'll find this article useful if you are looking to download movies to your Iphone.


