Title: 
iPhone Unlocking Dangerous

Word Count:
328

Summary:
iPhone Unlocking can be quite hazardous for your precios iPhone. Beware and make sure you know what you are doing before you decide to unlock.


Keywords:
iphone, unlock, simcard, sim, apple


Article Body:
Since Apple released its latest gadjet, the Apple Iphone, over 5 million units have been sold. Aplle Expects to sell atleast another 12 million units in 2008 worldwide. Apple keeps improving their gadjet, and rumors are that they will soon release a 3G version iPhone for the European market. Wich will probably increase its popularity even more. 

Apple Estimates that around 20% of the iPhones that are being sold are being unlocked. Wich means breaking it free from network restrictions, so you can use any SIM card and any provider in your iPhone.
Benefits of unlocking are clear: You can make cheaper calls, use local SIMcards when you travel and your not bound to any contract to be able to use the iPhone.

Peter Smit told us that there are many unlocking solutions available onlina and offline. One solution is even better then the other when you beleive the marketing stories.
Fact is that 90% of the people who try to unlock their iPhone by themselves, have no idea what they are doing. 

"When you unlock your iPhone you are flashing the core of your Phone, this brings many risks. In some of the cases you will permanently damage your $400,- Dollars iPhone, or load it with virusses or other malware that is constructed into the unlocking software" Unfortunately there are a lot of people who are still willing to take this risk. Many of them end up with a $400, broken - unusable 'brick'.

"In many cases we are able to repair the broken phones via a new software flash, but it some cases there is no option left then to dump the phone in the garbage, as Apple does not give any warranty to unlocked phones."

The lesson to learn is to be careful if you want to unlock your iPhone. Benefits are clear, consider the downsides of unlocking as well. And IF you decide to unlock your precios gadjet, make sure you do it with a service that understands what they are doing.


