Title: 
ONLINE  FAX SERVICE

Word Count:
444

Summary:
Online faxing is perfect for Real Estate Agents, Mobile Workers, Small Businesses, Home Offices ,Job Hunters, Consultants, Community Groups, Mortgage Brokers. Fax online server is basically a group of softwares that run on a host computer that is attached with one or more modems that are fax capable.


Keywords:
fax by email


Article Body:
Its main purpose is to receive data from users, convert them into faxes, and transfer them, and also to receive calls through fax and either transfer them on to users or store the relevant incoming documents . These modems are attached to telephone lines. 
 A person can send faxes  through  Fax online with the help of email, the handheld device or the web into your personal fax machine, you will minimise communication expenses and protect your information.
 

Through online fax service you can enjoy the following benefits:
Mobility: Receive and send faxes at any place where you work on your existing email account: from your office, home, client's office, or airport or hotel.
Economical: no need for fax charges for far away places , fax machine, , and moreover, no alternate phone connection required!
Technical: Having a fax number on the internet that is toll free (US and Canada), you can provide much useful service to your customers - they fax you free of cost, and it adds nothing to your pocket. Helps to give your business a professional competence.
Privacy: Faxes are received in and sent from your personal inbox of your mail account - they don't have to sit passively on the fax machine paper trash for others to see.
Convenience: Fax is "always switched on" and removes the loss of not received faxes when the line is busy or when you are far from the fax machine
Digital: Faxes are available to all at all times since they're on your system and safe.
Economically, efficiently and easily manage, send and receive faxes right from your desktop or laptop computer. It eliminates many fax-related costly expenditures - like fax machines, extra phone lines, supplies and repairs. You can feel the benefits of internet fax for yourself. By transforming your email

 
Email Fax Services
Features
Cost Effective-A fax by email solution is economical as it reduces the business expenditure.
Email Based - Receive your faxes by email over the Internet. All fax communications are easily backed up and stored for future use.
 Convenient - No additional hardware or software required
 
The computer that hosts the fax server may be busy in large organizations but in that case the system itself is also called as a fax server.

Many ways are available to the user for faxes that are outgoing:
• The user can send an e-mail message to a particular e-mail address; all the messages are converted by a fax server examining that address into fax format and transfers them.
• The user command his computer to print a document by using a "fictitious printer" that sends the data to the fax server, which then transmits it, instead of producing a paper printout,


