Title: 
Reasons to Own a Memorable UK Mobile Phone Number

Word Count:
425

Summary:
Remembering all our contact information is becoming an increasing problem. Time has come to streamline our lives and take the burdon off our minds.


Keywords:
mobile number, mobile phone, mobile phone numbers


Article Body:
Our lives are hectic and stressful, and to add to this we each have a personal point of contact; a mobile phone number, a home landline number, an office number, an email address - it's no wonder we can't remember everything that's expected of us. Where possible, life needs to be made much easier, and this is where a Gold Mobile Number - an easy, memorable mobile phone number can help.

How often have you been in a situation when someone asks for your number, and you reply "Just a moment while I find my card / scrap of paper I can scribble it on".  It's an embarrasing event the majority of us can relate to in one way or another. I often feel under pressure to babble some apology as to why I can't ever remember my mobile phone number. Excuses such as, "I'm good at remembering names, but not with numbers". Wouldn't it be great to swiftly reply with a super number that rolls off the tongue?

So what exactly are Gold Mobile Phone Numbers?

A gold mobile number, gold number, platinum mobile number or diamond number - all terms that refer to a numerically easy, memorable UK mobile phone number.  They can have repetative digit combinations, like 777, 888, or a simple sequence - examples being 321 321 or 10 20 30. Often the sequences can be part of the prefix also, making them even more desirable.

Gold platinum mobile numbers are easily transferred to any UK network - Orange, Vodafone, O2, T-Mobile, Virgin etc., either on a Pay As You Go or monthly contract phone, and once purchased your gold platinum mobile SIM card number is yours for life.

When others hear your gold mobile number, it's not only easy for them to remember, it's a conversation talking point and ice breaker. Everyone is impressed when they hear a great mobile number. It makes both the number, and the owner, memorable. 

On special request, a UK Mobile Phone Number can be personalised. The choices for special mobile phone numbers are endless. You could match the last six or seven digits with your landline number.  Or you can request a special date, for example, a date of birth, an anniversary date or any date of an important event in your life.  You can even choose an alphanumeric number, which means you press the mobile phone keys that spell out your first name, for example Steven or surname, or a favourite pastime; such as 'tennis' or 'golfer'.  

Once you have purchased your mobile phone number, it is yours for life.  One less thing to worry about!


