Title: 
Telephone Headsets – Wireless Headsets: Are They Safe?

Word Count:
503

Summary:
You’re ready to cut the cables and go wireless. But what about the safety aspects? Are there any health concerns with high usage as with cell phones?


Keywords:
headset,phone_headsets,Telephone_systems,overear,monaural,binaural,wireless,cordless,bluetooth


Article Body:
There’s an ongoing debate over the effects of radio transmission waves emitted by wireless products and their effect upon people. Anecdotal evidence suggests that there is a strong link to the frequent use of cell phones and some very unpleasant health issues.

These concerns flow over to other radio devices too, and we, those that sell these items, are continually asked about the safety aspects of wireless headsets.

Well, are they safe to use all day, everyday?

Of course, the salesman’s answer is likely to be - yes! But absolutely, I do believe they are and would have no hesitation in wearing one myself (which I do), all day, everyday.

Plantronics claims that its CS50 wireless headset has an output of only 1.7 milliwatts, which is about 1/1000th of the output of most cell phones, and in nearly all countries, there are the relevant certification and other statutory requirements that have to be met before any items like these can be sold and connected.

Bluetooth models have an even lower output than DECT (Digital Enhanced Cordless Telecommunications) or 900 Mhz headsets.

I’ve never heard of any incidents or situations, where a wireless headset was implicated in anything connected with the same issues we hear about cell phones, i.e. cancers, etc. So, from my point of view I feel quite safe in using them, even in areas where there maybe several operating at the same time.

Perhaps some may suggest that they haven’t been in use long enough, to adequately gauge the level of threat, if indeed there is one. Anyway, I’m not concerned: I will not give mine up!

If you feel like doing your own research in this area, you could start by visiting the Plantronics website and downloading their white paper on the CS50.

On the other, non-technical side, there are the safety benefits that are reaped by not having wires. For a start you wont trip over or catch them on anything and I feel the ergonomics – where and how you sit at your desk while making phone calls may even be further improved by using a wireless.

This is because you don’t have the cable to think about at all – it’s not tugging or constraining you, so there’s no anxiety about whether you maybe stretching the cable too much. This consideration is important if you want to conserve your headset cables, as I’ve spoken about elsewhere regarding the care of cabled headsets.

There is also the advantage, however unlikely, during a lightning storm, or any other extreme electrical disturbance of not actually being connected to the telephone grid. You’re not liable to be used by Mother Nature as a conductor!

About the only thing that is not safer, is your bank balance, as dependant upon the country where you live, lashing out and buying a wireless headset is going to pinch your hip pocket nerve. But, if you’re serious about it and understand the benefits, you wont regret the purchase.


