Title: 
Why you should choose an LCD TV over a Plasma TV

Word Count:
509

Summary:
When it comes to choosing which kind of TV to buy, whether it’s LCD TV or Plasma TV, consumers always have a hard time deciding. That’s why we will break down everything in order to prove to consumers that an LCD TV is the much better choice over a Plasma TV.


Keywords:
lcd tv, plasma tv


Article Body:
When it comes to choosing which kind of TV to buy, whether it’s LCD TV or Plasma TV, consumers always have a hard time deciding. That’s why we will break down everything in order to prove to consumers that an LCD TV is the much better choice over a Plasma TV.

LCD TV and Plasma TV both represent the fast advancing technology that is offering viewers the best in Television viewing. But it doesn’t mean that one would cease to try to choose between these two, the better option with regards to quality and money.

There are certain advantages for both LCD TV and Plasma TV but at a careful analysis it has been proven that the LCD TV offers more advantages compared to the strong points of Plasma TV. Here are some of the finer points that the LCD TV has proven to be the better choice. Study each carefully and hopefully it will help you a great deal in choosing what to buy and answer your question “Why one should choose an LCD TV over a Plasma TV?”

Plasma TV started out with a little advantage over the LCD TV, but with the newer models of LCD TV, it has since catch up and overtaken Plasma TV with regards to picture quality and better contrast. The new LCD TVs now offers a much better color display than Plasma TVs and to add on to that, LCD TVs holds a sizable advantage with its resolution and therefore will offer a greater viewing experience compared to Plasma TV.

When it comes to using LCD TV for game consoles, LCD TVs hold the edge over Plasma TV by having a higher amount of panel resolution, the game images will look more lifelike and will result in a greatly detailed video gaming experience. Also, these advantages of the LCD will also make it possible for texts to appear more visible on screen than the ones in a Plasma TV.

Another clear advantage of LCD TV is the high resolutions that it possess. This provides a more stable image quality that will not cause eye fatigue to viewers even for extended viewing or long hours of watching shows on LCD TV. It is also proven that LCD TV’s boasts a much lengthy lifetime compared to Plasma TVs, a study proves that LCD TVs has an average life span of about 50,000 hours compared to the mere 30,000 hours of Plasma TVs.

But the biggest and most important advantages of LCD TV other than the picture quality and lifespan is the cost of LCD TVs compared to Plasma TVs. Naturally, one would expect a much better quality and lifespan for something more expensive but that is not the case with the LCD TV and Plasma TV. LCD TV even though it relatively costs a lot cheaper than Plasma TV, it also offers the best picture quality and possess the longer life span. With all these in mind, it’s obvious that LCD TV is the best choice over its Plasma counterpart.


