Title: 
Women's Career Tips: How to Land a Great Magazine Job

Word Count:
627

Summary:
New media jobs are opening every day for women of all ages and backgrounds such as media sales jobs, media relations jobs, and many others.


Keywords:
new media jobs, media sales jobs, media relations jobs, fashion magazine jobs, magazine writing jobs, magazine editor jo


Article Body:
New media jobs are opening every day for women of all ages and backgrounds such as media sales jobs, media relations jobs, and many others. Magazine jobs are especially popular among women. Career women often enjoy the thrill of working on a busy magazine editing staff, photography staff, or working as a writer. 

Magazine employment offers many advantages for women. Magazines often provide a good, upscale office environment with great career pay and benefits. Also, many magazines (especially online publications) allow women workers to telecommute so they can work flexible hours and stay home with their children.

Choose a Magazine Career

There are many magazine jobs for women requiring a variety of skills such as typing, editing, photography, graphic design, newsletter layout, writing, management, advertising, printing, and computer skills. One large magazine might employ hundreds of people on staff or as freelancers. Women can select a magazine career based on their special skills and what type of work they enjoy. They should consider what's required for the job and if they have had proper training in that area. Some magazine editor jobs or magazine writer jobs might require college training. 

Next, women can sift through jobs with magazines that cover subjects of interest to them. Every magazine has a theme such as business, finance, home decor, travel, fashion, working women, parenting, or gardening. Fashion magazine jobs, for instance, would be perfect for a woman who loves working in fashion and wants to have a magazine career as well.

Job Resume Tips for Women

Before applying for a magazine job, women should create a very professional, detailed resume. Two formats should be used - one for online applications and one to print for applying in person or by postal mail. The resume should be detailed with all high school, college, and other special training. Any skills or experience working in an office environment should be listed, even if they're not directly related to magazine work. Also, the resume should detail personal accomplishments such as musical skills, honors, awards, sports, and so forth. The layout should be professional and easy to read with no grammatical errors.

Research Magazines before Applying

Media jobs for women aren't always what they seem to be. Applicants should do some legwork to find out what the job entails as far as tasks, hours, and pay before applying. Also, there should be the opportunity to move up the career ladder later on. To do research, applicants might be able to call or email to ask questions. Otherwise, they can have a list of questions ready for the job interview.

Career Success Tips

Women's jobs can easily be found these days, but aren't always easy to keep. Once a great career has been secured, this is just the beginning. To be successful, women must work hard, be dependable, and meet deadlines. Magazine editors, writers, designers, and printers must complete their tasks before the print date or the magazine will not stay afloat for very long. Women who are new to the field can secure their position by showing diligence with even the smallest of tasks and by being willing to go the extra mile.

Another way to secure long-term magazine work is to be willing to start at the bottom. A woman might start out as an editor's assistant, but the opportunity to become an editor could be just around the corner. Or, she might start as a freelance writer or photographer before getting hired on as a staff employee.

Magazine jobs for women provide exciting opportunities in a variety of fields. Women of all ages are realizing their career dreams through magazine jobs and are enjoying a healthy salary and great benefits in the process. Use these magazine job hunting tips to discover your dream career!


