Title: 
Training the New Network Marketing Distributor: Being a Good MLM Sponsor – Step 2 of 3

Word Count:
688

Summary:
While many of the people you recruit into your organization may have had previous experience in network marketing, many will be first timers. Similarly, if you’ve been successful in recruiting people who were involved in other network marketing organizations, you got them because they were disenchanted with their current company. In other words, they weren’t as successful as they would have liked to be. Wouldn’t that indicate to you that they don’t know the best way to do things? Well, that’s where you come in!


Keywords:
mlm, network marketing, train, training, mlm training, network marketing training, new, new downline, new distributors, educating, amway, pre-paid legal


Article Body:
In Step 1, we talked about “Laying Down a Track to Run On.” Here, in Step 2, we’ll discuss “Being A Good Sponsor.” While many of the people you recruit into your organization may have had previous experience in network marketing, many will be first timers. Similarly, if you’ve been successful in recruiting people who were involved in other network marketing organizations, you got them because they were disenchanted with their current company. In other words, they weren’t as successful as they would have liked to be.

Wouldn’t that indicate to you that they don’t know the best way to do things? Well, that’s where you come in – helping them lay that track for others to run on. Again, when new distributors know what works, they can proceed with confidence, and confidence is the handmaiden of success. Remember, people are not duplicable, but systems are. 

<b>Step 2 -- Being a Good Sponsor</b>

Being a good sponsor means showing your new distributors “The Rules:”

Rule No. 1: Treat it Like a Business.
In order to be successful, your new distributors must truly want success, be coachable, and follow through on their commitments. In other words, they need to treat this business like a business.

Rule No. 2: Keep it simple.
If they can follow a simple procedure (see Part 1), they will use the same system with their contacts. If they can see that what you did was simple, they will believe they can do it, too. If you had to really work on them, more or less “bullying” them into the business, your new distributors will not want to duplicate what you did and will not take any action. 

Rule No. 3: Determine Their Reasons.
If you know what your new distributor wants from this venture, that is, why they want to succeed, you can understand how to get them over the rough spots and keep them on the road to success. Remember, most people will be tempted to quit with the first setback because they were never clear on what they wanted to achieve in the first place. If their “why” is strong enough, the “how” will be easier to get across.

Rule No. 4: Establish Objectives.
Set specific sponsoring and financial objectives for the first 30, 60, and 90 days. People always perform better when they have specific goals in mind.

Rule No. 5: Introduce Your Upline
Introduce new distributors to their upline, those leaders who are building a successful business and who are earning the type of income they’d like to earn. That way, if you’re not available to help them, they will have names and telephone numbers of others (you should give them at least 3) who they can contact for support. Further, by meeting others who are earning the type of income they'd like to earn, the system becomes more realistic and attainable.

Rule No. 6: Where’s the Tools?
Make sure they know how to get the tools they will need to share the business with others., such as tapes/CDs, brochures, business cards, etc. Every business needs information to disseminate with prospects. This one is no exception. Remember, people are not duplicable, but systems are. 

Rule No. 7: Make a Prospect List.
Although everyone who makes a list doesn’t necessarily become a top earner, every top earner has a list. Typically, they’ll start with their Warm Market, because that’s the people they know. 

At this point, your new distributor should be ready to go. They have their “reason why” clearly in mind, specific objectives for the next 90 days, their upline's contact information for plenty of support, the tools to get started, and a list of people to contact.

Having said that, remember Rule No. 8: Let Them Move at Their Own Pace.
Sponsoring a distributor is a process, not a single event. If they don't want to move as fast as you do, that’s OK. You can’t change human nature. People will only do what they are willing to do. Encourage, yes, but don’t try to force people into something they aren’t willing to do.

<b>Bruce Bailey, Ph.D.</b>


