Title: 
What It Takes To Be Number One!

Word Count:
569

Summary:
how is marketing related sports? learn what takes to be number one...


Keywords:
XanGo, mangosteen, juice, xanthone, xanthones, Mangostin, garcinia mangostana, southeast asia, lychee, starfruit, carambola, fruit drink, mango


Article Body:
Do You Strive To Be Number One?

Today I want to talk about Games and what it takes to be number one, and what happens if you’re not number one! Well let’s go to the ball field and take a look at sports.

First off there is a recruiter.(this is where you are) then there is a coach (your up line)

Then there are the players ( your down line) and then you have tryouts (your prospects)

Now you know in order to have any sport be successful you also have a big back office to take care of the money end of the deal! (your accountant, Financial advisor, stock investor , Lawyer and so forth.) Only the winning teams get the biggest Money deals so they all Jockey for the number one spot.

You should be no different! Advertisement takes on a whole new meaning when you have the means to do it! Let’s take for instance the super bowl games. Look at how much is dropped for a 30 second spot at half time! Does that spot become that important? Well we made it that way you and me and everyone else in the US! Same thing happens with other countries with different sports. Let’s stop here for just a sec.
Have I got you thinking yet?

You’re a recruiter you’re looking for the best of the best to put on your team! How do you find them? Do you beat your head against a wall trying to get the big shots of marketing in your down line? No you recruit the bad news bears or something and the coach will take them from last place and form them into a winning team! And you just continue recruiting! Does the recruiter get in the coaches way? Well if you want confusion then go right ahead! Here is where matching comes in. You match the peoples needs to what your business is all about. You ask questions that require yes and no answers and you sort through all your leads and contacts.

Are you getting the picture yet? I want you all to understand one thing and one thing only. You are in this group of people to learn how to change what did not work in your life to something that could! What it takes is Knowledge and understanding Devotion and perseverance. There is more to it than just this to be a recruiter but we will start here.

What kind of people do you want in your business and what are the requirements to make the cut on the team? I will tell you all this Pam Black is one I want on my team she is moving in a direction to change her whole life! As for the rest of you! You sit there like bumps on a log! I would not want that type of a person on my team!!!

I want action and dialogue from people in my down line not people that just sit there and say I will do it tomorrow! I want you to do it today get going recruit! Get your business plan in order and move it! Pick up the phone or get out there and shake hands make some friends along the way!

If you want to get into profits then you have to learn and take action!

Your friend on the net


