Can Foods Make You Feel Sick? 

Are you feeling strange after you eat some kinds of foods?  Do you get itchy or feel funny in your hands?  Are you getting hives or swelling up? If so then may be you having a good allergy.  This is very common and many people go through the same problems that you may be experiencing with many different foods. 

There are around twelve million Americans that will suffer from the problems of food allergies.  Most of the allergic reactions that many people go through are mild but there are many that will have to seek treatment from an emergency room each year because of the reactions from the foods that they eat.  There are over two hundred deaths that are going to be caused from food allergies. 

Many studies are going to show that there are at least eight percent of children that have allergies to some type of food.  The numbers are going to be a little bit smaller or adults and only are around four percent.  

Many times children will outgrow the food allergies that they are born with.  However some will take them well into their adult hood and will deal with it for a lifetime. 

Having packaged foods, eating in restaurants or going to a friend’s home can be a problem for some.  It is hard to say what is added to the food that we do not prepare ourselves.  

You might want to ask others what is this or what is in this dish?  However you have to ask these questions so that you are able to enjoy a good meal and not an unexpected trip the emergency room.  

With the increased problems of peanut allergies, most of the packaged foods will have what is included in the ingredients on the label.  They will say if there is peanut oil or if they are processed in a factory that has had peanuts in it.  

There is no cure for food allergies and the only thing that you can do to avoid foods that cause the reactions is to be careful. You have to watch what you eat and be sure of the ingredients that are included in them.  You do not want to have a reaction that you cannot deal with and that will make you deathly sick.  


