Can Pets Have Allergies?

When many of us think of allergies, we, humans, are often the first thing that comes to mind.  There are millions of Americans, alone, who suffer from allergies.  These allergies may be due to food, mold, mildew, as well as the weather.  Although humans are the most common sufferers of allergies, did you know that pets can also develop allergies?  They can.  In fact, dogs are the most common animals that suffer from allergies.

When it comes to determining if your dog or pet has allergies, many individuals do not know how to proceed.  For starters, it is important to look for the symptoms.  In fact, did you know that some pet allergy symptoms are similar to the ones that humans show?  They are.  One of the most commons signs that your pet may have an allergy is if they are constantly itching themselves.  Another sign is that of skin irritation.  With that being said, constant itching and skin irritation often go hand in hand.

Although it is relatively easy for some pet owners to determine if their pets are suffering from allergies, some are still unsure.  If that describes you, you will want to seek medical attention for your dog, cat, or any other pet that may have allergies.  A vet can do a number of tests, as well as examine your dog’s skin to determine if they are suffering from allergies.  Before you take your dog to the vet, you are encouraged to write down any questions that you may have or anything that may have caused you concerned.  For example, did your dog start itching after getting into some weeds your backyard?  Did you just change their pet food or give them a new pet toy or a new pet bed?  If so, your vet should know.

Another one of the many reasons why it is a good idea to take your dog or cat to the vet is because you will likely end up doing so anyways.  Many humans are able to stop itching, even when the urge to do so seems uncontrollable.  Pets on the other hand, aren’t always able to do so.  If you notice that your dog is itching a specific area of their body for more than two or three days, a visit to the vet may be in order.  The same should be said, if you notice a skin rash or any broken skin.  If left untreated, your pet may develop an infection, which is actually much worse that just having allergies. 

As for how your dog or cat can be treated if they do have allergies, it is best that you follow the advice of your vet.  This is because some of the medications prescribed may be for animals only, but some may also be human medications.  The only thing is that not all medications are ideal for dogs; therefore, it is important to follow the advice of your vet.  As for treatment, many prescribe antibiotic and antifungal cream for rashes or infections that may have already developed on the skin.  Other preventative steps will likely be taken.  For example, if your dog is allergic to a specific weed in your backyard, you may need to remove it or keep your dog away from the area.  Although the treatment offered is likely to vary, most options will immediately provide relief to pets that are suffering.

PPPPP

Word Count 565
