Dog Allergies:  What to Do If You Are Allergic to Your Dog

Are you a pet owner who thinks that you may be allergic to your dog?  If you are, you may be looking for guidance.  After all, there is nothing worse than realizing that you are allergic to your beloved pet or pets.

One of the first things that you will want to do is make sure that you do have a pet allergy.  Sometimes, the symptoms of having a pet allergy can be caused by other allergies or by another medical illness, such as the flu or the common cold.  Those who suffer from pet allergies may experience a runny nose, sneezing, nasal congestion, postnasal drip, develop a skin rash, or have difficultly breathing.  If you experience severe allergy symptoms or if you would like conformation that you do have a pet allergy, schedule a visit with a healthcare professional.

As for how you can go about treating your pet allergies that are due to your dog, you can remove the dog from your home.  If you are unable to do so or if you choose not to, you will want to see if you can find it a good home.  Friends or family members who are willing to take your pet are often considered the best option.  Even if you want to keep your dog with you, there are still a number of steps that you can take to seek relief from some common dog allergy symptoms.

The best way to limit your allergy symptoms that can be attributed to your dog is to keep your dog or dogs out of your bedroom.  The bedroom is the room where we spend most of our time.  For that reason, your dog or dogs should be kept out of your bedroom.  Doing so, may limit the number of irritating symptoms you display.  It may also help to get you a good night of sleep.  In addition to the bedroom, it is also important to examine other rooms that you may spend a good portion of your time.  Consider keeping your dog or dogs out of that room as well.

Another great tip involves not letting your dog or dogs climb on your furniture.  This is particularly important if you like to lie down on your couch or rest in a reclining chair.  You do not want to have pet dander and hair in your face.  If you must, covers can be used.  There are a number of cloth style covers that can be used.  They are a great alternative to the unattractive plastic covers.  With that in mind, should you use cloth covers, be sure to wash them every few days or when too much pet hair accumulates.

Investing in an air purifier is another way that you can seek relief from a dog allergy, without having to find a new home for your beloved pet.  Air purifiers work by eliminating air particles, including pet dander.  It is best if you search online for air purifiers that are designed to help those with allergies.  These air purifiers can easily be found with a standard internet search.  Also, HEPA air filters and HEPA air purifiers are known for their amazing results.

Vacuuming as much as possible is another way to manage the symptoms that you may be experiencing due to having a dog allergy.  In addition to vacuuming often, be sure to take a good, close look at the vacuum cleaner you are using.  There are now vacuum cleaners that use HEPA filters and they come highly rated and recommended.  In fact, there are even some vacuum cleaners that are targeted towards and marketed towards pet owners.  You should examine these vacuum cleaners.

The above mentioned steps are a few of the many steps that you can take to seek relief from allergies that you may be suffering due to close contact with your dog.  As reminder, a doctor may be able to prescribe you prescription medication or recommend over-the-counter products that may work just as well.  With that said, remember that treating allergies, especially pets allergies, naturally is usually much safer.

PPPPP

Word Count 680
