What Are the Symptoms of a Food Allergy?

Do you develop hives after eating a certain food?  Do you find it difficult to breathe after eating a certain food?  If you do, you may be suffering from a food allergy.  Unfortunately, for some individuals it isn’t so easy to tell if they are.  This is most commonly the case when symptoms are not severe.  For more information to help you determine if you do have a food allergy, please continue reading on.

One of the best ways to determine if you are suffering from a food allergy is to visit your healthcare provider.  Many develop tests or trails to determine which food or foods you are allergic to, if any.  It is also a good idea to visit a doctor if you suspect that you may have a food allergy, as they may be able to provide you with information and tips on making a lifestyle change, which may include eliminating the food or foods that are causing your problems.  Medication may also be given.

As previously stated, hives are a good indication that you may be suffering from a food allergy.  In fact, hives are one of the most common symptoms experienced by those who do have a food allergy.  Hives are easy to notice and spot.  If you develop hives, they can be treated with use of oatmeal.  A great home remedy involves taking a cup of bowling water and pouring it over oatmeal.  After a few minutes strain, then let cool some more and dab on the hives with a cotton ball or cloth.  While this home remedy will help with your hives, it is still important to determine which foods are causing them.

Swelling of the tongue and throat are two more common symptoms of a food allergy.  These symptoms can, unfortunately, lead to difficult breathing.  If you ever experience these symptoms, you will want to seek medical attention right away.  This is important if you have not officially been diagnosed as having a food allergy, as you may not have helpful medication on hand.  

Those who suffering from food allergies who have a reaction may also feel light headed or experience a loss of conscious.  If this happens to you, it is important that medical attention is sought right away. In fact, death can be the results if improper medical attention and care.  That is why it is important to seek medical attention the moment that you suspect you may have a food allergy.  As previously stated, hives are a good sign that you may.  You should seek the advice of a professional in the medical field before your symptoms are able escalate.

Once you have officially been diagnosed as having a food allergy, it is important that you let those around you know of your diagnosis.  This is particularly important if you regularly eat dinner at the homes of your friends or relatives.  Those individuals will need to know what not to include in their meals or they can make alternative arrangements for you.  This notification is also important in case you have a reaction.  As previously stated, those that are around you need to know the proper way to react, whether it be administering medication or calling for an ambulance.

As stated above, it is important that you seek medical attention if you suspect that you have an allergy to food.

PPPPP

Word Count 560
