Title: 
Breast Cancer - A Death Sentence Caused By Neglect

Word Count:
488

Summary:
Why do women neglect breast cancer symptoms. Nip it in the bud before the disease has chance to blossom


Keywords:
Breast Cancer,breast lumps,mammogram,women,breast examination,breast cysts,cancer doctor


Article Body:
The biggest majority of women who concern themselves over develping breast cancer  are the ones who do not even bother to do a self examination (Not all)
Self inspection of the breasts should be a main priority for every woman. Breast cancer caught in the early stages of growth will give better odds for the patient to control the disease with the help of today`s modern medicines and technology.

Breast cancer is common among the female species and can be a death sentence if ignored. By neglecting yourself in this department with absent regular check ups then you can expect a painful road ahead - comgested of heartache and pain for those close to you as well. Breast cancer is treatable, so now is the time to set a date in the diary for regular self breast examination. 

One of the first signs or symptoms of breast cancer is a lump in the breast.  You will find that most breast lumps discovered early are rated as 9 out of 10 as being benign.  Breast lumpiness can be that of breast change which usually becomes more obvious just before the start of a period, particularly in women over the age of 35  

Also cysts/sacs of fluid is not uncommon in the breast tissue causing a feel of lumpiness.  Fibroadenoma is a collection of fibrous glandular tissue which is more notably known to occur in younger women
If you notice a change in the shape/size of the breast or a lump even thickening then always check this out with your doctor. Other signs to look out for is dimpling of the skin or nipple shape changing, for example, if ithe nipple turns in or sinks back into the breast. Blood-stained discharge from the nipple or an unusual  blemish or rash around the surrounding area needs to be checked out. 

A swelling or lump under your armpit can also be a sign. If you have found that you have any of the above symptoms then seek medical attention right away.

Do not worry at this stage because breast lumps as such do not necessarily mean cancer.  However the above mentioned inverted nipple or blood stained discharge etc can mean another type of ailment,  either way these will need attention

The doctor will examine the breast and if necessary will refer you to a specialist for further checks. If the results from a mammogram or ultra sound shows a cyst, then to have it removed may entail draining it through a fine needle.  If the lump is solid  then treatment will be with the use of a very fine needle where a sample of tissue will be taken and tested for cancer cells. 

This is a disease you can fight  but once it spreads, then the  breast cancer becomes a battlefield leaving you fighting for survival.  Early detection can stop this war.

Cosmetic Surgery for women is common after a a breast operation.


