Title: 
Delivering A Basket Of Hope For Women

Word Count:
458

Summary:
Some unique hardwood maple baskets woven by artisans in Ohio have been used to deliver hope--bringing millions of women potentially life-saving information about breast cancer.


Keywords:
Delivering A Basket Of Hope For Women


Article Body:
Some unique hardwood maple baskets woven by artisans in Ohio have been used to deliver hope-bringing millions of women potentially life-saving information about breast cancer.

Through sales of these baskets, Horizon of Hope®, a partnership among The Longaberger Company, nearly 60,000 independent Longaberger home consultants and the American Cancer Society (ACS), has raised nearly $12 million for ACS since 1995 and reached an estimated 18 million women. 

In 2005, more than 200,000 Horizon of Hope baskets and thousands more related products were purchased. Every year, $2 from the sale of each basket and other campaign products go to ACS to fund research and education programs.

"We truly are at our best when we gather together, and Horizon of Hope allows us to unite our sisterhood behind a cause that touches nearly all women in some way," said Tami Longaberger, chief executive officer of The Longaberger Company. "Thanks to the amazing efforts of our 60,000 home consultants, millions of women are benefiting from life saving breast cancer research and education." 

Many home consultants plan their own Horizon of Hope annual community events. 

Susan Kantor of Bartlett, Ill., is preparing for her tenth Horizon of Hope event, and nearly 1,000 guests are expected to attend. Kantor says attendance has continually grown every year since her team's first event, and this year cumulative donations will exceed the $300,000 mark. A committee of 20 women on her sales team plans all details of the event for months before it takes place, and many more team members are involved by inviting friends and helping out at the event.

"Horizon of Hope gives me, my sales team, our customers and other friends a chance to do something wonderful for all women," says Kantor. "This is a cause that unites us because it has touched so many of us in some way."

Theresa Razzante from Highland Heights, Ohio, also plans annual events with her team that she says have had immediate and positive results. This year is her team's eleventh event, with more than 500 expected to attend.

"For months after our dinner one year, I had ladies share stories with me that they went for a mammogram-some their first one ever-because of our event," said Razzante. "I feel like I am making a difference in my community and in my families' and friends' lives."

The Horizon of Hope Web site, www.horizonofhope.com, includes testimonials, information on funded programs and studies, and important prevention steps. 

The 2006 basket was designed as a jewelry box and features wood splints bent into the signature pink ribbon design, symbolic of breast cancer support. 

Offered in either Warm Brown or Whitewashed, the baskets are priced at $36 each or two for $64; a solid-wood lid in either color with a wood knob is available for $18, and a drawstring fabric liner is available for $14.


