Title: 
Fondue – Non Alcoholic

Word Count:
338

Summary:
Do you want to share your love of cheese fondue with your children? Or did you just find out that one of your fondue party guests doesn’t drink alcohol? Well then it’s time to learn how to make non-alcoholic fondue. Non alcoholic fondue is great for kids and other people who for whatever their reason, have an aversion to alcohol. The white wine that provides the unique flavor to fondue can be substituted with apple cider. Apple cider will give you the great taste that you exp...


Keywords:
Fondue, Non Alcoholic Fondue, Recipe


Article Body:
Do you want to share your love of cheese fondue with your children? Or did you just find out that one of your fondue party guests doesn’t drink alcohol? Well then it’s time to learn how to make non-alcoholic fondue. Non alcoholic fondue is great for kids and other people who for whatever their reason, have an aversion to alcohol. The white wine that provides the unique flavor to fondue can be substituted with apple cider. Apple cider will give you the great taste that you expect from fondue without the alcohol.

The story of how fondue came about goes something like this. People living through long winters in the Swiss Alps had to worry about their food supply. They ate what was on hand. At the end of the cold season, usually all that was left was hard cheeses and wine. So with some experimentation and innovation, those ingredients were combined with crunchy bread to create the first fondue dinners.

So take a lesson from the people of the Swiss Alps and use what you have on hand. Don’t worry about fondue lovers complaining that your fondue has no bite to it. Using apple cider instead of white wine is a completely acceptable solution. It taste great and will add a nice flavor to your fondue. If you use apple cider in your fondue, you will never miss the white wine.

Non-Alcoholic Cheese Fondue

1 cup Apple Cider (to mix with cheese)
1/4 cup Apple Cider (to mix with cornstarch & mustard)
2 teaspoon Lemon Juice
1 tablespoon Onion (finely chopped)
3 cups Cheddar Cheese (shredded)
1 tablespoon Cornstarch
2/3 teaspoon Mustard Powder
White Pepper (to taste)

Heat the cider, lemon juice & onions on medium low heat in your fondue pot

Slowly add the cheese while stirring
Mix cornstarch and mustard in 1/4 cup apple cider
Add mixture to cheese
Add white pepper to taste
Note: if too sweet, add more lemon juice

To Dip:

Crusty Bread cut into bite-sized pieces
Vegetables - Mushrooms, Potatoes, Cauliflower, Broccoli, Bell Peppers, etc.
Pita or Flat Breads


