Title: 
Freezable Breakfast Tacos - Easy Breakfast Idea

Word Count:
273

Summary:
Looking for a quick and easy way to tackle the breakfast rush?  The key to eating a nutritious breakfast is planning ahead.  On busy days, it is great to have these in the freezer, ready to microwave and go.


Keywords:
freezable breakfast tacos, easy breakfast ideas, breakfast burritos, quick and easy breakfasts


Article Body:
Looking for a quick and easy way to tackle the breakfast rush?  The key to eating a nutritious breakfast is planning ahead.  On busy days, it is great to have these in the freezer, ready to microwave and go.

1 dozen eggs
½ cup milk
Salt and pepper to taste
1 package frozen hashbrowns
1 pound breakfast sausage
1 jar salsa
8 oz shredded cheddar cheese
8 oz shredded monterey jack cheese
20 flour tortillas medium size
You will need parchment paper and ziplock bags for wrapping and freezing.

1.	Prepare the hashbrowns according to the package directions.

2.	Fry the breakfast sausage.

3.	Scramble the eggs with the milk and salt and pepper.

4.	Mix the hashbrowns, sausage, and eggs in a large bowl. 
 
5.	Mix the cheeses.

6.	On a square of parchment paper, place one tortilla.  

7.	Place several tablespoons of hashbrown, sausage, and egg mixture onto the tortilla in a line, slightly off center.  Amount used will depend on the size of your tortilla, but don't stuff too full.

8.	Add a Tablespoon of salsa thinly along the top of the egg mixture.  Sprinkle cheese on top of all.

9.	Fold the ends gently in, then fold over one side and roll up.

10.	Roll up in wax paper, place into ziplock bag, and repeat with next tortilla.

11.	Place the tortillas into the freezer.

12.	When ready to eat, place tortilla into microwave on high for ninety seconds.  Add 1 minute for each additional tortilla.  

Now that you've tried this recipe, be creative.  Perhaps stuff the tortillas with tonight's leftover mashed potatoes and roast beef.  Try ham with macaroni and cheese.  Use your imagination and your leftovers to create healthy breakfasts that can be ready in a minute.  Enjoy!


