Title: 
Gas Grill Buying Tips For Barbecue Enthusiasts

Word Count:
695

Summary:
Gas grills are a popular choice among barbecue enthusiasts. Mainly because compared to charcoal grills, gas grills are easier to clean. In addition, there are lesser accidents related to the use of gas grills and in ten minutes it is ready to barbecue. For those thinking of buying a gas grill or upgrading to a gas grill for grilling, there are a number of things to consider before purchasing one. Taking these few tips into consideration will make the search faster and easier,...


Keywords:
outdoor gas grill,natural gas grill,weber gas grill,gas barbecue grill,stainless steel gas grill


Article Body:
Gas grills are a popular choice among barbecue enthusiasts. Mainly because compared to charcoal grills, gas grills are easier to clean. In addition, there are lesser accidents related to the use of gas grills and in ten minutes it is ready to barbecue. For those thinking of buying a gas grill or upgrading to a gas grill for grilling, there are a number of things to consider before purchasing one. Taking these few tips into consideration will make the search faster and easier, and in the end the grill you purchase will be more satisfying for you to use. 

1. Three Levels Of Gas Grills

Entry-level

Thesegas grills are the most basic gas grills available in the market today. They are reasonable priced starting at $ 150 to $ 300. Entry-level gas grills don't need wood or charcoal and produce their own heat. With regards to this type of gas grill, it is best to choose one made of stainless steel for the frame and main body.

Mid-Range

These gas grills on the other hand are a bit more expensive but also offer more features than the basic gas grill. Prices for mid-range gas grills range from $ 350 to $ 1150. For these types of gas grills it is best to choose those made by established manufacturers in order to get a quality product. 

Deluxe Models

These gas grills are the cream of the crop with prices starting at $ 1500 and most models going for more than $ 5000. High-end gas grills often make use of big BTU ratings as a selling point for them. However the brand name and materials of the gas grill should be the main concern when buying a deluxe model gas grill. 

2. Basic Elements Of A Gas Grill

The basic structure of most gas grills sold in the market is fairly straightforward. The burners generate heat and some type of heat dispersal system is above the burners. On top of all this are the cooking grates where the food is placed. The equipment underneath the hood is what separates a typical gas grill from an excellent gas grill. A gas grill that has at least two or more individual burners allow for greater heat control. This provides for even heat over the cooking surface thus producing better tasting food. Drippings cannot be avoided when barbecuing, however this causes flare-ups. Certain gas grills are equipped with systems to control flare-ups and turn it into flavorful smoke to enhance the flavor of the food. 

3. Understanding BTU (British Thermal Units)

Most gas grills sold in the market use BTUs as the main selling of their product. However most people don't understand the relevance of BTUs to a gas grill, let alone the meaning of BTU. BTU stands for British thermal unit, which indicates the amount of gas that a gas grill is able to burn. With gas grills, sometimes less BTU are better since it allows for food to cook more efficiently. Too much of it can damage the burners and cut short the life of the gas grill. However for larger grills, having higher BTUs is best in order to cover the larger cooking area.

4. Check For Solid Construction

It is important to select a gas grill with a stable and solid construction. A poorly built gas grill has the tendency to wiggle and may fall apart once set in place. Avoid buying a gas grill that is not displayed on the sales floor, make sure that there is a display available to be able to check out the stability of the gas grill before purchasing it. Select a gas grill that is crafted of high-grade U.S. Steel and also go for a gas grill with a baked-on, porcelain enamel finish. Check that the grates are made from either cast iron, porcelain-coated cast iron or aluminum and stainless steel.

5. Gas Grill Maintenance

When buying a gas grill it is important to consider the amount of maintenance required to keep it running for years to come. Select a brand of gas grill that provides uncomplicated yet comprehensive product information and offers a toll-free customer service line. Check if the brand provide trouble-free access to parts and services along with a reliable dealer network.


