Title: 
How to Spice Up Your Next Salmon Dish

Word Count:
322

Summary:
Salmon has become one of the most popular fish to serve. People love the taste, and salmon cooks quickly, making it a great option for both weeknights and weekends.


Keywords:
How to Spice Up Your Next Salmon Dish


Article Body:
Salmon has become one of the most popular fish to serve. People love the taste, and salmon cooks quickly, making it a great option for both weeknights and weekends.

Besides convenience, salmon is an excellent source of high-quality protein, containing all the essential amino acids, making it a great source of nutrition for the young and old alike.

If you want to prepare salmon, remember to purchase the freshest fillets you can. Keep the fish refrigerated until you are ready to cook it, and always prepare it on a clean, dry surface. In order to eliminate a strong oily taste, remove the skin as soon as possible.

If you are looking for a great way to liven up your salmon dish, you may want to try my Salmon Magic. This seasoning blend is a flavorful combination of dill, mustard seed, herbs and spices with just the right amount of salt and sugar, creating a versatile blend for all salmon recipes. 

The distinct flavors enhance the natural goodness of salmon or any other type of fish, shellfish or seafood. Whether you are grilling, sautéing, baking, broiling or poaching, Salmon Magic will add just enough flavor.

To get you started, here is one of my favorite salmon recipes. It's simple, and it will definitely spice up mealtime.


MAGIC BAKED SALMON

(Makes 1 serving)


1 salmon fillet 

2 teaspoons Salmon Magic

Unsalted butter, melted


Heat oven to 450 F. Lightly brush the top and sides of the salmon fillet with melted butter. Lightly brush a small sheet pan with melted butter. 

Season the top and sides of the salmon fillet with the Salmon Magic. If the fillet is thick, use a little more Salmon Magic. Press the seasoning in gently. 

Place the fillet on the sheet pan and bake until the top is golden brown, and the fillet is just cooked through. In order to have moist, pink salmon, do not overcook. Serve immediately. 

Cook time: 4 to 6 minutes.


