Title: 
It's The Details That Make A Difference

Word Count:
324

Summary:
When hosting at home, a carefully chosen menu and some advance attention to detail can mean a satisfying experience for you as well as your guests.


Keywords:
It's The Details That Make A Difference


Article Body:
When hosting at home, whatever the occasion, the end result should leave your guests feeling as though they have had a memorable evening, while not exhausting the host. A carefully chosen menu and some advance attention to detail can mean a satisfying experience for you as well as your guests.

When choosing the menu, be sure to consider your budget while determining the cost of your ingredients. To avoid confusion the night of the event, prepare as much as you can well in advance. Discuss logistics-will you be serving buffet style or will each guest be served individually while seated? Whether serving buffet or sit-down be sure to keep table size limited to eight or 10 as this is optimum for interesting conversation. 

The ambiance can be heightened by adding thoughtful details. Place votive candles throughout the house and keep them unscented, except for the bathroom. If possible, change lightbulbs to a low-wattage, soft-pink bulb. The hue is very flattering to everyone's complexion. Play music during cocktails and after dinner as the meal should stand alone. Flower arrangements are best kept simple as your guests are the main attraction.

As guests arrive and to avoid "first drink" congestion at the bar, have trays of wine or S.Pellegrino® Sparkling Natural Mineral Water or Acqua Panna® Natural Spring Water, an elegant addition to any evening. S.Pellegrino and Acqua Panna are delightful complements to selected wines, and enhance the flavor of any food. 

On the day of the affair, allow yourself ample time prior to the event to address final details, organize the menu and prepare for your company. 

Here's one cocktail you may care to serve:


Raspberry Martini Spritzer


Ingredients:

11/2 oz Vodka

1/4 oz Raspberry liqueur

1/4 oz Fresh pineapple juice

1 Twist of lemon

1 Bottle of S.Pellegrino Sparkling Natural Mineral Water


Shake vodka, raspberry liqueur, and pineapple juice over ice and strain into a chilled martini glass, top with S.Pellegrino and garnish with lemon twist.


