Title: 
Japanese Home Cooking - Beyond Sushi

Word Count:
474

Summary:
Japanese people eat healthy and live longer than any other culture in the world.  Anyone can cook wonderful and delicious Japanese meals with ease.


Keywords:
cooking japanese eating health


Article Body:
In general, the Japanese people are very healthy and live longer than any other culture in the world.  Why is this?  Many people attribute it to the way they eat.  But if you think that all Japanese people eat is sushi you couldn't be more wrong.  Japanese home cooking is simple, healthy, and delicious.  While some of the ingredients may seem exotic and intimidating, rest assured that anyone can cook wonderful delicious Japanese meals with ease.

Sushi is the most popular type of Japanese food, enjoyed throughout the world.  You may notice that sushi is quite filling, and you typically eat much less than you would a more Western style meal, such as a hamburger.  What is it about sushi that makes it so filling and satisfying?  The answer could be rice.

Rice is definitely a staple of any Japanese meal.  Whether it is served as a side dish or along with a saucier entrée, you're going to need plenty of rice on hand.  While white long grain rice is most popular, you can always opt for more healthy brown rice.  Either way, you may also want to consider purchasing a rice cooker.  Rice cookers can cost anywhere from $30 to hundreds of dollars, depending on the make and quality.  If you plan on eating plenty of rice this is worth the investment.  You're pretty much guaranteed perfect rice every time.  

Have you ever had miso soup at your favorite sushi restaurant?  Miso soup is made from several ingredients, one of which is miso paste, made from fermented soybeans.  Miso comes as either red or yellow, both having distinct and rich flavors.  Not just for soup, you can add miso to just about anything from a veggie stir fry to a marinade for beef.  And miso isn't just for Japanese cooking either.  Once you experience the delightful flavors of miso you'll be adding it to all your meals!

If you dislike fish, you probably think Japanese cooking isn't for you.  While fish is definitely a huge part of the Japanese diet, it doesn't mean that's all they eat.  Chicken, beef, and pork are all popular choices, as well as tofu and eggs.  Simmering meats in sauces such as teriyaki, in a wok or deep skillet is a favorite.  You can serve these dishes over rice or noodles such as soba.  This is a tasty and healthy alternative to fried foods that many of us eat so often.

If you're interested in Japanese home cooking there are plenty of great recipes on the Internet that can help guide you through the different types of ingredients and cooking methods.  If you're looking for a healthy and flavorful change to your diet, consider trying a few Japanese meals.  Before you know it you'll be enjoying a variety of delicious foods that nurture the body and the soul.


