Title: 
Kitchen Mysteries: The Fondue Pot

Word Count:
447

Summary:
One of the biggest unsolved mysteries of the kitchen is the fondue pot. Fondue pots are a popular bridal registry item and they are often given as house warming gifts. But by the time the thank you cards have been sent, the fondue pot has usually disappeared never to be heard from again. They wind up in the back of a closet or in the attic or some are even re-gifted. Why does everyone want a fondue pot but no one ever gets around to making fondue?

Fondue is easy to make. S...


Keywords:
fondue pot, fondue recipe


Article Body:
One of the biggest unsolved mysteries of the kitchen is the fondue pot. Fondue pots are a popular bridal registry item and they are often given as house warming gifts. But by the time the thank you cards have been sent, the fondue pot has usually disappeared never to be heard from again. They wind up in the back of a closet or in the attic or some are even re-gifted. Why does everyone want a fondue pot but no one ever gets around to making fondue?

Fondue is easy to make. Sure there are some recipes that require sautéing vegetables or marinating meat overnight and some use exotic ingredients that you won’t find at the supermarket. Those types of recipes taste great but they are the reason that your fondue pot is gathering dust instead of being used.

The key to getting use out of your fondue pot is to pick very simple recipes that are easy to make such as the recipes listed below. One is a basic cheese fondue that substitutes regular Swiss Cheese for the more expensive and harder to find Gruyere cheese. The 2nd recipe is Mocha Fondue, a must try recipe for coffee and chocolate lovers. Once again this is a recipe with basic ingredients and easy instructions.

Swiss Fondue
2 cups dry White Wine
1 Garlic Clove
1 lb Swiss Cheese
3 tbsp Flour
1 tbsp Lemon Juice
1/4 tsp White Pepper
Salt to taste
Nutmeg to taste

Rub the inside of the fondue pot with the garlic clove and add clove to pot
Heat up the White Wine & Lemon Juice on medium low heat - should be hot but do not boil
Mix Flour and Cheese in a bowl
Slowly add cheese mixture while stirring
Add remainder of ingredients while stirring
Optional: Add a splash of Kirsch or Blackberry Brandy
To Dip: Italian bread cut into cubes, vegetables, flat breads

Mocha Fondue
8 oz Semisweet Chocolate
1/2 cup Hot Espresso or Coffee
3 tbsp Granulated Sugar
2 tbsp Butter
1/2 tsp Vanilla Extract

Chop chocolate into small pieces and set aside
Heat espresso and sugar in fondue pot on low heat
Slowly add chocolate and butter while stirring
Add Vanilla
Optional: Add a splash of Irish Cream
To Dip: Angel Food Cake, Apple Slices, Bananas, Strawberries, Pound Cake, Pretzels, Pineapple Chunks, Marshmallows

Fondue can be easy to make and it’s definitely fun. The key is to use simple recipes so that you can spend your time enjoying fondue and not worrying about getting a complicated recipe right. Isn’t it time that your fondue pot became a permanent fixture on your countertop. You can free up some room for it by moving the crock pot into the closet.


