Title: 
Love Food?  Read All About It With A Cooking Magazine Subscription

Word Count:
390

Summary:
If you love food and beverages, whether you enjoy making them, eating them, or both, there is bound to be a magazine for you. From general interest cooking magazines to magazines focusing on everything from beer to chocolate, foodies have a home.

If you want recipes and lots of them, covering the spectrum from classic American home cooking to dishes from all over the world, Cookbook Digest is a great magazine for you. Do you have bookshelves overflowing with cookbooks that...


Keywords:



Article Body:
If you love food and beverages, whether you enjoy making them, eating them, or both, there is bound to be a magazine for you. From general interest cooking magazines to magazines focusing on everything from beer to chocolate, foodies have a home.

If you want recipes and lots of them, covering the spectrum from classic American home cooking to dishes from all over the world, Cookbook Digest is a great magazine for you. Do you have bookshelves overflowing with cookbooks that you use only a few recipes out of, if any at all? Cookbook Digest pulls the best recipes from the newest cookbooks and passes them along to you, so you can keep more room in your house, and more money in your wallet. Another good basic is Home Cooking, which has recipes and techniques, as well as contests so you can show off your own creations. Traditional comfort foods and old fashioned homestyle cooking are the focus in Taste of Home.

Looking for something a little more gourmet? How about Bon Appetit or Gourmet? These magazines cover good food, fine wine, information on restaurants, food travel, and entertaining tips. Saveur travels the world to bring you information on the greatest cuisines from around the globe. Food and Wine covers, well, food and wine, along with travel, healthy eating, and entertaining.

If you follow a particular kind of diet for health, weight loss, or religious reasons, there are magazines to make your life easier, too. If you or someone in your family is diabetic, Diabetic Cooking can help you cook meals your whole family will enjoy that will also fit with a diabetic meal plan. Kashrus magazine has information on keeping a kosher kitchen, including recipes and information on products. Many people are following a low carb diet to lose weight, and SheKnows LowCarb provides recipes, weight loss tips and more on the low carb lifestyle. For vegetarians, Vegetarian Times magazine offers menus, information on diet and exercise, and research updates on vegetarian issues.

Finally, there are magazines that focus on a particular food. Chile Pepper offers spicy recipes, along with travel and restaurant recommendations, while Chocolatier is all about desserts. If you’re a beer connoisseur, All About Beer is for you. Learn about brewing methods, the history of beer, and the culture of beer lovers around the world.


