Title: 
Messes Make Memories

Word Count:
280

Summary:
"Kids love a good mess and a mess is often a sign of a good time," says award-winning author Donna Erickson. Simple activities like playing in a big pile of leaves or splashing in puddles after an afternoon shower become family traditions that kids remember.


Keywords:
Messes Make Memories


Article Body:
Want some good family fun? Make a mess.

"Kids love a good mess and a mess is often a sign of a good time," says award-winning author Donna Erickson. Simple activities like playing in a big pile of leaves or splashing in puddles after an afternoon shower become family traditions that kids remember.

Families can enjoy endless indoor fun, too, without giving messes a second thought. Erickson's favorite activity this time of year is making apple-cinnamon clay. Adults and kids can stir up this unusual concoction to make decorative, aromatic ornaments or cool jewelry. 

When hands get sticky, Erickson suggests using Kleenex Moist Cloths to make clean-up fun. It's the next best thing to washcloth clean, she says.


Apple-Cinnamon Clay

What you'll need:


1/2 part applesauce

1/2 part cinnamon

Mixing bowl

2 sheets of waxed paper 

Rolling pin

Cookie cutter shapes of all sizes


Mix equal parts of cinnamon and applesauce together. For a small batch, use 1/2 cup of each. If the mixture becomes too sticky, add more cinnamon; if it's too stiff, add more applesauce. 

Scoop onto a piece of waxed paper. Place the additional sheet on top. 

Use the rolling pin to roll out the mixture until it's about 1/2-inch thick. 

Decide what shapes you would like to create. Press the cookie cutters on top of the clay and trim away the extra dough. 

When complete, place shapes on a cooling rack. Take a moment to clean the kids' hands with Kleenex Moist Cloths.

Allow the shapes to air-dry for about 24 hours or until hard.

Decorate with paints or glitter. Use your imagination. For instance, glue a clasp on the back to make a pin or add ribbon for a necklace.


