Title: 
Quick And Easy Everyday Desserts. Creamy yogurt dip can be a terrific accompaniment to all sorts of fresh-cut fruit, cookies and cake.

Word Count:
274

Summary:
For many people, dessert is the best part of any meal. But even in these health-conscious times, it's still possible to satisfy a sweet tooth with quick and easy confections.


Keywords:
Quick And Easy Everyday Desserts. Creamy yogurt dip can be a terrific accompaniment to all sorts of fresh-cut fruit, cookies and cake.


Article Body:
For many people, dessert is the best part of any meal. But even in these health-conscious times, it's still possible to satisfy a sweet tooth with quick and easy confections. All it takes is some yogurt and fresh-cut fruit.

Yogurt is a terrific way to get vitamins, calcium and other nutrients in a smooth, creamy treat. It's also an excellent accompaniment to fruit, complementing the natural sugars of pineapple or orange with a touch of tartness.

One yogurt product that's perfect with fruit is Litehouse Yogurt Fruit Dip. It comes in three popular flavors: Vanilla (with all-natural flavor), Chocolate (made with real Hershey's chocolate) and Strawberry (made with real strawberries). These delicious refrigerated dips are low in fat and contain no preservatives. They can be enjoyed throughout the day or in these simple dessert ideas that combine a variety of fresh seasonal fruit.

&#8226; Cookie Pizzas: Set out packaged or homemade sugar cookies, vanilla, chocolate and strawberry Litehouse Yogurt Fruit Dips and bowls of your favorite fresh fruit, such as bananas, peaches, strawberries, blueberries, raspberries, kiwi, pineapple and grapes. Ask family or friends to top a cookie with the yogurt dip, then any combination of fruits for a one of a kind dessert pizza.

&#8226; Berry Wonderful Cake: Drizzle slices of pound or angel food cake with strawberry Litehouse Yogurt Fruit Dip and top with fresh strawberries, blueberries and/or blackberries.

&#8226; Fruit on a Stick: Thread chunks of fresh fruit on wooden skewers, alternating colors, textures and flavors of the fruit. Serve with any flavor Litehouse Yogurt Fruit Dip. For a change of pace, try grilling fruit such as pineapple slices, peaches or mango before serving.


