Title: 
The Joy of Cooking – IPTVRecipes.com is way beyond Julia’s kitchen

Word Count:
246

Summary:
For those of you who were born within a certain time frame, Julia Child’s PBS broadcasts and her subsequent cookbook, The Joy of Cooking, became the standard by which many explored and expanded their love of food.


Keywords:
recipes, home cooks, video, social network, food, cooking, videos, community, chefs, cooks, international food, ethnic food, upload


Article Body:
IPTVRecipes.com blows the doors off Ms. Child – no offense intended.

Everyday more food enthusiasts, professional chefs and home cooks are uploading their videos to their 1 GB of free space (per recipe) to highlight their food selection, prep work and recipe completion for their favorite (or, new-found) dish.

Once you register, you’re not limited to the number of free recipes you can upload; and, 1 GB equates to 35 minutes to one (1) hour of you on the ‘net – depending upon the resolution.

Become the star of your own kitchen with MyKitchen, interact and exchange recipes and favorite kitchen tools and techniques, post to the IPTVRecipes.com Forum and utilize all that’s available, with 100 % user-generator content, for free.

Not since fire was discovered has there been such a universally-available community to enjoy, relish (pun intended) and share your culinary information and innovations. 

Just as Julia did, you can speak directly to your viewer’s as you wisk your way through a soufflé, toast with your favorite wine while you’re telling the tidbits of your traditional turkey; or, beef-up your best bouillabaisse as you sip your beer-of-choice.

With IPTVRecipes.com, food-related businesses, food lovers, professional chefs and home cooks, finally, have a spectacular, elegant, free vertical social network where y’all can fully interact, broadcasting your recipes from your kitchen; and – coming soon – directly to your home via IPTV!

With all due respect to the extraordinary contributions of Ms. Child – IPTVRecipes.com will – knock your knishes off!


