Title: 
Thrill Friends And Family With A "Make It Yourself" Pizza Party

Word Count:
342

Summary:
If there is one thing kids love more than eating pizza, it's being able to make it themselves using all their favorite toppings.


Keywords:
Thrill Friends And Family With A "Make It Yourself" Pizza Party


Article Body:
If there is one thing kids love more than eating pizza, it's being able to make it themselves using all their favorite toppings. Creating a "make it yourself" pizza party is a great way to customize the meal while involving friends and family in a fun activity. Best of all, this crust recipe, which uses a surprise ingredient, is simple enough to make at home without making a mess of the kitchen. 

The secret to this simple crust is the addition of potatoes. Idahoan brand flavored Mashed Potatoes were recently named the best-tasting instant mashed potato compared to major national competitors by the American Culinary ChefsBest.&#8482; Incorporating these convenient, 100 percent authentic Idaho potatoes in the crust adds moisture and rich flavor to this homemade version of one of America's favorite foods. 

The following recipe for Fresh Tomato and Zucchini Pizza uses fresh summer produce; however, when making pizza at home, each person can substitute his or her favorite toppings. With this versatile recipe, you can enjoy a delicious homemade meal that enables everyone to eat the pizza that they love.

Fresh Tomato 

And Zucchini Pizza

Crust:

1/2 cup dry Idahoan Roasted Garlic flavored Mashed Potatoes

1 cup boiling water

1 cup all-purpose flour

3 tablespoons olive oil

1 teaspoon salt

Topping:

3 plum tomatoes, thinly sliced and patted dry

1 small zucchini, thinly sliced

1 tablespoon olive oil

Salt and ground pepper to taste

4 ounces shredded mozzarella cheese

2 tablespoons fresh shredded basil or 1 teaspoon dried basil

Combine dry Idahoan Roasted Garlic flavored Mashed Potatoes with boiling water in a bowl, using a fork to moisten all potatoes. Let stand for one minute. Add flour, olive oil and salt to potato mixture. With hands, knead mixture until dough forms a ball. Let rest 5 minutes.

Preheat oven to 400º F. Press dough into 12-inch by 8-inch baking pan. Arrange zucchini slices and tomato slices over the dough, leaving a 1/2-inch border. Drizzle with olive oil and sprinkle with salt and pepper.

Bake about 15 minutes. Top with mozzarella; bake 5 minutes longer or until cheese melts. Sprinkle with basil.

Yield: 4 main-dish servings or 6 appetizer servings


