Junior High Youth Church Activities

Are you now in Junior High? If you are, then perhaps you might want to consider joining Junior High youth church activities. 

A lot of youths nowadays don’t know much about Christ and God. Are you one of them? If you want to make a difference and you don’t want to end up like the teenagers who followed the wrong path, then you should join a Junior High youth group. 

Youth groups are not new in the society. In fact, a lot of parents are very thankful that there are groups who are willing to help the young generation to live a healthy life. Find a church youth group which invites junior high students. Ask the needed requirements in order to become a member. 

Church youth groups can help you as a teenager. Perhaps you’ve encountered some problems already and you’re somehow troubled. If you’re a member of a youth group, you can take part in the various activities exclusively for junior high students. Now, a good thing about these youth groups is that they require the active participation of parents as well. With the joint efforts of the youth group staff, the parents, and the youth members, the group can achieve success. 

Religious education is also taught to the youth. During meetings, the youth leaders will lead the prayers, read scriptures from the Bible, do word reflections, conduct open discussions, and make a closing prayer. One way or another, the youth members will know God better. 

Youth groups are voluntary but the youth leaders see to it that they organize challenging and fun events so that the junior high students will attend without being forced by the parents. The activities of the church youth group often include learning ethical lessons, improving socializing skills, and public service (church and community).

It can even include movies at the local church, dinner at local malls, river rafting, hiking trails, weekend trips, retreats, splashy trips, sight seeing, cave exploring, fund raising activities, and outreach programs. As you can see, these activities can help you in becoming more aware about the environment and at the same time, be closer to God. 

Family and school should still be your top priority. The youth group usually meets once a month and on special activities. By taking active part in the various activities, you will have fun and you can learn a lot. 

Try to find a local junior high church youth group now. You can ask the parish or you can even check out other parishes as well. There are also online websites of junior high youth groups that you can check out. Make sure that you choose a youth group that you will feel comfortable with.

You can get your parents involved so that they will know all your activities. At least now, they will not worry about your safety that much. The youth group can be considered your peers now but they are much different from others. They will not be a bad influence to you. 

Junior high church youth activities vary. You can’t possibly participate in all the activities since you’re still busy with school things but try to attend the monthly meetings. If you have time, take active part in all the activities. It can help you with your every day teen life and the coming years as well.
