Youth Activities at Bloomington IL

Illinois’ county seat is Bloomington and way back in 2006, the population of the city was 74,975. According to Money Magazine, Bloomington is among the top eighty ‘best places to live’ cities in the United States. It also ranked sixth in Computerworld’s top 10 ‘tech-y’ communities.

Forbes also named Bloomington as the 20th smartest community all over the US. If you want to play golf, play it at Bloomington because according to Golf Digest, the city is included in the top five best golf courses list. 

What are the possible youth activities that you can do in Bloomington? If you want entertainment and recreation, you can first visit the manufacturing facility of Beer Nuts. If you want to experience simulated and interactive space/science, you can go to Prairie Aviation Museum, particularly the Challenger Learning Center. 

Youths also like amusements parks. While you’re in Bloomington, you can go to Grady’s Family Fun Park. There you can find an 18-hole golf course, bumper boats, batting cages, kiddie rides, and go carts. You can get refreshments in a restaurant inside the park. 

Do you want to try ice skating? You can also enjoy this activity while you’re in Bloomington at Pepsi Ice Center. It operates a 200’x85’ skating facility. You can take advantage of skating lessons, hockey programs, skate rental, and concession stand. 

Some youths love concerts, conferences, family shows, ice shows, and sporting events. Downtown, you can find the US Cellular Coliseum. There, you can enjoy the different events including the Football League and the Hockey League. 

Rock climbing is also an exciting activity and you can do this at Upper Limits Gym. It features 20,000 sq ft climbing, 110 ft routes, wave wall, bouldering area, and bi-level cave. The gym also offers introductory classes, advanced classes, group rates, parties, scout programs, team-building activities or exercises, and even portable walls. 

If the youth group or your peer group loves wildlife or nature, you can visit Constitution Trail. You can do jogging, walking, rollerblading, and cycling trail. If you go there during winter, you can go skiing but only if the weather permits. 

The Miller Park Zoo holds a lot of exhibits like ZooLab, WalkAbout, Asia Animals, Animal Building, Tropical Rainforest, and lot more. Some youths love to play golf and while you’re in Bloomington, you cam play golf at The Den, Highland Park, The Links, and Prairie Vista.

Theatre and arts are also quite popular in Bloomington. Even if some youth find these things boring, there are still others who are very much interested. You can watch American Passion Play at Bloomington Center’s Performing Arts. You might also want to check out the Shakespeare Festival, Symphony Orchestra, and the Arts Center at McLean Country. 

As you can see, there are many youth activities that can be done while you’re in Bloomington. You can go there with your family, with a youth group, or even your peers. You have to plan your trip ahead so that you can make hotel reservations and you can also prepare the budget. Vacations can get very expensive so make sure that you ask for help from older adults. 

The youth activities at Bloomington IL can help the adolescents live a better life. A life that does not include indulging in dangerous vices such as alcohol and drugs; so what are waiting for? Visit Bloomington IL now. 
