Youth Group Games Activities

Even if you’re already grown up, or you’re in your adolescence, you shouldn’t lose the child in you. Give yourself enough time to have fun by participating in youth group games activities. 

Games and grammar activities will definitely help you have fun while learning. If you don’t want to get bored while trying to learn your lessons in school, take a look at these fun youth games. 

1. Tic Tac Toe

Draw a tic tac toe giant board in class. In the squares, you need to write a sentence using a verb. Leave a blank space for the verb. If the missing verb can be identified, that is the time to place an ‘x’ on the box. The teacher will also participate in the game and should check the different answers of the students. 

Aside from using verb in the sentence, you can also use other grammar rules. 

2. Sentence Auctions

When doing youth games in school, you should start with the easy ones. Now, this game is harder than the first one. The class should be divided into groups. Teach them everything about auctions. Each group should be given points or even money so that they can bid for the given correct sentences. The teacher will be the one to auction correct as well as incorrect sentences. The group that earns the highest points wins. 

3. Sentence Maze

The student should each hold a printed maze. Make sure that the students start together. Read sentences that are grammatically right and wrong. Students will have different answers. If the students are able to tell the right from the wrong sentences, they can finish the maze. 

4. Sentence partners

Each student should be given a secret word. The words can be verbs, nouns, adverbs, prepositions, and many others. After that, each student should look for at least two partners so that they can create a correct sentence. When everyone is finished, let them read the sentences. All the sentences should be correct in order to win the game. You can do this all over again. Yu simply have to prepare many words that can be matched together. 

As you can see, the games are similar to kids’ games. But that’s just the idea behind it so that the youth don’t get bored in class. With the games, they can have fun while learning their lessons in English. You can even use the games in other subjects like mathematics. Try the games and the class will surely have fun. 

There are still other fun youth games that you can use. The internet can provide you with the needed resources. You simply have to search the internet and that’s it. The games will be all there, including the instructions and needed props. 

Learning is a continuous process and for as long as you live, you will learn new things. This is the very reason why you shouldn’t lose the child in you. Having fun is not bad especially if you’re learning in the process. It will be bad if you’re not learning at all and if it is done excessively. 

Spending everyday in class without having fun at certain a time can be very boring especially for the youth. Adolescence is a period of great change for individuals. To keep things running smoothly in class, have youth group games and activities.
