History of Arcade Games

The first arcade game started from Pong, but then moved on to become one of the biggest rages of the time. The games where mostly simple in design, but gave you plenty of raw game time. 

With the newer arcade games, you will find that it made use of intense leaps in technology and now uses some of the best graphic technology on the market. The arcade games were designed to be played with a group of friends in pubs, malls and restaurants.

These days arcade games are more than isolated gaming sessions. Keep in mind that arcade games have plenty of followers and now have built communities and even cults that are committed to the tradition of playing. 

Then the arcade game came into the home, thanks to the home console gaming units.. They started out as redemption games, pinball machines and video games.

The reason that arcades began to shut down was because they were labeled as very sinister places and they became known for being unsafe. They saw resurgence with the advent of the “two players fighting each other” games such as Mortal Kombat, Street Fighter and Killer Instinct.

But, then, again the game consoles and PC’s with 3d accelerator cards successfully dwarfed the advantage arcade games enjoyed. When it comes to the success of arcade games, you will find that it has beat the home computer game popularity and also it has become available on many systems so that you can get new games with better quality graphics and also you’ll be able to use better sound cards so that the experience of the game is better. 

The steep decline ensured that they could no longer fund their technologies.

Then, the decline of the arcade hit hard in the last 1990’s, because the internet made things a bit worse. With help from the internet the competition between players got a lot more serious. 

This is why most of the arcade games have been changed into PC games or home console gaming units. Today the online arcade games have a huge fan following with thousands of tournaments being held online every year.

As for the online arcade games, you will find that it is a very fast pace world that allows the arcade become more virtual and the graphics are a lot better. When you think about arcades, you have to realize that there is a new type of future for these games. 
