Adoption Announcements
    
The adoption is final and you want to get the word out.  You want to show and tell every body about your new family member.  What's a better way than sending out adoption announcements?  I know your thinking, what is an adoption announcement?  Well I will tell you.  An adoption announcement is a lit like a birth announcement, but instead of saying something like, we are welcoming the birth of our child, it will say something like, we are welcoming into our family.

There are all sorts of different kinds of adoption announcements.  Some people make their own announcements.  They say it is easier to make announcements than it is to find adoption announcements for older children.  Some people buy adoption announcements that contain pictures or have ribbon and bows.  Some have both.  Adoption announcements come in different languages.  They can include the name of the child, the child's birth date, where the child is from, such as what country, the day you met the child and the date the adoption was final.  They usually have the adoptive parent's names on it and any siblings.  The adoption announcement can also have the names of any pets.  Most adoption announcements include pictures.  Prices range from two dollars a piece to five dollars a piece, plus shipping and handling.

The best thing about adoption announcements is that you can make it your own.  You can personalize every aspect.  There are no two announcements a like, just like there are no two children exactly a like.  Every thing is new and exciting when there is a child in the home, whether the child is biological or adopted, that child will always hold a piece of your heart.  Everyday will bring something new and exciting.  Not only will you be teaching your child but your child will be teaching you.  This is what makes parenting so exciting and also so terrifying.

There is nothing more wonderful than having a child to call your own.  Adopting is a wonderful way to have this.  Adoptive parents have so much fun exploring and make things just right for their new children.  So preparing the adoption announcements should be just that, fun and exciting.

First you should take into consideration the people that you will send the adoption announcements too.  That will give you an idea of what all should be contained in the announcement.  Weather they should be humorous or sentimental.  After you have your words chosen your layout picked and what style you want its time to shop.  Depending on how many you are sending bulk mail may be appropriate.  This is a good way to save money on postage. 

Many people also have welcome home parties after the adopted member of the family is settled in, while you are working on your announcements can be a good time to consider such a party where as you won't have to mail out separate invitations.

All in all adoption announcements are a fun and traditional way to inform people of your welcoming a new member to your family. 
