Adoption Photo listing
    
Adoption Photo listing is done in every state and most international countries.  To those who may not know what adoption photo listing is, it is where an adoption agency or the local Division of Social Services has pictures and information of children for adoption on the internet.  This is done to improve the chances of the child for finding a family.  There are more than 100,000 children in the United States in foster care and hundreds of thousands around the world in orphanages or substitute care.  All the children listed on photo listing are for adoption and need a permanent home.  Most of these children have special needs.  Many of the children are over the age of seven, and the majority of the them are much older.  These children have physical, emotional, mental and/or learning disabilities.  You will find several sibling groups that wish to stay together.  In all states you must have finished your home study before you can adopt.

After reading the description of a child you can request more information.  Adoption Photo listing started in 1994 and over 8,000 children have appeared on it. The Adoption Photo list recieves more than two million hits per month.  Adoption photo listing is such a powerful way to motivate people even remotely interested in adopting.  Many people have a statistic in the back of their minds, knowing that there are millions of children around the world without a home.  But that's just it, it's just a statistic.  With adoption photo listing it is no longer just a statistic it is reality.  Adoption photo listing places a face where it used to be just a number.  Not only does it become a picture, but adoption photo listing describes the child.  It gives the Childs age, bithdate, state of residence, and the Childs likes and dislikes.

Adoption photo listing is not only beneficial for the child wanting to be adopted, but also beneficial for the adoptive parents.  This way the child gets his or her face out there for more to see.  Also the adoptive parents have a chance to see pictures and learn about the children.  What the children look like, what they like to do, where they come from and sometimes an update on how the child is doing emotionally.  This give the adoptive parents more to go on than just a picture or even a number.

Adoption photo listing is not just of children for adoption, but also of families or couples that want to adopt.  These adoptive parents have been thoroughly screened and have completed all of the prescreening assessments.  Many of them have fertility problems, making it near impossible to have children on their own.  These adoption photo listings give information such as the ages of the adoptive parents, when they where married, what their hobbies are and the information about any of the children they have whether they are biological or adopted.  They also explain how much they would like to adopt and raise a child, and how wonderful it would be just to be considered for adopting.

All in all adoption photo listing seems to have helped raise the number of children adopted and also helps with parents that want to adopt.
