Children for Adoption

A frequent question among those people looking to become adoptive parents is that of what the children are like. This is understandable, of course. After all, before welcoming a child into one's home, it is useful to know what options are available and what one can expect of the child. Since all children are different, there is no single or precise way to answer this question. By examining the various kinds of children who are generally adopted, it is possible to paint something of a general picture.

One option is to adopt an infant born within the U.S. The infants placed for public adoption are generally African-American, Hispanic or mixed-race. The number of Caucasian infants placed for public adoption is relatively small in comparison, as these children are generally handled by private adoption agencies. Adopting an infant is preferable for those people who wish to raise their adopted child from a very early age, possibly to simulate the experience of raising a birth child. Because this is such a widely sought option, it can often be difficult to find a readily available child, often resulting in long waiting periods before being able to adopt.

A second domestic option is to adopt a child who is already in foster care and waiting for a family. These children tend to be older, from grade school age up to adolescence. They may have special needs, such as emotional, mental, or physical disability, or they may be part of a sibling group that must be placed together. Often called "waiting children," these special cases are handled by both public and private adoption agencies, with entities called adoption exchanges helping to provide matches between child and parent. Often, adoption subsidies are available to help offset the cost of caring for a child with special needs.

A third option is to adopt internationally. Children are available for adoption in over fifty foreign countries. These children have been put for adoption for a variety of reasons, often linked to the nation or culture in which their parents live. In South Korea, for example, unwed mothers are looked upon shamefully, so would-be single moms often put their infant up for adoption. Often these children are living in orphanages, just waiting for someone to adopt them. The process of adopting from abroad can be a tedious one, but there are agencies and attorneys that will facilitate the process.

No matter which option is right for a certain individual, one theme remains the same: there are children who need to be adopted. From infancy to adolescence, both at home and overseas, there are children who are without families. For prospective birth parents who do not have the means to raise a child, and for people looking to start a family, adoption is a solution to be considered. If you or someone you know is thinking of adopting and would like some more information, some good online resources include Adoption.com and Adopting.org, both of which are aimed at providing information on adoption to pertinent parties. AdoptableKids.com is an online adoption exchange where one can search and browse photo listings of hundreds of kids currently waiting to be adopted.
