Dog Adoptions
    
Dog adoption generally refers to the taking over of ownership and responsibility of a dog, which the last owner gave up.  You can find dog adoptions through a shelter, rescue group, or through a non-for-profit organization online.  Dogs end up in shelters for many reasons, such as its owner dies, someone has to move or their financial situation changes, a dog is lost and can not find its way home, a person develops health problems and can no longer care for the dog, or develops allergies.  The Humane Society of the United States estimates that three to four million dogs and cats are euthanized every year, due to a lack of homes.

The adoption process for dogs is fairly simple and can take anywhere from thirty minutes to two days.  To adopt a dog you will need to fill out an application and a questionnaire.  If both are accepted the shelter will call any landlords that you might have, to make sure you can have the dog where you live.  If this checks out then in some cases, someone will come out to your home and make sure you have an adequate home and yard for the dog to live in.  Once this is complete you will be asked to pay an adoption fee, ranging from $50.00 to $350.00.  Then the dog will be spayed or neutered before going home.  There is no exception to this rule, it is a must.  Two to three days after surgery you will be able to pick your new pet up and take it home.

When adopting a dog you need to make sure that you pick a dog that matches your living situation and your needs.  There is a big difference in dog personalities, so depending on what the dog will be primarily for is depending on what bread you will want.  You should also remember that not all dog breads are good with children and some breeds are not good with other animals.  Where as allot can be told by breeds or what breads make up the mix, each dog will have its own personality.  The temperament varies, and is unique to each individual dog.  Most places that do dog adoptions will allow you a visitation period, some will even require it.  This is a good idea and should be taken advantage of.  Spending time with a potential dog will tell you volumes about their individual unique personality.  This can also clue you in on weather or not they will be good with children and other animals.

Dog adoption is a big responsibility and should not be taken lightly.  Remember to research, and take advantage of all the extras your local shelter offers.  If your shelter offers a visitation it should be taken advantage of, bring your children and any other pets that you might have.  Check with you local shelter and rescues to find out what they require as far as adopting a dog.  You might also ask them what their fees are and if they offer animal visitation.  Once you have done the research then you can begin your process of a dog adoption.
