International Adoptions
    
International adoption offers may benefits and a few hardships.  The pros of international adoption are as follows: there are a lot of children to be adopted of both sexes, from infancy and up in age.  Once you have an accepted home study you are all but guaranteed a child.  With international adoptions you know how long it will take (usually around twelve to eight-teen months).  The natural mother will not change her mind, all the children for international adoption are orphans.  Once you agree to a referral you will become the parent of that child.  You will know in advance how much all the fees are.  You will get to travel to another country.  The cons are as follows: you will not get a newborn; most infants are at least four months old.  The Childs heritage and medical information is not always known.  The child might have development problems, but should bounce back quickly.  There is a ton of paperwork required.

International adopting means that we have to follow the rules and laws of our country and the country that we are adopting from.  Every country has conditions like age limits, income guidelines, number of children in the home, maritial stability, and gender (single applicants).

The steps for an international adoption can be difficult.  First you need to decide what country in which you would like to adopt.  You should think about the cultural differences and weather or not you can really deal with them.  Consider your family and friends, talk with them and ask them what their opinions and thoughts on the matter might be.  You might ask them how they might feel about it.  You age and marital status will help you know what countries you can adopt from.  Once you have done that then you can narrow it down to one.

Once you have chosen a country, you will need to choose an agency that can help you along the way.  You should remember when choosing an agency you need to feel comfortable about the people that you will be working with.  You also need to make sure that the agencies you are looking at handle international adoptions.  Once you have picked your agency it is time to start the paperwork.  The agency will assign a social worker to your case.  The social worker will come to your home and interview you and any children in your home.  They will also want to interview your friends and family.  This is called an international home study.

Once the home study has been accepted, it is time to start collecting paperwork for your dossier.  All this is, is a collection of paperwork.  A dossier is a requirement for international adoptions.  All documents must be signed and notarized and then sent off to be translated and approved.  Once the dossier is finished and accepted you should start receiving referrals of children for adoption.  Now all you have to do is accept a referral.  You're almost done.  It is time to travel to the country you're adopting from for court, and then usually ten days after court you get to bring your child home to meet their new family.
