Small Dog Adoptions
    
Adopting a small dog can be done through several different avenues.  Shelters are a good source for finding small dogs to adopt, both pure bread and mixed breads alike.  The process is rather simple and generally requires an adoption fee and sometimes a pet owner check.  This helps them to know what kind of pet owner you have been in the past.  It is always a good idea to spend time with the dog before you adopt it.  If you have children you should bring them along for the first orientation.

Some small dog breads have bread specific medical conditions.  For instance Daushounds of regular or miniature variety are more prone to back and hip problems.  Some simple bread research will reveal most of these medical issues.

Another avenue for small dog adoption would be rescues.  Some of the more popular breads such as, bichon frise, Papillion, miniature pincher, dashound, Yorkshire, pug, Boston terrier ect.. Have bread specific rescues.  Other rescues are more general and have mixed breads as well.  If after you have finished your research, you found that particular bread fits you better, this avenue would probably work best for you.

Some small dog breads should not be adopted if there are small children in the home.  Breads such as pugs and miniature boxers are just a couple.  The smaller breads are too easy for a small child to hurt.  This can happen by falling on them or stepping on them.  Also some small dog breads are more likely to nip and bite.  Small dogs should be adopted into a home where there are older people or a family with older children.

Small dogs are rambunctious and require attention.  They need room to run.  Small dogs tend to be more hyper than larger dogs.  These are things that you should consider when wanting to adopt a small dog.  Other things to consider when wanting to adopt a small dog are time, money, and love.  Whenever you adopt a dog large or small you should make sure that you have time to take care of it.  You also need to make sure that you have the money to deal with any medical issues and mandatory maintenance of the dog.  Then of course there is love all animals need love to survive and grow.  Small dogs make good pets for apartment dwellers and anyone who likes to have a warm lap.  Also it is good to remember that in most cases it is easier to control a ten pound dog than it is a do twice that size.

You should weigh your options and look at the pros and cons of small dog adoption.  Take in our surrounding and ask yourself if this is what's right for you.  Check with your landlord to see if there are any pet policies, and maybe talk to someone you know that has a small dog or has adopted a small dog.  Make sure that the decision you make is the right one for you and your situation.
