Tran Racial Adoption

Tran racial adoption is where a colored child is placed with white parents.  Hoping that the color difference would not match up to the love and belonging the child would feel with its new family.  There are fewer young white children available for adoption, leaving adoptive parents feeling the need to reach out and help any child in need, regardless of race.  There are different opinions on Tran racial adoption, one is that a child should be put in a home with at least one parent of the same race. Others believe that race should not be considered at all.

To prepare for adoption it is important for everyone,  but even more important if you're contemplating Tran racial adoption to consider a few things.  When thinking of Tran racial adoption one should think about your personnel beliefs and you attitude toward race and ethnicity.  When you adopt a child who is considered different, the entire family will be different.  One needs to remember that to some, different is strange and sometimes scary.  Not everyone will understand your decision to adopt Tran racially.  Here are a few more things to ask yourself, where you live, is it integrated?  Are the schools in your area integrated?  Do you have friends that are different races and ethnicity?

To Tran racially adopt you need to become seriously involved in parenting, you can not allow racially or ethnically prejudice remarks in your home.  You will need to encompass your family with support.  You should celebrate all cultures and do not be afraid to discuss race and culture.  Most importantly you should be there for your child and let them know that no matter what someone says to them and no matter how bad it hurts them that you are there for them and that you love them.  Parents of Tran racial adoption should encourage themselves and allow themselves to believe strongly that their family belongs together.  You should make it very clear that it is not ok to make fun of people who are different.  Teach your child to stand up to prejudice without starting fights.  They should learn to use their words not their fists.

Many agencies are not open about Tran racial adoption policies, because it is such a touchy subject.  You should ask your agency about how they feel about it.  Tran racial adoption was the subject of a bill before congress in 1994, and after an intense debate they found that they agreed on one thing, that all adults of all backgrounds need to help adopted children of all backgrounds reach their potential.

Tran racial adoption began after World War II, when there was a large number of children without a home or family.  American adoptive couples were not always childless, but simply family oriented.  Parents who adopt Tran racially can not ignore the fact that they become a minority family.  They will be subjected to questions, odd looks, and prejudice remarks.  Research shows that children raised in a Tran racial environment tend to handle the cultural gap extremely well, and that parents who adopt Tran racially have to work harder than same race parents, this way they can empower their children and teach them about different cultures and backgrounds.

All in all, Tran racial adoption could be a wonderful experience for the right family.  You might have to work a little harder, but from what I have found it is all worth the effort.
