Vietnam Adoptions
    
With Vietnam adoptions children age ranges between four months and twelve months, older children are always available as well.  There are more boys than girls to adopt, and if you are dead set on a girl it may take longer to find one.  The majority of children are healthy, although there is a problem of low birth weight and premature birth.

They ask that married couples should be married for at least two years.  People who have been divorced before may adopt as long as they have not had more than two divorces.  Individuals who are straight may also adopt.  To qualify for a Vietnam adoption you must be at least twenty years older than the child you wish to adopt.  Adoptive parents under fifty years old are allowed to adopt a baby, while parents over fifty years old can only adopt older children.  In Vietnam adoptions parents who have a large family already may not be allowed to adopt, while parents with no children are not allowed to be gender specific.  Parents with a child or two are able to be specific.

The time frame for a Vietnam adoption is not possible to approximate.  In 2005 Vietnam passed new adoption laws.  Before the new laws it would take about seven-teen months.  Vietnam adoptions seen to be fairly popular, but may be slowing down, due to other programs.  Vietnam is a poverty stricken, densely populated country.  These conditions have resulted in children being left o abandoned or orphaned.

Once your home study has been accepted you will start to get referrals with pictures and medical information.  When you have decided on a referral you can gather and compile your dossier.  The dossier will be sent to the Vietnamese authorities to be looked over.  Once the dossier has been approved by the Vietnamese authorities you will be able to go to Vietnam to pick up your child.  Only one parent is required to travel but it is recommended that both parents travel to see the country.  Your stay in Vietnam will usually be anywhere from ten to fourteen days.  While in Vietnam it is recommended that you indulge your senses and go on several different sight seeing trips.  The total cost including agency fees, visas and embassy fees, foreign fees, courier fees, home study fees, documentation fees, hotels, and plane tickets, is usually around $25,000.00 to $30,000.00.

Religious beliefs in Vietnam are different as they are here.  Buddhism seems to be the largest religion in Vietnam.  But the Vietnamese also believe in Islam, Christianity, Confucianism, and Taoism.  Their main food source is rice.  The Vietnamese are extremely good at preparing vegetarian meals.  Vietnam is a very mountainous country.

Interest in Vietnam adoptions have seemed to soar since they have opened back up in 2006.  America is a melting pot of different cultures and races.  Unfortunately people have an issue understanding that this is how it all started.  This is how American came to be what it is today.  By having Americans adopt from Vietnam shows people that race does not matter and that our cultures mixing together make this world a better place.
