Knowing the Basics: Skateboarding

Skateboarding is an easy and fun way to get some exercise, meet a lot of people, and in some sense, to look cool. Some may view it as a fairly risky activity, but a lot of youngster would still prefer to get into it because of its benefits. Majority of skateboarders in the world are 18 and under and this translates to around 10 million young skaters worldwide.

If you are someone who is interested in skateboarding, then read along for some basic guidance on how to start.

Protective Gears

The first things should always come first. Before you go ahead and try to do some stuff using a skateboard, you need to have some protective gears with you. A helmet, a couple of elbow pads and knee pads should do the job. You can borrow some gear from your friends if you are not sure if you’ll push through with skateboarding on the long run, just make sure that they would fit properly on you. 

A lot of kids today disregard the fact that safety is a real issue in skateboarding. They think that wearing protective pads and helmets don’t look cool and so they skate without them but suffering from grave injuries from skateboarding is not so either, huh?

Meet your new friend: your skateboard

After putting on your protective gear, the next thing that you need to do is to get acquainted with your skateboard. Skateboards come in different sizes and designs. It is advisable that you borrow a skateboard first so that you can assess what kind of skateboard you would like to have in the future. 

Before you hit the streets with your skateboard, you must find some time to be able to get properly acquainted with it. You should try standing, jumping and moving your feet on the skateboard for some time before you actually make any movements. This will prevent you from being too surprised with the “feel” of the skateboard.

Stance

Another important thing that you need to do before you start skateboarding is to determine your stance. If you like the feel of having your left foot forward, then do so, otherwise, put your right foot in front. You can determine which foot goes where by kicking a ball. If you kick a ball with your right, then you should put your right foot at the back of the board and vice versa.

Movement

You already know your preferred stance on the skateboard, what do you do next? You push your back foot to get some movement going on. Remember to relax your body while you start off and bend your knees if you have to. The first movements may feel a little bit weird but you’ll definitely get the hang of it.

Please try to do your initial practice in a place where you have ample space and little disturbance such as vehicles and people. A flat surface is also preferable than sloped ones.

Halt!

Another basic thing that you need to know is how to stop. There are different kinds of methods used for stopping a skateboard, however, we would recommend the use of the back foot to stop to stop the movement for beginners. All you have to do is to get your back foot on the ground and use the friction to stop your skateboard.

These are some of the basic things that beginner skateboarders need to master before they get to the tricks and the stunts. Always remember that safety comes first, and that building sound fundamentals is one’s best weapon to avoid accidents while skateboarding. Enjoy!

