Skateboarding Games

Skateboarding has become so popular to the young at heart since its birth in the 1950s. It has conquered all of the country’s streets and parks. Its popularity doesn’t stop there, it is currently making a buzz in the gaming industry as several skateboarding games make their way to the hearts of millions.

Skateboarding, as we all know, is not for everyone. It requires some level of physical capability to be able to engage in the said activity. The good thing about having all of these skateboarding games is that everyone can enjoy in the wonderful world of skateboarding. 

Skateboarding Card Games

When we talk about skateboarding games, these are not limited to virtual games such as those which are offered by gaming consoles. A popular game today amongst skateboarding enthusiasts is “Stoked” which is basically a game of trading cards. Just like any other trading card game, it has a story behind it. The story has a futuristic plot. The area that we know now as South California is referred to in the story as “Sociala” which is a peaceful and quite place. But as we all know, in all societies, there are taboos and deviants. The skateboarders, as represented by the players themselves are these deviants. As you play the game, you acquire new skills and learn new tricks. 

It’s really quite and addictive game. But perhaps the best aspect of this game is the visual artwork that was done with the card. The awesome drawings and portrayals make the purchase of several decks of this card game all worth it.

Skateboarding Video Games

Video games have gone to conquer the world. The United States markets are the largest video game markets in the world. It is a multi-billion dollar industry that is also being invaded by skateboarding. 

One of the most popular skaters is Tony Hawk, and coincidentally, he has become a household name for video games. Multiple skateboarding games has been released under his name because of his popularity. A company named Activision released the first Tony Hawk-based video game back in 1999. After its successful release, around less than ten Hawk-based games were released.

Online Skateboarding Games

The Internet has become a main portal by which people can have access to information and of course, fun. On-line skateboarding games have gained much popularity because their simplicity makes them so addicting. These are usually flash games which are intended for people who would like to take a break from their tasks, but they end up playing these things the whole afternoon. G-Max’s skateboarding game is one of the most popular today. It features cute graphics and simple game play, however, one can do dozens and dozens of cool tricks with his skateboarder character. 

Skateboarding need not be on the streets, it has found ways to be on different platforms such as in card decks and video games. It has also stormed the primary information that is the Internet. 

Skateboarding is a widely accepted and appreciated form of sport, recreation and transportation all over the world. It has captured the hearts of everyone, even the non-skateboarders. No matter what form it takes, the game of skateboarding is here to stay. As long as there are skateboarders on the streets, there will be other forms of the game that will be developed.
