Microsoft Anti Spyware

Trust Microsoft not to be left behind in the anti Spyware Rage

When the need for anti spyware solutions became in demand, who do you think was one of the pioneers who came to the rescue? Microsoft, of course. The best in the computer technology were gathered to formulate an anti spyware that could be considered one of its finest. The result is Microsoft anti spyware.

This anti spyware was introduced as a free beta version that is downloadable from the internet. Those who wanted to try out what Microsoft has to offer can simply go over the main homepage and download it there. 

Today, people can have the complete software installed in their computer. The beta software has in it all the basic protection that computers need. From spyware to how it can easily be detected, Microsoft anti spyware software has everything put in there. 

What are the things that Microsoft anti spyware can offer you?

1. It exterminates hard to eliminate spyware. 

The initial scanning function of Microsoft anti spyware is quick and thorough. Just like its veteran counterparts, it is able to identify the number of spyware that has gotten into your system. 

One thing that makes Microsoft spyware stand out is that it does the work quicker than any other anti spyware available. If you compare it with other anti spyware, you will notice that it can do the job faster than what you have before. This saves valuable time that you can set aside for other stuff. 

When the scan is finished, the program will give you detailed information about the spyware. The information will go as far as pointing out where the spyware is located in the computer, risk rate and the necessary actions needed to avoid such threats. 

You have the capability to schedule when the next scan is going to take place. It is better to do this on a regular basis so that the risks will be avoided completely. You can input this information into your computer so that it will automatically start the scanning process.

There is a network community that is responsible for keeping users in tune with the updates that is going around in these programs. You will receive real time notification about these updates so you will know what is happening lately.

2. State-of-the-art features. 

Microsoft anti spyware offers advanced features that you can take advantage of. 

You can have default settings to Microsoft in your browser. This makes browsing easier when you already have them existing in the browser that you use. 

Another feature is setting modifier. You have the choice of putting as many objects in your browser as possible. 

The last feature the capability to erase automatically the number of histories to programs that you used and gone through. This way, the fear of anyone going through them will be eliminated. It will also save you the trouble of looking up each one and deleting them manually. 

3. Easy access and free of charge. 

You are pared the worry of paying for this program since it comes for free. Over the Internet, you can search for and download it directly to your computer. 

Microsoft anti spyware is a recommended anti spyware support if you are after the quality that is known only with Microsoft. Get all the features combined with the assurance that you are well protected from intruders with Microsoft anti spyware. 
