Hunting Down Spyware and Adware 

Most of us hate spyware and adware. Unless you're a web developer which has a couple of spyware and adware programs tied to your credentials, chances are you belong to the majority of web browsers who seek the assistance of anti-spyware removal programs to kill spyware and adware infections in their computers. 

There are a number of ways to kill or remove spyware infections. Most of them involve easy enough steps. However, there are times when the computer has been too infected by a multitude of spyware programs that the only solution that remains is to format the hard drive of the computer. To start anew is sometimes the only way to free your computers from such infections. 

Nevertheless, there are a lot of anti-spyware and anti-virus programs out in the market that are able to identify and remove, delete or quarantine spyware utilities and their infected files efficiently. Anti-spyware and anti-virus creators are working overtime to keep up with the development of spyware and adware programs. They need to release versions of their anti-spyware utilities as quickly as possible or they will be overrun by spyware's development. 

The best way, of course, to rid your computer of these problematic and irritating spyware is to prevent them from entering your system in the first place. An ounce of prevention is better than a pound of cure, as they say. You need to be cautious on the websites that you browse. Do understand that most of the spyware programs attach themselves to various advertisements that contain adult contents. The various porn sites in the internet are a cesspool of spyware, adware, malware and viruses. 

If you noticed unrelated pop-up ads that regularly appear as you browse the web, this is a sign that your computer is already infected by spyware programs. You should also remember that when you find a spyware software installed in your computer, it is never alone. If you find one, then your computer is most likely a host to several spyware and adware programs. Each of this spyware and adware may even install their own sets of components which can be found in different locations of your computer system. 

It is quite fortunate that a number of anti-spyware scanning and removal tools available area able to locate and remove the main spyware application as well as all its embedded components. One other symptom that shows your computer has been a victim to spyware and adware infections is a sluggish system. 

When it takes your computer like forever to load an application or even go to the Windows desktop, there's a big likelihood that spyware and adware has found their way in your operating systems and are hindering the normal speed of your applications. 

But why do spyware exist? Basically, spyware applications are very good marketing tool. They enable advertisers to target specific audiences for their campaigns. The pop-up ads when viewed from an objective view point serve audiences or consumers by providing related links to similar websites and services. But because spyware applications have been used extensively, have been abused and have been used for unscrupulous activities, they have become more of an annoyance overshadowing their potential legitimate benefits. 

Among the anti-spyware scanners and cleaners available, SpyBot and Ad-aware are two of the most popular programs. These two are among the best spyware and adware killers in the industry.