What's the Snag Behind the Spyware 

The concept behind the technology of spyware is that, a number of advertising companies take interest to install tracking software into the computer system, that illusions to call it host with aims to use all internet connections, get statistical or other information data to what they will claim "home" attesting assurance of company's security policies not to collect sensitive data for confidentiality, and with full promise to establish continuity of anonymity. 

 However, it is an establish fact that the PC functions as a "live" server that is open for any kind of information disseminations with or without the consent of the server; bottom lining the fact, there is always a risk for any transfer of any information even those covered by protection policies between the advertiser and the so called  "mothership."  In the end just as nobody would wish, it will be sending assimilated data that might escape the benefit of payment from the PC database.

Although spyware and adware could be two in one to front probable interference to the server's privacy, spyware could stage sole manipulation to indulge deeper in affecting the users privacy, prompting slow-down computer's effectiveness, windows' pop-ups of undesirable ads, and spam e-mails.

Several media companies are perennially seeking ways to eliminate large expense for web development and internet costs; but instead, tend to pay part of their revenue solicitations from reputable brands' banner sales to host servers by installing reputable piece software by way of so called "piggybacking," or tricking methods as the Trojan horse technique, installing some "rogue" anti-spyware program, eluding detection of its being a disguised security software.  

A spyware no adware technology is an advertising copyright itself, can stand without having to do with any adware's vulnerability threats.  The so-called  "Web accelerator" or helpful software agents:  Example, the Bonzi Buddy (quoted from: Wikipidea), targeted to children:  "He will explore the internet with you as your own friend and sidekick.  He can talk, walk, joke, browse, search, e-mail and download like no other friend you've ever had! . . Best of all, it is FREE." 

This piece of copyright text is so deceptive for unknowingly, motives behind depict to pursue some ends in order to evade something that will disrupt the mobility of cash flow of the mother host.  

Why is Spy ware Deceptive?

1. It does not self-replicate; instead, it invades infected computers for commercial gains purposes. 
2. It monitors Web browsing activity (sales strategy) and routes of all HTTP to advertising agencies.
3. Delivery of pop-up advertisements
4. Theft of Credit and Identification card numbers in relation to the notorious identity theft around.
5. Spyware gets into the system by exploitations of other software vulnerability.

The Effects of the Spyware upon the Use of the Computer

There are so many complicated effects that are induced by spyware.  It may not even be detected as an obvious virus infection, but comes in, a core factor of ineffective results of computers' performance; like network traffic, disk usage, CPU malfunction which may be mislead to be a PC crash, and finally resolving to replace the whole system with a new one.  

The demand for technical support and assistance is another recourse for badly spyware-infected computers.  Another option is to have a thorough "cleanup" of the whole system.  It needs massive reinstalling on software in order to revitalize as new.
