Spyware Doctor Serial

Basic Features of Spyware Doctor

Spyware is a kind of software secretly installed on a hard disk without the user’s awareness that relays encoded information on your identity. It is a cautious application that uses the Internet connection, transmitting and gathering information on different activities you do on your computer to third-parties.  These added facts are often collected and sent without your consent.  

Firewalls and anti-virus software do not totally shield your computer system from online threats. Spyware is the fastest growing online threat on the Internet. It is usually packed with software downloads, transmitted and attached to e-mails through networks so it can be a legal software but once installed it is impossible to delete without the help of a removal program like Spyware Doctor.  

Spyware Doctor is the most advanced spyware removal utility that senses, eliminates and protects your computer from various potential spyware, adware, Trojans, spybots and other online threats. It helps to protect your computing habits and identity from nosy individuals and trespassers. It has advanced features that improve its spyware fighting abilities. 

The Spyware Doctor is a highly developed technology designed for not so expert people. That is the reason why this spyware removal already won various awards by many of the worlds’ leading PC Publication. It is arranged automatically to give you the best protection with limited interaction so all you need to do is install it for direct and constant protection. There are many Spyware Doctor serial numbers, license codes or key generators found in the Internet. 

Here are some of the features of the Spyware Doctor:

Detects and removes spyware and other malware infections. Spyware Doctor uses a complicated database of spyware infections to detect and remove spyware from your computer. It includes over 50, 000 signatures. This database helps you to keep your computer free from online threats. 

Regular Smart Updates to detect and protect against new infections. Run the Smart Update tool to get recent spyware infection database information and improvements to Spyware Doctor’s functionality and Help documentation. This will help you to protect your system from new infections.

Rootkit scanning. Spyware Doctor has the ability to detect and remove secret processes associated with rootkits and complex threats. 

Alternate Data Stream (ADS) detection and removal ability. ADS scanning permit Spyware Doctor to detect attached infections to ordinary files. When the threats enter a file, the spyware is cautiously hidden and the file seems to be unchanged. The Spyware Doctor is capable of detecting and removing these kinds of nasty threats which hide themselves in ADS. 

Malicious Kernel Level (KL) Process killer. The Kernel Level (KL) Process killer technology detects and kills nasty processes that functions at the Windows Kernel Level. This allows the Spyware Doctor to stop difficult processes from running, which either hide themselves or try to restart upon termination.

Capability to restore and quarantine items that have been detected. The Spyware Doctor helps you to delete malware infections from your computer system that have been detected in a scan and quarantine them into a contained area. The quarantined infections can be restored at a later time. You can freely customize the Spyware Doctor to either quarantine or delete malware items fixed in a scan.
OnGuard Technology. The advanced OnGuard technology offered by the Spyware Doctor prepares you on true spyware detection. This is very important because you will not be interrupted anymore by enigmatic questions every time you change your PC settings, install software, and add sites to your favorites. 
There are many downloadable spyware removal programs found in the Internet. But you should remember that in choosing an anti-spyware program, you should make sure that it is totally proven. 