Effective Spyware and Adware Utilities

If you are looking for effective spyware and adware protection, you can always look online to check out some of the most effective anti-spyware and adware tools available for you. There are a number of software companies who have dedicated their resources to develop more effective and more sophisticated programs to provide you with the best anti-spyware and adware protection for your PC. Here are some of them:

Spyware Doctor

Spyware Doctor is a multi-award winning spyware removal utility that is available for you both in free trail software as well as an on sale software product version able to provide you with extensive spyware and adware protection. It effectively detects, removes and protects your PC from thousands of potential spyware and adware programs proliferating the online world today. 

A wide range of malicious trojans, keyloggers, spybots and tracking threats are put at bay with the Spyware Doctor. This is an adware and spyware removal utility that detects and cleans thousands of potential adware, trojans, keyloggers, spyware and other malware that may be infecting and wrecking havoc on your PC. Its remover tool allows you to remove, ignore or either quarantine identified spyware. This tool is made available for free in the trial version. 

Spyware Doctor also has an OnGuard system that effectively immunizes and protects your system against hundreds of online privacy threats even while you work. The Spyware Doctor allows you to perform fast scanning and detection at Windows start-up so that you will be alerted with a list of the potential threats identified and provides spyware blocking features to give you continuous protection. 

McAfee AntiSpyware

Get rid of malicious programs before they can steal your identity from your PC. Someone may be tracking you online and may be monitoring your every move. The McAfee AntiSpyware may just be the essential protection much needed by today's security-conscious Internet user like you. 

McAfee AntiSpyware can quickly detect and then safely eliminate malicious applications such as key loggers, remote-control programs, spybots and browser hijackers that may be hiding on your system before they can rob you of your precious personal information, snatch passwords or monitor browsing activity when you go online. By eliminating online roadblocks, McAfee AntiSpyware also prevents adware programs to trigger annoying advertisements and sap precious system performance on your PC. 

X-Cleaner 

X-Cleaner is a premier privacy software solution that is made by one of the most trusted names in anti-spyware technology. X-Cleaner effectively deletes browser and system usage tracks, shreds pictures and generates secure passwords in your PC. It also features a unique anti-spy and adware technology that will remove them fully from your PC. The X-Cleaner also has effective inoculation features that will help prevent future infections and keep your PC safe for use. 

Key features of this software include the ability to remove traces of movie files, pictures that you have viewed. It can also detect and remove spy software that logs your private activity online and may undermine personal online security. The X-Cleaner can also find and remove pornographic content that may contain malicious codes on your computer. 

To provide the utmost privacy, the X-Cleaner can also permanently erase files on your PC with a military style file shredder. Stop password theft and know if some users are snooping and recording your keystrokes with the use of the X-Cleaner!
