Title: 
How to Fight Prostate Cancer

Word Count:
437

Summary:
A brief overview of prostate cancer and thge effects of diet.


Keywords:
prostate cancer


Article Body:
Over the past few years Prostate Cancer has been targeted by health authorities as the largest hidden killer of men over 45 years of age. Although there have been advances in education and general public awareness, men are still demonstrating reluctance to acknowledge the need for vigilance in their everyday lives.

There are a number of ways that men can reassure themselves however. 

Here is a list of facts and suggestions collated from a number of sources that you should know about.

One in every 6 men will suffer from prostate problems in their lives. So there is no need to feel isolated or a victim. Just take action and get to a doctor quickly at the first sign.
It is almost certain that quick action will lead to successful recovery. The sooner you visit your doctor and get referred to a Urologist the better your chances of successful treatment.

There is hope for the future. In 2002, scientists at Liverpool University in the UK isolated the gene that promotes the spread of prostate cancer. This information is still being explored to hopefully produce new drugs which will assist treatment of Prostate cancer outside of the normal Chemotherapy regimes currently in use.

Dietary habits are the common thread in most of the literature about prostate cancer. 

•	Dairy products should be eliminated and replaced by soya. Just a couple of glasses of soy milk a day can have dramatic effects.
•	Lyocopene contained in tomatoes is another factor showing up in studies as an effective preventative element of a prostate cancer fighting diet. Eating one moderately sized tomato a day also provides approximately 4 mg of lycopene. Other tomato products, such as an 8-ounce portion of tomato juice or tomato paste may provide up to 25 mg of lycopene. See www.naturalhealthlive.com/Lycopene.html
•	Other fruits and vegetables are also recommended, such as avocadoes, pumpkins, beans and carrots and green leafy vegetables like spinach.
•	Garlic, which seems to pop up in every preventative healthy diet plan is also recommended as it contains allicin, which decreases the proliferation of cancer cells.
•	Selenium which is found in garlic, tomatoes, and broccoli has also been shown to be effective.
 
Cut back on salt and seasonings as these have been linked to cancer.

Finally, green tea is a popular choice as a beverage so drink at least 6 cups a day.

All in all there are plenty of reasons to be positive about controlling the risk of contracting prostate Cancer. A healthy diet as outlined above, coupled with most others advocated by Dietician everywhere, will dramatically reduce your concerns and help you lead a normal healthy long life.


