Title: 
Prostate Health and Men's Sexual Health...

Word Count:
345

Summary:
Prostate health is important to men's sexual health... Prostate cancer is a malignant tumor that arises in the prostate gland.


Keywords:
healthy prostate, how to prevent prostate cancer, prostate, men's sexual health,


Article Body:
Introduction

Prostate health is important to men's sexual health.  The prostate is part of the male reproductive system.  

Prostate health is one of the most important concerns for men, and each man should have a yearly check of their prostate

health after a certain age.  Prostate health is one of the leading concerns for American men.  

Prostate cancer

Prostate cancer is a malignant tumor that arises in the prostate gland.  Prostate cancer is the most common nonskin

malignancy and the second leading cause of cancer deaths in United States males.  Prostate cancer is one of the most

common cancers affecting older men in developed countries and a significant cause of death for elderly men (estimated

by some specialists at 3%).  Prostate cancer risk can be decreased by modifying known risk factors for prostate cancer,

such as decreasing intake of animal fat.  Prostate-specific antigenSerum prostate-specific antigen (PSA) levels may be

measured to help determine if lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) may be due to prostate cancer.  

Treatment

Treatment options should be studied closely by all men diagnosed with prostate cancer.  Treatment involves identifying the

cause of the symptoms, which may include bacteria, or scar tissue in the passage to the urethra that has resulted from an injury.  

Because all treatments can have significant side effects, such as erectile dysfunction and urinary incontinence, treatment

discussions often focus on balancing the goals of therapy with the risks of lifestyle alterations.  Treatment for prostate

cancer may involve watchful waiting, surgery, radiation therapy, High Intensity Focused Ultrasound (HIFU), chemotherapy, cryosurgery,

hormonal therapy, or some combination.  Treatment Choices for Men With Early-Stage Prostate Cancer describes the treatment choices

available to men diagnosed with early-stage prostate cancer and examines the pros and cons of each treatment.  

Conclusion

Prostate health is extremely important, as prostate cancer and other related medical conditions are common among men.  

Prostate health is a major concern for most men, especially those over the age of 50.  Prostate issues are mostly one

of main reasons for mens impotence or so called erectile dysfunction.  Prostate health is important to men's sexual health.


