Title: 
What to do For Enlarged Prostate or for Prostate Cancer

Word Count:
468

Summary:
Do you know the symptoms for enlarged prostate or when you have prostate cancer?  Discover what you have to do to know if you have this disease, then find out how you can supplement your diet to reduce their spread.


Keywords:
enlarged prostate, prostate cancer, beta-sitosterol, prostate health


Article Body:
By age of 50, most men will already have an enlarged prostate and three of these men will have cancer cells forming in their prostate.  Prostate cancer is the main cancer found in men and by age 75 three out of four men will have prostate cancer.

The facts are pretty clear, if you are a male you will have to deal with BPH, enlarged prostate, or prostate cancer.

So how do you know if you have BPH or prostate cancer?  Well, here are a few of the symptoms:

"	getting up at night to urinate
"	having difficulty urinating
"	 not completely emptying your bladder
"	having pain during sex
"	having pain when urinating

Medical test that you can get for enlarged prostate or prostate cancer.

"	PSA, prostate specific antigen, which gives a good indication of your prostate health
"	PAP, prostate acid phosphatase, a test that is more accurate than PSA, but many doctors don't use it or are unfamiliar with it.
"	Sonogram is a safe and accurate way to check your prostate
"	MRI, magnetic resonance imaging, is also accurate but is the most expensive test.
There is other tests that doctors like to make and that is,

Biopsy of the prostate - Don't have it done.  It's very harmful to the prostate and should never be done.

The ideal way to take care of prostate health issues is to change or improve you diet and lifestyle.  Here are some area that you need to look at to make changes.

"	diet
"	supplement
"	fasting
"	hormone balancing
"	eliminate addictive substances - smoking, alcohol, coffee, non-herbal tea)
"	exercise
"	stress, anxiety, and emotional issues

The first thing you need to do is start using a supplement that will start to heal your prostate condition.  Then you need to change your diet.  Here I will tell which supplement to buy immediately and in another article I will outline a good diet to follow.

Go out and immediately but a supplement that contains Beta-sitosterol.  You will find beta-sitosterol in saw palmetto and pygeum africanum, but these herbal plants have very little beta-sitosterol.  This make them useless for prostate health.  You need 325 to 610 mg per day and these herbal products 30 mg or less.

A good beta-sitosterol to buy is the NSI Phytosterol Complex with Beta-sitosterol -- 240 Tablets.  This is only $20.00 plus shipping.

You will find this product contains the following ingredients:
Betasitosterol
Stigmasterol
Campesterol
Brassicasterol

All of these chemicals are called Phytosterol, which are consider the fat inside a plant. These sterols have an anti-inflammatory property and help to buildup your immune system.  They have been found effective in reducing the inflammation of the prostate, BPH, lowering cholesterol, and aiding in many other illnesses.

Take the first step in keeping a health prostate and avoid having to deal with enlarged prostate or prostate cancer.  Look for more of my articles on prostate health.


