baby boomers 4

Baby Boomers: Who They Are and What's In Store for Them in the Future


One of the largest populations in the United States is the baby boomers generation. This particular generation is known to have contributed a lot in modern society. Culturally, they have contributed deeply in music and art. Politically, they contributed a lot about civil rights.

So, you may ask and be interested who these baby boomers are. First of all, baby boomers are people who were born within the years 1946 and 1964. They were called the baby boomers generation because of the increase in birth rate after World War II and was considered as one of the largest increase in population in the United States

The after effects of World War II produced a lot of devastated economies around the world. Because of this, the United States war factory began producing peacetime goods and materials to be used in their own country and also for export to help their allies to recover their own economy. This produced a lot of income in the United States as well as high paying jobs. Because of this, families around the United States were earning a lot. This resulted in better education, and also enticed families to produce more children. This is why the baby boomer phenomenon started.

The United States economy was constantly on the rise after World War II. When the baby boomers came of age, education was widely available for everyone. Many baby boomers were attending college and the United States were producing professionals in the country.

You also have to understand that baby boomers came of age when civil rights protests were all over the United States. They were protesting their civil rights and also protesting the conscription for the Vietnam War. Many even avoided military duty and failed to show up after being drafted.

You also have to understand that baby boomers grew up in a world where the United States military was the most powerful military in the world. They grew up in a world where the enemies were communists and socialists. You will see that people who were born in the baby boomers era has distinct political views and are very politically active.

In fact, the highest office in the United States today is being run by a baby boomer. Another fact is that before this person, a baby boomer also held this office. They are Bill Clinton and George W. Bush. As you can see, they have a very distinct policy on how to run the country. Both of them have policies that enforce a lot on civil rights and also increased funding for the military.

Today, baby boomers make up almost 28% of the United States population. This is considered a lot based on American history statistics. You have to consider that today, baby boomers are now aging. Because of this, the government and also baby boomers are growing more and more concerned of the retirement and health benefits that they will get from the government once they retire.

It has been found that almost 7 million of older Americans have no health insurance. Many low income baby boomers face a problem about health care. Because aging and illnesses is always associated, you have to consider the fact that in the near future, there will be a lot of old people, mostly baby boomers.

This is why the United States government is now taking the necessary steps in increasing their budget for health care and retirement benefits. Also, because of the decrease of birth rate after the baby boomer era, the United States will lack manpower to sustain its economy in the future after most of the baby boomers retire.

Even private organizations, such as insurance companies are now providing low cost health insurance for baby boomers.

However, because of the existing state-of-the-art medical technology today, baby boomers are expected to live a lot longer than their predecessors. Also, baby boomers are now becoming more and more aware of the illnesses and are frequently visiting their doctors for a regular check-up.

Baby boomers indeed made an impact in today's society. They contributed a lot to the society on political, academic, cultural, economy, and also in the industry sectors of the United States.
