baby boomers year born

Events in the Year When Baby Boomers are Born Shaped Their Lives 


The U.S experienced a birthrate that was exceptionally high from 1946 to 1964. This is known as the baby boom generation. Because of their large population, they created profound impact on the economy and society all throughout their lives. What shaped their mentality and perception of the world was the situations and issues of their time. All of these has shaped what we know the world today.

In 1946, where it is perceived where the baby boomers generation started, the major events includes Winston Churchill warnings over "iron curtain" of the Soviet dominating Eastern Europe, the first general assembly of the UN happened, John D. Rockefeller donated money for a particular New York-based UN headquarters, the trial on war crimes of Nuremburg returns and sentenced 12 Nazis to death.

In 1947, President Truman formulated "Truman Doctrine" which provided help to countries that were experiencing threats on its government. George Marshall, the U.S. State Secretary called for the "Marshall Plan" for recovery efforts in Europe. Pakistan and India were declared independent nations. Princess Elizabeth of Great Britain was married to the Edinburgh Duke, Phillip Mountbatten. 

In 1948, the assassination of Mahatma Gandhi in India happened. Alger Hiss was accused of spying. Czechoslovakian communists seized control in Czechoslovakia. Marshall Plan was ratified approving 17 billion dollars for aiding Europeans. The Israel's State admitted more than 200,000 European refugees. 

In 1949, communists seized power over China fleeing nationalists to Taiwan; North Atlantic Treaty Organization was established, Israel became a part of UN, Apartheid was declared the official policy of the South African government, Indonesia and Vietnam gained sovereignty. 

In 1950, North Korea invaded South Korea, forces of Chinese communist occupied Tibet, Senator McCarthy warned of the State Department communist infiltration, assassination failure of a nationalist Puerto Rican on President Truman and Alger Hiss was condemned of perjury. 

In 1951, truce negotiation failed on the offensive pushes of North Korea beyond 38th parallel, Congress passed 22nd Amendment permitting two terms for a President, Ethel and Julius Rosenberg were convicted for passing nuclear secrets of the U.S. to Soviet Union, and Senator Estes Kefauver started investigating organized crime and gambling.

In 1952, President Dwight Eisenhower was elected, Princess Elizabeth was crowned as Great Britain's queen, U.S constructed its 1st nuclear submarine, Nautilus.

In 1953, Nikita Khrushchev won after Josef Stalin's death in Soviet Union, Josef Tito was elected as Yugoslavian President, convicted spies Ethel and Julius Rosenberg were executed, and U.S. Health and Human Services was created. 

In 1954, Supreme Court declared racial discrimination in school unconstitutional, Senator McCarthy conducted inquiries of the Army's communist infiltration on national television, Soviet Union rejected proposals in reunifying Germany, and radical nationalist Puerto Ricans attacked House of Representatives shooting 5 congressmen. 

In 1955, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. led the first U.S. civil rights society, President Eisenhower suffered a heart attack, and Allies of the World War II signed a treaty to restore Austria's independence. 

In 1956, re-election of Dwight Eisenhower as U.S President, Khrushchev Soviet's leader denounced Stalin, Israel invaded Sinai Peninsula, U.S. interstated highway system, Fidel Castro started Cuba revolution, and ocean liner Andrea Doria from Italy sank. 

In 1957, "Eisenhower Doctrine" was announced by President Eisenhower, Soviet Union inaugurated "Space Age" through Sputnik launching, and Senator Strom Thurmond approved the significant legislation of civil rights. 

In 1958, U.S. launched Explorer I (U.S. first satellite), NASA was established, the goodwill tour of Vice-President Nixon created riot and protests in South America, United Arab Republic was formed by Sudan and Egypt  and U.S Marines intervened in Lebanon, 

In 1959, Hawaii and Alaska became U.S states and Canada and U.S. completed the seaway of St. Lawrence. 

In 1960, JFK (John F. Kennedy) was elected as president. 

In 1961, President Kennedy established the Peace Corps. 
In 1962, U.S. established semi-permanent presence of military in Vietnam, Adolf Eichman was sentenced to death in Israel, and Pope John XXIII at the convened Second Vatican Council. 

In 1963, JFK was assassinated, Kenya gained Independence, Martin Luther King delivered the "I Have a Dream" speech, and Britain, U.S. and Soviet Union signed treaty banning nuclear tests. 

In 1964, President Johnson was re-elected as U.S. President declaring war against poverty, and race riots are rampant in Harlem and other cities in the U.S.

Boomers will never wonder what really happened during those years when they were born, as what happened made a great impact that defined their generation.  Learning their heritage is an enjoyable way of reminiscing the past which once shaped their lives. 
