baby boomer fashion

Tips in Men's Baby Boomer Fashion


Fashion is everything to some people. While there are individuals who don't care about their looks, there are also those who care about nothing but fashion trends. Baby boomers are those born in the years 1946 to 1964. Boomers are known as the most influential and affluent individuals in the economy. As with fashion trends, they are never left behind; some of them are even trendsetters.

Most of the boomers today are at their midlife and 60s. Before, they were hippies; but now, most of them have to deal with aging problems. And so they often have problems about dressing and styling. What they want are clothes with attitude, but what used to be their style years ago doesn't look appropriate in today's fashion.

The aging process can be such a frustration to many baby boomers. They are looking for ways to slow down the process; at their age, they are alive, kicking, and screaming to the world that they can still keep up with today's fashion.

That is why companies in the fashion business can expect a huge increase in their annual sales because of the baby boomers.

Have you seen men baby boomers lately? Perhaps you will laugh at the thought of seeing an old man in his hippies-style walking along the streets. Well, some of them still do wear these clothes but usually receives not-so-good comments. So if you want to stay in fashion, try these tips:

1.	Wear shirts that fits across your back and chest trimly; make sure that the shirt can be worn with a jacket that narrows at your waist; use trousers that have flat-fronts with straight legs; this way, you will look youthful, taller, and flattering
2.	leather jackets that looks like blazers adds flavor to a man's wardrobe; these jackets are compatible with trousers or jeans
3.	wear smaller eyeglasses; try lightweight frames or rimless styles
4.	buy shoes that are tie style or slip-ons; you can also go for leather boots (low-heeled) or western boots; black shoes never go out of style but choose one with leather soles; brown shoes are also great
5.	colors like charcoal gray and navy are flattering on older men; you can also experiment on color combinations and textured fabrics
6.	as your hair gets thinner, you should cut it short to accentuate your best features

If you follow these tips, you will look younger and more youthful. You will feel confident and more in style.
  
Here are the biggest don'ts that a baby boomer should take note:

-	don't wear large clothes because you will appear or look heavier
-	don't wear leather pants because it doesn't suit your age
-	don't wear large lenses because this will give you a droopy appearance and will cover your face
-	oxfords and penny loafers are out-of-date already, so don't wear them
-	don't wear black suits because you'll look like you're attending a funeral; this is also true with black sweaters
-	don't cover a bald spot with your remaining hair because it will look ridiculous

There are many fashion designers these days which can cater to the needs of middle-aged baby boomers. Boomers can still look sophisticated and hip despite their age. You can find designers like Paul Stuart, Brooks Brothers, and Under Armour, and they are quite excellent in their fields. You can always visit them and you can ask for their professional help.

Being old is not an excuse to not looking good. Typical looks of older people will vanish as the baby boomers begin to set their own fashion trends at their middle age. You can expect a more exciting and fulfilling life for boomers.

Not only are the men quite attuned to fashion; even women boomers have a keen sense of style and fashion. The opportunities now for baby boomers to keep up with fashion trends are more because of the many companies that capitalize on the fashion business.

If you're an aging boomer, don't sulk in your room and stare at your old clothes. Go out, and find the right style for you. The secret to staying always in fashion is simply to wear clothes that you're comfortable wearing.

   
