baby boomers hearing loss burkey

Baby Boomers and Hearing Loss by John M. Burkey


Baby boomers are people who are naturally very proud and very happy with their lives. They are active people who participate in political issues, and love to work on their career. They are also people who are concerned about health issues concerning them and studies have found that many people who were born in the baby boomers era are frequently visiting their doctors compared to the past generation.

First of all, you first need to know who the baby boomers are and why they are so different from the past generations. Baby boomers are people who were born between the post World War II era and before the Vietnam War. These people were born between 1945 and 1964.

Within this period, the after effects of World War II became the key for the United States to prosper. Because the war devastated a lot of cities and reduced them to rubbles, the United States converted their factories that produced wartime goods and materials to produce peacetime materials. These factories produced and maintained a lot of high paying jobs for all Americans.

The peacetime materials exported produced a lot of income for the United States and also produced a lot of jobs. During this period, unemployment was considered non-existent, provided that you were Caucasian, able, and willing to work.

Education also became one of the government's priorities for all Americans to have. Because of this, it prompted families all over the United States to produce children, which resulted in population increase and therefore, tagged as the baby boomers generation. In 1946 alone, more than 3 million babies were born in the United States and continued to rise throughout the baby boomers era.

Baby boomers grew up in a world where they lived comfortably. When they came of age, it was during the time of the Vietnam War and civil rights protests were rampant all over the United States. In fact, they became one of the most active participants who fought for more freedom and civil rights. They fought for equal employment opportunities for everyone regardless of race, gender, creed or age.

Today, baby boomers are now getting old. As with old age, it will always be associated with illnesses and diseases. Some baby boomers are already suffering from hearing loss. Since baby boomers naturally live an active lifestyle, and want to continue enjoying their life regardless of their condition, most baby boomers who has hearing problems are now consulting audiologists in order to make their condition a lot better.

The book written by John M. Burkey called Baby Boomers and Hearing Loss is now available in the market to help baby boomers and other people who are suffering from hearing loss to live a better life. Inside this book, you will find advices, and guides on how baby boomers can continue to live their active lifestyle without any problems at all even if they are suffering from diminished or severe hearing disabilities.

For baby boomers that refuse to give up living their active life because of hearing problems, this book is definitely a must-read.

You will also find that Baby Boomers and Hearing Loss by John M. Burkey has comprehensive information on how to prevent hearing problems from getting any more worse. It explains how hearing works and what causes hearing problems to occur. From genetic factors to exposure to loud noises, this book will provide comprehensive information about the causes of hearing loss and ways to prevent it or improve the condition.

Consider the fact that hearing loss is also associated with aging. This book explains how you can improve your conditions through hearing aids to continue living your lifestyle.

Readers of this book, particularly baby boomers, have written in reviews that this book definitely helped them overcome hearing loss. They even said that the book improved their lifestyle even if they have hearing problems.

This book contains different information on how you can care for your hearing or prevent it from getting any more worse.

With this book, you will be able to overcome hearing loss and continue living and enjoying your life like you did before. So, if you think that you are now suffering from hearing loss, you should get the Baby Boomers and Hearing Loss by John M. Burkey.
