baby boomer 1

Baby Boomers, The Generation That Made Today's America


America is a proud country and Americans are proud people. The United States of America is a country that is made up of different cultures and different races. It is where people go to seek the American dream. In fact, more and more people from different countries think that the United States of America is the country of choice to seek a better life for them and for their children.

This country experienced many wars and survived. It is also a country that has one of the best economies in the world and is also considered to be the country to embrace freedom and democracy. It is a country that is considered to be one of the most powerful countries today. However, behind it all, the American people are what really make the United States what it is today.

In fact, many generations and history have been left by the American people and influenced the world to live the American way. Some countries even adapted the American law to be implemented in their own country.

Of the many generations that the United States of America went through, one of the most memorable is the generation of the baby boomers. Baby boomers are considered to be one of the United States generations that made a significant impact in the world. This generation is the generation that fought for civil rights and it is also the generation that emphasized widely on equal opportunities for all its citizens regardless of belief, gender, race and age.

Baby boomers were people who were born between the post World War II era and the Vietnam War. This generation is called the baby boomer generation because of the significant increase in birth rate between the years of 1946 to 1964. This generation is considered to be one of the best generations in the United States history where its economy grew and civil rights were largely emphasized.

The baby boomers generation is also where education was one of the main priorities of the United States of America. People who were born in this era experienced fighting for their civil rights during the time of Vietnam War. Baby boomers also created a new kind of American culture. It included The Beatles, Rock and Roll, The Motown Sound, and even Hippies.

You should expect that baby boomers are people who are politically inclined. Besides, baby boomers grew up knowing that the American Military can never be defeated and the bad guys were people who are socialist and communist. These people grew up in the Cold War era and grew up hating people who have communist ideals.

Today, it is considered that baby boomers will have more tenure in the political office than other generations. This is because of the huge population of baby boomers existing in the country today. However, more and more baby boomers are now complaining about age discrimination in the workplace. You should never forget the fact that these people grew up in the era where they came of age fighting for civil rights as an American and where unemployment were virtually nonexistent.

It is also important that the baby boomers are people who have a wide view of politics and are increasingly interested in the way the nation is run. In fact, there have been two baby boomer presidents in the United States. Bill Clinton and the incumbent president George W. Bush was the very first baby boomer president of the United States. Furthermore, these presidents have emphasized widely on civil rights for Americans and have led the United States to economic growth.

If you are in the age of late 40s to 50s, you are considered to be part of the baby boomer population. It is expected that because of the advancement of medical technology, baby boomers will be able to enjoy a healthier lifestyle and also be able to live much longer than their predecessors.

So, if you ever think that people who are in the ages of 40s or 50s are incompetent, you should think again. You should consider that these people were the ones responsible for your current lifestyle and fought for your right as a citizen of a great nation. It is just right that you should treat them with respect and dignity. The baby boomer generation is one of the greatest generations that the United States ever had.
