political issues facing baby boomers

Political Issues Facing Baby Boomers Today, What Were the Influences?


First of all, you need to understand all about what baby boomers are or more accurately who baby boomers are. Baby boomers are people who were born between the years 1946 and 1964. Because of the increased birth rate in these years, people called it the baby boomers generation. In fact, there were about 78 million babies born within the baby boomers generation.

Today, baby boomers are now reaching the middle age. In fact, baby boomers today turn 50 years old every 7 seconds.

The fact that baby boomers came of age during the widespread of civil rights protest and grew up during the cold war, baby boomers have very distinct political and cultural patterns. The baby boomers era is the generation that made what the United States is today. Baby boomers were also the ones who paved the way to modern living and because they came of age during the era where civil rights protests were widespread in the country, baby boomers are very aware of their civil rights and other political issues that the country is facing today.

Baby boomers were one of the leading people who protested the Vietnam War and the draft. This generation is also the generation that started modern Rock + Roll, The Beatles, Beats, and Motown Sounds.

Also, since baby boomers grew up in an era where the world was dominated by the American Military might and the enemies were communists and socialists, you will see how much different they view the world and also how much they are very much active on things concerning the government and politics. 

Today, baby boomers continually protest the unemployment rate that the world is facing. This is because unemployment were virtually non existent during the times where baby boomers grew up, provided if you are Caucasian and is willing to work.

Presently, baby boomers make up a large share of the cultural, industrial, political and academic leadership class in the United States. In fact, Bill Clinton and George W. Bush are now considered as two of the first people who were born in the baby boomers era to become presidents of the United States.

Clearly, you can see that baby boomers today are the people who are leading the nation. From what you will observe in the Clinton and Bush administration, you will see that they share a very common political view. You will see that both of these two administrations emphasize widely on civil rights and also reforming the United States Military.

You will also observe that these two presidents are also working to improve the sluggish economy of the United States, and in some instances, they succeeded in doing that. They try to make it easier for Americans to live life easier than in the past. This is because of the political and cultural influences they had when they were growing up.

You have to consider that they grew up during the time were civil rights protests were taking place, during the Vietnam War where the United States was defeated, during the Cold War where the arms race was won by the United States, and also during the time where the economy was at a high point and unemployment was virtually non existent.

Because of the world where they grew up, the political views of baby boomers are very much different from the past generation. You can even say that the baby boomers generation is the turning point of the political status of the United States.

It is estimated that the baby boomers generation will hold a plurality in the White House until 2021 and until 2015 in Congress. So, you can expect that baby boomers will stay for quite some more time in politics. Baby boomers are also estimated to have a majority in the Supreme Court from 2010 to 2030.

So, if you think that your civil rights is being respected by the people and by the government and you have a comfortable way of life, you should think of the people who started it all. You should thank the baby boomers era for how you live today. The baby boomers era paved the way for more freedom and also made the United States of America one of the best places to live in today.
