trivial pursuit baby boomers

Trivial Pursuit, Baby Boomers Edition - A Great Game for Families


If you want a board game that the whole family can enjoy, the Trivial Pursuit Baby Boomers Edition is the board game for you. This board game is not only enjoyable, but it will also enhance your knowledge about the baby boomers generation.

First of all, in order to understand this game, you have to know how to play it. Trivial Pursuit is a board game that challenges the ability of all players on general knowledge, and other popular culture questions. In the Trivial Pursuit Baby Boomers Edition, you should expect questions that are related to the baby boomer era from 1950 to the early 1960's.

Questions will be about television, nightly news, stage and screen, lives and times, publishing and R.P.M. All the questions in each category are related to the baby boomers generation. This means that in order to win the game, you should have sufficient knowledge about the baby boomers era. The Trivial Pursuit Baby Boomers Edition is a very popular board game among people who were born in this era. Besides, who would know about this era better than people who actually lived through this era?

To start playing the game, you will move along the circular track and the spokes by answering the questions correctly in each of the six categories. The "Headquarters" is located at the base of each spoke. In order to win the game, the player or the team should be able to answer the game-winning question in the hexagonal hub. The question in a particular category is chosen by other players.

The first thing you do when you play Trivial Pursuit, you and the other players will first select one token and six colored wedges with different color categories. The players will then roll the dice in order to decide who goes first.

In the Trivial Pursuit Baby Boomers Edition, you will see that each of the colored categories corresponds with different questions about a particular subject. Here are the colors and what category it is in the Trivial Pursuit Baby Boomers Edition:

•	Blue - Television (TV)
•	Pink - Stage + Screen (SS)
•	Yellow - Nightly News (NN)
•	Brown - Publishing (PUB)
•	Green - Lives + Times (LT)
•	Orange - R.P.M. (RPM)

As you can see, there are six categories that you have to answer correctly in order to win.

The Trivial Pursuit Baby Boomers Edition went out in the market in the year 1983 and it was an instant hit, the same as the previous Trivial Pursuit Editions. Today, the baby boomer edition for Trivial Pursuit is still available in the internet. In fact, there are still some stores that still sell this edition even if it is more than 10 years old in the market.

You have to consider the fact that the baby boomer edition for Trivial Pursuit, like other editions, is a very popular edition that many people will enjoy playing for hours.

Today, Trivial Pursuit is still a very popular board game that families are still enjoying today, even if video games are now available. In fact, video games also made trivial pursuit popular. Today, there are DVD Trivial Pursuit games that you can play in your DVD gaming console.

Because of today's technology, there are available Trivial Pursuit games that can be played in some mobile phone models. There are also PC versions of this game where you can go head to head with your friends over the internet. The baby boomer edition is also available in the PC version where you and your family can enjoy playing right in your home PC.

So, if you ever need a game where you, your friends and family can enjoy, you can try playing Trivial Pursuit. There are a wide variety of Trivial Pursuit editions and if you want a piece of the fascinating history of the 1950's and 60's, you should get the Trivial Pursuit Baby Boomers Edition. This edition contains complete and factual information that happened in the baby boomers era.

Not only is the Trivial Pursuit Baby Boomers Edition fun to play with, but it will also let you learn a little bit of history about the baby boomers era. Indeed, Trivial Pursuit is definitely a great board game for everyone.
