yoga + baby boomers

Yoga + Baby Boomers = A Healthier Lifestyle

How would you like to "come of age"? 

Nowadays, people are conscious of getting fit and healthy. This is just a normal response to every new and rare disease popping out or being discovered almost every day. What with the advancement of technology in the processing of the foods we eat and more often the lack of it, results to unbalanced nutrients and improper diet.

The only trend which is patronized by both the young and the not-so young is fitness craze. It is just ironic that when people are young, they can't wait to mature. When they come of age, so to speak, all they wanted is to stay young.

Aging is one normal phenomenon that people are afraid to experience. Who would want to get old? Getting wiser and older should not be in consonance with getting old and looking old. 

The traditional concept of getting old is being redefined by Baby Boomers. The generation of Baby Boomers enjoyed each stage or phase in life much longer than any other previous generation, thanks to their positive outlook in health maintenance and execising. And just like any other profession or career they held on to, they are also passionate about staying young and healthy, as well as looking young and sexy.

The Baby Boomers started the so-called "health club" era. They indulged themselves into almost all forms of physical activity such as aerobics and gym workouts, to make their bodies healthier and their looks better. But as the reality of aging catches them, they turn their attention to less strenuous and laborious exercises to stay fit and healthy.

Yoga is one great type of exercise Baby Boomers are into. Yoga exercise focuses on the relaxation and breathing methods. It has very low impact to the body of a person, that any age in any size can practice yoga and make a desirable impact to their health. This is because yoga doesn't stress out the muscles and bones of a person, especially those who are in their advanced age where bones and muscles are brittle and easily damaged.

Through the relaxation and breathing techniques of yoga exercise, one can be assured of bringing down the blood pressure and relieving stress which is contributory to heart attacks. It has been proven long ago that yoga exercise is very effective in calming nerves thus promoting better heart health.

By regularly practicing yoga, it can help in reducing weight. Statistics show that persons of age forty five (45) with normal weight, who practice yoga for at least thirty (30) minutes per week for at least five (5) consecutive years gain three (3) pounds less in a decade, given that each year, the gain weight of a normal person is one (1) pound a year.

For the generation of Baby boomers, yoga really works. Yoga is much more efficient than doing gym workouts for building flexibility and strength, more effectual than aerobics exercise for building breath control and stamina, and more calming than jogging.

Moreover, yoga can offset osteoporosis, cleanse the inside organs, balance out and invigorate the digestive and nervous system, relieve signs of menopause, lower rear pains and headaches commonly experienced by people coming of age such as the Baby Boomers.

Detoxification is another craze right now in the health circles, but aside from detoxifying the body, the mind also needs to be cleansed. Yoga is one great way to have peace of mind and a positive outlook in life. Through this, a person can feel lighter and more productive in their work and jobs. Baby Boomers can benefit from this as they are subjected to many pressures in their lives. Taking the time out to yoga will definitely detoxify their minds and make them feel better.

Yoga, because of the revitalizing effects on the person's body and its soothing influence on one's mind, is called the personal "source of youth" of man. Constant yoga practice leads man to a much greater awareness of one's body. Greater spiritual enlightenment can also be achieved though yoga exercises.

Baby boomers, all across the globe, are doing everything they can to hold on to their youth. Through yoga, these Baby Boomers have a chance to redefine themselves at any age they would want to.














