Title: 
An Understanding Of Mesothelioma Cause

Word Count:
408

Summary:
Mesothelioma cause refers to the thing or event responsible for mesothelioma cancers. Mesothelioma is a cancerous disease of the lining of abdominal organs, lungs and heart. Almost all the cases of mesothelioma disease somehow or the other are linked with exposure to asbestos particles. Exposure to asbestos particles could cause mesothelioma even if the level of exposure is very low. Studies reveal that about 70 to 80 % of total mesothelioma cases have a history of asbestos e...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Mesothelioma cause refers to the thing or event responsible for mesothelioma cancers. Mesothelioma is a cancerous disease of the lining of abdominal organs, lungs and heart. Almost all the cases of mesothelioma disease somehow or the other are linked with exposure to asbestos particles. Exposure to asbestos particles could cause mesothelioma even if the level of exposure is very low. Studies reveal that about 70 to 80 % of total mesothelioma cases have a history of asbestos exposure thereby identifying asbestos as the single largest mesothelioma cause. Occurrence of mesothelioma without any history of exposure to asbestos particles is very rare.

Some Facts about Mesothelioma Cause

Asbestos exposure is the only known mesothelioma cause. Asbestos is a group of naturally occurring minerals. It contains strong and flexible fibers. One can separate these fibers in to thin threads. Commercial use of asbestos started in late nineteenth century. It was widely used because of its durability and ability to withstand high temperatures. Asbestos was widely used in brake linings, cement, roofing shingles, textile, flooring, insulation and many other industrial products. Small asbestos particles remain suspended in the course of manufacturing of these products. Asbestos workers, their family members those residing near asbestos manufacturing industries could easily inhale asbestos fibers that could cause mesothelioma and other asbestos diseases.

The biggest mesothelioma cause is the negligence of asbestos manufacturers. Manufacturers continued using asbestos even after being aware of its harmful effects. They did not issue any warnings or take necessary precautions to prevent asbestos exposure to the workers. Had they been sincere in their responsibilities, many people suffering from mesothelioma and dangerous asbestos related diseases would have been healthy and happy.

Smoking Increases Mesothelioma Risk

Experts are of the opinion that smoking in itself is not a mesothelioma cause. Nevertheless, it increases the risk of pleural mesothelioma – the mesothelioma of the linings of the lungs. Studies have revealed that smokers with asbestos exposure have an increased mesothelioma risk when compared to non-smokers with similar exposure to asbestos particles.

Preventive Measures against Mesothelioma Cause

Studies have reveled that family members of asbestos workers have suffered with mesothelioma. The mesothelioma cause in this case is the asbestos dust particles settled on the clothes, shoes and hair of the asbestos workers that their family members inhaled. Workers should shower and change their clothing to avoid the possibility of exposing family members to asbestos particles. Workers should also put on protective equipments to reduce the risk of asbestos exposure.


