Title: 
5 Important Things You Should Know About Drinking Water

Word Count:
396

Summary:
It seems in life that most people take for granted the things that are most important to them and drinking water is no exception. It is a fact that no one can survive without clean pure drinking water and it is important to note some critical facts:

1. More than 35,000 people die each day throughout the world from disease caused by impure or lack of drinking water. That equals more than 12,000,000 per year or more than the per year total killed in each of the six years of ...


Keywords:
Purified water, contamination, good health


Article Body:
It seems in life that most people take for granted the things that are most important to them and drinking water is no exception. It is a fact that no one can survive without clean pure drinking water and it is important to note some critical facts:

1. More than 35,000 people die each day throughout the world from disease caused by impure or lack of drinking water. That equals more than 12,000,000 per year or more than the per year total killed in each of the six years of World War II.

2. The absence of clean drinking water and sanitation is one of the largest causes of death and loss of productivity throughout the world.

3. Three to four of every five children related deaths are directly related to unsanitary or contaminated drinking water.

4. Municipal water supplies in the United States, although regulated by the Environmental protection agency (EPA) still contain a large number of contaminants. Many types of bottled water also contain contaminants.

5. Purified water using a distillation/oxygenation process produces the highest quality drinking water.

It is a fact that because of urban growth and industrial pollution, drinking water is becoming more polluted and water related health hazards are increasing. Heavier amounts of chlorine are being added to kill bacteria but this ruins the fresh water taste.

Polluted or contaminated water is particularly harmful to young children and may cause health problems that do not surface until years later.

Municipal tap water is contaminated as is spring and well water and the fact that these sources of water are regulated does not remove the contamination. Obtain the most recent EPA water quality for your municipality and study it closely.

With the exception of purified bottled water, most bottled water is subject to the same or greater amounts of contamination. Spring water is either re-bottled tap water or particularly susceptible to industrial pollution.

Distilled/oxygenated purified water on the other hand separates pure water from contaminants and flushes the waste down the drain leaving only 100% pure water.

Ask questions and read the labels of municipal or bottled water to determine what is really contained in the water you drink. Then decide how much contamination your body can tolerate over an extended period.

I think after even a moderate amount of research you will agree that purified, distilled water will aid in the longevity of yourself and your family.


