Title: 
A Coffee Cup- A Gift For All Occasions

Word Count:
490

Summary:
Purchasing a coffee cup is a great gift idea for all occasions. You may want to consider giving someone you care about a coffee cup. It makes a great gift because it is so unique and can be customized to accommodate every occasion. The coffee cup can be purchased in a variety of shapes and sizes, in all sorts of colours and patterns, including slogans and logos that are bound to impress or get a laugh from the recipient of this excellent gift idea. Try giving a coffee cup to ...


Keywords:
coffee cup


Article Body:
Purchasing a coffee cup is a great gift idea for all occasions. You may want to consider giving someone you care about a coffee cup. It makes a great gift because it is so unique and can be customized to accommodate every occasion. The coffee cup can be purchased in a variety of shapes and sizes, in all sorts of colours and patterns, including slogans and logos that are bound to impress or get a laugh from the recipient of this excellent gift idea. Try giving a coffee cup to a loved one today and watch their face light up as they begin to enjoy a hot steaming cup of tea in their brand new specialty mug.

The coffee cup or mug could that would be bought for a birthday or anniversary could be printed with the date of their special day printed on it or the coffee cup could have Christmas designs embellished on it to make a unique Christmas gift. Giving a Christmas cup near the holidays is a great way to get people to feel that Christmas spirit year round as they drink from their gift cup. Another great way to give a coffee cup would be a christening gift as you could commemorate the occasion with a photograph of the child on the coffee cup to give to the child when they are older. 

There are also cups that represent local sports teams, organizations and charities. These make great gifts and can also be used to raise money for the sports fan or social club. You can choose a colourful and creative design featuring their favourite sports team’s logo and work from there to create an awesome gift experience.
 
Personalized cups: These types of coffee cups can be made personal to whatever extent you want to. They can have a photograph of someone or some special place printed on it or even a love poem or a picture of your pet. Imagine the exciting humour of drinking a cup of coffee from a coffee cup with your face on it!

Great Additions

Along with your coffee cup, there is a variety of coffee-related gifts you can consider giving. Easter is a good time to give a coffee cup as you can fill the cup with an egg or chocolates. You could also add coffee beans or tea in the mug as part of a package and string it together with a special bow. You can also give matching coffee equipment or other items that work well with the cup such as coffee makers or specialty coffee tools such as a grounds press that helps crush those beans into luscious ground coffee. The possibilities are endless in terms of giving a gift to the coffee lover in your family, so try it out with a basic coffee cup and work your way up. Your friends and family will be impressed at how thoughtful you can be!


