Title: 
A Little Wine Goes A Long Way

Word Count:
459

Summary:
Not sure what to buy your friends or relatives this Christmas?  Well, why not opt for a wine gift?  It’s a definite crowd pleaser, looks classy and can be bought from the comfort of your armchair, so you simply can’t go wrong with it.
Buying wine gifts is easy. Just follow a few handy tips and you’ll have your Christmas shopping sorted in no time.


Keywords:
Wine, Wine Merchants, Online Wine Merchants, Independent Wine Merchant, Chilean Cabernet, White Burgundy, Wines of New Zealand, Cheapest Wine, Aussie Chardonnay


Article Body:
Changing to a healthier diet needn’t mean you miss out on the good things in life …

A question of balance:

You’ve embarked on a diet – and have even discovered some exciting new recipes – but what about wine? According to doctors, a little bit of what you fancy does you good, so much so that heart attack patients in one Wiltshire hospital were given two glasses a day during their stay. It’s also a great stress reliever, helping you unwind at the end of a busy day. The secret is moderation – but by drinking less you can afford a few special bottles and expand your wine horizons.

A world of choice: 

Start by taking a grape variety you know, then work your way through different examples from around the world. Lovers of Aussie Chardonnay, for instance, might ring the changes with rich, barrel-matured white Burgundy. If you’ve already discovered fruit-filled Chilean Cabernet, then you really need to try the aristocratic reds of Bordeaux. Find out for yourself why the wines of New Zealand have become so popular, or experience the everlasting appeal of Burgundy.  Just a few rungs up the price ladder, flavours become more intense – making it far easier to stick to a single glass!

When exploring, don’t be afraid to ask questions of waiters or shop staff – if properly trained they will be full of useful advice. The very cheapest wine is rarely the best value for money. Excise duty, VAT, transport and packaging are virtually the same whether it’s a basic vin de table or from a prestigious estate. By paying a little extra – say £5 to £7 – you get a big increase in wine quality.

The easy option:

More people are ordering their wine online thanks to the convenience and range of wines on offer. Online wine merchants invariably provide more information about their wines than you will find on the label when perusing the supermarket shelves. Laithwaites were voted UK Independent Wine Merchant of the Year 2007 and have seen their online orders increase rapidly in recent years. It isn’t hard to see why – a quick look at their website reveals a wide range of wines with helpful descriptions about each bottle. Ordering is simple, each selection is delivered direct to your door and every bottle is covered by a full money-back guarantee. 

With expert wine merchants available at your fingertips it has become a whole lot easier to enjoy better wines at very competitive prices. Avoid cheap supermarket wine and you’ll discover a little good wine really does go a long way. You may find that you shed those unwanted pounds and your health, not to mention your palate, improves too! More information can be found at our site.


