Title: 
A Look Back at Beer Vessels

Word Count:
481

Summary:
For hundreds of years man has enjoyed beer. Throughout the years, many aspects of serving and consuming beer have changed, making a beer drinker’s experience more complete and desirable.


Keywords:
beer, steins, beer, glasses, german, tap, handles, taps, keg


Article Body:
It is commonly known that beer has been around mankind for a long while. As beer itself changed, expanded, and improved, so did the way in which we actually got the beer to our mouths. Pottery, wood, stoneware, and even sewn up pieces of leather made up the earliest drinking vessels. As time went on, man witnessed small advancements in the quality of their beer receptacles. Early Europeans that lived during the time of the black plague saw the development of beer steins, which had a closed top on the steins to prevent flies from landing in the beer and making the person ill.

Today, the most important factor to influence modern beer glass making was the creation of glass. As consumers actually started to be able to look at what they were consuming from the  glass they began to demand a beer with more flavor and a improved hue. Customers didn't want  chunks in their drinks anymore so manufacturers began to filter their beers. With this new, improved wave of <a href=http://www.beertaps.com>beer glasses</a>, it appeared <a href=http://www.steinsandglassware.com>beer steins</a> were on the way out.

A variety of  glasses were created and produced for the various kinds of beers. The sixteen-ounce pint glass is the most in demand glass in the United States. It was originally used to fit the top of a Martini shaker, but barkeeps soon discovered that as the beer poured out of the <a href=http://www.beertaps.com>beer tap handles</a> the pint glass was the top receptacle because it let part of the carbonation to be released and let the aroma of the brew to be more obvious. The pint glass rapidly became popular with barkeeps who had to rinse each glass by itself because it can be put on top of each other and stored easily on the shelves.

An attempt to get consumers to get their kind of beer by  breweries led to some unique and groundbreaking moves on the marketing and advertising front. Handing out  glasses to consumers was a way that manufacturers found to promote their beers even though it was illegal. This led to the manufacturers creating  glasses that were works of art unto themselves. The first were gaudy and costly; they would often have gold or silver embossed on the sides. Eventually, artists for the breweries began doing detailed carvings on either side of the beer glasses or steins and even developed a method of cooking enamel paint onto the  glasses. These enameled glasses are still some of the most rare beer souvenirs, even though they were made more recently than the others. Nowadays avid collectors all over the earth continue to collect these tin signs and memorabilia that are sometimes worth thousands. Have you looked up in the top of Grandpappy's old drawer in a while?


