Title: 
A Tasty Way To Get Noticed: Chocolate Coins

Word Count:
488

Summary:
Chocolate coins are the new way to advertise and market products and services. The corporate world is always coming up with new and catchy ways to advertise their products and chocolate coins can advertise company logos or be used as an incentive program for personnel. Employees of the month programs are a good place to use these chocolate coins to reward the hard working individuals. Many chocolate companies are using a new technology called chocolography to transfer images ...


Keywords:
chocolate coins, marketing


Article Body:
Chocolate coins are the new way to advertise and market products and services. The corporate world is always coming up with new and catchy ways to advertise their products and chocolate coins can advertise company logos or be used as an incentive program for personnel. Employees of the month programs are a good place to use these chocolate coins to reward the hard working individuals. Many chocolate companies are using a new technology called chocolography to transfer images and logos on to pieces of chocolate to create individual pieces. The new technology allows an image, picture or message to be transferred on to the surface of the chocolate. Some companies are giving these corporate logo chocolate coins to business people attending business meetings, for trade show promotions and to thank their clients for their business. One chocolate coin company has creatively designed a clamshell case for the coins to rest in, thereby protecting the coin for transportation and for a greater effect in advertising. 

This idea is also being introduced for party favors and wedding favors. The names of the wedding couple or their picture can be positioned onto the surface of the chocolate coins. Chocolate coins also make unique gifts for baby showers and bar mitzvahs. Special anniversary dates or birthdays could be added to make a personalized favor. The chocolate used can be colored to suit the theme of the party or occasion. 

Chocolate coins are available in different shapes such as circles, hearts, lollipops, boxes, squares and many more imaginable styles. A variety of chocolates are used in making these chocolate coins, including dark, milk and even vanilla. Some chocolate companies use colored foils to wrap the chocolate coins to accentuate the printed areas of the coins. Some companies prefer an imprinted look to the coin, as where the coin takes on a more realistic look resembling actual coins. The companies put their mark on the coin by providing the required emblem to the chocolate printing company. The printing is done by an automated impressing system that stamps the image onto one or both sides of the chocolate coins. Choices of font and images can add flair to the coins. From simplistic to very intricate and complex designs, the impression is sure to please and make of the coin an excellent reminder of the company or event. Photographs can be added to make even more of an impression. A picture of a business or an honorary person lends more detail to the chocolate piece and furthers the impact and personalization of the product. 

Utilizing chocolate allows for a cost effective way to present or advertise a company or business. Using chocolate coins for advertising or celebrating special occasions puts an exclusive and novel twist on the idea of making a remarkable lasting impression that is also delicious. So, if you’re looking for a novel way to advertise your company – or yourself – look no further!


