Title: 
Adirondack Furniture -  Good For Any Patio Décor

Word Count:
513

Summary:
When it comes to décor, especially outdoors it’s easy to make it classically comfortable with Adirondack furniture. You may be thinking that Adirondack furniture is better suited for a resort on the East coast or a cottage in the woods. But, it now comes in so many shapes, sizes and materials that it is virtually impossible to not find some piece that will compliment your patio or deck. 

The Adirondack style has been around since the early 1900’s when the first chair was c...


Keywords:
porch patio furniture,resin adirondack chair,resin adirondack chairs,rocking chair cushions,teak


Article Body:
When it comes to décor, especially outdoors it’s easy to make it classically comfortable with Adirondack furniture. You may be thinking that Adirondack furniture is better suited for a resort on the East coast or a cottage in the woods. But, it now comes in so many shapes, sizes and materials that it is virtually impossible to not find some piece that will compliment your patio or deck. 

The Adirondack style has been around since the early 1900’s when the first chair was created by, Thomas Lee for his summer home. He gave the design to his carpenter friend Henry Bunnell, who began making and selling them after he patented the design. Adirondack furniture has graced patios, decks and yards with style and ease ever since.  

The traditional image of Adirondack style furniture is a wooden slat seat, angled back, high arm rests and usually an ottoman to put your feet up and really relax. While this hasn’t really changed much there are variations to fit your style.  Beyond the classic design there is the fan, back, the shell back, the wave back and even a Chippendale inspired back.  In addition to the chair, there are rockers, gliders, garden benches, settees, tables and even trellis and arbors. So, any type of furniture you desire to complete your patio is available in the Adirondack style as well as your budget.  

The choice of materials for Adirondack furniture makes it affordable to grace any patio with this comfortable style. Plastic and resin pieces are low maintenance and generally less expensive than wood.  There are really only 6 types of wood suitable for outdoor furniture; Alder, Cedar, Cypress, Mahogany, Pine and Teak.  All have the strength and durability to last in any climate and are simple to be cared for and enjoyed year after year.  

Alder, Pine and Cypress can be painted to coordinate with your patio décor. Cedar, Mahogany and Teak are best left in their natural state. They can be treated to maintain their natural color or be left to age to a lovely silver gray. Whatever your style Adirondack Furniture is a great investment for your patio because it exudes classic comfort and can last a lifetime.  Cedar furniture lasts a minimum of 5 years and Teak furniture, although a bit pricey for some, can last for 50 to 75 years. 

With furniture you’ll have for awhile you’ll want your personality to shine through. Add some flair and comfort with bright or subdued cushions or maybe an eye-popping lime green chair. Dress up a blank wall with a trellis or bring nature closer with a garden bench. Whatever you choose you can make your favorite place to be right outside your back door.  So, make the investment to supplement the beauty and elegance of your home with Adirondack furniture. Having a chaise to lounge in with a favorite book or a relaxing dining area for an impromptu party will make your next vacation destination your very own patio.  Adirondack furniture offers comfort and style that will last through the next century.


