Title: 
All About The Enchanting Food We Call Chocolate

Word Count:
335

Summary:
Almost everyone I have ever met loves chocolate.  The best thing about chocolate is that it comes in many different shapes and sizes, including white chocolate, hot chocolate, fudge, and even chocolate chip cookies.  Another great attribute of chocolate is that it tastes good with almost anything, so you can always work in a little chocolate with most meals.  Most people I know believe that chocolate makes them feel good after they eat it.  Chocolate is also one of the most p...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Almost everyone I have ever met loves chocolate.  The best thing about chocolate is that it comes in many different shapes and sizes, including white chocolate, hot chocolate, fudge, and even chocolate chip cookies.  Another great attribute of chocolate is that it tastes good with almost anything, so you can always work in a little chocolate with most meals.  Most people I know believe that chocolate makes them feel good after they eat it.  Chocolate is also one of the most popular gifts to give to your loved one on Valentine’s Day, because it makes people feel more sensual.  Some people believe that this good feeling is just in your head and that it happens just because you think you are feeling better.  However chocolate contains many different chemicals in it that help to cause chemical reactions that truly can make you feel better.

Chocolate contains many different stimulates that can help give some one a “pick me up”.  Chocolate also contains a small amount of caffeine that can get you going when you are feeling sluggish.  However do not worry about getting too much caffeine from chocolate, because it contains the same amount of caffeine that you would get from drinking one ounce of coffee.  Chocolate also causes the body to release serotonin, which is a chemical that has been associated with decreased levels of depression, tension, and fatigue.  Probably the reason chocolate is given on Valentine’s Day is that it also contains phenylethylamine which is usually released by the body when you are spending quality time with a loved one.  Chocolate will not make someone fall in love with you or be more attracted to you, but it can help set the mood between two people that love each other.  All in all chocolate is one of the best things on earth.  If you are feeling down, need a boost of energy, or need help setting the mood, then get some chocolate and all of your troubles will just melt away.


