Title: 
An Introduction to Creating a New England Restraunt Menu

Word Count:
465

Summary:
Since most of the New England states in the U.S. are situated close to water, it is no wonder that many of the dishes associated with this region present an array of seafood ingredients. When interested in bringing the taste of New England to the dinner table, you may encounter a wealth of recipes and menu ideas, such as boiled lobsters, lobster rolls, New England Oyster Stew, Boston Baked Beans, Hasty Pudding, and Johnnycakes.


Keywords:
chowder, new, new england, england, tomatoes, ingredients, island, rhode island, typical, milk, boston, maine, cream, rhode, added, pie, new england d


Article Body:
Since most of the New England states in the U.S. are situated close to water, it is no wonder that many of the dishes associated with this region present an array of seafood ingredients. When interested in bringing the taste of New England to the dinner table, you may encounter a wealth of recipes and menu ideas, such as boiled lobsters, lobster rolls, New England Oyster Stew, Boston Baked Beans, Hasty Pudding, and Johnnycakes. Below you will find a few recommendations for your next New England kitchen experience:

Chowder:

One of the most significant items on a New England restaurant menu is chowder and throughout regions, such as Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, and Vermont – a host of variations provide a never-ending supply of ideas. The centuries-long tradition of preparing chowder has evolved to include clear and thick chowders like the cod chowder typical in Newfoundland. If you like fish, you might want to experiment with a salt cod chowder or fish stew.

The ingredients added to various regional chowders differ. To produce chowder typical of Maine, tomatoes are preferred by residents living about Penobscot Bay. Preferences are so fickle that hopping on the other side of the bay and you will encounter chowder made without tomatoes and heavy on the milk. It is not uncommon to hear of Down East Chowder about the region, as inhabitants of Maine often call their residence "Down East."

Rhode Islanders living in the western part of the state tend to highlight clear chowder with some cooks using tomatoes to create an attractive pink tint. Additional chowder options include New England Clam Chowder and Boston Clam Chowder with added ingredients, such as cream, potatoes, bacon, and onions.

Coffee Milk:

To pay homage to the smallest state in the U.S., why not explore one of the famous beverages associated with Rhode Island – coffee milk? While the drink is quite similar to chocolate milk with coffee-flavored syrup, the basic recipe is made when combining two tablespoons of coffee syrup to 8 ounces of milk. While Rhode Island is the only place where you can purchase this drink, you can still emulate its contents to bring the taste to your household.

Boston Cream Pie:

What is a New England dinner without the dessert? New England cooks are known for their cakes and pies and one of the most recognizable across the United States is the Boston Cream Pie, which is actually a cake and not a pie. The typical serving consists of two sponge cake layers with a thick vanilla custard filling. Usually a chocolate glaze is added on top or a simple sprinkling of confectioners' sugar, which is then cut into wedges and served like a pie. The common recipe generally consists of flour, water, butter, and eggs.


