Title: 
An Insider’s Tip On The Artisan Kitchenaid Stand Mixer

Word Count:
514

Summary:
This popular Artisan KitchenAid stand mixer is the standard mixer found in many kitchens around the United States. 

This mixer is small, convenient, and has the ten-power speed, according to the manufacturer, to mix up to four loaves of bread at once, nine dozen cookies, or seven pounds of mashed potatoes. Originally, this mixer comes with a regular mixing head for baking and blending in general. 

Also included is the kneading hook for when making bread and also the wir...


Keywords:
recipes, baking, cookies, cakes, brownies, treats


Article Body:
This popular Artisan KitchenAid stand mixer is the standard mixer found in many kitchens around the United States. 

This mixer is small, convenient, and has the ten-power speed, according to the manufacturer, to mix up to four loaves of bread at once, nine dozen cookies, or seven pounds of mashed potatoes. Originally, this mixer comes with a regular mixing head for baking and blending in general. 

Also included is the kneading hook for when making bread and also the wire whip for egg whites or whipped cream.

In my kitchen, this mixer was my very first stand mixer. 

From what I discovered, there were a lot of very well designed and thought-out aspects to this mixer. 

One of the first things that I liked about this mixer was the convenient tilt-head. When I was trying to blend in flour or something messy, it was nice to have more room to work with- instead of the other mixers which have a bowl that comes down, the head doesn’t go up.  

Frequently there’s just not enough room to fit the item you’re trying to blend in into the bowl with the little bit of space provided. It can usually be quite messy and frankly I do not like a messy kitchen.

Another good thing about the Artisan KitchenAid mixer is that it has a locking head to keep it from bouncing and such on the tougher dough. 

If the head bounces, like it does on some other mixers, then how do you plan on mixing the dough thoroughly? With that strategy, all you’re going to end up with is a lightly mixed mess… and no one likes that.  This Kitchen Aid Stand Mixer is a real work horse!

This mixer’s ten-speed controls are capable of mixing nearly anything you can think of. Any faster than the speeds which are offered on the mixer and the mixer might take off like a plane. The lowest speed is just right for the mixes which are very liquid-based or those which can spill out onto the counter easily.

My primary negative comment about this mixer is that, for some jobs, it’s just not large enough. It says that you can mix nine dozen cookies- but not if you want anything in those cookies. For about 4 dozen chocolate chip cookies, the mixer really has to work. 

Even when it can mix all the ingredients, by the time you are done filling up the bowl, the mix is really high on the sides and it can spill easily. So I always shoot for smaller recipes or make the larger ones in two batches.

Overall, this is a great mixer for everyday chefs who are just starting out or even for those who have many years of experience under their apron but are looking to purchase a basic stand mixer. 

This Artisan KitchenAid mixer is perfect for nearly any occasion and for any baker or chef, in the family kitchen!  

Pick the color that is right for you and then enjoy your new KitchenAid Stand Mixer.


