Title: 
Are You A Gourmet Coffee Drinker?

Word Count:
414

Summary:
Do you love your coffee? Can you go a day without a cup of your favorite drink? Coffee as we know it today is much different than when it was first discovered. These days there are so many varieties of gourmet coffee that it is difficult to choose a favorite one.

What Exactly Is Gourmet Coffee?

A cup of gourmet coffee is a relatively new idea. Gourmet coffee is usually only made from Arabica beans, which are usually the coffee beans with the fullest flavors. The general...


Keywords:
gourmet coffee


Article Body:
Do you love your coffee? Can you go a day without a cup of your favorite drink? Coffee as we know it today is much different than when it was first discovered. These days there are so many varieties of gourmet coffee that it is difficult to choose a favorite one.

What Exactly Is Gourmet Coffee?

A cup of gourmet coffee is a relatively new idea. Gourmet coffee is usually only made from Arabica beans, which are usually the coffee beans with the fullest flavors. The general average jar of coffee which you buy in supermarkets is made using a mixture of beans using low grade Brazilian coffee beans and Robusta beans. They also add a small amount of the Arabica coffee beans to ensure a nicer flavor than using just the low grade beans. Also the lower grade beans contain more caffeine than the others.

Usually, gourmet coffee is roasted at the plant and makes it into the consumer’s hands within a week. You can buy pre-ground gourmet coffee, but the preferred way to buy it is while it is still in its bean form. The beans can usually be ground at the store you buy them from.

Commercial coffee is also usually not as fresh. Commercial coffee is pre-ground before it is packaged. After packaging it can take several weeks to actually make it to a grocery store. Usually, the longer pre-ground commercial coffee sits on a shelf waiting to be purchased, the staler and bitter it will become. Generally, the biggest advantage of commercial coffee is that it is cheap compared to some types of gourmet coffee.

The two most important things to remember when looking for gourmet coffee is that it is fresher and has more flavor than the commercial jars of coffee. Another important point to remember with gourmet coffee, is that you can choose where the coffee beans have come from and also know how it has been roasted. If you have yet to try a cup of gourmet coffee, you will not be disappointed. You will be spoilt for choice in the world of gourmet coffee, give it a try. You can find small bags so that if you decide you don’t like that particular variety, you don’t have a 10 pound can in your kitchen still full of coffee. So give gourmet coffee a try, and if you find it is not to your liking you can always revert back to your old ways!


