Title: 
Around The World With Green Mountain Coffee

Word Count:
566

Summary:
Whether you are looking for the best tasting coffee with unmatched flavor from other commercially available coffee, or you are in for some of the most exciting coffee tastes you could ever find, Green Mountain coffee will meet your needs. Green Mountain coffee, from Green Mountain Roasters, derives from locations where coffees are grown in its best condition, giving every coffee drinker the best experience. 

Green Mountain coffee comes from parts of the world where coffee ...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Whether you are looking for the best tasting coffee with unmatched flavor from other commercially available coffee, or you are in for some of the most exciting coffee tastes you could ever find, Green Mountain coffee will meet your needs. Green Mountain coffee, from Green Mountain Roasters, derives from locations where coffees are grown in its best condition, giving every coffee drinker the best experience. 

Green Mountain coffee comes from parts of the world where coffee beans are grown in excellent condition. From the countries in Africa such as Kenya and Ethiopia, to the Southeast Asian region in the country of Indonesia, Green Mountain Roasters brings out the best in their product. 

If you are to believe that the birthplace of coffee came from the birthplace of civilization, then you are to believe that Ethiopia is simply the ideal place for a perfect coffee. This ancient country is believed to be the Garden of Eden and is where Green Mountains discovered the precious coffee beans. 

Kenya is where coffees are sold at high grade. So if the world thinks of Kenya as the place where best coffees are grown, Green Mountains will think of it as well. Kenyan coffee is what many coffee drinkers want in a good cup of coffee. 

Green Mountain travels as far as Southeast Asia to the islands of Indonesia to find unique coffee in three unique regions. Green Mountain finds places of Java, Sumatra, and Sulawesi to get coffee with a distinctive Asian taste and feel. 

Green Mountain Roasters is committed to offer the finest coffee beans in the world, so they would not miss the parts of the Americas where coffee growers dedicate their life to perfecting coffee plants. 

Green Mountain Roasters recognizes the quality of coffee beans in countries such as Columbia, particularly in the southwestern region that's commonly referred to as Colombia's Popayan region. Also, Green Mountain appreciates the fine quality of coffee beans in Costa Rica. Coffee from this country is known as Costa Rica Peaberry Select. But why peaberry? Coffee cherries are known to produce two beans. Peaberry, in contrast, only produces one. And that's not all, as peaberry is carefully handpicked for it is considered one of coffee's precious gems.  

Comprising another part of Green Mountain tradition is their use of Kona coffee. This type of coffee has a mild but rich flavor and aroma. Balance best describes Kona coffee with a fresh aftertaste. In Mexico, Green Mountain also explores the possibility of growing quality coffee beans. Mexico is one of the largest coffee bean growers in the world, producing some of the best coffees ever tasted. For Green Mountains, Mexican coffee comes from the southeastern region located alongside the Sierra Mountains. 

Coffee diversity is why Green Mountain also buys coffees from Guatemala. In this part of the world, coffees are grown with significant differences in every district. These differences in growing makes Guatemalan coffee unique even when it is compared with coffee from the same country. 

For many, Peru is infamous with the Manchu Piccu. But for Green Mountains, Peru is where they find organic coffee that is grown by the descendants of Incas. 

Behind this worldwide effort is the commitment of Green Mountain to provide a readily available great-tasting coffee to anyone without the need to visit these countries. For with every sip of Green Mountain coffee, it is like traveling the world.


