Title: 
As A Salad Or As A Chicken Salad Sandwich The Day After

Word Count:
358

Summary:
What is great about either tuna or chicken salads is that there is hardly any wastage (unless of course, the cook has already messed up the salad big time). Should the preparation for these salads exceed the expected consumption, they can be recycled the next day as a sandwich.

Just throw in maybe feta or mozzarella cheese, place it on any bread of your choice, pop it in the oven and you are ready to go with a totally different dish. For your convenience, I have compiled t...


Keywords:
chicken salads,recipes,recipes tips,salads tips,salads making


Article Body:
What is great about either tuna or chicken salads is that there is hardly any wastage (unless of course, the cook has already messed up the salad big time). Should the preparation for these salads exceed the expected consumption, they can be recycled the next day as a sandwich.

Just throw in maybe feta or mozzarella cheese, place it on any bread of your choice, pop it in the oven and you are ready to go with a totally different dish. For your convenience, I have compiled the following must-try chicken salad sandwich recipes for all those salad left-overs.

CHICKEN SALAD SANDWICH

Ingredients
1/2 - cups cooked chicken breast, diced
1/2 - cup celery, diced
1/2 - onion, diced
1/2 - cup salad dressing (or mayonnaise)
1/2 - teaspoon oregano
1/4 - teaspoon salt
1/8 - teaspoon pepper
1 - hard-cooked egg, peeled
1 - tomato, 8 slices
4 - lettuce leaves
8 - slices of bread (your choice of bread)

Directions

You want to add the cooked chicken breast, celery, onion, salad dressing (or mayonnaise), oregano, salt, pepper, hard-cooked egg in a food processor.

Pulsate food processor about 4 times.

You want ingredients well mixed; however, only coarsely chopped.

With a tablespoon, spread chicken salad mixture on a slice of bread; add 2 tomato slices, a leaf of lettuce and top with second bread slice.

WALDORF CHICKEN SALAD SANDWICH

INGREDIENTS:

4 Kaiser rolls, cut in half
1 cup deli chicken salad
12 very thin apple slices
4 slices Cheddar cheese

PREPARATION:

Layer bottom half of each roll with salad, 3 apple slices and 1 cheese slice. Top with tops of rolls. (You can spread the kaiser rolls with a thin layered of softened butter before making the sandwiches, if you'd like.) 4 servings

CHICKEN SALAD SANDWICH RECIPE

Ingredients:

2 cups cooked diced chicken Miracle Whip Salad Dressing
1 cup chopped celery
2 tablespoons pickle relish
1/8 teaspoon dry mustard
1/2 teaspoon dill
8 slices thin white bread

Directions:

Mix together ingredients. Chill for several hours. Spread chicken mixture on bread and remove crusts. Cut into squares or triangles.

PESTO CHICKEN SALAD ON BAGELS

Ingredients:

1 cup diced cooked chicken
1 cup chopped celery
1 cup chopped tomatoes
1/2 cup finely chopped onion
1/2 cup purchased pesto
4 whole wheat -- or white bagels, split

Directions:

In large bowl, combine all ingredients except bagels; mix well. Spread chicken mixture on each bagel half.


