Title: 
Avoid These Foods - Gain Beautiful Skin!

Word Count:
431

Summary:
In order to maintain healthy skin it is important for you to practice good eating habits, eat foods that are good for your skin such as fruits and vegetables, avoid oily foods such as french fries, hamburger, hotdogs, and fast foods. If you must have a hamburger or french fries do not cook them in oil, try steaming them or baking them in the toaster oven.  Avoid refined sugar because sugar is the number one cause of troubled skin, try your best to avoid eating chocolates, dri...


Keywords:



Article Body:
In order to maintain healthy skin it is important for you to practice good eating habits, eat foods that are good for your skin such as fruits and vegetables, avoid oily foods such as french fries, hamburger, hotdogs, and fast foods. If you must have a hamburger or french fries do not cook them in oil, try steaming them or baking them in the toaster oven.  Avoid refined sugar because sugar is the number one cause of troubled skin, try your best to avoid eating chocolates, drinking sodas or alcoholic beverages.

Although your body does need a bit of fat, you should avoid eating too much red meat, instead you might want to substitute red meat with say chicken or fish which will give you the required protein that your body needs.  Milk is one of the products you must definitely avoid especially if you suffer from acne. Another kind of food to avoid is processed foods as these contain chemicals that can be harmful to the body, and also the skin. Margarine, shortening or other hydrogenated vegetable oils, and commercial dairy products and meats containing hormones should also be avoided.

Protein is essential to good health, but foods that contain high levels of saturated fat and omega-6 fatty acids can do more harm than good. You should avoid foods such as ground beef, sausages, bacon, and ham, as these foods are high in fat to protein ratio, and are not the types of protein you should eat. Also because these foods are cooked at high temperatures they can cause harmful byproducts for you skin. Saturated fats which are known to be harmful to the cardiovascular system, can increase wrinkles and accelerate skin aging, the trans-fatty acids have been proven to have very harmful effects to the skins health and appearance.

Some foods that contain carbohydrates such as pasta, or baked beans have been known to cause conditions which can initiate inflammatory and damaging effects on the skin. Most legumes have beneficial effects on the skin, but canned baked beans which are prepared in brown sugar or molasses, can have a negative effect on glucose levels.  When these  baked beans are cooked at high temperatures for long periods, it cause break down in their cell wall, causing them to release normal sugars which are easier to digest and cause the blood glucose levels to rise. Less refined foods such as whole grains are digested slower and, as such, are slowly absorbed into the blood steam, resulting in lower blood sugar levels and less insulin discharge, which results in lower glycemic load.


