Title: 
Banana Bread - Taste Thy Goodness Of Bananas.

Word Count:
466

Summary:
There’s sure is nothing that says home like the smell of fresh-baked bread. Except for, possibly, when the baker takes it up a notch and the bread in the oven is banana bread.

Though it is bread, this enjoyable treat is in many ways more like a cake. The leavening agent in banana bread is usually baking soda instead of yeast. What's more unlike regular bread, banana bread is baked from batter and not dough. And evidently, it includes bananas that’s normally mashed and put ...


Keywords:
banana bread,bananas


Article Body:
There’s sure is nothing that says home like the smell of fresh-baked bread. Except for, possibly, when the baker takes it up a notch and the bread in the oven is banana bread.

Though it is bread, this enjoyable treat is in many ways more like a cake. The leavening agent in banana bread is usually baking soda instead of yeast. What's more unlike regular bread, banana bread is baked from batter and not dough. And evidently, it includes bananas that’s normally mashed and put into the batter.

A huge family favorite, this has been around for years! In fact it first came into popularity in the 1930’s, and ever since then a number of varieties have appeared in cookbooks. Banana bread is relatively easy to make, and hence popular among home bakers. In addition it can often be found in the display cases of bakeries and coffee shops.

It is not only tasty but also versatile. Usually a great on-the-go breakfast item, either at home or grabbed at the coffee shop where the busy professional stops for his or her daily dose of java. Also it can be packed in a lunchbox that makes it a great ending to the afternoon meal, but is just as likely to be a warm after-school snack waiting when children hop off the bus. What’s more it can also serve as a last-minute dessert option when guests turn up unexpectedly and you find yourself whipping up a quick meal. If whipped together before dinner and popped into the oven it makes a fantastic accompaniment to a relaxing cup of tea while watching evening television.

This homey treat is so versatile because it is sweet, but not overwhelmingly so. There is an adequate amount of a dessert-like texture and taste for it to serve as a sweet meal-ender. But its dessert like qualities are milder than overwhelming, and banana bread can be just as fulfilling accompanying a meal or as a standalone quick breakfast with a cup of coffee or a glass of milk.

It is generally baked in loaf-shaped pans and can be cut into thin slices or larger wedges for serving. There are plenty of variations on banana bread out there. Of which, some banana bread recipes are passed down by a number of families from generation to generation, and each will declare theirs the best. Perhaps the most common varieties are banana nut breads, which are made from standard banana bread recipes but also include walnuts or pecans.

In fact there are many other types of fruit or even vegetable-based breads. Such as cranberry bread, cranberry banana bread, and zucchini bread are among a few examples. While these are also often-enjoyed treats, banana bread still seems to take the front in terms of popularity.


