Title: 
Beermaking Basics

Word Count:
335

Summary:
Consider all of the styles and brands of beer on the market today.  Now, add in all of the different beers from international brewers.   The selection available can be mind-boggling; but what's even more surprising is that all that beer is made from similar brewing systems.  It's a system that you can learn and perfect to become your own brew master.

The brewing process is fairly simple, but creating the perfect pint does take a little practice.  Here are the beermaking ba...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Consider all of the styles and brands of beer on the market today.  Now, add in all of the different beers from international brewers.   The selection available can be mind-boggling; but what's even more surprising is that all that beer is made from similar brewing systems.  It's a system that you can learn and perfect to become your own brew master.

The brewing process is fairly simple, but creating the perfect pint does take a little practice.  Here are the beermaking basics:

1.  Make a Clean Start:  Wash, rinse and sanitize each and every piece of your fermenting and brewing equipment before you begin.  Bacteria can easily spoil your home brew, and make you very ill.

2.  Measure Carefully.  Choose your recipe and follow the measurements exactly.  

3.  Mix It In:  After the boil has stabilized, you'll need to add hops, malt, moss and other flavours or additions that your recipe calls for. Be sure that you have enough of the right ingredients before you start brewing.  Most recipes call for boiling water as the first step, followed by the additions of some ingredients.  Using the right ingredients in the correct amounts, and adding them in the right order, will make all the difference to your final product.

Keep It Cool:  Once your mixture has been prepared, you'll need to let it fully cool.  Once it has cooled, you'll add yeast and any remaining ingredients.  The mixture will be poured into a fermenting bucket, where it will stay for a period of time.  Different types of beer require various fermenting times, so be sure to follow your recipe carefully.

Bottle It Up:  When the fermenting process is complete, pour you home brew into clean and sterilized bottles, and cap them securely.  

You now have tasty home brew to enjoy anytime you want. 

After you've learned the beermaking basics, you'll find it's an easy process that you can master in your home.  Once you've perfected your talents and your recipe, you may never go back to commercial brews again.


