Title: 
Best Apple Pie Recipe: Company Apple Pie Recipe

Word Count:
830

Summary:
If you need a classic apple pie recipe, then this is it. It’s easy and fun making homemade apple pie and this recipe is bound to be a favorite.

3/4 cup white sugar
2 tablespoons flour
1/8 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg
6 tart apples, peeled, cored and sliced
2 tablespoons butter
2 tablespoons whiskey or vanilla extract
2 (9-inch) unbaked pie crusts

Directions

Preheat oven to 450 degrees.

Prepare pie crust and put bottom...


Keywords:



Article Body:
If you need a classic apple pie recipe, then this is it. It’s easy and fun making homemade apple pie and this recipe is bound to be a favorite.

3/4 cup white sugar
2 tablespoons flour
1/8 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg
6 tart apples, peeled, cored and sliced
2 tablespoons butter
2 tablespoons whiskey or vanilla extract
2 (9-inch) unbaked pie crusts

Directions

Preheat oven to 450 degrees.

Prepare pie crust and put bottom layer of crust into a 9-inch pie pan.

In a small bowl, mix together the sugar, flour, salt, cinnamon and nutmeg. Place sliced apples in a large bowl and sprinkle with the sugar mixture. Toss mixture until apples are completely coated. Spoon apples into the pie crust.

Dot the apples with butter or margarine and sprinkle the whiskey/vanilla on top. Put on the top layer pie crust and crimp closed. Make several slits in top of crust to vent.

Bake for 10 minutes. Lower oven temperature to 350 degrees and bake for another 40 minutes.

=> Homemade Apple Pie Recipe: Classic American Apple Pie

Americans love their apple pie and this is a great recipe for any occasion. It’s especially good served diner style - warm with a scoop of vanilla ice cream.

1/3 cup packed light brown sugar
1/3 cup white sugar
1 tablespoon all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon lemon juice
1/3 teaspoon ground cinnamon
7 1/2 cups apples, peeled, cored and sliced
1 cup raisins
2 (9-inch) unbaked pie crusts
1 egg

Directions

Preheat oven to 425 degrees.

Spray a deep dish pie pan with cooking spray.

In a bowl, combine white sugar, light brown sugar, flour, lemon, cinnamon; mix well. Add the apples and raisins. Stir until well coated.

Spoon apple mixture into the pie crust. Place second layer of crust on top of filling. Seal the edges.

Beat the egg and lightly glaze top of pie crust with egg mixture. Sprinkle a little sugar on top.

Bake 35 to 40 minutes, until golden brown. Cool on wire rack for 30 minutes before serving.

=> Dutch Apple Pie Recipe: Easy Dutch Apple Pie Recipe

This homemade apple pie is topped off with a sweetly spiced crumble topping that is oh so good.

1 (9-inch) unbaked pie crust

Pie Filling

2 1/2 cups apples, peeled, cored and sliced
1/2 cup sugar
3/4 cup flour
1/2 teaspoon apple pie spice
1 oz. butter, melted
1 tablespoon lemon juice

Streusel Topping

1 1/3 tablespoon dry milk
2/3 cup flour
1/2 teaspoon apple pie spice
1/4 pound light brown sugar, lightly packed
2 tablespoons hard butter

Directions

Preheat oven to 375 degrees.

In a small bowl, combine sugar, flour and apple pie spice. Add dry mixture to apples and toss to coat apples well. Add in the melted butter and lemon juice; stir well. Spoon apple mixture into pie shell.

To make streusel topping, combine dry milk, flour, apple pie spice and brown sugar in a bowl. Cut hard butter into mixture with a fork; mix until well combined. Sprinkle topping over pie filling until completely covered.

Bake 10 minutes. Reduce oven temperature to 300 degrees and bake an additional 25 minutes. Serve with ice cream or cheese.

=> Fried Pie Recipe: Fried Apple Pie Recipe

Forget those fast food versions, this is the real thing. These mini pies are great to pack with lunches.

2 cups all purpose flour
1/2 cup shortening
1 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup cold water
2 apples, peeled, cored and diced
1/3 cup white sugar
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1 cup vegetable oil

Directions

In a saucepan, combine apples, sugar and cinnamon. Cook over low heat. Cook apples until they are soft and tender. Mash with a fork to form a thick applesauce.

In a bowl, sift the flour and salt together. Cut in the shortening. Add water and mix with a fork. Create a ball of dough and roll out to 1/8-inch thick on a floured board. With a cookie cutter, cut out 4-inch round pieces.

In the center of each dough round, spoon 1 heaping tablespoon of apple mixture. Moisten the edges with cold water and fold. Press edges closed with a fork.

In a large skillet, heat oil on medium high heat. Fry pies a few at a time for 2 to 3 minutes on each side, until golden brown. Drain pies on paper towels. Sprinkle with confectioners sugar.

=> Apple Pie Filling Recipe: Anytime Apple Pie Filling Recipe

Here’s a basic apple pie filling to use whenever you need to make a scrumptious homemade dessert.

18 cups apples, thinly sliced
3 tablespoons lemon juice
4 1/2 cups white sugar
1 cup cornstarch
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg
10 cups water

Directions

In a large bowl, toss apples with lemon juice and set aside. Pour water into a Dutch oven over medium heat. Combine sugar, cornstarch, cinnamon, salt and nutmeg. Add to water, stir well and bring to a boil. Boil for 2 minutes, stirring constantly.

Add in the apples and return pot to a boil. Reduce heat, cover and simmer until apples are tender (about 6 to 8 minutes). Cool for 30 minutes.

Ladle filling into five freezer containers, leave 1/2-inch space at the top. Cool at room temperature for 1 to 1 1/2 hours.

Seal containers and freeze. Pie filling can be stored in freezer for up to 12 months.


