Title: 
Blue Mountain Coffee &#8211; The Taste Of Jamaica

Word Count:
440

Summary:
Coffee beans get their flavor from the climate where they are grown. The Blue Mountains in Jamaica offer some of the finest coffee beans ever found. The Blue Mountains are named for the blue mist that hovers over the mountains at all times. Located on the beautiful island of Jamaica, these mountains offer the perfect climate for growing fantastic coffee beans. This lush, tropical region benefits from plenty of rainfall, giving the soil the rich quality needed for growing the ...


Keywords:
coffee, blue mountain coffee


Article Body:
Coffee beans get their flavor from the climate where they are grown. The Blue Mountains in Jamaica offer some of the finest coffee beans ever found. The Blue Mountains are named for the blue mist that hovers over the mountains at all times. Located on the beautiful island of Jamaica, these mountains offer the perfect climate for growing fantastic coffee beans. This lush, tropical region benefits from plenty of rainfall, giving the soil the rich quality needed for growing the gourmet Blue Mountain coffee.

The beautiful Blue Mountains stand at almost 7,500 feet above the sea and make a stunning backdrop for the pristine white beaches These mountains house over 194,000 acres which are protected as part of the rain forests. There are many different species of birds and plants which can only be found in these mountains.

Blue Mountain coffee beans were originally brought to the Jamaican Islands by Sir Nicholas Lawes who hoped the climate would prove productive for these special beans. Since 1728 these beans have continued to produce extremely well and today coffee is the biggest export of these islands. Blue Mountain coffee is one of the most sought after coffees in the world and Japan imports a large part of this coffee.

Blue Mountain coffee offers a bold, rich taste which is also smooth and sweet. It is grown on small farms instead of being mass produced. Often it is difficult to obtain because of the high demand for the succulent flavor which can only be found in the Jamaican mountain ranges. It is often referred to as the champagne of coffees because of its bold, rich taste. It is also one of the most expensive coffees in the world.

The Threat to Blue Mountain Coffee&#8217;s Existence

Blue Mountain coffee is closely monitored by local Jamaican officials to insure the supreme quality associated with its name. These officials grade the quality of the coffee bean before they place it in specific categories. There is close regulation with strict rules which must be met before the coffee bean is offered for sale. 

Recent climate changes have posed a threat to Jamaica&#8217;s most precious resource. Hurricane Ivan posed a real threat to not only the coffee industry, but the islands themselves. Ivan is just one of a long line of hurricanes which have threatened the islands over the span of only a few years. In 1988 Hurricane Gilbert caused considerable damage to the coffee crop which resulted in a drastic price increase. Each time the island sustains a hit it takes longer for them to rebound which in turn makes the Blue Mountain coffee almost as precious as gold.


