Title: 
Botanical Gardens, Ballparks And Happy Hour?

Word Count:
523

Summary:
It’s true! Happy hour and a whole lot more is what you get if you live in or visit the Phoenix-Scottsdale section of Arizona. Few cities in the United States boast this many different things to see and do. It doesn’t matter what your pleasure – museums, sports, science, nature, history, shopping, eating, entertainment – if you like it, you’ll find it in Phoenix or Scottsdale. But no matter what you choose to do, you’re bound to get thirsty from all that sunshine and dry heat ...


Keywords:
happy hour, best happy hour, restaurant guide, scottsdale happy hour, phoenix happy hour


Article Body:
It’s true! Happy hour and a whole lot more is what you get if you live in or visit the Phoenix-Scottsdale section of Arizona. Few cities in the United States boast this many different things to see and do. It doesn’t matter what your pleasure – museums, sports, science, nature, history, shopping, eating, entertainment – if you like it, you’ll find it in Phoenix or Scottsdale. But no matter what you choose to do, you’re bound to get thirsty from all that sunshine and dry heat this state is known for. And there’s no better way to quench that thirst than by partaking in one of the many happy hours!

How to find the best happy hour

You’re probably wondering how you can find out all there is to know about Phoenix happy hours or Scottsdale happy hours. Well, one of the best and fastest ways is by picking up a local restaurant guide. Yes, bars aren’t the only places serving up happy hour. Inside the restaurant guide you’ll find details on the area’s finest eating establishments that also feature a happy hour.

Mexican, Italian, Southwestern, Indian, American, Chinese or something else, whatever type of food you fancy, you are practically guaranteed to find a happy hour to go along with that food. Here is just a sampling of some of the happy hour specials seen recently in a Phoenix restaurant guide: two-for-one drinks, $1 drafts, free food, special prices on appetizers and happy hours that last the entire day!

You can also go online to find out where you should go for a great happy hour experience. Searching the Internet for a happy hour is just as easy as searching for any other type of information. You enter a few details related to your search such as your zip code or the name of a particular restaurant and in literally seconds you will have before your eyes a number of different venues from which you can choose. 

Your online search tells all

When you search online for a Phoenix happy hour or a Scottsdale happy hour, you likely will find a lot of other useful information including a map showing the hot spot’s exact location (instead of just an address listing), the hours of operation but more importantly, the times when happy hour will be served, information on how you should dress, and information about what else there is to do at that location besides indulging in your favorite frosty drink. You’ll probably even find reviews submitted by others who have actually experienced the venue, something that can save you a lot of time. 

You won’t need a happy hour invitation to visit the best happy hours that Phoenix and Scottsdale have to offer. Just show up ready to have fun and you’re in. And if you really want to turn happy hour into an all-night event, consider searching for a bus tour that’ll drive you around to all the well-known hot spots. It’ll be a great time and best of all, you can leave the driving to someone else!


