Title: 
Bottles That Impress: Giving the Gift of Wine

Word Count:
356

Summary:
Wine makes the perfect gift for the holidays, from presenting it to your host at a dinner party to giving it to your friends and family. Whether your gift list includes a family member, a beloved friend or new boss, wine is sure to be a hit when presented with some flair.


Keywords:
Bottles That Impress: Giving the Gift of Wine


Article Body:
Wine makes the perfect gift for the holidays, from presenting it to your host at a dinner party to giving it to your friends and family. Whether your gift list includes a family member, a beloved friend or new boss, wine is sure to be a hit when presented with some flair.

Viansa Winery, situated at the Carneros grape-growing region at the entrance to California's Sonoma Valley, produces more Italian varietal wines than any single winery in the country. Consider these gift concepts that will set your bottle apart from the rest:

* Bottles that impress. Match your choice of wine to the person's personality. An assortment of fine Italian varietals like Viansa's "Vittoria" Pinot Grigio, "Pierina" Vernaccia, Arneis, Sangiovese, Barberra or Nebbiolo for the Italian food lover; or a choice of impressive California varietals like Cabernet Sauvignon, Chardonnay and Merlot for the Sonoma Valley enthusiast.

* Gift baskets that keep on giving. Viansa produces an array of award-winning wines and gourmet foods that are exclusively available through the winery, like the Sonoma Picnic Basket filled with salami, Vella Mezzo Jack Cheese, Olive Oil Crackers, Olive Harvest Nuts and Lemon Drops, along with a cork puller, cheese knife and two steady sticks to hold your wineglass upright in the lawn. Also try the Pasta & Piccolo for an instant Italian meal complete with porcini pasta sauce, imported pasta and Sangiovese wine.

Viansa's pestos, estate olive oils and vinegars, herbs and seasonings as well as dessert sauces add a flavorful twist to your gift of wine. To leave an even longer-lasting impression on wine and food lovers, Viansa offers exclusive membership to "The Tuscan Club." The club provides a 25 percent savings to members on wine purchases and a 10 percent savings on food and baskets.

* Accessorize. Consider including small accessories, such as drip stoppers, decorative corks and wine stoppers or wine charms. For a gift within a gift, wrap your wine in a fine bath linen, tablecloth or vintage material and tie with a large satin ribbon.

* Personalize. Viansa Winery offers a custom solution for impressive gifts with specially created wine or food baskets and custom-etched or private-label wine gift baskets.


