Title: 
Broken Coffee Machine? Getting It Repaired Needn’t Be A Hassle

Word Count:
310

Summary:
When your commercial coffee machine needs to be repaired, you will of course want it to be fixed as soon as possible. But what is involved in having it repaired? When you are choosing a company to repair your coffee machine, make sure you ask them the following questions:

How long will it take to fix? Obviously this depends on the extent of the problem, however some companies will aim to fix your machine within 24 hours, and some will fix it on-site or, if you take it to t...


Keywords:



Article Body:
When your commercial coffee machine needs to be repaired, you will of course want it to be fixed as soon as possible. But what is involved in having it repaired? When you are choosing a company to repair your coffee machine, make sure you ask them the following questions:

How long will it take to fix? Obviously this depends on the extent of the problem, however some companies will aim to fix your machine within 24 hours, and some will fix it on-site or, if you take it to them, will fix it while you wait, allowing you to get your machine back in action as soon as possible.

Will a loan machine be provided? If your machine is going to take time to fix, it can be a good idea to choose a repair company who will offer a machine for you to use in the meantime. The last thing you want is to loose business because of a broken machine!

Is my coffee machine covered? Double-check that the company you have chosen actually can repair the type of machine you have, as some companies will only repair specific makes. If you do not see your machine listed on their website, it can be worth giving the company a ring and asking them if they will fix yours- sometimes they will make an exception.

Is my area covered? Depending on where the company are based, they may have a set radius that they will visit. If you are outside of their region, you may have to find an alternative company or take your machine to them; however, again, it can be worth calling the company in question to check whether they will make an exception for you.

Once you have answers to the above questions, you should be well on your way to getting your machine up and running again!


