Title: 
Cake Decorating: Discover How To Light Up Your Special Celebration Cake

Word Count:
341

Summary:
Candles create excitement, whether with children, or adults. Blowing candles out makes a special celebration of any event.

There are many types of candles on the market, and many different colours. Always make sure the colour of the candles blends with the decoration on the cake. Although candles aren’t normally seen on wedding anniversary cakes, red, gold or silver candles on these cakes would make a talking point.

Make sure candles stay upright. Instead of than pushin...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Candles create excitement, whether with children, or adults. Blowing candles out makes a special celebration of any event.

There are many types of candles on the market, and many different colours. Always make sure the colour of the candles blends with the decoration on the cake. Although candles aren’t normally seen on wedding anniversary cakes, red, gold or silver candles on these cakes would make a talking point.

Make sure candles stay upright. Instead of than pushing them into the cake surface, place them in a candleholder.  Candleholders are available to match the colour of the candles. They are also sold in gold and silver. Candles look better if grouped together – it gives them more impact, and make it easier to blow out in one puff!

And on a grown-ups cake candles look more interesting if they are cut to slightly different levels.   
       
Self-lighting candles give everyone a surprise, especially the person who is trying to blow them out, and finds the candles re-light themselves again and again!

Twisted (spiral) candles are another choice. They look best on a simply decorated cake. Chunky candles in the shape of a number give impact on a cake, and children love them. They even go up to the age of fifty!  If there isn’t any room on top of the cake, candles can be placed on the board. Cut the spike off a candleholder and stick down with strong glue. Or, pipe a star shape in stiff royal icing and place the candle into it.

Run-outs (colourflow) candles can be either flat on the cake surface or upright. Make the flame of yellow icing, and immediately flood in a small amount of red and swirl it around with a cocktail stick.

Finally, another type of homemade candle, but this time, one that can be lit. Mould a piece of marzipan until it is free of cracks and roll into a sausage shape. Cut one end at a slant and stick a flaked almond in. Because the almond contains oil, it will light.


