Title: 
Cappuccino - How To Make This Rich, Dark Coffee

Word Count:
509

Summary:
The taste of a good cappuccino is totally lip smacking and some times people just cannot start their day without a cup of cappuccino.

Cappuccino is a rich, dark coffee whose recipe originated in Italy. The name cappuccino actually comes from the resemblance of its color to the robes of the monks of the Capuchin order.

Cappuccino has a large volume of foam making it a light weight drink and less filling than other coffees. You take equal parts of steamed and frothed milk...


Keywords:
coffee, cappuccino


Article Body:
The taste of a good cappuccino is totally lip smacking and some times people just cannot start their day without a cup of cappuccino.

Cappuccino is a rich, dark coffee whose recipe originated in Italy. The name cappuccino actually comes from the resemblance of its color to the robes of the monks of the Capuchin order.

Cappuccino has a large volume of foam making it a light weight drink and less filling than other coffees. You take equal parts of steamed and frothed milk and espresso, with the milk on top of the espresso. Then you are free to sprinkle nutmeg, cinnamon or chocolate powder on top.

Start With Good Espresso

To make a good cappuccino you have to start with good espresso, which you get from doing the following: Grind the beans fine, press the espresso down firmly, use a high pressure machine or stove top model, don’t make too much at once, the creama must be visible on top as a golden-brown foam, and use an espresso cup to keep the temperature from cooling down too quickly.

The Difference between a Cappuccino and a Latte

Lattes are also half espresso and half milk. If you are wondering what the difference is between a latte and a cappuccino, with a latte you take the milk and espresso and pour the milk down the side of the cup so it mixes with the espresso.

Making the Froth

Where does the frothed milk come from for cappuccinos and for lattes? If you are using the French press as a foamer, you heat a cup of milk (non-fat is best) on the stove or microwave, to a temperature that you can stand to put your finger into it, then pour the milk into a rinsed plunger pot. Pump the plunger in the pot for a few minutes and the milk will expand to three to four times its volume, creating the froth for your cappuccino (or latte).

Getting Your Own Cappuccino Maker

If you have a coffee addiction, you may want to shop for a cappuccino coffee maker so you can make your own at home. A nice characteristic about the counter top model is it can steam milk for cappuccino and latte’s. When purchasing a cappuccino maker keep in mind that if you entertain frequently, you may want to shop for a cappuccino machine that makes several cups of cappuccino at one time.

Conclusion

Once classed as luxuries, many items of equipment such as grinders, cappuccino makers, espresso makers, and other drinks makers now adorn homes all over the world. So if you are one of the many who must start their day with a cappuccino, it will save you money by having the equipment at home than having to pay at a coffee house.

Another benefit is that you will be able to make some cappuccino whenever you choose. No longer will you have to run out to purchase a cup of your favorite coffee. You simply walk to your kitchen and put together your favorite brew.


