Title: 
Cappuccino - Bakeries' Good Baked Beans

Word Count:
401

Summary:
Want the absolutely perfect dessert to go with your coffee? Go to your local bakery.  Want the best and most tasty coffee beans available? Yes, go to a bakery, but one for beans.  Of course, you will never find a listing for this type of bakery, but there are speciality shops that still roast your cappuccino beans by hand.  Most of the time, these shops use top quality roasters to infuse mouth-watering flavours and aromas into the beans.  This assures that every blend and bea...


Keywords:
cappuccino makers, cappuccino, coffee


Article Body:
Want the absolutely perfect dessert to go with your coffee? Go to your local bakery.  Want the best and most tasty coffee beans available? Yes, go to a bakery, but one for beans.  Of course, you will never find a listing for this type of bakery, but there are speciality shops that still roast your cappuccino beans by hand.  Most of the time, these shops use top quality roasters to infuse mouth-watering flavours and aromas into the beans.  This assures that every blend and bean remains consistent.

The fine art of coffee roasting is a pleasure and matter of pride for these stores, not just a quick fix flavouring process.  They clearly understand all the attributes of a coffee bean – sizes, shapes, colours, and densities.  They know that each bean needs different roasting temperatures and the right timing to reach the best flavours.  Of course, your input is greatly valued and is critical.  The best bakeries rely on their customer sales to indicate the real success of their roasting process because they can understand how best to emphasise your beans’ best flavours and aromas.
       
The deeper roast definitely does help.  There are no excuses for poorly roasted beans.  Canned coffees are roasted, but only to a certain degree.  Any coffee machine can roast your green beans and turn them brown, regulating temperature and puffing out a heap of smoke.  However, the experts use a deeper roasting process – thick black curling and even fiery smelling smoke will not do.  This ensures the best body, flavourings and acid levels.  This can make the final product truly perfect and dance with lively flavour in your mouth.  If the bean isn’t roasted properly, all this becomes fruitless.

Rushing the roasting process is one thing that coffee experts know is a killer – slowness is the key.  Believe it or not, some experts lovingly talk to the beans throughout the entire process to ascertain what more is required to produce the best roast.  Whatever the experts’ eccentricities, they make sure your roast is done to perfection.

You can verify that the proper roasting procedure was used for your beans before buying them.  Crack a bean open.  Good beans will be dark inside and lighter outside.  The badly roasted bean, especially if it is roasted quickly, will be light inside and very dark on the outside.  This means it has been burnt and is not worth buying!


