Title: 
Cappuccino - The Legends Behind Coffee

Word Count:
495

Summary:
The legendary cup of cappuccino seems like just a mere drink that brings up maybe a romantic gathering with some old boyfriend, but who would think that real romance and a massive industry would revolve around it.  Coffee's warm, dark and aromatic fluid has drawn many a person into a coffeehouse, not just recently, but from its very early beginnings.

There are countless legends as to its origins, but the most historically reliable is 500 BC, from Ethiopia.  Travelers were ...


Keywords:
cappuccino makers, cappuccino, coffee


Article Body:
The legendary cup of cappuccino seems like just a mere drink that brings up maybe a romantic gathering with some old boyfriend, but who would think that real romance and a massive industry would revolve around it.  Coffee's warm, dark and aromatic fluid has drawn many a person into a coffeehouse, not just recently, but from its very early beginnings.

There are countless legends as to its origins, but the most historically reliable is 500 BC, from Ethiopia.  Travelers were so intrigued with its stimulating properties that they transported it to the Saudi Arabian Peninsula.  It was in Arabia that the mysteriously delicious drink would be named &#8211; coffee.

The commercialization, mass production and distribution of coffee were born in the Renaissance.  It became known as the &#8216;heatherish liquid'.  By the 1700's, in Europe, the Middle East, North and South America, and Asia, coffee had infiltrated every level of society.  

Even medicinal properties were attributed throughout history.  Coffee could do miraculous things.  Men's sperm could reach super speeds, swim longer and farther in liquid infused with coffee.  This was thanks to caffeine. Harvard University did a major study for 20 years, and concluded that coffee could help diabetes.  Some found a lowering of cirrhosis in the liver and a decrease in the severity of asthma.

There were many claims made about coffee's antioxidants.  Coffee kept hearts far healthier, but the debate about that is still going on.  Coffee is claimed to be a diuretic and helps you urinate more frequently.  I personally do not agree with that one.  However, other studies show coffee as the degenerator of the nervous system, and an insomnia drug.  Apparently, it is supposed to make a good insecticide.

Whatever its attributes, good or bad, coffee is not going away.  Coffee is second only to the oil industry as a commodity in dollar volume production.  It is a major economic booster all round.

Coffee, the 'black gold' of the world stock markets is growing ever popular.  Over 400 billion boiling cups of it are drunk each year.  It is traded on all the major exchanges, including New York, London, Lima and Hong Kong.  If you add to that the economic boom from what we buy in coffee daily &#8211; beans, roasters, grinders, cups and brewing machines.

The coffee business future is good.  It continues to rise as a basic commodity and there are so many special retail prices going now.  Special shops deal in just coffee in such variety of blends and types.  If you want an espresso, then you can buy different grades of brewers and roaster, which were invented in 1901.  Home coffee brewing allows for single, straight, double, and long shots.  What about cappuccino, latte, or mocha?  Every ingredient required can be accessed by a quick button push.  Flavored blends are as numerous as wines and so easy to prepare.  Add additional flavors caramel, fruit or vanilla.  With flavors and money combined, it is not surprising that coffee is what legends are made of.


