Title: 
Cappuccino Makers - Getting Perfectly Roasted Beans

Word Count:
492

Summary:
Coffee roasters, like cappuccino makers, come in all varieties of sizes and shapes.  You can spend up to almost a thousand odd dollars alone.  However, price does not always mean quality.  You should look for a reputable brand, but there other things you should consider.

We all loved chemistry at school.  Remember the bubbling liquid in that test tube, balanced precariously above a flaming Bunsen burner?  For some people, to brew a cup of coffee in their kitchen is just th...


Keywords:
cappuccino makers, brew, kitchen


Article Body:
Coffee roasters, like cappuccino makers, come in all varieties of sizes and shapes.  You can spend up to almost a thousand odd dollars alone.  However, price does not always mean quality.  You should look for a reputable brand, but there other things you should consider.

We all loved chemistry at school.  Remember the bubbling liquid in that test tube, balanced precariously above a flaming Bunsen burner?  For some people, to brew a cup of coffee in their kitchen is just the same.  They really have fun, and the more scientific it is the better.  Imagine the mixing, the stirring, the whirring and the measuring.  Most machines have varied sizes.  Some sits on top of your oven, whilst others are nothing more than a small pot with a lid and handle.

The most important part of the process by far is the stirring.  It prevents the beans from burning and keeps the steamy hot air moving around.  The handle has a special crank inside that lets your machine do the stirring.  It is imperative to find a machine that shows the temperature on the lid.  Without the right temperature, roasting cannot be successfully achieved.  However, if you are just like me, the fully automated state of the art, makes sandwiches too (only joking), machine is perfect.  Measure the green beans.  Close lid.  Walk away and ignore it.  These are gems; temperature controlled through heating machinery, airflow and rotating mechanisms.  There is even a timer to shut it off when its finished.

It is not rocket science, eh?  Of course it is.  Your fully functional rocket, to the moon and back, roaster can do everything including eliminating the smoke that they produce, all for a very hefty price.  A lot of them are like a popcorn machine.  Hot air circulates through the beans as an agitator bounces them around.  This ensures the roast is uniform.  The better ones get rid of chaff.  Chaff is the stuff that comes off the beans when the skins burst open.  You should be able to watch it all happening through its glass outer casing, a very important feature.  You can decide if the roasting is sufficient.  The darkness of the beans is regulated through a special dial.  Avoid any machines that do not have these features.

Even air circulation and heat is vital.  Avoid machines with bottom based heaters as the airflow is not uniform.  Drum roasting is the best because as the drum rotates, the beans are properly agitated allowing spaces for the air to move around in.  However, rooms need to be well ventilated as the better machines produce a lot of smoke.

No longer do you have to rely on professionals to do the job.  Home cappuccino makers and other machines are easy to find and can handle large volumes.  This is a great item if you entertain, whether your party is just two or as large as 200.  You want fresh coffee, don&#8217;t you?


