Title: 
Caring For Your Tea Kettle, Its Functions And Uses

Word Count:
330

Summary:
Tea kettles started back as far as when tea was first discovered in Mainland China.

Although these exquisite tea kettles were used for the sole purpose of boiling water to prepare tea; nowadays its function has extended as useful kitchen wares seeping tea leaves.

These kettles come in various types from traditional tea kettle to modern stainless steel tea kettle. Some tea kettles' sole purpose is for boiling water only, however, some are intended to be “conversation sta...


Keywords:
green tea, organic tea, teapot, cast iron teapot, tea kettles, tea kettle, kettles, tea pot iron


Article Body:
Tea kettles started back as far as when tea was first discovered in Mainland China.

Although these exquisite tea kettles were used for the sole purpose of boiling water to prepare tea; nowadays its function has extended as useful kitchen wares seeping tea leaves.

These kettles come in various types from traditional tea kettle to modern stainless steel tea kettle. Some tea kettles' sole purpose is for boiling water only, however, some are intended to be “conversation starters” because of its beautiful style and design.

There are many types of tea kettles such as cast iron tea kettle, electric tea kettle, ceramic tea kettle, stove tea kettle, contemporary tea kettle, and whistling tea kettle.

Just make sure that the dish soap is diluted with water though, especially if you are using a particularly strong agent.

Caring for your tea kettle is not difficult. For many types of tea kettle, a gentle soap and water is enough. For cast iron tea kettle care with rust inside, you need to take a small piece of cotton cloth and wet it. Add a tablespoon of salt into the bottom of the kettle together with a small amount of olive oil. Rub the bottom of the kettle with the mixture in it to remove the rust.

One misconception among users of cast iron tea kettle is to never use dish soap on cast iron tea kettles. But the truth is, there is not a better cleaning agent out there than the good old dish soap to remove rust inside cast iron tea kettles. If you are using a strong agent, make sure that the dish soap is diluted with water though.

Whatever your purpose is for having a teapot or whatever the type of tea kettle you choose to have, you can assure of its elegance and satisfaction. Now, it’s just a matter of brewing your favorite tea, sit back, relax, and enjoy the pleasurable benefits that this tea brings to every home.


