Title: 
Caribou Coffee Offers Good Brew, Great Atmosphere

Word Count:
440

Summary:
Caribou coffee may be the second-largest coffee retailer in the United States, but taste tests have ranked them first in flavor in recent years. The company, which began in Minnesota, now includes over 460 coffee shops that are located in 18 states throughout the eastern and central regions of the country. It is second only to the Starbucks Corporation in terms of size and number of stores. The history of Caribou Coffee has had its highs and lows since it was founded in 1992,...


Keywords:
Caribou Coffee, coffee


Article Body:
Caribou coffee may be the second-largest coffee retailer in the United States, but taste tests have ranked them first in flavor in recent years. The company, which began in Minnesota, now includes over 460 coffee shops that are located in 18 states throughout the eastern and central regions of the country. It is second only to the Starbucks Corporation in terms of size and number of stores. The history of Caribou Coffee has had its highs and lows since it was founded in 1992, but the origins of the company are interesting and inspiring to up and coming entrepreneurs. 

In 1990, the founding members of Caribou Coffee, John and Kim Puckett took a trip to the wilderness of Alaska. After climbing to the top of Sable Mountain, they encountered a breathtaking view of the valley below &#8211; complete with a herd of caribou running by. They took this vision home to Minnesota with them, and two years later they opened the first Caribou Coffee shop in Edina, Minnesota. This inspiration that began the path to their dream has resulted in a company that strives for the highest quality of products and service in the coffee market today.

What does Caribou Coffee Offer?

In addition to a great, laid back atmosphere that can be compared to a ski lodge or a wilderness cabin, Caribou offers a wide variety of hot and cold beverages as well as baked goods to warm your bones and tantalize your taste buds. The menu includes most of the beverages that you would expect to find in your basic coffee shop today, including espresso drinks like cappuccinos and lattes. They also offer blended drinks with and without coffee, depending on your preference. Tea is another common item found at Caribou Coffee, and comes in a variety of types and flavors. Make sure to check out the selection of &#8220;Wild Drinks&#8221; as well, which include the signature concoctions unique to the Caribou Coffee stores.

A couple of years ago, this company also began a bakery side of the business which includes items like cinnamon rolls, muffins and scones to go with the beverage of your choice. There are even sandwiches available, so that you can enjoy your coffee at lunch time as well. For those die hard Caribou Coffee fans, there is also a selection of clothing available that sports the Caribou Coffee label. 

While Caribou Coffee has had its share of growing pains over the years as the business has developed, there is no doubt that the company offers a quality product that many consumers enjoy. If you have never tried the beverages from Caribou, why not give it a try today?


