Title: 
Champagne - 15 Great Quotes about Bubbly

Word Count:
302

Summary:
A selection of musings on the effervescent nectar from the great and the good


Keywords:
champagne, wine, gift, food,hampers


Article Body:
A selection of musings on the effervescent nectar from the great and the good...

“my only regret in life is that I didn’t drink enough Champagne”
John Maynard Keynes

“there comes a time in every woman's life when the only thing that helps is a glass of Champagne”
Bette Davis

“in victory, you deserve Champagne, in defeat, you need it”
Napoleon Bonaparte

“no government could survive without Champagne. Champagne in the throats of our diplomatic people is like oil in the wheels of an engine”
Joseph Dargent

“I only drink Champagne when I'm happy, and when I'm sad. sometimes I drink it when I'm alone. when I have company, I consider it obligatory. I trifle with it if I am not hungry and drink it when I am. otherwise I never touch it - unless I'm thirsty”
Lily Bollinger

“three be the things I shall never attain: envy, content, and sufficient Champagne”
Dorothy Parker

“meeting Franklin Roosevelt was like opening your first bottle of Champagne; knowing him was like drinking it. “
Winston Churchill

“come quickly, I am tasting the stars!”
Dom Perignon

“remember gentlemen, it's not just France we are fighting for, it's Champagne!”
Winston Churchill

“gentlemen, in the little moment that remains to us between the crisis and the catastrophe, we may as well drink a glass of Champagne”
Paul Claudel

“in a perfect world, everyone would have a glass of Champagne every evening”
Willie Gluckstern

“Champagne is the one thing that gives me zest when I feel tired” 
Brigitte Bardot

“why do I drink Champagne for breakfast? doesn't everyone?”
Noel Coward

“too much of anything is bad, but too much Champagne is just right”
Mark Twain

“I had taken two finger-bowls of Champagne, and the scene had changed before my eyes into something significant, elemental and profound”
F Scott Fitzgerald


