Title: 
Cheia Vida Is The Best Health Drink

Word Count:
383

Summary:
Cheia Vida by Alive Worldwide is a wonderful product and literally everyone I show it too loves it. It is a multi-functional drink that is a energy drink, a weight loss drink, Speeds metabolism, and is loaded with antioxidant support.

Cheia Vida has many ingredients harvested from the Amazon Rainforest in a very earth friendly way. The ingredients include Acia berries for total antioxidant support (even more antioxidants than orange juice or blueberries) and their are a ho...


Keywords:
alive worldwide,cheia vida,best health drink,best energy drink,best mlm,new mlm


Article Body:
Cheia Vida by Alive Worldwide is a wonderful product and literally everyone I show it too loves it. It is a multi-functional drink that is a energy drink, a weight loss drink, Speeds metabolism, and is loaded with antioxidant support.

Cheia Vida has many ingredients harvested from the Amazon Rainforest in a very earth friendly way. The ingredients include Acia berries for total antioxidant support (even more antioxidants than orange juice or blueberries) and their are a host of other benefits of Acai you can read about on my website. Cheia Vida also contains Cha De burgre, a natural stimulant and mood enhancer that has long been known about in brazil and other countries but is new in the USA. Also it contains Yerba Mate, also a known natural mood lifting stimulant.

Also Cheia Vida contains Green tea another excellent source of many healthy ingredients. Cheia vida alo has anti-fungal properties and has a colon cleansing effect that is excellent.

Cheia Vida actually helps your body accept less fatty deposits from the food you eat while it controls your appetite making it the best weight loss product I've ever seen. In fact I've lost over ten pounds without really trying to. I was using it primarily for the energy boost effect, but found after a week and a half I lost over ten pounds.

This product is real and although it is a MLM company, Alive worldwide also supplies all of its associates with a retail website, with a simple shopping cart style for those not interested in the home business aspect. This way, you can buy Cheia Vida quick and simple without "joining" anything. Many of our distributors have had great success with these retail sites.

Alive Worldwide's MLM distributors are finding this product and company to be very easy to work with and the founder, Scotty Paulson has shown that her really cares about his people and makes them feel that they are being taken care of in a professional way. He does not claim you will get rich with no effort, rather he honestly tells everyone that they will get back what they put into their business. If you are a hard worker you will go far with Alive worldwide! You can learn more here: http://www.squidoo.com/raysgroup


