Title: 
Chicken Recipe

Word Count:
369

Summary:
These days you can go for more than a couple of days without reading an article, watching a television show or see a commercial related to the huge global problem of overweight. It is a fact that more and more people are becoming obese and the main causes are poor exercise habits and the wrong diet.

One of the problems with people’s diets is that it contains a lot of fat (and of the unhealthy kind). If people would try to focus a little more on some low fat foods like chic...


Keywords:
chicken, recipe, recipes, receipes, fat, fat free, overweight


Article Body:
These days you can go for more than a couple of days without reading an article, watching a television show or see a commercial related to the huge global problem of overweight. It is a fact that more and more people are becoming obese and the main causes are poor exercise habits and the wrong diet.

One of the problems with people’s diets is that it contains a lot of fat (and of the unhealthy kind). If people would try to focus a little more on some low fat foods like chicken the problem would at least be reduced somewhat.

For that reason I’ll give you a few of my favorite recipes to try at home and if you like it then you are free to pass them on to friends and family that might need to loose a few pounds. An idea could be to invite them all over for dinner and if they like what you have cooked for them they might ask for the recipe them selves.

I would like to give you the recipe for a Low-Fat Chicken Rice Casserole that I find really tasteful and it is easy to do.

First you heat the oven to 350 degrees F. In a large saucepan you blend flour, salt and pepper. Then you stir in broth and milk. You need to keep stirring constantly while cooking over low heat, until the mixture is smooth and bubbly. 

Then you bring it to boil and you stir for another 1 minute. Finally you stir in the remaining ingredients. 

When finished you pour it into an NON-greased baking dish (10x6x1.5"), or a 1 1/2-quart casserole. Both will work perfectly.

Then you bake it all uncovered for 40 to 45 minutes. Before serving it you can sprinkle with snipped parsley.

The ingredients you need: 1/3 Cup All-Purpose Flour, 1 1/2 tsp Salt, 1/8 tsp Pepper, 1 Cup Nonfat chicken broth, 1 1/2 Cups Skim milk, 1 1/2 Cups Cooked Rice (White or Wild), 2 Cups Chicken breasts without skin (cooked), 4 Ounces Mushrooms and 1/3 Cup Chopped green bell pepper.

This recipe is with a serving size of 4 so if you are inviting more the 3 guests over for chicken, you will need to multiply the ingredients needed so there will be enough for everyone.


