Title: 
Chocolate Covered Coffee Beans: A Fun Snack

Word Count:
416

Summary:
Most people have some form of sweet tooth, and many also like the taste and smell of a fresh cup of coffee.  Though the tastes of sweets and that of coffee are very different, they make a great match, since sugar helps to offset the slightly acidic bitterness of coffee.  One of the best examples of this is the great taste of chocolate covered coffee beans.  If you&#8217;re a coffee lover, a chocolate lover, or both, chocolate covered coffee beans make a great snack.

A Marr...


Keywords:
chocolate covered coffee beans, coffee


Article Body:
Most people have some form of sweet tooth, and many also like the taste and smell of a fresh cup of coffee.  Though the tastes of sweets and that of coffee are very different, they make a great match, since sugar helps to offset the slightly acidic bitterness of coffee.  One of the best examples of this is the great taste of chocolate covered coffee beans.  If you&#8217;re a coffee lover, a chocolate lover, or both, chocolate covered coffee beans make a great snack.

A Marriage of Flavors

Chocolate and coffee work well together, so much that some chocolates in Europe will have recommended servings that include serving with coffee, particularly dark chocolates.  However, any kind of chocolate can make great chocolate covered coffee beans, even white chocolate.  This sweet, crunchy snack gives you the mellow flavor of one of the favorite candies in the world with the tang and aroma of coffee.  And even better, this is a snack with kick, since you&#8217;ll get a little caffeine rush from eating chocolate covered coffee beans.

Making Your Own

Some people are serious enough about their coffee to buy their own beans and grind them.  If you&#8217;re serious about your coffee, then you can be just as serious about your chocolate covered coffee beans.  By purchasing your own beans and chocolate, you&#8217;re guaranteed a quality product.  

Making this great snack food is a snap; all you need is a pot to carefully melt the chocolate in, and some sort of device, whether a fork or a strainer, to remove the beans.  Once the chocolate is melted, simply place the beans in the pot to coat, and then remove with the fork.  Set on wax paper to harden overnight, and you&#8217;ll have a great snack that you made from scratch.

Buying Beans

The selection of coffee beans can be important in the making of chocolate covered coffee beans.  You want to buy a medium or dark roast, since a light roast will simply be too acidic for chocolate covered coffee beans.  This is one reason why chocolate covered espresso beans are a popular sell, since it&#8217;s a very dark roast.  

You can bring out interesting flavor combinations with your chocolate covered coffee beans by purchasing flavored beans.  Usually considered inferior by aficionados for creating a brew, they can add an extra kick to chocolate covered coffee beans.  Give making this sweet, crunchy, snack a try and you&#8217;re sure to get hooked!


