Title: 
Chocolate Fondue Is A Party Favorite

Word Count:
318

Summary:
Chocolate fondue that was a rage in the 1970's is on a role again. Back then there was probably not even a single party that didn't have them - actually it was unthinkable to have a party without them. Chocolate is something that appeals to both young and old the world over, and chocolate fondue are a favorite among all.

With time everything changes and chocolate fondue is no exception? At today's parties, chocolate fondue is served and presented differently and there are ...


Keywords:
Chocolate Fondue


Article Body:
Chocolate fondue that was a rage in the 1970's is on a role again. Back then there was probably not even a single party that didn't have them - actually it was unthinkable to have a party without them. Chocolate is something that appeals to both young and old the world over, and chocolate fondue are a favorite among all.

With time everything changes and chocolate fondue is no exception? At today's parties, chocolate fondue is served and presented differently and there are various ways in which it is done. White chocolate is getting more attention, and the white chocolate fondue is becoming more popular at get togethers and parties.

The Popularity Of White Chocolate Fondue

Having a party and wish to impress all who attend? Need something that is simple to prepare with a sophisticated flare? Then what you need is white chocolate fondue. You will need… twenty four ounces of white chocolate, 1 cup of heavy whipping cream and two ounces of cherry liqueur. Melt it all in a double boiler or fondue pot, add fruit such as fresh strawberries or pineapple for dipping. My family loves to dip marshmallows.

You can also spice up your chocolate for variety with a fruit or a mint flavor. These are wonderful for dipping shortbread cookies, pretzels, and a number of other finger foods along with your favorite fruit. Try bananas, apples and orange sections too. Use your imagination, anything goes.

How To Display Chocolate Fondue At A Party

Many people serve the chocolate in fondue pots. But another idea that is really catching on is a fondue fountain - this is always impressive. The chocolate fountain will become the focal point of the event as your guests gather around to dip.

The chocolate fondue fountain doesn't have to be limited to special parties, treat your family on a rainy night. Relax, talk, play a board game and enjoy your time together.


