Title: 
Chocolate's Versatility

Word Count:
1056

Summary:
It would be so nice to be able to begin this article with the words, “Who doesn’t love chocolate?” Unfortunately, there are some poor souls out there who are either allergic to this yummy delight or who, for some unknown reason, think that they do not like the taste of it. Oh, well, that just leaves more for the rest of us.

Chocolate in any form really is an appropriate gift for any occasion. You can give it to someone for nearly any holiday and in the case of some holiday...


Keywords:
chocolate gift baskets, chocolate gifts


Article Body:
It would be so nice to be able to begin this article with the words, “Who doesn’t love chocolate?” Unfortunately, there are some poor souls out there who are either allergic to this yummy delight or who, for some unknown reason, think that they do not like the taste of it. Oh, well, that just leaves more for the rest of us.

Chocolate in any form really is an appropriate gift for any occasion. You can give it to someone for nearly any holiday and in the case of some holidays like St. Valentine’s Day, Mother’s Day and Easter; they would almost seem empty without some chocolate.

The other fact about giving a gift basket of chocolate goodies is that even though expensive foreign chocolate may be far superior in quality to the selection that is readily available at your local store, it is still a gift that is just as appreciated no matter where the chocolate comes from. So, while the chocolate that is defined as “imported” or “handmade” sounds nice and probably is very nice, don’t let that stop you from creating your own gift basket of local chocolate treats.

If you have your heart set on it and you really want to give chocolates that are imported and unusual, there are many companies that specialize in putting together gift baskets and they can create a chocolate assortment using chocolates from anywhere around the world. It just so happens that chocolate gift baskets are one of the most popular styles of gift baskets because they get such a welcome reception whenever they are given.

The great benefit about giving a gift basket of chocolates as a gift is in its versatility. Whether you are giving a chocolate gift basket to your mother, your sweetie, or to your business associates, chocolate is always an appropriate and appreciated gift. It always seems to express just the right sentiment.

A good chocolate gift basket is one that includes a large variety of chocolate products. Not only a diversity of chocolate candies, but chocolate cookies, cakes, fudge, chocolate covered peanuts or pretzels and even hot cocoa or chocolate flavored coffee. Now, that’s a chocolate gift basket!

You can choose to put these baskets together yourself or you can order one from a local gift basket company or a company online. The average price of a chocolate gift basket that you can have delivered runs from about $50 to $200, depending on its size and the variety of items in the basket. Of course, you can always make the gift yourself and you may be able to purchase a lovely basket and different chocolate items for less that having one specially made and delivered, but you probably won’t be able to include all of the variety that a gift basket company can.

Once you decide on whether you will use a company that specializes in gift baskets and put in an order or if you decide to make one yourself, a chocolate gift basket can be given for absolutely any occasion. For instance, a basket of mugs, hot cocoa mix, cookies and chocolate treats would be perfect as a gift for a family on Christmas Eve. Place all of the items in a Christmas themed decorative basket or dish or even a Santa’s sleigh and add a bow. What a lovely way to say, “Merry Christmas.”

How about the Superbowl? If you are invited to a Superbowl party, don’t come empty-handed. Throw some homemade or store bought chocolate snacks in a football shaped bowl or a football helmet and watch everyone move you out of the way in order to gather around it.

Baskets, chocolate, and Easter naturally go together. Put them together and create a beautiful centerpiece for the holiday table or make one for your office to share as the holiday approaches. There are so many chocolate choices available at this time of year that it will be hard knowing when to stop.

Mother’s Day and Father’s Day are two more occasions when a delectable chocolate gift basket would be appreciated. In order to add some originality, place the chocolate selection in a beautiful crystal bowl or vase for Mom and in a cigar humidor or a toolbox or tacklebox for Dad.

Even Independence Day can be an excellent occasion for giving chocolates. Add little American flags to the candies and present the whole gift in a star shaped container. You can even add streamers or string-pulled confetti poppers to the container in order to help celebrate the fireworks later in the evening. Or, if you know someone who will be camping out this summer, a great gift basket is to make a “S’more themed basket”. Fill a bucket with chocolate bars, graham crackers and marshmallows and let the fun ensue.

Halloween is an easy holiday to celebrate with a chocolate gift basket. There are different varieties of available candy everywhere and you can readily find a basket or a container in the shape of a jack-o-lantern or witch’s cauldron. This is another wonderful creation to make and then set out at work for your co-workers and visiting clients to partake in.

Besides holidays, there are birthdays, anniversaries, housewarming parties, graduations, baby and wedding showers, and “just because I love you” occasions. Add some chocolate covered popcorn with a favorite movie and create a great any occasion gift. Another way to use chocolate in a gift basket is to fill it with chocolate treats all from one area of the country or the world. This is a welcome gift for someone who is from that area to remind them of home.

In addition, a chocolate gift basket is great as a way to help cheer a friend who is down. A small chocolate gift basket is also a perfect gift for all of your children’s teachers and it makes a lovely thank you gift for anyone else, as well.

Next time you are facing an occasion and you need to bring a gift, don’t forget the sweetest gift of all, a gift of chocolate. It may be one of the simplest gift baskets to put together, but it is one of the most appreciated. Just tell everyone that they can begin their diets next week.


