Title: 
City For The Hungry: Mumbai

Word Count:
554

Summary:
These are the sights mouthwatering moments are made of: a handful of spices that make your mouth tingle, a basket of fresh vegetables, a pot of sizzling meat, a bowl of filling rice.  Mumbai, India is one of the great culinary wonderlands of the world.  From fine cuisine to the local fastfood, Mumbai has a dish for everyone - from the man who will eat anything to the gastronome on the prowl for the tasty and the exotic. 

The good news is that thanks to cheap flights from U...


Keywords:
cheap flights from UK to Mumbai, cheap flights UK to Mumbai


Article Body:
These are the sights mouthwatering moments are made of: a handful of spices that make your mouth tingle, a basket of fresh vegetables, a pot of sizzling meat, a bowl of filling rice.  Mumbai, India is one of the great culinary wonderlands of the world.  From fine cuisine to the local fastfood, Mumbai has a dish for everyone - from the man who will eat anything to the gastronome on the prowl for the tasty and the exotic. 

The good news is that thanks to cheap flights from UK to Mumbai, you don't have to spend a small fortune to sample Mumbai's fares. Most airports in the UK, including London Heathrow, Manchester, Cardiff, Teesside, and Newcastle have flights available. Availing of cheap flights from UK to Mumbai isn't a problem. In fact, all you have to do is inquire from your airline of choice whether or not they fly directly, or with connecting flights, to Mumbai.

 The Seventh Costliest City in the World 
India may be a third world country, but that doesn't make Mumbai a cheap destination. In fact, the Economic Times lists Mumbai as the seventh costliest city in the world. Thankfully, the dollar and the pound are princes among currencies. The high costs of almost everything notwithstanding, your dollar can pay for a lot. Still, it pays to cut corners wherever you can. In visiting India's financial capital, one such corner is finding a cheap flight from UK to Mumbai. 

 From Eyes to Stomach, in Minutes 
In Mumbai, eating is not only a necessity, it is an experience. Make the most of your cheap flight from UK to Mumbai by trying sumptuous street dishes. Most city streets near public transport stations are filled with pushcarts. From these pushcarts, you can sample exotic eatables like bhelpuri, a sweet-spicy combination of puffed rice, spices like onions, chili, mint, boiled potatoes, and chutney; pani puri, or puffed flour cakes made from either white flour or semolina, with a choice of filling such as tamarind chutney, onions, tomatoes, peppers, or chili;  vada pav, or fried dumplings sandwiched in slices of leavened wheat bread; and finally, pav bhaji, which are fried vegetables served with leavened wheat bread. These delicacies are prepared on the spot for customers. So, you could not only watch your food being cooked, you could learn how to cook them as well! 

 Dining in Style in Mumbai 
Cheap flights from UK to Mumbai take you from airports to lavishly decorated restaurants. You can't take ten steps in Mumbai and not run into one. Several dining places of note are: 

 Anant Ashram:  This restaurant is a favorite of Mumbai's upper class. It serves authentic Indian dishes.

 Masala Kraft:  Known for artistic as well as creative food presentation, this restaurant serves modern dishes from different regions of India.

 Brittania Restaurant:  Located on Sprott Road, this restaurant is known for serving Parsi dishes, or meals that combine of Indian and Persian influences. It has been in business for more than 80 years.

When you think of Mumbai, you think of a kaleidoscope of ideas: spices, delicacies, people, temple, tradition. There is no doubt the city's soul is as intricate as a richly-woven sari or a bowl of bhelpuri. Thanks to cheap flights from UK to Mumbai, you can get to know the city, one platter at a time.


