Title: 
Cocktail – The Perfect Mixed Drink

Word Count:
319

Summary:
“Cocktail” is a type of mixed drink which is consumed in almost all countries. It is a type of liquor with flavouring agents. It contains fruit juice, sauces, honey, milk, cream or spices, etc. Cocktails had become popular recently. The disadvantage of buying cocktail is that many bar owners mix both alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages with the drink. This is very hazardous to consume.

The olden day’s cocktails were made in combination with gin, whisky or rum and with a ...


Keywords:
cocktail, wines, wine case, shop, store, chocolates


Article Body:
“Cocktail” is a type of mixed drink which is consumed in almost all countries. It is a type of liquor with flavouring agents. It contains fruit juice, sauces, honey, milk, cream or spices, etc. Cocktails had become popular recently. The disadvantage of buying cocktail is that many bar owners mix both alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages with the drink. This is very hazardous to consume.

The olden day’s cocktails were made in combination with gin, whisky or rum and with a small amount of vodka. Many cocktails were made traditionally by mixing it with gin which is called as gimlet or martini. This type of mixed drinks was introduced after 1980’s. The word cocktail was determined by Dr. David Wonderich in October 2005.

A benefit of drinking a sip of cocktail is that it will keep you relieved from head ache. “Cocktail” is liquor composed of sugar, water and bitter agents. It is also called as bittered sling. And it is also supposed to be an electioneering potion, since it keeps the heart stout and bold. A person who swallows one sip of cocktail is ready to swallow anything else.

The quality and quantity of alcohol present in cocktail is very less when compared to the other alcoholic drinks. The cost of cocktails also has a big difference when compared to other drinks. So nowadays bartenders have started preparing cocktails. Cocktails are mixed with different types of other drink such as gin, whisky, milk and cream but it is not mixed with water. The mixed ingredients depend upon the region.

Cocktails are served in special cocktail glass. The cocktail glass is of a shape with a wide, shallow bowl, on a stem above a flat base. The cocktail glasses are designed in such a shape that the temperature should not change. Some websites offering cashback discounts or some type of rewards to save your money on choosing your wines online.


