Title: 
Coffee Press The Original Coffee Maker

Word Count:
441

Summary:
It's been around since the late 1800's but really coming into it's own in the early 1900's, the coffee press is a hot coffee brewing device that at first glance looks very simplistic but brews a cup of coffee like no other. Ask any coffee enthusiast about a coffee press pot and chances are you're in for a chat that will last longer then just a minute or two. It's the ultimate brewer to create a fabulous smelling, aroma rich, wonderful flavored, coffee.

How Does A Coffee Pr...


Keywords:
coffee press, french press, coffee maker, coffee, espresso


Article Body:
It's been around since the late 1800's but really coming into it's own in the early 1900's, the coffee press is a hot coffee brewing device that at first glance looks very simplistic but brews a cup of coffee like no other. Ask any coffee enthusiast about a coffee press pot and chances are you're in for a chat that will last longer then just a minute or two. It's the ultimate brewer to create a fabulous smelling, aroma rich, wonderful flavored, coffee.

How Does A Coffee Press Work?

A coffee press, as mentioned looks like a very simple device, basically like a coffee maker carafe with a rod down the center connected to a round filter. The filter via the rod can be moved from the top to the bottom of the glass carafe, this allows you to separate the coffee grounds from the water.

So how does it actually work? Coffee beans are first ground very coarse, they need to be more coarse then you would use in a drip coffee machine so that when the boiling water is poured over them the water can absorb the flavor, aroma, and acids from the beans. Water is boiled and poured over the grounds with the plunger filter out. The filter is replaced inside the carafe, the rod is pushed downwards into the carafe to separate the grounds form the water, leaving you with a aroma rich pot of coffee.

Pros and Cons of a Coffee Press

Of course any device has it's pros and cons, a coffee press is no different. A die hard coffee fan will surely appreciate the rich flavor textured coffee it produces. Not to mention it doesn't require any paper filters. Of course there is a downside, coffee from a press should be drank almost immediately to really take advantage of the flavor, also there can be some sediment left at the bottom of your cub due to the coarse grounds that are used. Some believe that the sediment that is left can cause your cup to go bitter.


All in all a coffee press is the original way to make a cup of coffee. While things have changed greatly due to technology, it's still a standard for many. Of course an electric machine is faster and easier to use, it doesn't produce the same exquisite taste found from a press. For those that are looking for a time saving option in the morning for their coffee, stick with your auto drip machine, but if you're looking for that all natural wonderfully brewed cup of joe consider a press, even if it's just for the weekends.


