Title: 
Coffee Machines

Word Count:
436

Summary:
Coffee has long been a staple for waking up on sleepy mornings and getting through busy afternoons. Coffee houses are places to meet friends, make new acquaintances, plan futures and talk about the past.

It's no question that coffee is important in our lives. From decaffeinated brews to cap a quiet evening, to rich espressos to finish a meal, to supercharged cappuccinos, there are literally hundreds of coffee choices. Many of the more unique blends require special coffee m...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Coffee has long been a staple for waking up on sleepy mornings and getting through busy afternoons. Coffee houses are places to meet friends, make new acquaintances, plan futures and talk about the past.

It's no question that coffee is important in our lives. From decaffeinated brews to cap a quiet evening, to rich espressos to finish a meal, to supercharged cappuccinos, there are literally hundreds of coffee choices. Many of the more unique blends require special coffee machines to create the perfect brew. Hand-brewing machines and old-fashioned presses have enjoyed a renewed interest by coffee lovers. Many coffee drinkers are now using pod brewers that infuse hot water through coffee pads, while others prefer the old-fashioned drip machines. Cappuccino and espresso machines are also popular choices.

Drip coffee machines, however, are still the most popular because they are easiest to use. With this method, coffee rookies and aficionados alike can easily brew the perfect pot. The key to success in using drip coffee machines is to choose a permanent filter, such as gold and nylon models. With a permanent filter, the flavor molecules from the coffee grinds can pass freely through to the water. Another important advantage is that permanent filters leave no unwanted flavours. Cleaning a permanent filter after every use is required, but the delicious results are well worth the effort.

The problem with using paper filters in coffee machines is that they leave an unpleasant aftertaste in the coffee. Additionally, paper filters can absorb some of the special flavour molecules and aromatic oils from the coffee beans, essentially losing that rich aroma and tantalizing taste. If you must use paper filters, try rinsing them with hot water first, to wash away some of the aftertaste.

The best coffee brewed in drip coffee machines comes from a medium to fine grind. Measure the coffee carefully according to your coffee bean package or machine manufacturer's suggestions, and use water that is between 195 degrees and 205 degrees. This range of temperatures ensures the best extraction from your ground coffee...

Expert coffee makers will tell you that one of the tricks to brewing a great cup is to remove the filter and grounds before the last few drops of water have filtered through. In doing so, your java will be less likely to taste bitter or over-extracted. When the coffee has finished brewing, stir the pot before serving.

Coffee lovers agree that morning, noon or as a nightcap, anytime is the best time to enjoy a great brew.  Using good quality ground coffee beans in the right coffee machines can help to ensure success in every pot.


