Title: 
Coffee Pot Extravaganza!

Word Count:
517

Summary:
A coffee pot is a coffee pot, right? Wrong! Do you know that there are hundreds of different kinds of coffee pots, made out of a multitude of materials? There are antique coffee pots and glass coffee pots, as well as cleaning coffee pots and vacuum and glass coffee pots... the list goes on and on. There are just as many brand names for coffee pots and makers as there are materials to make them with. Some of the biggest names in coffee are Braun, Cuisinart and Krups, not to me...


Keywords:
coffee, coffee pot


Article Body:
A coffee pot is a coffee pot, right? Wrong! Do you know that there are hundreds of different kinds of coffee pots, made out of a multitude of materials? There are antique coffee pots and glass coffee pots, as well as cleaning coffee pots and vacuum and glass coffee pots... the list goes on and on. There are just as many brand names for coffee pots and makers as there are materials to make them with. Some of the biggest names in coffee are Braun, Cuisinart and Krups, not to mention Bunn and Sunbeam and dozens more.

There are so many different kinds of coffee pots it would be impossible to name them all. Some drip, some brew and some produce coffee like you've never tasted before. Ever use a coffee air pot or a Turkish coffee pot? The number of different kinds of coffee you can make in any style of coffee pot is as varied as the types. Cowboy coffee, gourmet coffee, Turkish coffee, no matter where you are in the world, you can bet that there's coffee there. 

A coffee pot can make strong coffee or smooth coffee, depending on the materials the coffee is made of. Some special coffee pots made out of clay enhance the taste of coffee with flavors that can't be found anywhere else in the world. No one knows when the first coffee was brewed in a coffee pot, but today, the coffee industry is booming, and will continue to grow. Like food, most people can't live without their coffee. 

The timed coffee pot gets a lot of people up and going in the morning, and for some, a good stiff cup of coffee in the middle of the day helps them get through many a hectic afternoon.

A coffee pot doesn't have to be expensive to brew good coffee, though there are coffee pots and machines that can cost hundreds of dollars. An average coffee pot can be found at your local Wal-Mart for fewer than fifteen dollars. The coffee industry rakes in billions of dollars a year with roasted and gourmet coffees that can be made and enjoyed using a moderately priced coffee pot. A coffee pot can be small enough to brew only one or two cups at a time while others can brew up to twenty. But no matter what kind of coffee pot you buy, you have to keep it clean in order to produce that fresh taste that you've come to savor every morning. 

Most coffee pots in the United States are made of glass, which allows them to be easily cleaned. Make sure to run hot water through the water reservoir occasionally however, to keep parts clean and free of buildup.

Some coffee pots made of materials like Pyrex or stainless steel are easy to keep clean while others require a little more care, like an antique coffee pot of a coffee pot made of clay or stone. No matter which kind you buy, one thing is guaranteed: you'll enjoy your coffee, no matter what kind of coffee pot it's brewed in.


