Title: 
Coffee: The Story

Word Count:
521

Summary:
The growing and the drinking of coffee spread around the world rapidly. Coffee drinkers know how to drink a cup of coffee but how many of those know the details of coffee, sources or the formulations of each cup. These are the basic information about coffee.

History

In Europe, the coffee was first imported to Italy. The trading between Venice merchants and the other country merchants such as North African, Egyptian and Eastern. After the coffee was introduced to the Ven...


Keywords:
coffee,coffee drinkers,coffea,arabica,robusta


Article Body:
The growing and the drinking of coffee spread around the world rapidly. Coffee drinkers know how to drink a cup of coffee but how many of those know the details of coffee, sources or the formulations of each cup. These are the basic information about coffee.

History

In Europe, the coffee was first imported to Italy. The trading between Venice merchants and the other country merchants such as North African, Egyptian and Eastern. After the coffee was introduced to the Venetian, the coffee was widely used in Venice and the other countries in Europe. The coffee house was first opened in Italy in 1645.

In England, the coffee was available in the beginning of 16th century. The coffeehouse was first opened in St. Micheal’s Alley in Cornhill. In 1675, there were a lot of the coffeehouses spread widely around England. There were about 3,000 or more coffeehouses located.

In Asia, it was started at Malabar in India and spread to Indonesia. Now Indonesia is the 4th largest exporter in the world.

Coffee strains

The science name of coffee is ‘Coffea’. There are more than 6000 strains of coffees in the world but only 2 strains of coffees that used in the marketing. These are Arabica and Robusta.

Arabica has 44 chromosomes. The products of each garden are about 240 to 480 kilograms. The Arabica will have flowers after rainy season and the duration of Arabica to produce the fruits is about 6 to 9 months. The character of Arabica products is flat shape fruits with acidity taste. Each fruit has caffeine from 0.8 to 1.4 percentages. The suitable temperature for plant the Arabica is 15 to 25 Celsius.

Robusta has fewer chromosomes than Arabica, it has only 22 chromosomes. The fruits of Robusta are egg-shapes. The Robusta will have flowers in every season and take time from 8 to 11 months to produce the fruits. The products of each garden are about 360 to 480 kilograms. And contain caffeine inside the fruits about 1.7 to 4.0 percentages.

Sources of Coffee

Many countries produce the nice quality of coffees to the world markets. Coffee drinkers ought to have a special taste of coffees from the popular sources such as Columbia, Brazil, Costa Rica, Mexico, Guatemala or Jamaica.

Columbia is a source of Arabica strain. The temperature and soil in Columbia can produce high quality of coffees. The renowned coffees are Medillin, Bogota and Suremo.

Brazil has the coffee trees more than 4000 millions and it is the biggest source of coffee in the world. The popular brand of coffee from Brazil is Brazilian Sandos.

Costa Rica is the one of high quality source of Arabica. If you go to visit Costa Rica, try to ask for the coffees named Tarrazu and Tres Rios.

Guatemala, the Atitlan mountain of Guatemala is the source of Arabica. The renowned coffees are Antigua and Coban.

Mexico, the prominent of coffee from Mexico is the organic coffees. The good taste of coffee in Mexico is Veracruz.

Jamaica, the renowned coffee from Jamaica is Blue Mountain. The Blue Mountain is the best strain of Arabica and about 90 percentages of Blue Mountain export to Japan. The brands of Blue Mountain in Japan are High Mountain Supreme and Prime Washed Lamaican.


