Title: 
Columbian Coffee Recipes

Word Count:
484

Summary:
So what is Columbian coffee really all about? The following guide includes some delicious recipes about Columbian coffee--information you can use now! 

Coffee is on of Americas favorite beverages and becomes more popular as the years go by. So naturally you would be able to find different methods of preparing Columbian coffee. You can make all sorts of tasty treats with this aromatic drink.
Below are some of the most popular recipes that are highly used today in some of t...


Keywords:
columbian coffee, coffee, coffee recipes, coffee beans, roasted coffee, fresh coffee


Article Body:
So what is Columbian coffee really all about? The following guide includes some delicious recipes about Columbian coffee--information you can use now! 

Coffee is on of Americas favorite beverages and becomes more popular as the years go by. So naturally you would be able to find different methods of preparing Columbian coffee. You can make all sorts of tasty treats with this aromatic drink.
Below are some of the most popular recipes that are highly used today in some of the most popular coffee houses across the world. Now, you can save money by making these Columbian coffee recipes come to life in your very own kitchen. Friends and family alike will be amazed at just how delicious your coffee treats taste.

100% Iced Columbian Coffee

Double strength Columbian coffee
Cracked Ice
4 tablespoons of sugar

Brew double strength Columbian coffee by simply adding 8 tablespoons of ground coffee to every 12 ounces of water.
Fill your electric blender half way with your chilled Columbian coffee and add the cracked ice.
Add the 4 tablespoons of sugar or sweetener and blend until you have a thick foamy coffee treat. 
This recipe will give you approximately 4 servings, if you need more than that simply double or triple the recipe to suit your needs. This will became a fast favorite for the Columbian coffee lovers in your life.

Columbian Coffee Mousse

½ a cup of brewed 100% Columbian coffee
1 ¾ cups of milk
1 cup of heavy cream
1 package of unflavored gelatin
3 eggs; separated
¾ cup of brown sugar
¼ teaspoon almond extract
1/8 teaspoon vanilla extract
Coffee concentrates (1 cup ground to every 8 ounces of cold water)

Sprinkle the gelatin over a cup of cold water and let it soften while preparing the custard.
Heat milk to its boiling point in a saucepan. Beat egg yolks using a wire whisk or electric mixer. Pour the hot milk over beaten egg yolks slowly, beating constantly with wire whisk. Return mixture to saucepan, add brown sugar, and cook over low heat, stirring constantly, until custard has thickened slightly, approximately 10 minutes. Remove from heat, and add gelatin to the hot custard and stir until dissolved. Add coffee concentrate, vanilla and almond extracts.

3. Transfer mixture to a bowl and refrigerate. Keep refrigerated and stir every five minutes until custard has thickened to the consistency of unbeaten egg whites, approximately 25-45 minutes. 
4. Meanwhile, whip the cream until it softens and refrigerate. 
5. Beat egg whites until they are stiff but not dry. Fold coffee custard base into egg whites. Gently fold in whipped cream. Pour mixture into 8 individual custard cups and refrigerate for at least 4 hours until set. 
When you have finished, you will have created a delicious surprise for all to enjoy. 

These recipes are by no means exhaustive but just a few of some of the worlds most popular Columbian coffee recipes. With just a little creativity and imagination you can take these recipes on Columbian coffee and develop many more! Enjoy.


