Title: 
Cool Down With These Refreshing Cucumber Salad Recipes

Word Count:
426

Summary:
Cucumber salad is particularly ideal for those long, hot afternoons. Very ideal for the dry summer seasons. While summer is still far away for most countries, it would be wise to stock up on these great cucumber recipes that are guaranteed to cool you down.

BALINESE CUCUMBER SALAD RECIPE

Ingredients:

3 tablespoons peanuts, dry roasted, coarsely chopped
1 cucumber, European
OR
1 large regular cucumber
1/4 sweet onion, large, such as Vidalia
3 tablespoons rice vin...


Keywords:
salads recipes,recipes tips,salad making,salad making tips


Article Body:
Cucumber salad is particularly ideal for those long, hot afternoons. Very ideal for the dry summer seasons. While summer is still far away for most countries, it would be wise to stock up on these great cucumber recipes that are guaranteed to cool you down.

BALINESE CUCUMBER SALAD RECIPE

Ingredients:

3 tablespoons peanuts, dry roasted, coarsely chopped
1 cucumber, European
OR
1 large regular cucumber
1/4 sweet onion, large, such as Vidalia
3 tablespoons rice vinegar
1 1/2 tablespoon sugar, or more to taste
1/2 teaspoon salt, or more to taste

Directions:

Set a dry skillet over medium heat. Add the peanuts and heat until lightly browned, about 2 minutes, shaking the pan occasionally. Transfer to a plate to cool.

Peel and seed the cucumber. Cut the cucumber crosswise into 3-inch sections, then lengthwise into spaghetti-thin strips. Cut the onion into as thin crosswise slices as possible.

Combine the vinegar, sugar, and salt in a serving bowl and whisk until the sugar and salt are dissolved. Taste for seasoning, adding sugar or salt as necessary; the dressing should be both tart and sweet. Stir in the cucumber and onion. Sprinkle the salad with the peanuts and serve.

FRESH CUCUMBER SALAD RECIPE

Ingredients:

6 cups fresh cucumbers
1 cup sweet pepper, sliced thin
2 onions sliced into rings
1 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon celery seed
2 cups sugar
1 cup white vinegar

Directions:

Mix well. Put in refrigerator, let stand overnight.

CUCUMBER SALAD WITH SPICY WASABI DRESSING

Ingredients:

1 1/2 teaspoon dry wasabi powder (or to taste)
1/2 teaspoon warm water
2 cucumbers
2 tablespoons rice wine vinegar
2 teaspoons sugar
1 teaspoon sesame oil
salt and freshly ground black pepper
1 green onion - thinly sliced
1 tablespoon black sesame seeds or toasted white sesame seeds

Directions:

Mix the wasabi with warm water in the bottom of a mixing bowl and let it stand for 5 minutes.

Peel the cucumbers, cut each one in half lengthwise, and use a melon baller or spoon to scoop out the seeds.

Cut the cucumbers widthwise into 1/4-inch crescents.

Add the vinegar and sugar to the wasabi and whisk until smooth. Whisk in the sesame oil, salt, and pepper.

Just before serving, add the cucumbers, green onion, and sesame seeds to the dressing and mix well.

CUCUMBER AND GREEN SEAWEED SALAD RECIPE

Ingredients:
2 cucumbers
2 radishes
Salt as needed
1 3/8 ounce green seaweed

Dressing:

3 tablespoons vinegar
1 teaspoon soy sauce
1 tablespoon sugar
2 teaspoons kelp-flavoured fish stock

Directions:

Slice cucumbers and radishes into thin rounds; salt and leave until dewatered. Wash with water and squeeze out brine.

Pour boiling water over green seaweed and cut into bite-size pieces.

Thoroughly mix dressing ingredients and add to cucumbers and seaweed just before serving.


