Title: 
Cottage Pie Recipe: English Cottage Pie

Word Count:
583

Summary:
You don’t have to be English to enjoy this traditional cottage pie, but if you are English then you’ll probably keep this recipe among your favorites.

1 pound lean ground beef
1 onion, diced
3 carrots, diced
2 tablespoons all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon Italian seasoning
2 tablespoons fresh parsley, chopped
1 1/2 cups beef broth
1 tablespoon tomato paste
Salt and pepper to taste
4 potatoes, peeled and diced
1/4 cup butter, softened
1 c...


Keywords:
recipe, recipes


Article Body:
You don’t have to be English to enjoy this traditional cottage pie, but if you are English then you’ll probably keep this recipe among your favorites.

1 pound lean ground beef
1 onion, diced
3 carrots, diced
2 tablespoons all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon Italian seasoning
2 tablespoons fresh parsley, chopped
1 1/2 cups beef broth
1 tablespoon tomato paste
Salt and pepper to taste
4 potatoes, peeled and diced
1/4 cup butter, softened
1 cup milk
1/4 pound cheddar cheese, shredded

Directions

Preheat oven to 400 degrees.

Make Meat Filling: In a large skillet, crumble the ground beef and sauté over medium heat for 1 minute. Add in the onion and carrots; continue to sauté until meat is brown (about 5 minutes). Stir in the flour, cinnamon, Italian seasoning and parsley.

In a small bowl, combine the beef broth and tomato paste; mix well. Add to beef mixture. Add salt and pepper to taste. Lower the heat to simmer and cook for 15 minutes, stirring occasionally. Cook until most of the liquid has been absorbed. Spoon beef mixture into a 9-inch pie plate.

Make Potato Topping: Put potatoes into a medium sauce pan and cover with water. Bring to a boil over high heat. Boil for 15 minutes, or until potatoes are tender; drain.

Mash the potatoes until smooth. Add butter and milk. Add salt and pepper to taste. Spread potatoes over beef filling. Sprinkle cheese on top.

Bake for 25 minutes, or until top is brown and cheese is bubbly.


=> Cottage Pie Recipe: Moussaka Cottage Pie

A great cottage pie recipe featuring flavorable spices like garlic, cinnamon and cloves. Raisins make a delicious addition as well.

4 tablespoons olive oil, divided
2 medium onions, diced
3 large cloves garlic, minced
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon ground cloves
2 pounds lean ground beef or turkey
2 cups canned crushed tomatoes
1/3 cup dark or golden raisins
1 pound eggplant, cut into 1/4-inch slices
1 (24 oz.) package refrigerated mashed potatoes, warmed
1 large egg, beaten

Directions

In a 12-inch oven proof skillet, heat 2 tablespoons of oil over medium high heat. Add onions and sauté until tender (about 5 minutes). Add garlic, cinnamon and cloves; continue cooking for 1 minute. 

Add meat, stirring occasionally to break it up; cook for 5 minutes. Stir in tomatoes and raisins. Reduce heat and simmer for 10 minutes.

Arrange the eggplant slices on a lipped cookie sheet. Brush both sides of eggplant with remaining oil, and season with salt and pepper. Broil eggplant on the upper oven rack, turning once with kitchen tongs, until golden brown (about 5 minutes per side).

Warm up mashed potatoes according to package directions.

Reduce oven heat to 400 degrees. Lay eggplant in a single layer over the meat mixture. Whisk the egg into the mashed potatoes; spread over eggplant. Bake on lower oven rack for 20 minutes, or until sauce is bubbly.


=> Cottage Pie Recipe: Creamed Cottage Cheese Pie

If you’ve never tried cottage cheese in a pie, you’ll be delighted with this creamy cheese flavored custard pie. It’s something a little different and definitely worth the effort.

1 (9-inch) pie shell
1 1/2 cups cottage cheese, creamed
4 tablespoons melted butter
1/2 cup white sugar
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 tablespoon all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon lemon zest
2 eggs
1/2 cup raisins
1/2 cup chopped walnuts (optional)
1/4 cup milk

Directions

Preheat oven to 400 degrees.

Separate the eggs.

Press the cottage cheese through a sieve 2 times.

In a bowl, combine the cottage cheese, butter, sugar, salt, flour, lemon zest, unbeaten egg yolks, raisins, walnuts and milk. Stir well.

In another bowl, beat the egg whites until stiff peaks form. Fold egg whites into cheese mixture. Bake for 30 minutes, or until brown and firm.


