Title: 
Cuisine Inspired By The Culture Of Mexico

Word Count:
501

Summary:
Love Mexican foods? You’re not alone. Mexico-inspired fare has been enjoyed by people around the globe for centuries. But if you’ve worried that you’re just not a good-enough cook to put together a dish reminiscent of warm, tropical Mexico, fear not. Below are some quick dishes that anyone can put together. Your guests (or family feasters) will definitely say, “Ole!” when they taste these tidbits.

Quick Enchiladas

What shouts “Mexico” more than a good enchilada? You can...


Keywords:
mexico,holiday,resort,travel,vacation,money,hotels,acccomodation,flights,entertainment


Article Body:
Love Mexican foods? You’re not alone. Mexico-inspired fare has been enjoyed by people around the globe for centuries. But if you’ve worried that you’re just not a good-enough cook to put together a dish reminiscent of warm, tropical Mexico, fear not. Below are some quick dishes that anyone can put together. Your guests (or family feasters) will definitely say, “Ole!” when they taste these tidbits.

Quick Enchiladas

What shouts “Mexico” more than a good enchilada? You can make some very quickly with this fast recipe. Though it’s not exactly what you’d find in Mexico City, it’ll sate the appetites of your ninos and ninas.

Ingredients: broiled or grilled chicken (you can even get this pre-made and pre-cooked; all you have to do is warm it up!); shredded lettuce; diced tomatoes; diced onions; low fat sour cream; low fat Monterey jack cheese; sliced black olives; sliced green olives; salsa (mild, medium, or spicy); and numerous 10” or 12” flour burritos.

Directions: Assemble your burritos by laying down a flour burrito, spreading the sour cream in the middle of it, then layering all the other items except for the cheese and salsa. Wrap it up and put it on a baking sheet. Continue making enchiladas until all burritos have been used. Then, sprinkle salsa and cheese on top of the enchiladas. Bake in a 350 degree oven for about 10 minutes to melt the cheese and warm them up. Enjoy!

Mexico-inspired bean dip

This bean dip is quick to assemble and tastes amazing. Serve it warm and watch it disappear.

Ingredients: one can of low fat refried beans; one small container of low fat sour cream; one 8 ounce package of Monterey jack cheese; one small jar of sliced black olives; one jar of salsa (your favorite); and low fat baked tortilla chips.

Directions: In a casserole dish, layer the items as follows: beans, half the container of cheese, both jars of olives, sour cream, rest of cheese, and salsa. Then, warm up the casserole for about 15 minutes (or until the cheese is melted) in a 350 degree oven. Serve with chips.

Homemade Tortilla Chips

Ever gotten fed up with your tasteless tortilla chips? Try these homemade versions on for size! You won’t have to travel to Mexico – you can get them in your own kitchen. And the folks who get to enjoy them will be happy to call you a talented senora, senora, or senorita.

Ingredients – one package of 12” flour burritos; olive oil; Mexico spices (often, major spice makers will offer a blend of Mexico-inspired flavors); low fat sour cream; low fat (or homemade) guacamole; and salsa (your choice).

Directions: Using a pizza cutter, slice the burritos into quarters (thus, there will be four small “triangles” for each 12” burrito). Lay them out on a baking sheet (make sure they don’t overlap). Brush each triangle with olive oil, then lightly sprinkle with Mexico-inspired spices. Bake at 350 degrees for about 12-15 minutes until just browned. Serve warm with salsa, sour cream, and guacamole.


