Title: 
Deciding Beans With Barista

Word Count:
751

Summary:
A cupper is also a person that is going to judge coffee or be a professional taster.  The company buyers share the barista’s goal of seeking out the beans that will make such a great drink.  The barista will be the one that stands in the front line of the last consumer each day and will get the actual feedback on the greatness or the actual loss of the efforts.

Do you want to know what a barista thinks about a bean and the product that it makes?  I do.

About seventy dif...


Keywords:
cappuccino machines, makers, coffee


Article Body:
A cupper is also a person that is going to judge coffee or be a professional taster.  The company buyers share the barista’s goal of seeking out the beans that will make such a great drink.  The barista will be the one that stands in the front line of the last consumer each day and will get the actual feedback on the greatness or the actual loss of the efforts.

Do you want to know what a barista thinks about a bean and the product that it makes?  I do.

About seventy different countries now grow coffee from the beans that are taken from Africa to the Middle East, out of South American to the Caribbean and clean over to Hawaii.  It is all going to be in a distance of about 25 degrees of the equator south and north.

It is no surprise that the differences in the climate, altitude, equipment and so many other differences are going to make the beans range in variety from different countries.  Even those with different places of growth will have different tasting items.

Coffee plants will actually come in two different types of categories.  This will be arabica and robusta.  Arabica is going to have less caffeine from the robust but it is used for the finer coffees. The beans are more flavorful and will have much more great smell than ever.

Coffee is going to grow better in the higher altitudes.  This will mean that the Milds from the arabica beans from the plants that are grown at 3000 feet or higher will be chosen the most.  Brazil is different from arabica beans that are grown in Brazil however, they are at a lower altitude.  

There will be different opinions from consumer to consumer to if they want to roast their own or if they do not.  If the beans are not roasted, they will be green, soft and have a vegetable odor to them.  This is going to be normal.  

Anyone that is looking for the roasted, they will have plenty to pick from.  There is going to be a light or cinnamon that is named for the color of spice and is not related to the flavor.  These are going to be acidic and have a very high level of caffeine in them.

American roast or the medium is going to be a little darker and very popular since it is the one that is used by all the big coffee vendors all over the world.  They are going to include Folgers and Yoban.  The quality is not going to meet Barista’s standards by any means.

The Dark or otherwise known as the City roast is usually what is found in many specialty shops. This is where the process has lowered the caffeine and the acid in the taste of it. The result is going to be more pleasing and have a sweeter taste to each cup of coffee.  This is going to be used for the normal cup of espresso as well.

The next type is the French roast.  It is named because the French prefer their coffee to have more body and taste.  The beans are going to look dark brown and have an oily base to them.  You should look carefully at them and take in the smell so that you are not confusing these beans with the ones that have been burnt. You can even use these in your cappuccino machines.

The darkest of the coffees is the Italian roast type of coffee, often used by many people and businesses in special espressos.  The color and aroma is known for one tasty cup of brew.

As you go down the scale of color, the cups are going to be made from the beans that have a less acid and are sweeter. This is what comes from carmelization or the browning and thickening like syrup. This will occur of the sugars that happen due to the roasting process.  Along with this, some of the caffeine, which is bitter, will seem to burn up and will produce a smoother cup of coffee.

When you are out shopping for coffee beans, you should think about the barista who has to do nothing but taste coffee all day.  They will have to take in the wonderful aromas of coffee all day long and that person is really going to know what they are talking about. Think about this the next time you are choosing what to use in your makers.


