Title: 
Decorative Tapestries For Country Style Theme Home Décor

Word Count:
499

Summary:
Whatever your budget may be you could use home décor in country style to spruce up your home making it more vibrant. Small changes like stenciling, color coordinating your bed linen with the wall art can be a cheap way of lending a country ambience to your house. Other things you could change are, like lighting, flooring, accessories, wall coverings, furniture, and even window treatments depending on your budget.

Note, that your floor should match your overall design style...


Keywords:
tapestries, tapestry wall hangings, wall decor, home decor


Article Body:
Whatever your budget may be you could use home décor in country style to spruce up your home making it more vibrant. Small changes like stenciling, color coordinating your bed linen with the wall art can be a cheap way of lending a country ambience to your house. Other things you could change are, like lighting, flooring, accessories, wall coverings, furniture, and even window treatments depending on your budget.

Note, that your floor should match your overall design style and colors. Though, if you can’t afford new floors, you may give your present floor a different look by using earthly colored rugs all around. For those of you lucky enough to meet the expense of new floors try hardwood floors while softening them with braided rugs.

Another distinct look you could consider for your country style home décor ambience is wallpapering or painting the walls. In such themes the colors are vital - try and infuse reds, blues and greens either with your accessories or on the walls. Use paint with bordered wallpaper on the walls; you could try out matching wallpaper with a border set. Too much of fanciness or spending a lot of money isn’t necessary, a nice color on the walls would be enough to work wonders. Those of you, who are apprehensive of painting your walls, should stick to a neutral shade and work with the color on items like curtains, pillows and rugs.

Though country furniture is usually comfortable you need to watch out for your upholstery pattern. A popular country theme is Plaid. Those who prefer more subtlety can do up the upholstery in solid colors like blue, red, or even tan while sprucing it up with patterned or plaid pillows. To bring in a feel of the country style design, use furniture made of pine with a painted finish or a plain stain.

The way your windows look is important to your country style design home décor. Plenty of window treatments are available which can enhance this design, especially if you match the fabrics to your window designs, you should however avoid contemporary style motifs. Match your drapes or curtains to the fabric of your furniture, try using sheers plain or with a valance. Plain wooden blinds also go well with the country style.

An often-ignored area while redecorating the room is your wall space. The ugliest of walls can also be enhanced with art pieces or beautiful paintings. Try putting folk art work, stencils or even hand painted murals on the walls to enhance the beauty of your country designed home.

Trying out a fabulous country look in your home can be as simple as shopping for new decorative pieces or as involving as redoing the whole house. Moreover, paying heed to intricate details and making sure that you match your furniture with your accessories will allow you to achieve a beautiful new country style home décor theme which will be in accordance with your taste.


