Title: 
Dehydrated Potato: What You Don’t Know Can Actually Harm You

Word Count:
466

Summary:
Dehydrated potatoes are actually the same as instant potatoes, and this latter term is probably more familiar to you. If you are like thousands of other Americans, you buy dehydrated potatoes on a regular basis and frequently use them in your cooking.

Think about how many times you have gone to the local grocery store to buy dehydrated potatoes. Once a week? Twice a month? In those times that you have picked up a pack that says "Instant Potatoes," have you ever checked the...


Keywords:
Dehydrated Food Recipe, Dehydrated Fruit, Dehydrated Mushroom


Article Body:
Dehydrated potatoes are actually the same as instant potatoes, and this latter term is probably more familiar to you. If you are like thousands of other Americans, you buy dehydrated potatoes on a regular basis and frequently use them in your cooking.

Think about how many times you have gone to the local grocery store to buy dehydrated potatoes. Once a week? Twice a month? In those times that you have picked up a pack that says "Instant Potatoes," have you ever checked the package for the list of ingredients contained in the pack? The next time you go out to buy your favorite brand of dehydrated potatoes, you should try taking a look at the list of ingredients. You might be in for a shock.

Actually, we have done that to one of the cheaper brands of dehydrated products – check out its ingredients, that is. We went to our local Aldi's and grabbed a box of "Great Value Instant Potatoes." You would expect the package to contain potatoes, and nothing else right? After all, it's just instant potatoes, so what else should be in there?

Here is a list of the ingredients that are actually included in the pack of dehydrated potatoes:

- potato (you would really be shocked if this was not included)
- monocerides (these are fats)
- diglycerides (another kind of fats)
- sodium acid pyrophosphate (this is actually a chemical used in electroplating)
- sodium metabisulfate (this chemical is used with antioxidants)
- citric acid (a weak acid used for flavoring)
- BHT or butylated hydroxytoluene (a fat and oil antioxidant that has been quite controversial in the food-processing industry)

Out of all these listed ingredients, the only one that actually has business being in a pack of dehydrated potatoes is the potato itself. So what are all the other stuff doing in there? Just seeing the amount of chemicals involved in making dehydrated potatoes will make you want to think twice about buying them again.

You do have the option of making your own dehydrated potatoes. You can be sure that there are no harmful chemicals added, and you can even have a good time making them. The process is fairly simple, and you can turn it into a fun activity for the whole family, especially if you have kids around. For more info see http://www.dehydratedfoodguide.com/Articles/Dehydrated_Mushroom.php on Dehydrated Mushroom.

When making dehydrated potatoes at home, just follow these simple steps:

1. Cut your potatoes into thin slices.
2. Place them in a warm oven.
3. Keep turning them until they become crispy and dry.
4. Mash them into powder and store them in airtight containers.

You can ask your kids to help you in this last part. Just make sure that everything is orderly so you won't have to clean up too much afterwards.


