Title: 
Delight Your Senses With These Crab Salad Recipes

Word Count:
452

Summary:
Unrivaled in sweetness by any other of its lot, the crab is has shown its versatility as an ingredient. It ads an interesting twist to any dish served with a shred or two of this amazing seafood.

As a part of salad, the Crab gives an interesting texture. It does not matter whether it be imitation or authentic crab meat, the ways on how to prepare this dish is just infinite. Below are some salad recipes that are guaranteed to bring your dishes to life.

FRESH CRAB SALAD R...


Keywords:
salads,recipes,recipes tips,crab recipes,crab salads,salads making,salads making tips


Article Body:
Unrivaled in sweetness by any other of its lot, the crab is has shown its versatility as an ingredient. It ads an interesting twist to any dish served with a shred or two of this amazing seafood.

As a part of salad, the Crab gives an interesting texture. It does not matter whether it be imitation or authentic crab meat, the ways on how to prepare this dish is just infinite. Below are some salad recipes that are guaranteed to bring your dishes to life.

FRESH CRAB SALAD RECIPE

1 lb Fresh crabmeat; flaked
1/2 c Minced celery
1 ts Grated onion
1 tb Minced pimento
1/4 ts Salt
2 tb Lemon juice
Mayonnaise to taste
Lettuce
2 tb Minced parsley
1/2 Cucumber; peeled and thinly sliced

Combine crab, celery, onion, and pimento in a bowl. Sprinkle with salt and lemon juice; toss to mix. Add just enough mayonnaise to moisten; mix well. Spoon onto bed of lettuce; sprinkle with parsley. Garnish with thin slices of cucumber.

ANTIPASTO CRAB SALAD RECIPE

Ingredients:

8 ounces frozen Alaskan King crab
1/2 cup sliced fresh mushrooms
1 small cucumber, thinly sliced
1 (6 oz.) jar marinated artichoke hearts
2 tablespoons lemon juice
1 tablespoon white wine vinegar
1 clove garlic, crushed
1/2 teaspoon oregano
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/8 teaspoon crushed black pepper
1 tomato, cut into wedges
1/4 pound Swiss cheese, sliced and cut into triangles
Lettuce

Directions:

Thaw, drain and slice crab.

Combine mushrooms and cucumber slices. Drain artichoke hearts, reserving liquid. Combine liquid with lemon juice, vinegar, garlic, oregano, salt and pepper. Pour over mushrooms and cucumbers and toss lightly. Cover and refrigerate for 2 hours.

Drain vegetable mixture. Arrange crab, mushrooms, cucumber, artichoke hearts, tomato wedges and cheese triangles on 4 lettuce-lined salad plates.

THAI-STYLE CRAB SALD IN AVOCADO RECIPE

Ingredients:

1 ripe California avocado
3 tablespoons lime juice
6 ounces cooked lump crabmeat, or canned crabmeat
1 teaspoon lemon juice
1/4 cup mayonnaise
2 tablespoons chopped cilantro
1 scallion, thinly sliced
1/4 teaspoon pepper, or to taste
Salt, if desired

Directions:

Split the avocado in half, remove the seed; sprinkle the cut surfaces with 1 tablespoon of the lime juice to prevent browning.

Combine the crabmeat, remaining lime juice, lemon juice, mayonnaise, cilantro, scallion, pepper and salt in a mixing bowl; mix well. Divide this mixture between each avocado half, piling it high. Garnish with extra cilantro, if desired.

CRAB SALAD WITH GUAVA NECTAR RECIPE

Ingredients:

2/3 cup Guava Nectar
1/3 cup mayonnaise
1/4 cup apple cider vinegar
8 cups mixed salad greens
2 cups cooked fresh or chopped imitation crabmeat
1 can (11-oz. size) Mandarin oranges, drained
4 red onion slices, (optional)

Directions:

Combine nectar, mayonnaise and vinegar in small bowl; whisk until smooth.

Combine 1/2 cup dressing with crabmeat in small bowl. Toss remaining dressing with salad greens in large bowl. Divide salad greens among serving plates; top with crab mixture, oranges and onion. Season with ground black pepper.


