Title: 
Delicious Moldy Cheese Was Thought To Be First Eaten Over 1000 Years Ago

Word Count:
398

Summary:
Blue Veined Moldy Cheese

Some varieties of blue veined moldy cheese are protected by their country of origin and may only be called by those names if they actually originate from those countries; some examples of those are Gorgonzola, Roquefort, and Stilton.

Gorgonzola blue veined moldy cheese is thought to have been created around 879 it is commonly known as the eldest of the blue cheeses though the blue-veins were not recorded to be present until the eleventh century....


Keywords:
cheese,cheese dip,moldy cheese,cheese grater,cheese knives,cheese straws,cheese facts,feta cheese,


Article Body:
Blue Veined Moldy Cheese

Some varieties of blue veined moldy cheese are protected by their country of origin and may only be called by those names if they actually originate from those countries; some examples of those are Gorgonzola, Roquefort, and Stilton.

Gorgonzola blue veined moldy cheese is thought to have been created around 879 it is commonly known as the eldest of the blue cheeses though the blue-veins were not recorded to be present until the eleventh century. Roquefort was likely invented around 1070, the flavor is sharp, rich, and often has a crumbly texture.

Stilton is the newest of the moldy cheeses which was developed during the eighteenth century; many other styles of blue cheese are available to purchase today but none may be given the same name unless they are imported from that country.

Roquefort cheese was so popular for a time that many other cheeses were made to attempt to fill the demand for the prized Roquefort cheese. The attempts at recreating the moldy cheese was abandoned after a time either because of the cost of reproducing the method was too high or because of political maters, the definite reason is unclear.

Most moldy cheeses are made from cows milk enzymes are added to the milk to start the curdling process. For the moldy cheese to achieve the blue veins an editable mold is added to the curd mixture during processing or injected with the proper molds; the culturing crates a pungent aroma, strong and salty flavor, and are often served crumbled or melted on other foods.

Like many other old French cheeses the moldy cheeses are often aged in caves for the cool consistent temperatures; today the cheese is processed in temperature and moisture controlled environments which enhance the growth of the desired mold.

A Scottish blue cheese is made from sheep mild; the moldy cheese has blue-green veins is traditionally strongly flavored and salty. All blue cheeses are white with the exception of the blue or green veins of mold which give the cheese its distinct name; the moldy cheese is a favorite of cheese connoisseurs.

Blue veined moldy cheeses are present in many common products in America, blue cheese dips and dressings are among the most popular; in America only blue cheeses which are pasteurized are sold to the public because of United States Department of Agriculture steep requirements for health and safety.


