Title: 
Delicious Cocktails To Please Your Guests

Word Count:
495

Summary:
When having a dinner party, a large aspect of its success is determined by the cocktails that you make available. You can really turn your party into a night to remember if you can expose your guests to some delicious drinks that they'll never forget. In this article, we'll relay some cocktail recipes that can surprise and impress your guests.

A commonly-used twist on a classic drink is known as the "Purple Haze". Based off of the Long Island Iced Tea recipe, the drink get...


Keywords:
Delicious cocktails, food, drinks


Article Body:
When having a dinner party, a large aspect of its success is determined by the cocktails that you make available. You can really turn your party into a night to remember if you can expose your guests to some delicious drinks that they'll never forget. In this article, we'll relay some cocktail recipes that can surprise and impress your guests.

A commonly-used twist on a classic drink is known as the "Purple Haze". Based off of the Long Island Iced Tea recipe, the drink gets its name from the famous Jimi Hendrix song since it is purple in color. While the drink shares many of the same ingredients as a Long Island, it features a distinct taste that provides a good dose of alcohol while still tasting delicious. To make a Purple Haze, you're going to need the basic liquors that go into a Long Island - tequila, rum, vodka, and gin. In addition, you're going to need the secret ingredient that gives the Purple Haze it's color - Chambord, which is a raspberry-flavored cordial. You'll also need a lemon-lime flavored soda and sweet and sour mix.

To make a single Purple Haze, mix ½ oz of the four Long Island liquors with ½ oz of Chambord. Add in an ounce of sour mix, and top it off with a splash of lemon-lime soda for a little carbonation. That's all you have to do! The result is a drink that packs a punch while still being very delicious.

Are you looking for an adventurous cocktail that can really add some flair to the evening? The Flaming Dr. Pepper can be a great addition to an evening, especially for a Tiki-themed party. Be forewarned - the drink involves lighting a liquor on fire. The end result will shock you and your guests, however - it tastes almost exactly like Dr. Pepper!

To make a Flaming Dr. Pepper, you're going to need a bottle of 151 proof rum as well as a bottle of amaretto and plenty of light beer. The preparation of the drink can be easily ruined, so take heed for the following directions:

Take a shot glass and fill it ¾ full with amaretto. Top the shot with 151 - it should end up layered on top. Fill a pint glass halfway full with light beer. Now comes the showmanship part - using a lighter, carefully light the top of the shot on fire. The 151 will burn off the top of the shot, and once it's lit, you need to drop it into the pint glass. The concoction will fizz up, and you need to down it as soon as you can. By some act of God, the drink actually tastes amazingly like Dr. Pepper - shocking, considering there isn't a single non-alcoholic ingredient in the mix!

These two drinks can add a delicious and exciting aspect to your next get together. Exercise caution when making the Flaming Dr. Peppers, and be sure to take the keys of anyone who has been drinking too much. Enjoy!


