Title: 
Difference Between Decaf And Espresso Coffee

Word Count:
406

Summary:
When a blind taste test is conducted, it suggests that mostly people cannot make a difference between a decaf and a regular cup of espresso coffee if both the varieties are well brewed and processed properly. However, what about those who can make the difference? 

One of the methods of getting rid of caffeine from the coffee is to treat coffee with hot water, subsequently followed by methylene chloride rinse.

You may be totally unaware of the fact that the coffee you ge...


Keywords:
espresso maker, espresso, coffee


Article Body:
When a blind taste test is conducted, it suggests that mostly people cannot make a difference between a decaf and a regular cup of espresso coffee if both the varieties are well brewed and processed properly. However, what about those who can make the difference? 

One of the methods of getting rid of caffeine from the coffee is to treat coffee with hot water, subsequently followed by methylene chloride rinse.

You may be totally unaware of the fact that the coffee you get has already been processed with water previously in an espresso maker, on several occasions. Coffee berries after picking are rinsed properly for removal of their outer fruit covering. This softens the outer fruit, which is constantly washed, to purge the residual pulp.

Warming of green unroasted beans in hot water or steam, which opens the pores of the beans, is the initialization of chemical removal of caffeine. Subsequently, the beans are washed with methylene chloride that binds to caffeine to flush it away.

On the other hand, beans soaked for several hours in hot water percolates caffeine into the bath. Addition of methylene chloride is followed by the removal of the beans from the hot water. It only bonds with caffeine without flushing the flavored components of the beans and then they are re-soaked, where re-absorption of the flavored components is accomplished.

There is another method known as Swiss Method, in which the beans are soaked in hot water without the use of methylene chloride. On the other hand, caffeine is removed through activated charcoal by filtering the water. Relatively pure carbon, which is the altered molecular structure of activated charcoal, provides large surface area for other molecules to stick to it.

Most manufactures prefer the first method as it is less expensive but there are constant debates on the issue that the same method degrades the taste of the coffee beans. Major difference among the beans is made by quality control, but obvious. However, even other techniques are present for caffeine reduction.

As a result of roasting process, the dark, less acidic roasts contents less caffeine. For those who must reduce blends of decaf and regular have yet other options.

For the issue concerning taste, chemical differences are by and large overwhelmed by individual preferences. Many people can detect absence or presence of caffeine owing to it intrinsically bitter taste. It a matter of taste whether caffeine makes coffee good or bad.


