Title: 
Different Types Of Refrigeration

Word Count:
410

Summary:
Each and every day, millions of people in the United States use a refrigerator. Many businesses depend on them as they are crucial to maintain our foods safety. When it comes down to it, refrigerators are so commonplace in our day, it is hard to imagine people would add chemicals or use ice to keep things cool. Beyond the refrigerator in a home setting, most people never even think of the extensive technology required to keep commercial and industrial food appropriately coole...


Keywords:
industrial refridgeration, amonia refridgeration, refridgeration, cool food, food safety


Article Body:
Each and every day, millions of people in the United States use a refrigerator. Many businesses depend on them as they are crucial to maintain our foods safety. When it comes down to it, refrigerators are so commonplace in our day, it is hard to imagine people would add chemicals or use ice to keep things cool. Beyond the refrigerator in a home setting, most people never even think of the extensive technology required to keep commercial and industrial food appropriately cooled at all times. Generally speaking, equipment is needed to protect and store goods, largely food, during shipping by road, rail, air and sea. Without the ability to do this, food would have no way of being moved from one area to the next without spoiling.

Domestic vs. Commercial Refrigeration

Domestic Refrigeration: This type of refrigeration is one that is familiar to most homeowners. Refrigerators and freezers that you keep in your home fall under this category. This is the type of unit that is used to keep food cold in a residential environment.

Commercial Refrigeration: This type of refrigeration holds and displays frozen and fresh food in retail stores, as well as other like establishments. In most cases, this type of refrigeration is farther advanced than refrigerators that you would find in residential homes. As you can imagine, it is crucial that many commercial establishments keep their refrigerators up to date with food safety regulations. This ranges from retail stores to restaurants and many more.

Food processing and Storage: This type of refrigeration is used to preserve process and store the food from its source to the wholesale division. If you are not in the food industry, you probably do not have much knowledge on this type of refrigeration. But even though you may not know about this, it still affects you in more ways than you can imagine. After all, you want your food to be fresh when it finally arrives at your home, right?

There is also a large variety of specialized equipment that may be required to protect and store foods when being shipped by road, rail, air, and sea. In other words, the food cannot thaw out just because it is in transit. Instead, special equipment is used to make sure that food is kept at the appropriate temperature regardless of transportation method.

All in all, there are many different types of refrigeration that help to ensure the overall quality and safety of food.


