Title: 
Do Aphrodisiac Foods Exist

Word Count:
487

Summary:
Many of us have heard that sea-food excite the human senses or that walnuts and honey are the best aphrodisiac. But do certain types of food affect the human erotic impulse? Can specific food categories be the cause of the increase or decrease of male or female libido? Is there any scientific evidence that suggests some types of foods can help the sex life of today's individuals, or all these are just a legend that goes back to the ancient times? Although a balanced diet is c...


Keywords:
Foods, vitamin, Dieticians


Article Body:
Many of us have heard that sea-food excite the human senses or that walnuts and honey are the best aphrodisiac. But do certain types of food affect the human erotic impulse? Can specific food categories be the cause of the increase or decrease of male or female libido? Is there any scientific evidence that suggests some types of foods can help the sex life of today's individuals, or all these are just a legend that goes back to the ancient times? Although a balanced diet is considered today to be the best aphrodisiac, this article can help you spice up your life and answer some of your questions on the subject of aphrodisiac food materials.

- What is the role our brain plays?

The sexual disposition and activity of a person are directly related with the brain's activity. Crucial for the transferring of sexual stimulus are considered the neurotransmitters, the chemical substances that transfer messages to and out a person's brain. These neurotransmitters contribute to one's good memory and ability to focus, increase the good mood one carries and improve the levels of euphoria, while at the same time they are responsible to release sexual temper.

- The secrets of ancient Greeks:

Ancient Greeks are legendary for the particular focus they portrayed in the dinner preparation, making it resemble to a ritual as they devoted long periods of time to eat. The information we have available show that they used all of the five senses in an effort to create a sensual environment. Moreover, the food served was carefully selected and prepared and they used to grab food with their hands, as they supported that this practice creates a very interesting sensation stimulating also the brain. Additionally, ancient Greeks were firm believers that the food on the table had to be served with the right order and paid special attention to its appearance on the plate. The food smells and appearances were considered important stimulators for the functions of a healthy brain.

- Vitamin E, the "love" vitamin:

As scientists and ancient civilizations have found, vitamin E is one of the most important vitamins one should consume daily. Since vitamin E protects the blood cells and directly affects the sexual activity and the fecundity of a person, it is also known as the "fertility vitamin" and is recommended by physicians to treat the reproductive organs' malfunctions of males worldwide. Nuts, olive oil and avocado are great resources of vitamin E, and one should consume approximately 15 mg a day of these types of food.

Indeed, as contemporary researchers indicate, the consumption of certain food categories is related to the activities of the human organism. Dieticians specifically state that people wanting to have a balanced sex life have to include these special types of foods in their diet. As experts agree, exercising often and maintaining a balanced diet are the secrets to reduce stress and enjoy a better and healthier sex life.


