Title: 
Do You Have It? Coffee Bad Breath. Find Out More…. Now!

Word Count:
494

Summary:
Bad breath would have to be the most common personal hygiene condition that all of us fail at one time or another. Let’s face it if a friend or someone in our family, or even a work colleague has it, we certainly take a step back out of their personal space quick smart….don’t we?

Of course it isn’t news that a daily routine of brushing and flossing our teeth after we eat is an effective treatment against this type of offence. However for some people like me who are constan...


Keywords:
bad breath, coffee


Article Body:
Bad breath would have to be the most common personal hygiene condition that all of us fail at one time or another. Let’s face it if a friend or someone in our family, or even a work colleague has it, we certainly take a step back out of their personal space quick smart….don’t we?

Of course it isn’t news that a daily routine of brushing and flossing our teeth after we eat is an effective treatment against this type of offence. However for some people like me who are constantly on the go, carrying out this simple mouth cleaning treatment throughout the day isn’t always possible. Personally I carry a little box of breath mints everywhere I go because in my role as a career coach I work up pretty darn close and personal with the public.

Having a breath problem is not something I can afford to have when, as part of my job, I am leaning over people critiquing their resumes and covering letters.

Maintaining a high standard of personal hygiene and grooming is of utmost importance if I am to set a positive example for the job seekers to follow as an effective means of increasing their chances of landing employment. Like clean underwear a fresh breath is something we should never leave home without.

Some years back I went to visit a new dental clinic to have a tooth filled. On the day I remember being horrified when the dentist accused me of being a smoker because the brown stains on my teeth were so bad. Needless to say the poor fellow copped a mouthful as I told him in no uncertain terms that as the daughter of one of the original founders of the national anti-smoking campaign, I had never dared to take up smoking.

Once he realised he had made a mistake in diagnosing what was causing my bad mouth he then went on to ask about my diet. At the time I didn’t understand why he seemed so interested in knowing what foods went into my mouth as I had already told him I didn’t eat anything with sugar in it and that I used mouthwash twice a day to kill any bacteria.

When he didn’t get anywhere with picking on my dietary habits he went on to quiz me about how many cups of coffee I was drinking a day. Shamefully I confessed to indulging in six or more a day of my favorite brew. ‘Your breath must be really bad in the morning.’ he exclaimed. Coffee he insisted was up there with garlic and onions as one of the major causes of halitosis which, just in case you didn’t know, is the technical term for bad breath.

So, if your coffee drinking habits are at the higher end of the scale like mine, then be mindful that it may be causing you to have bad breath.


