Title: 
Do You Know These Little Known Facts About Tuscany Wines?

Word Count:
500

Summary:
Entertain with the Region’s Finest Wines

Wine can add a sophisticated touch to any party or dinner that you host. When entertaining, treat your guests to the smooth flavor of Italian wine, specifically Tuscany wine.

Italy produces more wine than any other country in the world, and some of the finest varieties hail from the Tuscany region. Wine has been produced in Tuscany for hundreds and hundreds of years. In recent decades Tuscan winemakers have put great effort into ...


Keywords:
wine, tuscany wine, tuscany, diner, host, entertain, alcohol


Article Body:
Entertain with the Region’s Finest Wines

Wine can add a sophisticated touch to any party or dinner that you host. When entertaining, treat your guests to the smooth flavor of Italian wine, specifically Tuscany wine.

Italy produces more wine than any other country in the world, and some of the finest varieties hail from the Tuscany region. Wine has been produced in Tuscany for hundreds and hundreds of years. In recent decades Tuscan winemakers have put great effort into the quality of their products, resulting in the excellent Tuscany wine on the market today. Tuscany wine is enjoyed widely and is easy to find in restaurants and diners as well as stores.

Super Tuscan Wine

In the past few decades an unofficial category of Tuscany wine has arisen, given the name Super Tuscan. Wines created by making unconventional blends of different grape varieties fall under the Super Tuscan category.

Tuscany Wine Zones

Tuscany is divided into several wine zones. Three of the most important of these are Bolgheri, Chianti Classico and Montalcino.

What is Bolgheri Tuscany Wine?

The Bolgheri zone, located in the west of Tuscany, is the birthplace of Sassacaia and Tignanello, which began the Super-Tuscan trend. In recent decades Bolgheri wine has received much attention for the quality of its wines. Winemakers in the Bolgheri zone specialize in red Tuscany wine created by blending the grapes of Cabernet Franc, Sangiovese, Syrah, Merlot or Cabernet Sauvignon. Several different wines are produced using different combinations of these grapes. 

What is Chianti Classico Tuscany Wine?

What more classic image of Tuscany wine is there than the straw basket covered bottle of Chianti resting on a checkered tablecloth in a cozy Italian restaurant? The Chianti Classico zone lies in central Tuscany. Red Sangiovese grapes are the primary ingredient of Chianti Classico, but they are generally blended with other grapes, such as Merlot, Cabernet Sauvignon and Canaiolo. Chianti Classico is a full-bodied, bold wine that makes a good complement to well-seasoned food. Chianti Classico wine has come a long way from its inexpensive, straw bottled past and today there are some excellent wines produced in the region. You can still get the straw basket variety if you choose, however. 

What is Montalcino Tuscany Wine?

The Montalcino zone is located in the Siena area of Tuscany. Montalcino is known for producing the Brunello di Montalcino variety of Tuscany wine. Brunello di Montalcino is a red wine made from the Sangiovese grape and normally aged for at least four years, two in oak barrels. Brunello di Montalcino goes well with steak, roasts and flavorful cheeses.

More Tuscany Wine

Vino Nobile di Montepulciano is a robust red wine that is also based on the Sangiovese grape and is similar to Brunello di Montalcino. Trebbiano is a traditional white Tuscany wine. Bianco di Pitigliano is produced in the southern Tuscan region of Pitigliano, and is a popular white Tuscany wine. Vernaccia di San Gimignano, made near Siena, is one of the best known Tuscany white wines.


