Title: 
Drink Wine to Improve Your Life

Word Count:
505

Summary:
Do you and your college mates sit up late at night drinking can after can getting smashed?


Keywords:
wine, wines, tasting


Article Body:
Do you and your college mates sit up late at night drinking can after can getting smashed? This has been the pastime of generations and generations of students. But it's all about to change. Or at least, you can start to change it if you want to.

The biggest benefit to choosing something other than beer is that it will make you appear much more of an intellectual. This is a great way for not only attracting girls, but attracting friends as well. People look for interesting people to associate with and by drinking something other than beer automatically makes you different. The best choice? Wine.

There are almost an unlimited amount of varieties of wine, so that's what makes it a great choice. Take some time and learn the basics by reading up on the internet and then go out and buy a few bottles. Learn about all the different choices you have and figure out which fit your taste buds. Some bottles of wine can cost a lot of money, so start out cheap and work your way up.

Once you know what you like, start ordering it when you go out to restaurants. This will definitely impress your date or friends and will at the very least be a great conversation starter. In other countries, you'll probably have been drinking wine since you were really young, so if you ever meet someone from, say, Europe, they'll know all about wine. If the person you're with knows a lot about wine, too, then you'll both have something to talk about and can only help to bring you closer together. You'll even be able to share different types of wine with each other. Something else that's fun to do is host your own wine and cheese party.

Of course there are other alternatives to wine, but why would you even consider anything else? A huge majority of the world's population drinks wine with every meal. Some people celebrate with wine; others drink it on Sundays during mass at church. It can be used for all sorts of things.

It's also a very healthy alternative to other forms of alcohol. Wine has been known to help fight heart disease and gives you lots of anti-oxidants to help clean out your system. This is, of course, assuming that you don't overdo it. Drinking too much of any alcohol can damage your liver and eventually be a cause of destroying it. Wine typically contains less alcohol than other hard liqueurs, though, so there is generally less to worry about.

So, all in all, if you want to become more attractive and have people flocking to you, switch to wine. Learn about all the different types and figure out which ones you like. Not only will you appear to be more intellectual, in doing all that research, you'll actually become more of an intellectual. This will help you out in many different ways throughout life and you'll be able to appreciate lots of different events a lot more.


