Title: 
End Tables - Not For Everyone, But Everyone Could Use Them

Word Count:
495

Summary:
End tables are basically a smaller version of the bigger tables that are usually placed at the end of a sofa, couch or even a bench. These are usually placed so as to hold minor decorations in living rooms and telephones in bedrooms. End tables are also great additions in bathrooms near a bathtub so they can hold the soap or the shower gel as the need may be. Placing end tables is an art in itself and needs to be recognized as such. Earlier in the 1990s people usually chose e...


Keywords:
end table,tables,sofa tables,coffee table,coffee tables,accent tables


Article Body:
End tables are basically a smaller version of the bigger tables that are usually placed at the end of a sofa, couch or even a bench. These are usually placed so as to hold minor decorations in living rooms and telephones in bedrooms. End tables are also great additions in bathrooms near a bathtub so they can hold the soap or the shower gel as the need may be. Placing end tables is an art in itself and needs to be recognized as such. Earlier in the 1990s people usually chose end tables in pairs so as to complement each end of a sofa. 

However as time wore on and designers became more creative, end tables became classy pieces of furniture. End tables can now be used almost anywhere including bathrooms, nightstands, beds and of course the living room. There are many types of end tables and are defined as much by the materials used in them as by their function. Rustic end tables are the classic version because they impart elegance to the setting by virtue of being old fashioned in style. Modern end tables use clear and sophisticated designs and also add classic lines whether curved or straight. 

Shaker and apothecary end tables are other forms of end tables that are frequently used by modern decorators. As far as material is concerned, oak and maple are the most commonly used woods in constructing end tables. These woods add natural color to the setting and are also great value because they repel insects, rot and fungi. Usually dark stained end tables are crafted from wood. Stainless steel and aluminum are some of the metals that can be used in constructing end tables. 

More often designers are apt to construct the basic framework with metal and then choose to cover it up with glass or plywood. Other materials used in making end tables include frosted glass, stained glass, slate or marble stone and ceramic or mosaic tiles. 

End tables in most cases act as decorative items, but there are instances where these tables are used for functional purposes as well. For example in bathrooms, end tables serve the purpose of being brush holders and soap holders. In the living rooms, they can hold ash trays or simple flower vases. These end tables are also ideal for keeping wine glasses or tea cups when drinking on a sofa or a bench. 

End tables are modern pieces of small furniture that can add value to the prevailing decor at the home. End tables can also serve as cocktail tables or coffee tables if required. End tables essentially finish up the look of the living room or the bedroom in an elegant manner. For those people desiring more unique or captivating end tables, custom-made ones are the thing to go for. In case this proves too expensive, you can make subtle alterations to your end table by adding some fancy stuff like a table spread or handcrafted material.


