Title: 
Enjoy A Day Of Wine Tasting

Word Count:
444

Summary:
My wife and I and our close friends recently discovered wine tasting. We had never thought to spend a day touring the many vineyards that surround our home town. Recently, however, when some friends came in from out of town and suggested that they might like to go wine tasting we made the arrangements and set off for a day of unknown adventure.

I enjoy an occasional glass of wine, but I had no idea how fun it would be to tour vineyards and get to taste a variety of wines. ...


Keywords:
wine tasting


Article Body:
My wife and I and our close friends recently discovered wine tasting. We had never thought to spend a day touring the many vineyards that surround our home town. Recently, however, when some friends came in from out of town and suggested that they might like to go wine tasting we made the arrangements and set off for a day of unknown adventure.

I enjoy an occasional glass of wine, but I had no idea how fun it would be to tour vineyards and get to taste a variety of wines. I quickly realized during our day of wine tasting that my preferences in wine had been set only out of my ignorance. I found that the more varieties of wine I sampled, the more refined my taste became and the more particular I became about what I wanted in future wines. I had no idea one could become picky because of wine tasting, but I definitely did. In fact, each of the six of us that went wine tasting that day came out with new favorites and new least favorites.

One of the things I liked most about going wine tasting was what a unique and enjoyable way it was to spend an afternoon. Typically we spend time with our friends boating or shopping in quaint shops. Taking them wine tasting felt like a refreshing change of pace. I'd encourage anyone that lives near a vineyard or two to plan a visit with some of their friends or family. Wine tasting truly was an experience that I will never forget and that I doubt will be matched as my wife and I try to host guests in the future.

Another great thing about wine tasting is that it is completely relaxing. One of the things I hate most about being entertained or about entertaining others is the level of stress that seems to inevitably follow. There is nothing worse than running around trying to prepare your house, prepare great food, and come up with great activities as well. Going wine tasting allowed my wife and I to be completely stress free and just enjoy time and good conversation with our friends.

Each of the vineyards we visited on our wine tasting tour was absolutely beautiful. We walked away from each vineyard with new knowledge about wine, about vineyards, and about the lovely area we call home. It was so fun to be able to learn new things as we enjoyed a leisurely afternoon.

If you're looking for a great and relaxing way to spend an afternoon with friends or family, look no further than to a wine tasting tour at vineyards near you.


