Title: 
Everything You Wanted To Know About Bordeaux Wine Tours

Word Count:
438

Summary:
When thinking about a vacation in France, there is always the image of going on one of the many delightful, relaxing and wonderfully delicious Bordeaux wine tours. The Bordeaux region of France has long been known for the amazing wines it has produced - and continues to produce. The Bordeaux region was divided into four wine producing areas by Emperor Napoleon III in 1855, and each area produces a unique and distinctive type of wine. Since the region of Bordeaux is relatively...


Keywords:
bordeaux wine tours, bordeaux tourism, gastronomic tourism, visit bordeaux


Article Body:
When thinking about a vacation in France, there is always the image of going on one of the many delightful, relaxing and wonderfully delicious Bordeaux wine tours. The Bordeaux region of France has long been known for the amazing wines it has produced - and continues to produce. The Bordeaux region was divided into four wine producing areas by Emperor Napoleon III in 1855, and each area produces a unique and distinctive type of wine. Since the region of Bordeaux is relatively small, it is possible, with some planning, to tour each of the regions and sample the amazing qualities of wines produced in the area. 

Most wines on the Bordeaux wine tours will be reds, but with constant pressure from other wine growing countries, the French vineyards and wineries have responded with an ever increasing variety. Today, on a wine tasting tour of the area, participants can expect to sample the traditional full-bodied red wines, together with medium-bodied reds and dry and sweet white wines. 

There are many options when considering one of the many Bordeaux wine tours. One of the more popular tours for wine lovers, and those new to wine tasting and enjoyment, includes the harvest tours. These tours allow participants to actually work alongside the grape pickers in the field, helping with the harvest for a brief period of time. Lunch is then served in the fields and is usually a traditional French meal, served, of course, with wonderful wines from the winery. After lunch the tour continues with wine classes, wine tasting and then ends up with dinner in an authentic Bordeaux restaurant. For those that really like to learn about wines and wine making, this is an ideal chance to experience the whole production. 

In addition to the harvest tours there are also many other options for Bordeaux wine tours. There is a bicycle wine tour offered through the area that allows participants to experience the countryside in a relaxed and enjoyable way. Everyone will ride bicycles to and from the very centrally located vineyards and wineries, and will also stop for lunch at local restaurants for wonderful traditional fare. 

For those that wish to travel in comfort, Bordeaux wine tours have just the options. There are limousine tours that will provide individual or small group wine tastings at various chateaus and wineries within a given area of Bordeaux, or may complete a larger circuit of the various wine houses. There are also large charter bus services that provide guides, instructors and even chefs that can provide ideas for meals that are compatible with the various types of wines found in the Bordeaux area.


