Title: 
Everything You Need To Know About Tapestries

Word Count:
353

Summary:
Tapestry is defined as a weighty cloth material that is fabricated with rich multiple colors that depicts certain scenes or designs and it is usually placed on the walls as a décor and sometimes to hide the furnishings. The American Heritage dictionary has given this definition.

The process of weaving originated from the making of baskets in the early period where stiff fibers were used. People started to use flexible fibers with the creation of the loom. The loom holds th...


Keywords:
tapestries, home decor, wall art


Article Body:
Tapestry is defined as a weighty cloth material that is fabricated with rich multiple colors that depicts certain scenes or designs and it is usually placed on the walls as a décor and sometimes to hide the furnishings. The American Heritage dictionary has given this definition.

The process of weaving originated from the making of baskets in the early period where stiff fibers were used. People started to use flexible fibers with the creation of the loom. The loom holds the distorted strands tightly whereas the crosswise thread strands are woven.

Before the eighteenth century, small changes were made to the loom. After this period, different inventions eventually lead to the mechanization of looms. The Englishmen mostly made these inventions. Weaving with hands was more or less discontinued throughout the Industrial Revolution although it was still carried continued as skilled work in some countries.

All through the different periods, the principles of weaving did not change be it the pegs on the floor (which were used before) to the mechanized loom that are available nowadays. Making of the sheds, picking and beating are the three aspects of weaving. The foundation of the cloth is the warp and in order to form the weave, the threads are woven and then the design is made. Similarly, with the weft threads all the way through, the warp threads are lifted to go through the shuttle. Now shed is the space, which is produced. Pick refers to the row of threads, which is to be woven. In order to ensure that the pick is even and pressed downward of the earlier pick, beating is undertaken.

The wonderful and appealing tapestries, which you see in art museums, churches and other places, have been made with hand carefully. The noblemen would carry the decorative tapestries from one home to another and the cathedrals would hang them on certain events.

The tapestries, which are available nowadays, can be hanged on the walls or placed on cushions. Regardless of where it is placed, a tapestry can be used as a family heirloom to be passed from one generation to another.


