Title: 
Expresso - From Coffeehouses To Your Kitchen

Word Count:
406

Summary:
The java world is exploding out of this world nowadays.  Coffee has never been better and never smelled so good.  Who would have thought that it would take over the fast food industry?  Or should that be quick beverage industry? Espresso is absolutely everywhere, even in the middle of nowhere.  It’s true! I buy it, and so do you.  I personally cannot resist milky coffee with a shot of infused syrup.  Oh, dear, who sells that iced mocha latte?

No matter which country you go...


Keywords:
expresso machines, expresso, coffee


Article Body:
The java world is exploding out of this world nowadays.  Coffee has never been better and never smelled so good.  Who would have thought that it would take over the fast food industry?  Or should that be quick beverage industry? Espresso is absolutely everywhere, even in the middle of nowhere.  It’s true! I buy it, and so do you.  I personally cannot resist milky coffee with a shot of infused syrup.  Oh, dear, who sells that iced mocha latte?

No matter which country you go to you can grab your favourite coffee on every street corner.  Ever been to Turkey and slipped into a north-eastern village with no electricity and just the perfect aroma of Turkish coffee wafting up from the valley below? I have and so should you.  Who says coffee isn’t mobile.  So, I think the really interesting part is how much are we spending on our favourite espresso? If you were to calculate it at $4 per cup and times that by 360 days, allowing for 5 days off – you do the maths! Ouch.  When you look at it this way it may be time to bring your coffee-house into your kitchen.

Wouldn’t it be perfect to have your own little espresso machine in your kitchen?  Hey, now we are talking.  Imagine waking up every morning or running in every evening to the aroma of your own home brewed espresso.  If you have taken the time to look then you should have noticed that the supplies are everywhere.  Just run up the road and grab your favourite flavouring, some milk, your favourite ground beans, and that quality machine.  Frankly, I think just simply wandering into the kitchen, still in my pyjamas versus that horrendous drive to the coffee-house would be absolutely perfect.  Don’t you agree? Now I bet you do this already.

Can you imagine the gas costs you would save? Why not have your cake and eat it too? Your espresso machine will pay for itself again and again.  You will eliminate that day by day bill for the lattes and espressos.  The overall cost could go to a roasting machine next? Fancy one of those to add to your budding home coffee-house? 

Finding that perfect quality machine, it is possible to get a commercial one online.  There are some really reasonable ones just a click away.  Why not have your coffee as perfect as you do after that long drive?


