Title: 
Finding Out Little Known Cheese Facts

Word Count:
440

Summary:
Cheese fans all over the world love this food for its taste and texture, appreciating the huge number of varieties from cheddar to Gouda. However, many cheese connoisseurs are unaware of many of the interesting cheese facts that accompany their favorite food. They enjoy the flavor and fullness of this food, without appreciating the cheese’s rich history or the work and time that goes into the production process.

One valuable source of information for cheese facts for the v...


Keywords:
ccheese,cheese dip,cheese fondue,cheese grater,cheese knives,cheese straws,cheese facts,feta cheese,


Article Body:
Cheese fans all over the world love this food for its taste and texture, appreciating the huge number of varieties from cheddar to Gouda. However, many cheese connoisseurs are unaware of many of the interesting cheese facts that accompany their favorite food. They enjoy the flavor and fullness of this food, without appreciating the cheese’s rich history or the work and time that goes into the production process.

One valuable source of information for cheese facts for the various types and brands is the Internet. Company websites for different cheeses often include interesting information and tidbits that they think will interest their customers.

Different companies, while using the same basic techniques, may vary widely in their exact methods of production. The machinery, equipment, and ingredients each company uses affect the quality and consistency of each of the cheeses that is produced. Much of this information is available on the Internet, but an alternate method of research would be to call or write to the company directly to request more information. A brochure for the brand may contain interesting cheese facts designed to entertain and inform the customer.

Some Interesting Info-Bites

Companies have found that informed customers are likely to be more loyal to a particular brand, which explains the need to have informative literature available. Cheese facts included in this informative cheese literature may include the fact that female cows that produce the milk for a particular type of cheese are born with horns.

The horns are removed from the female cows to prevent injury. As cows travel and graze in herds, the risk of injury is simply too much of a liability to farmers who depend on them for income though milk and cheese production

Not everyone wants to look that deeply into the production end of cheese, however. Many simply enjoy learning about the cultural history of their favorite dairy product, delving into the past to uncover how cheese was previously used, and how it came into its current popularity. Therefore, for those who prefer a more historical perspective with their cheese facts, there are plenty of informational bits as well.

For example, most people don’t know that in sixteenth century Denmark, cheese was often used as currency. In fact, parishioners paid their church taxes with cheese and other foodstuffs. Rather than earn money to buy food, this method is more akin to earning food directly.

Cheese facts can be informative and entertaining, but they can also offer a brief glimpse into the history of many cultures. Do you know where your cheese came from? Take some time to learn more about this dairy staple today!


