Title: 
Finding The Best Espresso Machine For You

Word Count:
448

Summary:
You need to know what features are most important on a machine when looking for which espresso machines would best suit your needs. There are many espresso machines out there, with many manufacturers producing various makes and models. Upscale coffee houses use their wealth of knowledge and what their associates in the business say to discover which espresso machines are the best. Even they though, need some help when new makes and models are introduced to the market. What sh...


Keywords:



Article Body:
You need to know what features are most important on a machine when looking for which espresso machines would best suit your needs. There are many espresso machines out there, with many manufacturers producing various makes and models. Upscale coffee houses use their wealth of knowledge and what their associates in the business say to discover which espresso machines are the best. Even they though, need some help when new makes and models are introduced to the market. What should a consumer do? Continue reading to find out.

One feature to look for in an espresso machine is the built-in grinder. These machines tend to have a special grind dial as well to help you the level of coarseness your grind produces. If you don't have a built-in grinder, then you will need to calibrate your separate bean grinder machine to correspond with your new espresso machine. Many of these grinder machines come preset to a certain grind, such as for a French press or automatic drip brewer, which may be too coarse. It may take several tries, and several shots of espresso before you achieve the grind that's perfect for your machine. Espresso experts suggest that two ounces of espresso be pulled between 17 and 23 seconds from a double basket.

If you're having trouble doing this grind test, bear in mind that good machines should be able to tolerate a variation in the coarseness of grinds. You can tell which espresso machines are the highest quality because they won't get clogged by grinds that are slightly too fine or too coarse. The finest machines have a safety valve that gives the machines a higher tolerance to force water through grinds that require more pressure, such as finer grinds. The espresso that is produced may not taste as good if the grind is not exact. Industry research has shown that there is an ideal pressure for extraction. Higher pressures from too-fine grinds can result in the shot taking too long to pull, which will result in espresso that is too strong and bitter. Grinding the beans too coarse will result in shots that finished too quickly, with a weak flavor and color.

Another thing that can indicate which espresso machines are highest quality is how loud the machine is. Premium brands should be relatively quiet. The best make of espresso machine is at the decibels of a whisper--in other words, a very low decibel. A good rule of thumb is that you should be able to carry out a normal volume of conversation while your machine pulls a shot. That way, you can tell all your friends how fantastic your machine is before they taste it for themselves.


