Title: 
Flax Seed Contain Amino Acids

Word Count:
359

Summary:
Flax seed contain many ingredients that are good for our bodies including omega fatty acids, lignan, mucilage, and many different amino acids that make it a great nutritional item. The amino acids found in Flax Seed are Tryptophan, Threonine, Isoleucine, Leucine, and Lysine. Each one of these amino acids offers different benefits.

Tryptophan helps to create Serotonin, a vital ingredient to help you function mentally. A lack of Serotonin can result in various disorders incl...


Keywords:
essential fatty acid on intelligence, function of essential and nonessentional fatty acid, essential


Article Body:
Flax seed contain many ingredients that are good for our bodies including omega fatty acids, lignan, mucilage, and many different amino acids that make it a great nutritional item. The amino acids found in Flax Seed are Tryptophan, Threonine, Isoleucine, Leucine, and Lysine. Each one of these amino acids offers different benefits.

Tryptophan helps to create Serotonin, a vital ingredient to help you function mentally. A lack of Serotonin can result in various disorders including depression and mood related disorders. Tryptophan is as given as a tranquilizer for those who suffer from insomnia.

Threonine is commonly referred to as Trptophan but they are two separate amino acids. This one helps the body to balance the proteins and distribute them to the cardiovascular system, liver, central nervous system, and the immune system. Isoleucine isn’t a well known amino acid it is essential. This helps hemoglobin to be made so you the body is able to control blood sugar levels. If you don’t get enough Isoleucine it can result in headaches, dizziness, fatigue, depression, confusion and irritability. For more info see http://www.omegaflaxseedoil.com/benefits/omega3/the_Function_Of_Essential_And_Non_Essential_Fatty_Acids_On_Intelligence.html

Another amino acid that aids with controlling blood sugar levels is Leucine. It also helps the body to grow and repair muscle tissues including bones and skin, the making of growth hormones, to help wounds heal, and to boost energy levels. Leucine prevents the muscle proteins from breaking down while you experience trauma or stress. This amino acid can help those who suffer from Phenylketonuria, a condition where the body isn’t able to metabolize another amino acid called Phenylalanine. Lysine allows the body to make antibodies, hormones, and enzymes. It is also used to absorb calcium for tissue repairs and to help children grow and develop. 

In addition to these essential amino acids, flax seed also has many others that are beneficial to the body including Aspartic Acid, Glutamic Acid, and Glycine. It is a good idea to add flax seed or flax seed oil supplements to your diet to ensure you get all the amino acids you need.


