Title: 
French Press Coffee Maker

Word Count:
514

Summary:
For millions of people a cup of coffee in the morning is the spark plug to get them started and able to face the battles they may encounter during the day. There are several different types of coffee one can choose from in order to suit their specific tastes. In addition, there are numerous different ways to prepare your coffee as well. You can either go to your local coffee shop or you can make your own cup of coffee at home. Most individuals brew their coffee with just an o...


Keywords:
french press coffee, coffee


Article Body:
For millions of people a cup of coffee in the morning is the spark plug to get them started and able to face the battles they may encounter during the day. There are several different types of coffee one can choose from in order to suit their specific tastes. In addition, there are numerous different ways to prepare your coffee as well. You can either go to your local coffee shop or you can make your own cup of coffee at home. Most individuals brew their coffee with just an ordinary electronic coffee maker. However, there are better ways to make a good cup of coffee without spending big dollars on an extravagant cappuccino maker or something else equally expensive that are difficult to master and keep in good working condition. These expensive machines become outdated requiring you to purchase a new one every couple of years. The French press was invented over a hundred years ago. It has received a few improvements over the years but remains relatively the same today.

One of the best ways to prepare coffee is by using a French press coffee maker. A French press coffee maker is perfectly named for what it does. The basic operation of how it functions goes like this: You add your coffee grinds into the pot and then you add the boiling water. You then you are ready to begin applying the pressure on the plunging type tool which presses down on the coffee, filtering out the grinds with the screen on the plunging tool and brewing up a tasty cup of wonderful coffee. It really is that easy. You might be wondering what the benefit of a French press coffee maker, so let me tell you. French press coffee makers produce a stronger cup of coffee then would your traditional electric coffee maker. This is great for those who like their coffee full of that robust coffee flavor. It is recommended that you drink your cup of coffee right away, while it is still piping hot, to get the best results.

Coffee to most people is as routine as brushing your teeth in the morning. When using a French press coffee maker, you save quite a bit of time because it does not require the time it takes an electric coffee maker to brew a fresh pot. Because it does not require electricity, you can take it with you anywhere you go and prepare a fresh cup of coffee wherever you are. Even when you are camping in the wilderness you can have a rich and robust cup of coffee freshly pressed. While in west Africa recently, far from the comforts of home, we were able to have coffee prepared in a French press. This made the trip bearable and mornings there worth jumping out of bed. Coffee is the fuel for countless people. If you are one of these coffee addicts and like a full flavored type coffee, consider a French press coffee maker and see taste the difference. Once you try it, you will be a French press convert.


