Title: 
Fruit Juices: A Healthy, Delicious Alternative To Soda

Word Count:
306

Summary:
For anyone trying to maintain a healthy diet, soda is one of the worst things that you can put in your body. It is full of sugar, in addition to other chemicals that do nothing but harm your body. So if you want to lose weight and keep it off, you should start thinking about cutting soda from your diet. One option is to replace it with fruit juice. Whenever you feel the urge to drink soda, just throw back a cup of fruit juice. It will probably have almost as much sugar, but y...


Keywords:



Article Body:
For anyone trying to maintain a healthy diet, soda is one of the worst things that you can put in your body. It is full of sugar, in addition to other chemicals that do nothing but harm your body. So if you want to lose weight and keep it off, you should start thinking about cutting soda from your diet. One option is to replace it with fruit juice. Whenever you feel the urge to drink soda, just throw back a cup of fruit juice. It will probably have almost as much sugar, but you replace harmful chemicals with beneficial vitamins.

Sometimes you can find a fruit juice that will combat other health problems. Grape juice is said to prevent blood clots. Urinary tract infections can be battled by cranberry juice. Pomegranate juice can clear your arteries.

To choose which juice you are going to drink, you should first look for something colorful, with a purple, red, or blue color. These have anthocyanins, which are beneficial antioxidants. You should also look for juice where you can see sediments in the bottom of the bottle, since this means that the whole fruit has been used in making the juice. Scientists say it’s more beneficial to eat a fruit than it is to drink it, but if you insist on juice then you might as well get as close as possible to the real thing.

There are hundreds of different juice options, from domestic apple and grape juice, to exotic noni or goji juice. The best thing you can do is simply try out a few different juices, and research their effects on the body. Then you can decide on one that will be beneficial for you. But if you are replacing excessive amounts of soda, then almost anything is a step up on the healthiness level.


