Title: 
Getting To Know The Tea Infuser

Word Count:
417

Summary:
What is a Tea Infuser?

A tea infuser is a ball shaped, apple, or basket shaped container, depending on who is describing it, used for brewing tea. It is very small in size, though the size varies depending on manufacturers and the consumers needs. On each end and the sides, there are perforated holes.

What are the different Tea Infuser types?

There are several types of tea infusers. They can be large enough for an entire pot of tea or small enough for a single cup. T...


Keywords:
tea, food and drink, drink, beverage


Article Body:
What is a Tea Infuser?

A tea infuser is a ball shaped, apple, or basket shaped container, depending on who is describing it, used for brewing tea. It is very small in size, though the size varies depending on manufacturers and the consumers needs. On each end and the sides, there are perforated holes.

What are the different Tea Infuser types?

There are several types of tea infusers. They can be large enough for an entire pot of tea or small enough for a single cup. They can be made out of mesh like materials, metal, glass, and a variety of other materials. Furthermore, they come in different shapes nowadays, which can make a great gift. For example, a heart shaped infuser or a sterling silver infuser, great for gifts.

The infuser has been extremely popular throughout our history, particularly in the nineteenth century. In fact, it is still extremely popular today. It has become a very popular gift for many different occasions, particularly weddings and baby showers. A search on the internet will provide you with an abundance of results when you are looking for great gift ideas, such as gift sets or particular tea infuser shapes.

How does a Tea Infuser Work?

The Tea infuser is great for those who are looking for a fresh cup of tea. For those who like to brew their tea with fresh leaves, the infuser is a necessary kitchen tool. In today's world, most people use tea bags for quick and easy brewing. However, for a fresh cup of a tea, you should use the infuser. How it works is simple, You would place the loose tea leaves into the infuser and lower it into the cup or pot in which you are brewing the tea.

You would then pour your boiling water over the infuser and allow your tea to brew. What happens is that the water works with the tea through the holes in the infuser. However, you need to be careful of small leaves and large holes within the infuser. The large holes could allow some tea leaves to escape and then you would need to remove any leaves in your tea.

The tea infuser can be a great accessory if you want to buy your own tea leaves and mix up your own different blends of herbs and teas.  This way you are not stuck buying only what you can find on the supermarket shelf but you can literally make any tea your heart desires.


