Title: 
Glyconutrients - Glyconutritionals As Supplements

Word Count:
576

Summary:
What are Glyconutritional Supplements, you ask?

A good deal of hype surrounds "glyconutritionals" these days. It is not uncommon to see the words "miracle cure" in connection with them. So let us cut to through the hype and get to the nitty-gritty. Allow me to investigate glyconutritionals, describing in real terms what they are, what their role in the body is, and what part they play in a healthy diet.

Recently, a lot of valid research has been done in the field of gly...


Keywords:
dental health, dental hygiene, nutrition, health


Article Body:
What are Glyconutritional Supplements, you ask?

A good deal of hype surrounds "glyconutritionals" these days. It is not uncommon to see the words "miracle cure" in connection with them. So let us cut to through the hype and get to the nitty-gritty. Allow me to investigate glyconutritionals, describing in real terms what they are, what their role in the body is, and what part they play in a healthy diet.

Recently, a lot of valid research has been done in the field of glyconutritionals. But to put things into the most simplest terminology, the term 'glyconutritional' or 'glyconutrient' is a scientific name for an individual carbohydrate nutrient. Commercial uses of the term will more commonly refer to particular blends of polysaccharides, dietary fiber compounds and plant extracts.

Polysaccharides are large carbohydrate molecules consisting of a number of monosaccharide monomers such as fucose, lactose and glucose. These glyconutritional formulations were initially discovered by the Research and Development Corporation out of Texas that made some neat discoveries. They have been marketed around the world by associates as having health benefits, and there are a number of other companies now supplying "so-called" or copy-cat glyconutritional products.

So how do you know which one to buy from? Ask them if they are involved with the original advanced glyconutrients. And make sure that they have the eight glyconutrients, and not just one or two.

The eight valuable glyconutrients are:

    * Galactose
    * Mannose
    * Xylose
    * Fucose (not fructose)
    * Glucose
    * N-acetylgalactosamine
    * N-acetylglucosamine
    * N-acetylneuramic acid

Companies sell formulations of polysaccharides and fiber as glyconutritionals, with varying constituents that have been previously used in health products, including: aloe vera extracts; arabinogalactan fraction of Larch extract; gum arabic and gum acacia; ghatti gum; gum tragacanth; kelp; cordyceps; xylitol; glucosamine; fenugreek seed; oat fiber; and Shiitake and Reishi mushroom.

Medical sciences have noted that soluble fibers, including polysaccharides, are transformed into beneficial short-chain fatty acids after fermentation in the large intestine. Further, there are proven anti-inflammatory benefits with saccharides such as glucosamine and gum acacia, with trials showing beneficial effects for patients suffering from inflammation-related conditions like arthritis and asthma.

The beneficial actions of the arabinogalactans in glyconutritionals have been demonstrated as a prebiotic effect, a reduced incidence of opportunistic pathogens, stimulation of the body's immune system, increased numbers of gut anaerobes and reduced levels of ammonia.

With these benefits, glyconutritional formulations are categorized as an alternative therapy.

In the marketplace, however, there is a myriad of confusing statements. With so many different types of natural supplements flooding the market, reputable journals have recommended that those looking for "healing" or "miracle cures" should take care and seek out reliable nutritional and medical advice. Research and science will start to differentiate different companies and natural supplements. Those seeking the benefits of glyconutrients should seek medical advice.

Ultimately, the ingredients in glyconutritionals have been shown to have incredible health benefits. The manufacturer of the product known by its trademarked name Ambrotose, has been shown to have no ill effects. Individuals are sometimes advised to consult medical advice that can take into account personal health circumstances when considering the use of glyconutrition, but it would be about the same as consulting medical advice before starting to permanently change your diet to include more fresh organic fruits and vegatables. To learn about glyconutrients research, science, or why you need them, visit the site below.

You may wonder "Has anyone tried glyconutrients before?" or "How are the results?"

For a Free glyconutrient consultation, call (888) 401-9141.


