Title: 
What The Heck Is Bubble And Squeak?

Word Count:
426

Summary:
Ever order a full English breakfast and wonder what was on the plate?


Keywords:
hash browns, browns, breakfast, hash, full english, english, full, menu, english breakfast, full english breakfast, pattaya


Article Body:
I am a frequent visitor to Thailand and love to go to Pattaya.  I usually like to eat a big breakfast, skip lunch and then go out for some Thai food for dinner.

I discovered a very nice British pub called the Sportsman on Soi 13 in Pattaya and immediately liked the atmosphere.  With big screen TVs, a pool table and a great décor, I found this air-conditioned pub a great place to go for breakfast.

The problem I had was with the menu.  Being from the United States, I had no idea what a full English breakfast was.

But, I was hungry, and it was at the top of the menu and was the most expensive item, so I figured it was the biggest.  It was still a bargain at about 240 Baht – at least I thought it was.

Six dollars for breakfast at the exchange rate of the time seemed to be a decent price.  Considering that it was a very nice place, with A/C and the BBC on TV.

So, I order the full English breakfast not really reading what comes with the meal.  I am, however, pleasantly surprised with the platter of food I am presented.

I get bacon and eggs, toast, juice and coffee, sausage, beans and hash browns.  At least I though they were hash browns.  There were also fried tomatoes, but I am not a big tomato fan, so I declined.

I grabbed the menu to see what was listed because the hash browns were not exactly what I was used to.  The menu said everything as listed above, but no hash browns were part of the full English breakfast.

There was something called bubble and squeak.  I had absolutely no idea what that was.  But I was bound and determined to find out what it was that I had eaten and had actually tasted pretty good.

I did some research on the Internet and found out that bubble and squeak was very similar to hash browns.  I had the potato part right but I had no idea what else was in there.  Research showed me that the rest was vegetables – mainly cabbage, carrots and peas.

I am not a big fan of veggies, but all of this mixed together tasted yummy.  The platter was huge and the food was very tasty.

So, even if you aren’t a Brit, stop by one of the many British pubs in Pattaya and check out the full English breakfast.  It will definitely fill you up and have your bubbling and squeaking.


