Title: 
Wine Storage Tips:   Making The Most Of Your Treasure

Word Count:
467

Summary:
Wine has been set apart from the other beverages consumed by humans, rather like the gods and goddesses themselves were set apart from mere mortals in their aerie on Mount Olympus, since the first flagon of grape was allowed to ferment.  Wine has had a role to play in religious ceremonies form the time of the ancient Greeks to the Christian rituals of today, and when it is released from its bottle like a genie, wine has almost the same effect.

Yet wine, for all its mystery...


Keywords:
Wine Storage Racks, Wine Storage System, Wine Storage Temperature


Article Body:
Wine has been set apart from the other beverages consumed by humans, rather like the gods and goddesses themselves were set apart from mere mortals in their aerie on Mount Olympus, since the first flagon of grape was allowed to ferment.  Wine has had a role to play in religious ceremonies form the time of the ancient Greeks to the Christian rituals of today, and when it is released from its bottle like a genie, wine has almost the same effect.

Yet wine, for all its mystery, requires some rather mundane care.  Wine which is not to be consumed immediately needs to be sorted, and its proper storage has certain rituals of its own.  For those uninitiated into those rituals, wine storage tips might prove helpful.

Although many people love to store their wine in plain sight of the envious eyes of their visitors, or because the shade of the burgundy exactly matches the roses on Grandmother’s china, the first of the wine storage tips is that wine should be stored away from light and heat.  If you’re not going to be drinking the lovely burgundy within a few weeks, put it back in the wine storage rack in a dark cool part of the house.

Watching The Humidity

And while you’re putting it back, check the humidity in your main wine storage area.  The second of the wine storage tips is that you don’t want the humidity to drop to a level at which the bottle corks will begin to dry out and shrink.  If they do, air will gat into the bottle s and the wine will eventually deteriorate.

Storing Leftover Wine

Another of the more useful wine storage tips regards what you should do after the party with the wine in your half-empty bottles.  Feeding it to the kitchen sink hardly seems justified; if you can find the cork and it still fits, just replace it and make sure to finish the wine in the next couple of days. For more info see http://www.winestoragerating.com/Articles/Wine_Storage_Temperature.php on Wine Storage Temperature.

Nitrogen Sealing

But if you’ve had as much wine as you can take for a while, and you can find one, get yourself a nitrogen wine storage unit.  It has a cylinder of nitrogen attached to a hose, and the hose is fitted to the bottle of leftover wine, pressurizing it with nitrogen gas so that the wine is protected from oxygen in the air.  Oxygen will destroy the wine’s magical properties, but nitrogen will leave them intact.

The final, and most obvious, of the wine storage tips, is to forego the entire storage process and drink the wine as soon as you bring it home.  That’s why you bought it!


