Title: 
Your Coffee Machine Can Brew You Any Kind Of Coffee

Word Count:
507

Summary:
There are many people who have for long considered themselves purists in the world of coffee, and wouldn't dream of touching this sacred brew. But all of this is changing now, coffee is being flavored and you can have any one of hundreds of kinds now.

Blenders are practically artists now, with exotic blends being designed all the time. There is an Indonesian blend which is a mix of Sumatran and Papua New Guinea beans that yields a flavorful full bodied brews. Newer regions...


Keywords:
one cup coffee makers, machine, coffee


Article Body:
There are many people who have for long considered themselves purists in the world of coffee, and wouldn't dream of touching this sacred brew. But all of this is changing now, coffee is being flavored and you can have any one of hundreds of kinds now.

Blenders are practically artists now, with exotic blends being designed all the time. There is an Indonesian blend which is a mix of Sumatran and Papua New Guinea beans that yields a flavorful full bodied brews. Newer regions such as Papua New Guinea and Sumatra are being scoured for new kinds of beans for these blends. Sumatra beans mixed with Colombian Patron gives a smoky, dark taste to the blend.

In addition to blending different beans, adding flavorings to coffee adds a new element. Many flavors, such as cherry, almond or vanilla, can soften the acidity of some blends.  Add a banana hazelnut syrup to a plain robusta blend, and you have a whole new experience.  Try a Tahitian vanilla latte for a real taste experience.

If mocha is the taste you prefer, you have almost as many chocolate flavors to choose from as you have coffee flavors. Try a Yemen roast with a light touch of dark chocolate melted and well blended into it.  For a treat on the lighter side, do the same with Giradelli chocolate melted into and American roast blend. You can blend flavorings in with a blending machine, or whisk them in by hand. 

There is no end to the concoctions you can come up with using your coffee machine or even just your one cup coffee maker. Besides using different beans, roasts or flavorings, try adding exotic liqueurs to your coffee.
Certain coffees lend themselves to certain ingredients. Try a Jamaican roast with fruits, brown sugar and rum added. You'll find that Costa Rican blend goes very well with an almond flavored liqueur.

Stronger than chocolate, cocoa also makes a great ingredient to cut the flavor of coffee. Making a drink that is hot or cold, you can easily blend coffee beans and coffee beans for a fabulous treat.  

People who love to experiment with different tastes of coffee are aways coming up with new things. How about a frozen cappuccino on a hot summer day to wake you right up? Instead of plain chocolate, try chocolate mint in your next cup of coffee.

If you are one of the many who want a cup of decaf in the morning instead of the "real thing", even the strongest of coffees now come decaffeinated.You can choose from such exotic choices as Italian Espresso, Decaf Marrakesh and even a Dutchman (a blend of Indonesian, Central American and African).

When coffee aficionados talk about "nuttiness", that is not a compliment for coffee. But adding some nut or other ingredients such as raspberry or coconut to your coffee may be an interesting change. You may eventually want to go back to the basic cup of the coffee purist, but a little detour doesn't hurt once in a while.


