Title: 
10 Great Winter Fashion Trends This Season

Word Count:
797

Summary:
It's that time of the year again with snowflakes falling, yuletide cheer and Christmas shopping, hot cups of coco and cozy warm fireplace with sizzling embers of coal crackling away. But what's heating up the fashion scene this winter, a closer look reveals some interesting insights on the latest winter fashions.


Keywords:
winter fashions


Article Body:
It's that time of the year again with snowflakes falling, yuletide cheer and Christmas shopping, hot cups of coco and cozy warm fireplace with sizzling embers of coal crackling away. But what's heating up the fashion scene this winter, a closer look reveals some interesting insights on the latest winter fashions.

This seasons winter colours

True to the season, soft snowy white shades seem to be a good choice for clothes that blend in with the winter theme. Another popular colour to helps produce a sharp contrast is Black and various shades of bright black; while dull and muted greys give a nice warm and fuzzy touch and hues of rich red right through to mellow maroon are reflective of the season. 

For women, earthy colours ranging from the deep shades of olive, maroon, brown, deep blue's to chocolate brown are colours set to form the trend. While for men, muted shades of pink, lavender, brick red, grey, deep shades of purple and black are what’s going to be setting the stage for fashion. 

Hair

Choosing the right hair style to go with the fashion and season can be a daunting task. You don't want to be seen in last year's styles and certainly not something that’s not the hottest rage at the moment. So if you're trying to figure out the hairdo that's the pick of the season by stylists and fashion models;  it's time to let you in on that little secret, apparently for women wearing your hair in the all so classic 'Bob Cut' seems to be the favoured trend this season. 

Men on the other to make the cut will have to aim to get their hair into the bushy straight yet carefully dishevelled look that gets tucked away into the tops of their mufflers. 

Hats

If you like hats you're in luck, this season hoods, hats and caps are the rage. Large knitted beanies or those furry oversized Moroccan hats all in this winter. The styles in vogue are hats that are either huge and puffy or tiny and pointed. Fur lined hoods blended into the garment are also turning heads this winter. 

Coats

This season coats come with a nice thick mantle like look that feature tousled sleeves and funnelled collars. Other patterns included coats with widely placed collars and a rich furry texture. 

Fabrics

The prevailing tendencies for fabrics this season are fabrics that are over-worked with several different effects across their surfaces. The fabrics are very solid or concrete with a sort of untamed natural feel blended with soft lustres. Prints around the winter theme are almost subtle while the focus in on rich exterior of the fabric. 

Lightweight wool or reworked cottons are the base for designs that will debut this winter.

Effects

Complementing the feel and textures of fabrics the designs around these effects that are set to make the stage this winter, range from, long pleats, to subtle wrinkles and clearly visible overstitches, to the blistered and tangled effects.

Cashmere worked in with regular wool and mohair is blended to give the fabrics a light yet visibly textured look. While some of the other fabrics are roughly cut to give a thatched heavily threaded effect. Most knits are made with heavily emphasised gages to draw out the raw protective feel against the winter chill.

Denim is one of those fabrics that will probably be around forever, this winter, the theme is a slight gleam in the denim with an oxidised look. In fact this seasons going to have you seeing a lot of ultra cool effects. 

Scarves 

This season, trade in your old winter muffler for those large woollen scarves that can be draped over your shoulders like a stole. Embodied with various prints on dulled wool the scarf lends a casual yet protective loo to the wearer be it a man or a woman. 

Footwear

Ankle length shoes in shades of silver and grey are this winters winner. They shriek elegance and comfort in a very casual sort of way. For women transparent slippers laced with silver give an almost Cinderella effect. 

Jewellery

Jewellery designs highlighting the winter season are marvellous add ons’ silver snowflake pendants and large broaches like a sprig of holly or mistletoe make some really eye catching accessories. Chunky silver bracelets and large but light earrings that dangle add to the effect.

So, make sure you watch out for these lovely trends that are bound to take the country by storm. And honestly, you really do not have to own expensive designer wear to make a statement. Even your local stores will stock up on some of these new designs. This winter season ensure you treat yourself to some of these trendy fashions and go paint the town red!


