Title: 
A Sports Bra Could Stop Your Breasts From Becoming Saggy And Unsightly! !

Word Count:
318

Summary:
If you're the type of woman who loves to keep herself in perfect shape, you?ll know how uncomfortable a loose fitting bra can be. 

Since your breasts don't contain any intrinsic structural support, the motion caused by exercising can result in damage and pain.


Keywords:
bras, sports bra, nursing bra, plus size bra,


Article Body:
If you're the type of woman who loves to keep herself in perfect shape, you?ll know how uncomfortable a loose fitting bra can be. 

Since your breasts don't contain any intrinsic structural support, the motion caused by exercising can result in damage and pain. 

First Know Your Body... 

To know how sports Bras can help you, it's important to know a little about how your breasts are structured. There's something called Cooper's Ligaments that are the primary supporting structures for your breasts. Secondary support is provided only by the skin, which can easily be stretched through constant loading. 

The result is what every woman dreads - sagging breasts. Sports bras help to reduce breast movement, which limits not only the breast pain but also the irreversible stretch of your skin and Cooper's Ligaments, thus preventing your breasts from sagging. 

If you are large breasted, then sports bras are all the more necessary. Research has shown that breasts that are not properly supported can cause back and neck problems. 

Studies have further shown that sports bras reduced breast pain and vertical movement by as much as 50% when compared to bare breasted exercise. Other types of bras too, reduced pain and vertical movement but not as much as sports bras. 

Now Get To Know Your Bra. 

Sports bras are designed to be sturdier than regular bras, thus offering greater support for the entire chest area. They are normally made up of absorbent, stretchable fabric, like Lycra for example. This soaks up the perspiration away from the skin, thus reducing irritation. 

Good sports bras have complete cups to prevent movement of the breasts in any direction. They should also have wide, non-elastic straps and covered fasteners, to prevent rubbing against any part of the body. 

You can easily find a wide range of great sports bras online. They're designed to suit every Size and come in all shapes, types and colours.


