Title: 
Authentic Handbags - How To Make Sure Your Getting The Real Thing

Word Count:
584

Summary:
Handbag sales have jumped to an all time high in the recent years due to the promotion of fashionable merchandise by wealthy actors, actresses, musicians, and models. Often seen as a status of wealth, handbags have become a very important accessory for anyone who is into fashion. People all over the world are influenced by a media, which promotes the sale of designer fashion through magazines, television and the movies. Wealthy public figures are often given designer merchand...


Keywords:
handbags,authentic handbags,designer handbag


Article Body:
Handbag sales have jumped to an all time high in the recent years due to the promotion of fashionable merchandise by wealthy actors, actresses, musicians, and models. Often seen as a status of wealth, handbags have become a very important accessory for anyone who is into fashion. People all over the world are influenced by a media, which promotes the sale of designer fashion through magazines, television and the movies. Wealthy public figures are often given designer merchandise from the high fashion companies in hopes that they will wear their clothing and accessories. When a star is seen wearing a new designer handbag everyone wants to know where they can get one like it too.

Fashion has become a billion dollar empire, which has people rushing to the stores to get the latest trends. Many times a person will choose an article of clothing or accessory just for the name on the label. For this reason there are many counterfeit merchandise dealers out there just waiting to take advantage of you. Many of which are making a good living off unsuspecting buyers who are looking for a good deal. There is a lot of fake merchandise out there that is being sold for real name brands and many times the counterfeits are hard to spot. 

Designer handbags can be very expensive for the average person to buy. This is why the market for counterfeit merchandise like handbags has become so big. Many people buy the counterfeits thinking they are getting a steal or a good deal. Spotting a fake handbag can be very hard since many look very much like the originals. Millions have been sold without the buyer ever knowing that they have bought a fake. Counterfeit merchandise is made at a much lower cost than the originals so it is very easy for a counterfeit dealer to make a profit. They often get the clothing and accessories at a very low cost. Then they mark up the price to much more than it’s worth. They sell the merchandise for a very high profit. You still think your getting a good deal though because it’s still lower than the cost of an original and you think what you are getting is authentic.

There are some ways to make sure that your purchase of a handbag is authentic. Inspect the material of the handbag; is the leather of good quality? Is the stitching even and straight? Many original designer bags have the name brand logo on the lining and the lining is usually satin. Designers usually use leather accents, so a plastic strap is a good indicator of a fake. Logos should always be engraved not just printed. A serial number can often be found in most original handbags and is a good indicator of its authenticity. An authenticity card that has the name brand logo and some product information on it can usually be found also. 

In recent years the sale of handbags online has become a big market. Many sites do sell authentic handbags and are legitimate but many are not. It is important when buying a designer handbag online that you first check out the website you are thinking of buying a handbag from. Sites that are PayPal verified are usually legitimate and the Better Business Bureau can usually let you know if the site has had any complaints. Wherever you decide to buy your designer handbag it is always a good idea to make sure it is authentic.


