Title: 
Be the Belle of the Ball at Your Next Party

Word Count:
300

Summary:
Yet another party has made its way onto your calendar and as you stare blankly into your closet, the irritating question plagues you once again: What to wear?


Keywords:
Be the Belle of the Ball at Your Next Party


Article Body:
Yet another party has made its way onto your calendar and as you stare blankly into your closet, the irritating question plagues you once again: What to wear? 

Judy Gordon, fashion guru and founder of TheTrendReport.com, has the latest information on the hottest fashion and beauty trends. 

"First and foremost, it's very important for women to wear something that makes them comfortable in their own skin," Gordon says. "Women must feel confident because when you feel good about yourself, you look even better and your inner radiant beauty cannot help but shine through." 

Gordon offers the following tips for looking your very best at the next party.


Fabric and Fit

Selecting the right fabric and fit is important in making sure you look your best. If your outfit is made out of a body-hugging fabric, make sure you wear the right undergarment, especially if you are full-figured.

Playtex Secrets Slimmers, for instance, offer full-figured women slimming yet stylish intimates to complete any outfit, whether it's a clingy black dress or a lacy top. With Playtex Secrets Slimmers, you'll look slimmer instantly, as the bras eliminate bulges and gaping blouse fronts. They are available at department stores nationwide. 


Accessories

* Make the perfect transition from work to nighttime party with a few simple accessories. Ditch the conservative flats for a fun pair of colored heels. Replace your chandelier earrings for long, linear earrings. And leave the big bag at the office; a fancy clutch adds just the right amount of sizzle to your look.

* Your little black dress is right for any occasion. Make the most of it by adding a faux fur capelet or stole with a satin ribbon tie. Pearls and fancy pattern pantyhose also will transform your black dress from plain to all-dressed-up in less than a minute!


