Title: 
Beads, Beading And Jewellery In Monique Lhuillier

Word Count:
456

Summary:
Designer Monique Lhuillier's name seems to be on every celebrity's mouth these days. She is touted to be the next Vera Wang as most A-list celebs have a dress by Lhuillier. Professionally designing dresses and gowns since 1996, Lhuillier was brought to the limelight when then pop princess Britney Spears commissioned her as wedding gown designer. Lhuillier crafted a wedding gown with beads, beading and jewellery to the delight of Spears. This was followed by stints with other ...


Keywords:
beads, beading and jewellery, Monique Lhuillier


Article Body:
Designer Monique Lhuillier's name seems to be on every celebrity's mouth these days. She is touted to be the next Vera Wang as most A-list celebs have a dress by Lhuillier. Professionally designing dresses and gowns since 1996, Lhuillier was brought to the limelight when then pop princess Britney Spears commissioned her as wedding gown designer. Lhuillier crafted a wedding gown with beads, beading and jewellery to the delight of Spears. This was followed by stints with other Hollywood celebrities and the name Lhuillier shone brighter than ever in the fashion industry. This is not surprising as the craftsmanship of Lhuillier is obvious in the beads, beading and jewellery incorporated in her every design.

The craftsmanship of Lhuillier is also seen in the price tags her dresses carry which the average career woman cannot afford. Bridal gowns cost $2,000 - $10,000 while evening dresses are priced a little lower. For those who want the look of a Lhuillier gown or dress, there are several things you must remember: A-line, full skirt, soft and fabrics, and exquisite beads, beading and jewellery. Beads used in a Lhuillier design range from Swarovski crystals and pearls to glass beads and rhinestones. More expensive stones are used in more expensive dresses.

Other designers also uses the A-line cut, full skirts, and soft fabrics in their designs but only Lhuillier uses beads, beading and jewellery in embroidering accent pieces in her designs. Most designers go extremely modern with minimalist themes or avant-garde couture. Others go super romantic with an overload of laces, ruffles, and tons of cloth. But with her skill in using beads, Lhuillier combines modernity with sentimentality, producing designs that are elegant, modern, romantic, and wearable.

Beads, beading and jewellery in the designs of Lhuillier are used differently. Some designs use the beads as a component of the fabric itself. An example is the white dress peppered with black beads worn by model Natalia Gotsii in the recent Lhuillier's spring collection. Julia Dunstall also wore a similar dress in light pink and low-neck cut.

Accents are also made of beads in a Lhuillier designs. Rarely does the designer use a bow or fabrics as an accents in her dresses. Beads, beading and jewellery find themselves embroidered into belts, necklines, and straps. Brooches are also made of beads and jewellery. In her spring collection, there were several designs with beaded brooches: dresses worn by Heather Marks, Anja Rubik, Cameron Russell, and Hye Park are outstanding examples.

If you love beads, beading and jewellery, invest in a Lhuillier gown. The classic design and ornate embroidery makes it a good investment. Lhuillier's craftsmanship and skill in beads, beading and jewellery ensures that the dress will never fade in style history. After all, good taste is always fashionable.


