Title: 
Christian Audigier At The LA Fashion Week Spring 2008

Word Count:
404

Summary:
This article tells the reader about the about the fashion model Christian Audigier at the LA fashion show.


Keywords:
fashion shows, fashion, luxury, fashion runway


Article Body:
Christian Audigier says that the theme of his Spring 2008 collection shown at LA's Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week on Tuesday afternoon is "La Vie en Rose," but a better moniker might be "Trashy French Vamp," or even "Flashdance on Acid," based on the styles he sent down the black-carpet-and-glitter runway.


The men fared better than the women in the Audigier show; they mostly wore his signature wildly patterned oversize hoodies, all embellished with the designer's name and assorted other motifs, usually executed in glittery crystals, studding, and embroidery. Most were paired with jeans, encrusted with Audigier's huge signature across the backside, again done in glitter, sometimes paired with a giant skull, other times with similar tattoo-inspired motifs. There was a military bent to many of the men's styles, too; the first male model even wore a military beret and saluted the photographers at the end of the runway. Vests were big, too, and long, slouchy cutoff pants added a street gang vibe. 

To make sure the women in the audience (including Brandy, Bai Ling, and chart-topping singer Bettina) got a little eye candy, the designer sent a few male models out wearing nothing but a skimpy pair of camouflage underwear, then added a variation of hooded superhero capes worn over the undies, unzipped for effect at runway's end. One was but that skin show was nothing to what Christian Audigier presented on the women. There was the white micro-mini tee-shirt dress, worn over tan panties, garter belt, and sheer stockings ; the black bra, garter belt, and sheer stockings worn with a wide-open olive-toned raincoat; skin-tight patterned gold leggings worn with a slouchy, off-the-shoulder patterned tee (shades of "Flashdance" and Eighties style there); and a black bra, paired with a black feather boa, and a see-through pair of tan knickers worn over black panties. Hooker chic, indeed, and the sort of streetwear that sends a working-girl message.
 
Audigier's capper, a series of looks that combined completely sheer tulle skirts in bright colors of pink, green and electric blue displaying the panties and garters underneath, paired with hoodies and matching berets, are an evening look that isn't likely to make it to any Hollywood red carpets. 
But as David Hasselhoff, who brought his teenage daughter Hayley to see the collection, commented to Audigier after the show, "I liked it; the girls looked great!" No word on whether he'll let his girl show her Audigier underwear in public, however.


