Title: 
Crystal Cufflinks, the epitome of Style.

Word Count:
288

Summary:
Even though there are many varieties of cufflinks in metal, cufflinks combined with crystals offer you a uniquely stunning alternative.


Keywords:
crystal cufflinks, crystal cufflink, blue crystals, cufflinks, crystal band, silver plated crystals.


Article Body:
Stunning and breathtaking, best describes a crystal cufflink. 

Even though there are many varieties of cufflinks in metal, cufflinks combined with crystals offer you a uniquely stunning alternative. 

Color crystals: 
The striking emerald green Swarovski
 crystal with silver plated cufflinks may be a perfect match for your dark classy suit. Sterling silver cufflinks with, onyx with crystals is worth around £46. You may feel this is a bit cheap but even a fine blue three crystal square cufflinks is available for around £22.95.

Aqua Swarovski crystal, silver plated cufflinks are available for around £47.84 GBP. If you want a colorful cufflink you can go for a multicolored crystal cufflink for around £18.95. This multicolored crystal square cufflink is a real bargain!

Blue crystals: 
For the man who wants the best, these cufflinks can come with blue crystals. A three blue crystal, square cufflink can cost you around £22.95. The blue crystal cross shaped cufflinks, 9 blue crystals (3x3) in the middle, will give a stunning look. If you want other color crystals, then go for the pink varieties instead of blue which costs the same. 

Symbols and band cufflinks: 
The ? symbol with clear crystals embossed on it can cost you around £29.61. Crystal band cufflinks can cost around ?25 GBP. A pearl and crystal band cufflink combined is a very nice and unique design.

Single crystal cufflinks: 
If you?re looking for simple and good looking crystals then go for the single crystal cufflinks, for an elegant look. The Mauve single crystal cufflink cost you only £25.60 GBP. The round crystal cufflink which has a superb look cost you a £25.63 GBP only. The clear square single crystal cufflink also costs you the same price. Barrel cufflinks with single crystals of blue, pink and green costs only £23.35 each.


