Title: 
Designer Handbags are all the rage

Word Count:
395

Summary:
A wonderful article exploring some of the latest and greatest handbag designers.


Keywords:
Designer handbags, Chanel handbags, Coach handbags, Burberry handbags


Article Body:
Without a doubt, designer handbags are all the rage!  Women seem to collect them the way young boys collect comic books.  Without a doubt, there is a handbag to suit your many styles and moods, from sophisticated and chic to adventurous and playful.  Designer handbags all have unique traits that distinguish one brand from another.  Designers purposely create unique symbols or details to accentuate the differences between themselves and other designers.

Louis Vuitton is one of the most popular and best-selling handbag designers.  These bags are known for the high standards of quality and state-of-the-art craftsmanship put into each and every design.  Elegant, but astonishingly innovative, Louis Vuitton guarantees perfection in his multitude of high quality products.  Uniquely branded with a patterned design, Louis Vuitton handbags tower above the competition.

Chanel handbags are well known for their clean lines and top quality materials.  The polished chain and bold brand symbol on every bag sets them apart from their peers. The clean lines and simple femininity of these designs makes them both accessible and functional for everyday use or a night out on the town.  Chanel handbags are known for their classy designs, neutral colors, and their oh-so-popular brand power.  A girl cannot go wrong with Chanel. 

Coach handbags are known for their soft, supple, glove-tanned leather.  In recent years, Coach designers have evolved to explore various shapes, styles, and materials without sacrificing the principles of classic design.  At the same time, there is something uniquely American about these wonderful purses.  Coach has developed into an easily-recognizable brand of superior quality handbags.

Burberry handbags are known for their distinctive plaid pattern.  Their handbags come in various sizes and shapes, and there is sure to be one to please even the most distinguishing shopper.  These purses are designed for a woman that is both strong and sophisticated.  Burberry purses have become extremely popular in recent times, especially with younger girls looking to explore more traditional designs.

These are but a few of the designers producing quality merchandise for the masses.  There are as many designers as there are purse styles, but you are sure to be pleased with anything produced by the designers mentioned above.  They are the giants of the fashion industry right now.  With the recent release of their latest designs, you can be the first of your friends to own one.  Happy shopping, ladies!


