Title: 
Earrings For Men

Word Count:
523

Summary:
Earrings for men, a liberating experience on and off the red carpet.


Keywords:
mens studs,mens hoops, mens diamond earrings


Article Body:
Men’s earrings became widely acceptable as a fashion statement during the late 80s and early 90s. They were catapulted into fame by celebrities like George Michael and Harrison Ford who were known for using them. At present, men’s earrings are still a popular form of jewelry, but they have either slipped into subtlety (when worn by socialites) to blatant displays of individuality when they are worn by grunge and rock stylists. Below, are some earring styles that are commonly seen nowadays.

Studs

Studs are perfect for any occasion. They can be made of a solid diamond or it can be a stud of precious metal or semi-precious stone. No matter the style, studs are still considered to be a great choice for men’s earrings. Because they are so versatile, a single 30 carat diamond stud can both be worn on the red carpet and also in the club scene. Perhaps, something a little smaller and less flashy would be appropriate if you want to wear it to the office.
 
Hoops

Hoops were the original choice when it came to earrings for men. They can either be worn on one ear alone or on both – depending on the style and taste of the wearer. In the 90s some regions in Europe have even established a code, by which a person can pinpoint your sexual orientation by the number of earrings you are wearing and where you are wearing them. Today, jewelers often make men’s hoop earrings in pairs, so, if you don’t want to wear two at once, you can either keep one as back-up or you can split it with a friend.

Clip-On

When actor Jamie Fox went to Oscars, he was sporting a diamond stud clip on earring. The one he was wearing was very descriptive of the modern style of men’s earrings. The make was so impressive that it wasn’t immediately obvious that he was wearing a clip on because the link between the front and the back clasp was so minimal, that it nearly passed unnoticed. That just shows how much jewelers have improved over the years. Clip-on earrings used to be reserved for women because they were often big in order to accommodate the size of the clasp in the back. Now, they are much more stylish and as demonstrated – have been perfected for use by both genders.

Ear Cuffs and Flesh Tunnels

If you like to appeal to the eccentric in you, why not go for more ethnic and tribal looking earrings. You can avail of beautifully carved ear cuffs or flesh tunnels (if you dare). For some people, they would prefer the quick fix offered by the ear cuff. These intricate semi-tubes attach to the cartilage portion of the ear without piercing through the tissue. This is definitely the perfect accessory as it is as easy to remove as it is to put on. However, if you really want to stand out – you can always try multiple ear piercings or even a flesh tunnel. With the flesh tunnel, you can see how far you can widen that hole in your earlobe.


