Title: 
Fancy Dress - How To Win A Fancy Dress Competition

Word Count:
457

Summary:
How to win a fancy dress competition with a little honest cheating


Keywords:
Fancy Dress,fancy dress costume,fancy dress party ideas,fancy dress competition,dress up in costume.fancy what to wear, 


Article Body:
Dressing up to go a party is one thing but having to imitate and dress up as someone else or an object is another matter. A Fancy Dress party can only mean one thing and that is fancy dress costumes where you are required or expected to duplicate an image or a look alike figure of someone famous etc. Looking good is our main priority when attending parties but when it comes to attiring and adorning ourselves as an alias will no doubt take a lot of careful planning? 

Fancy Dress parties are very popular and very successful to say the least in providing entertainment for all the guests who make the effort to dress up. If you have been invited to a Fancy Dress party then you may have problems wondering who or what to go as. Do not fret there are some fabulous websites online to go in search of for ideas for fancy dress costumes.

If you find this an ordeal trying to select an outfit then make it more interesting by asking friends around to help you choose or even make the outfit of your choice. Remember fancy dress parties are fun - so whatever the finished costume looks like it will not really matter because this is fun stuff - just as long as you joined in and participated in making an effort is enough. However should this be a competition for the best turned out person in fancy dress costume - then matters change.

Unique ideas are going to get you noticed and surely put you in the running of claiming the first prize. A little honest cheating may help you take the award of the best dressed person in fancy dress costume. How you ask, well let me tell you, your first move is a little research to find out about the host of the party and their likes and dislikes in music - movies or even Disney characters and take it from there - for example if the party host is a she and loves cuddly bears then Winnie the Pooh it is  

If this fancy dress occasion is being held for a man and his love is of the ocean and water sports then you know the ideal costume that will win the fancy dress competition hands down and that is the bathing costume like that on a Baywatch babe - this idea is for women only unless the male host happens to bat for the other side.

There are so many Fancy Dress options and ideas to choose from - take a trip to your local department store that deals in fun occasions and browse around and by doing this you may just come up trumps - there`s an idea Donald and his wife.


