Title: 
Fashion Tips for Women Online

Word Count:
476

Summary:
Fashion tips for women is meant to those ladies, who wants to be get appreciated for their style statement, along with their body, mind and beauty. This article will suggest you, what to wear and what to avoid in order to look beautiful, seems gorgeous and recognized as bold.


Keywords:
fashion tips, fashion style, celebrity fashion, Clothing tips, womens fashion, fashion dress


Article Body:
A noted philosopher and politician Aristotle once said, women are the best creatures of god.

And for ‘you’ creatures that are bold, beautiful, gracious and smart, wrapping and carrying yourself is of utmost importance. According to the varying shape and size or body shape and colors, etc, here are few wrapping and carrying tips i.e. Fashion Tips For Women.

But before jumping into those tips to make you smarter, beautiful and bold definitely you would like to know What is Fashion for Women, especially if you are a bit extra cautious about your looks and appearance.

Fashion For Women 

Women are directly linked with fashion. It would be right to say that the word fashion is synonyms to woman. It is something more than wearing clothing. If you are an urban beauty, the fashion trend and style should go well and that too in advance with you. Few of the factors that define your fashion statement are body frame, skin tone, level of comfort and personal attitude.  

So beautiful ladies, come on, lets have a feel according to your body frame, skin tone and after all your level of comfort.

Body Frame- Are you a plump women, if yes, try avoiding sleeveless cuts. Choose dark color clothing rather than lighter shades. Or prefer over a range of dull colors like dull blue or dirty blue. If you wear small prints and vertical line prints, you will look slimmer. If you have extra pounds in you, avoid kota sarees and cotton sarees and stick to Chiffon and Georgette Sarees.   

Choose beige and fawn colors, if you have a medium structure. In case of blouses, try on nets as these are of great help in disguising physical flaws. 

Thin women, cheer up, you will look gorgeous in all the color ranges. All the colors and shades will suits on you. You also can try on sleeveless, deep cuts and strapped blouses.  

Skin Tone- If you have fair complexion, gold with a blend of copper will make you cool. If you are a medium / wheatish colored, prefer mix shades of white, beige and bronzy golden. If you have dark skin, prefer to wrap yourself in golden copper shades.
 
Personal Attitude and Level of comfort- Your attitude and level of comfort is very important along with your appearance and clothing sense. If you want to maintain a cosmopolitan outlook but do not feel very much comfortable with western wear, try Indo Western style. A blend of Indo Western style should add an extra charm to your personality. A boat necked saree with a squared necked blouse is definitely for a shy and introvert women. Bold ‘n’ beautiful should choose from sleeveless, deep-necked blouses and may be straps.

So no matter what is your body frame and skin tone or how bold is your personality, fashion is for you, LADIES.


