Title: 
Fashion - Today`s Colour In Fashion Will It Suit Your Complexion

Word Count:
555

Summary:
Did you never stop to think why a certain colour was not ideally suited to your skin tone.


Keywords:
Fashion,fashion design,catwalk model,fashion colour,colour in fashion,skin shade,beautiful design


Article Body:
Fashion - Why do women and beauty products work well together, the answer to that is quite simple, cosmetics make you look beautiful and women want to be beautiful so there you have it - a match made in heaven - the perfect duo
Today`s fashion and latest shades in lipstick is no guarantee to looking beautiful if you are not feeling good about yourself. 

It`s a funny old world - the fashion world. Take those glamour models that grace the catwalk with the latest in fashion design - only to go and mess the entire look of the whole  outfit with an expression of depression along with a ridiculous unbalanced walk like that of a woman who has just downed 10 pints of lager - now where is the beauty in that I ask you.

 Remember never to imitate the pose of a model on a night out with friends because that friendship may just cease and heaven forbid if you are looking for a date with the opposite sex - then the chances of that happening are zilch. If you want to impress then it is all down to how you dress. You will always be at your best if you feel good. A smile radiates beauty so regardless of what the fashion it is you adorn - be sure to smile and that is half of the battle won in feeling good and looking beautiful

Why is it you wear the same colours when you go out? Why is it you feel that a certain colour is not ideally suited to your complexion even though it is in fashion? Well now is the time to change all that. Todays fashionable colours are just oozing to expel your beauty within. Positive results are guaranteed after you have boosted your confidence into looking beautiful with the latest in fashion styles and colours.

 For example if you are not partial to the colour green or orange up next to the skin, well that is fine, but,  at the time you decided this colour was not for you, did you ever give it a minutes thought that it was just that particular shade of green that you were not comfortable with. Remember there are 40 shades of green, now do you get my drift. Now as for orange - a colour that does need to be given much thought behind for a person`s skin tone - but if you like orange then dress it up with accessories to compliment the shade itself - this will work wonders.

Just by changing the shade of one particular colour and style of dress can be the start of finding the real beauty within. Your inner beauty may have lain static for far to long all because you took for granted that the first bright lime green luminous blouse you ever tried on was not for you, therefore leaving you resisting future fashion garments in green, But did you ever consider  replacing that lime green blouse for pretty cowl neck musky jade shade.. Also a change of hairstyle can alter your whole image along with the colour that you banished from the wardrobe. 

It is sad - but there are many women who are confused and believe that a certain colour does them no justice - when at the end of the day it may have been their choice in the shade.


