Title: 
Finding The Perfect Pair Of Boots

Word Count:
885

Summary:
As a woman, I always have a desire to be noticed by others. In order to achieve this objective, I can spend hours in front of the mirror to get my appearance right. And this means making sure everything from top to bottom including my shoes is perfect.


Keywords:
boots, footwear, shoes


Article Body:
As a woman, I always have a desire to be noticed by others. In order to achieve this objective, I can spend hours in front of the mirror to get my appearance right. And this means making sure everything from top to bottom including my shoes is perfect. I do have a sense of what footwear to put on based on my outfit, even if I say so myself. For example, If it's winter, I'd wear a pair of knee-length leather boots that keep my legs covered and compliment my coat, be able to walk on snow for long distances easily without my feet  hurting or blistering. So where am I going with this? I am simply trying to help you find the perfect pair of boots like I have. 

It's Winter Again!
A staple in most women's fall and winter footwear wardrobes, boots are very much "in" fashion this year. Typically, winter boots are made with leather on the outside and soft, luxurious sheepskin lining to ensure that your feet stay warm even under extreme cold conditions. If you consider yourself a style diva, then winter boots are your ultimate style statement in comfort, warmth, and chicness. Of course, you must be ready to pay for it all! 
	
Boots are really trendy and there is wide choice from flat-heels to stilettos, wedges, and platforms, boots are everything in between. Don't believe me? Just head over to the "downtown" areas of any well-populated city in America or hop to the nearest mall, to find almost every other woman flaunting her boots in colors as varied as black, brown, silver, gold, and many others! 

The Hottest Boots In Cold Winter
Now for the season's winner! Yes, the hottest boots this season are the flat and riding boots. And if you already have a pair of heeled boots, don’t sweat! Pick up a pair of flat boots and you'll have double the joy and choice for mixing things up and making your own fashion statement! 

An easy way to check out and shop for boots is to order them online. The range is latest in styles, colors, materials and the experience is fun and tempting. But, you may want to actually visit a store and try out the boots you like before buying them. What's the point in spending all that money on a pair of shoes that don't fit you? Sigh!

Finding boots that fit you perfectly, while giving you enough toe room, can be a little difficult because of the varying calf and ankle sizes in women. Boots that are too tight in the calves are highly uncomfortable, while those which are loose look terribly sloppy. If you are keen on buying boots online, then visit an online seller. Also check if the online store offers you free shipping and free returns just in case you need to return the boots for a better fitting pair. You may also check if the online as well as the malls offer you custom fits by sizing them as per your individual shoe size. 
Getting Boot-ylicious! 
Now that you know how to find that perfect pair of boots, its time to choose one or all of the many boot styles that are doing the rounds this winter. 

Black is In
Black patent leather boots are very much in vogue. For all you sassy ladies, a pair of knee-high boots is just the thing to make the guys drool! Accessorize the boots with a pair of fishnet stockings. 

Point Your Toes In the Right Direction
If you like to play the part of PYT or 'Pretty Young Thing', then a modest pair of ivory knee-length boots are perfect! Pointed toes are trendy and fashionable. Flash them with a feminine outfit for a dramatic effect!

Metallic Magic
Back in fashion are the ankle-length boots in striking metallic shades. If you are daring and love to wear your attitude on your feet then these are just the thing for you. Enjoy all eyes on your feet!

Complimenting Skinny Jeans
Slick pair of boots with a faux fur fringe or metallic detailing is an excellent way to compliment a pair of skinny jeans. Tuck the jeans into the boots and finish out the rock star look with a funky top and a denim jacket if it's nippy!

Turn Up The Heat!
If you want to look your Diva-ish best then slip into a pair of thigh-high boots, and slip on a mini dress! Watch the temperature rise…

Lace-ups
Boots with laces are cute and sensual in a wonderful way. Try a tan color pair of knee-high boots with block heels and attractive upsweep. 

Casual Chic
The most popular season choice – black patent leather flat heeled boots are chic and stylish. Ideal for a night of partying! 

The Perfect Pair
If you just rather own a single pair of boots and want them to go with just about anything then invest in a pair of tan, suede boots with stiletto heels! A classic style, it never fails to go out of fashion and always makes a bold statement!

So, all I'd like to say is that boots, any type, are simply awesome! And the best part is you can dress them up or dress them down depending on your outfit and occasion.


