Title: 
Flowers and Fashion: What's Vogue?

Word Count:
784

Summary:
Long a symbol of love and beauty, flowers have never gone out of style.  Yet, some flower colors, varieties and designs are especially popular among more tasteful gift-givers and decorators.  So, while the best advice may be to follow your own taste and sensibility, here's what experts predict will be cutting edge this year for fashion conscious flower lovers everywhere.


Keywords:
flowers,flowers online,florals,flower delivery,florist,flower,online flower,flower trends,fashion


Article Body:
Long a symbol of love and beauty, flowers have never gone out of style.  Yet, some flower colors, varieties and designs are especially popular among more tasteful gift-givers and decorators.  So, while the best advice may be to follow your own taste and sensibility, here's what experts predict will be cutting edge this year for fashion conscious flower lovers everywhere.

<b>Seasonal Statements</b><br>

Summer looks bright, with flashy colors, especially greens, oranges and yellows, dominating the scene. Gerber daisies, sunflowers, lilies and a spectacular array of colored roses are the mainstay.  Designs are casual, contemporary, dramatic, or even outrageous.  Blazing tropicals are growing in popularity, too. 

Fall color palettes will be more refined, with a variety of rich textures gaining in importance.  Look for dried grasses and berries accenting mini callas, Leonidas  roses, and Asiatic lilies.  Color selections are graced by rust, bronze, amber or copper hues.  Centerpieces will be natural yet elegant with deeper color accents.

Traditional red will dominate the Christmas season again this year, but watch for a greater variety of fresh evergreens, berries, roes and accents.  Other popular color schemes include darker reds and crimson shades, as well as non-traditional palettes such as purple and turquoise.  Textures will continue to play an important role, with flower arrangements featuring everything from pinecones and cedar to intricate handmade ornaments. Expect to see more glass bowls, cubes and vases of every size, especially in colors.  With an emphasis on home and hearth, decorator cachepots and family heirloom containers will also play a part.

Spring will burst forth with a flurry of color and all the variety of an English garden.  Tulips, iris, hyacinth, freesia, lisianthus, ranunculus and asters are just some of the season's best.  Fashionable designs may include simple clusters with just one type of bloom, compact nosegays with an abundance of varied blossoms and tall vased bouquets with stylish blooming branches.  Traditional pastels will be back, with a decidedly feminine flair, but don't be surprised by occasional accents in bright fashion colors.

<b>Wedding Flowers</b><br>

Simple. Elegant. Unique. Those three words are the key to planning a stylish wedding this year. While traditional tones and flowers are still popular, trends are moving toward bouquets with only one type of flower for a clean, contemporary look. Roses are particularly popular, with orchids, Calla lilies, cymbidiums and hydrangea making frequent appearances. 

Colors are leaning toward monochromatic, for strong identity and style. Red and white are popular all year.  Bright colors, like greens and oranges, will flow in the summer months. The Bohemian look, consisting of metals, browns, oranges and greens will emerge in the Fall. Combinations like "Khaki and Cream" are a good example of this Autumn vogue.  Whites, creams, peaches and soft pinks remain, but bolder colors will come shining through. So, don't be afraid to try something different, just remember to keep it simple, elegant and unique.

<b>Flower Design Trends</b><br>

From apple and lime to sage and celery, greens are definitely hot. Watch for cymbidiums, hydrangea, Kermit button poms, and roses in a variety of gorgeous green shades all year.  In warmer months, look for hot pinks, bright oranges, and sunny yellows in the mix.  In the cooler months, expect richer tones and deeper hues.  The emphasis on design is texture and detail, with the best floral artists not only featuring unusual flower varieties but also other materials in their designs, such as grasses, berries, branches, and even metals.  Design styles may vary from the streamlined elegance of just a few unusual blooms to the lush opulence of many different flowers combined, but regardless of style, it will be the small details and unusual accents that make all the difference this year.

<b>Timeless Beauty</b>

Flowers are timeless. Their popularity dates back ages.  Yet, like anything else, flowers are subject to the ebb and flow of fashion trends.  For the hottest colors, textures and design styles, keep an eye on your favorite decorating magazines, and clip a few of your favorite pictures.  Then, consult your local florist.  No matter what you have in mind, a professional florist can bring it to life.  With an eye on design and a great florist partner, you'll find it's easy to make your floral gift-giving and home decorating more beautiful than ever and fashionably fresh all year.

***

From the Flowers People at 1-800-FLORALS, third-generation retail and wholesale florists specializing in fresh <a href="http://www.800florals.com/" title="flowers">flowers</a>, custom floral designs, and <a href="http://www.800florals.com/" title="flowers">flowers delivery</a>.

This article may be republished in its entirety on the Internet as long as the byline and link above are included.


