Title: 
Four of the Best: Silk Tie Designers of England

Word Count:
492

Summary:
The UK silk tie industry is still going strong despite increasing trends towards more casual wear. Leading tie designers include Vivienne Westwood, Richard James, Timothy Everest and Babette Wasserman.


Keywords:
neckwear, necktie, tie, silk


Article Body:
Despite an increasing casual society, silk ties are still seen as an important icon of style. Celebrating traditional creative talents and hand crafted fashion designs a number of key tie designers lead the way when it comes to luxury neckwear for men. The famous names of Vivienne Westwood, Timothy Everest, Richard James, and Babette Wasserman are considered in more detail below.

Vivienne Westwood began designing in 1971, along with Malcolm McLaren, when London was at the forefront of fashion. The award winning designer is a leader of fashion for all ages that spans across many generations. She has an OBE for her contribution to the British Fashion Industry and was also given the Queen's Award for Export. Vivienne Westwood has designed an assortment of silk ties which are created for fashion savvy men who enjoy new spins on classic designs. Vivienne also designs clothing, socks, scarves, and cufflinks, all designed with features that add a dash of fun and irony to any outfit.

Timothy Everest ties are exceptional. He is one of the leaders of the new bespoke movement, and has spent the past 10 years showing a new generation of men the joys of bespoke clothing. His apprenticeship with Tommy Nutter has enabled him to dodge the formalness of Savile Row whilst utilising its exceptionally high standards of craftsmanship. Timothy's 350 end silk ties (350 threads per inch heavy silk) are some of the best quality ties you will ever wear ... perfectly made with a exceptional attention to detail.

In little over a decade the Richard James' name has become synonymous with the best aspects of today's men's style: from outfitting the Hollywood elites to its use of bold colour. Since the company was founded in 1992 (by Richard James and Sean Dixon), it has collected a number of major fashion awards (including Designer of the Year by British 'GQ' and Menswear Designer of the Year by British Fashion Council). Richard James bespoke services are second-to-none, and the label now has an ever growing selection of off-the-peg clothing second only to bespoke. 

Indeed Richard James accessories are becoming a major talking point on the London fashion scene. Richard James ties are hand-made in England using exclusive fabrics and high silk count to ensure that each tie will give years of good knot-age and make for a perfect match with a Richard James shirt.

Developed at Central St. Martin's College of Art in Central London, Babette Wasserman is famous for unique and versatile designs. She launched her own jewellery label and cufflink range in 1997. Regarded by many in fashion as the most unusual designer of stylish, fashionable and innovative accessories; Babette Wasserman silk ties can be found in some of the most prestigious stores across the world. Look out for her collection of nicely presented gift box sets offering pure silk ties together with a pair of luxury cufflinks. A particular favourite is her Black Skull tie which is commonly paired with Jet Black Punk Stud cufflinks.


