Title: 
Get the Straight Hair You've Always Wanted

Word Count:
447

Summary:
The Sedu Ceramic Hair Straightener is known as the styling tool of the stars.  It has been known for creating two of Hollywood's favorite Jennifer's signature hairstyles.  Find out how to get your hair to look like their's.


Keywords:
sedu, fashion, hair, straightener


Article Body:
The Sedu Ceramic Hair Straightener is known as the styling tool of the stars.  It has been known for creating two of Hollywood's favorite Jennifer's signature hairstyles.  The first is Jennifer Aniston of Friends, and the other Sedu user is Jennifer Lopez.   

Jennifer Aniston, who played the character known as "Rachael" on Friends, created as much buzz about her fashion leading hairstyles as the writers did for their character's quirky storylines. During the last decade, thousands of women flock to their stylists asking for the same haircut.  The one thing they didn't know is that after the locks had been layered, Jennifer's style was shaped and fashioned with the Sedu Ceramic Hair Straightener.

Not only has Jennifer Aniston made the Sedu Straightener one of the most sought after hair products but Jennifer Lopez uses it as well.  Her hair is naturally curly and wavy, and it is the Sedu that is credited with adding shine and sheen to Jennifer Lopez's curly locks.  

The Sedu Straightener has given many women the look and style that they have only dreamed about doing on their own.  Now, the secret has been released and demand for this styling tool has increased, making the Sedu Straightener one of the most requested straighteners on the market today.

Sedu: Shine and Shimmer 

Naturally curly and wavy hair lacks the luster and sheen that is inherent to straight hair.  This may not be a matter of unhealthy hair or the effects of too many chemicals.  In fact, it is the natural state of curly or wavy hair to reflect light.  The strands are bent and therefore light will bounce off the hair, giving an appearance of dryness.  

Straight hair, on the other hand does not reflect light with bent strands, therefore smooth straight hair looks sleek and polished.  The Sedu Straightener adds a glaze to the top layer (or cuticle) of the hair shaft, and the result is hair full of shine and shimmer.  The Sedu uses Ionic technology to achieve its lustrous effects.  

Ionic technology diffuses the positively charged atoms on the hair shaft that cause the hair to lose its luster.  By holding the Sedu and sliding it over the hair, the Ionic will diffuse the atoms and create a glossy shine to the hair.  This will even cause split ends to be mended back together.  Of course, once the hair is wet it will lose the temporary effects from the Sedu Straightener. 

However, this is a wonderful way to achieve straight hair without using harsh chemicals that can damage the hair's inner layers.  Now, you can wear your hair with the look, feel, shine, and gloss that you have only imagined possible.


