Title: 
Get the Latest Runway Looks Without Paying a High Price

Word Count:
286

Summary:
Summer presents lots of occasions for dressing up, such as weddings, date nights and other special events. But stepping out in style doesn't have to cost a lot, says Star Jones, co-host on "The View."


Keywords:
Get the Latest Runway Looks Without Paying a High Price


Article Body:
Summer presents lots of occasions for dressing up, such as weddings, date nights and other special events. But stepping out in style doesn't have to cost a lot, says Star Jones, co-host on "The View." 

Jones is helping women find high-fashion styles without the high price tag with her Summer Collection - six new dress sandal styles available at Payless ShoeSource stores and online at Payless.com. 

"My Starlet by Star Jones styles for summer stress the hottest runway looks of the season, offering instant glam - each pair for under $30 - to complete your summertime outfits," Jones said. 

Jones has become well-recognized for her fashion-at-a-value philosophy and is a renowned shoe lover. She worked hand-in-hand with the Payless designers to create her Starlet Summer Collection, emphasizing the latest trends of the season including T-straps, ankle wraps and slides; kitten heels; bright summer colors; textures like faux croc; and embellishments like the modern circle and O-ring, flowers, and jewels. 

Pairing these styles with all the latest "must have" trends of the season is easy, Jones said. 

"One of my favorites is an ankle wrap slide with a knotted design that rests delicately atop the foot," she said. "It's hot white, sexy and a great complement to a tropical skirt or pants - the hottest pattern this summer. Or you can take my fabulous lime green or pink colored croco slide with its easy kitten heel and match it with an outfit in pink and green - certainly the coolest color combination of the season."

The shoes are stylish, affordable and philanthropic; Jones donates a portion of her proceeds from the sale of the Starlet by Star Jones line to the Starlet Fund, a nonprofit organization benefiting deserving women and girls.  - NU


