Title: 
Going Ga-Ga for Designer Diaper Bags

Word Count:
374

Summary:
A wonderful article about the latest designer diaper bags


Keywords:
designer,fashion,purses,handbags,luggage


Article Body:
With so many celebrities having babies these days, it is only natural that fashion designers are coming out with fashionable diaper bags.  Designers such as Kate Spade, Burberry, DKNY, and many others have released new diaper bags as of late.  These bags are as stylish as they are useful, and they are enough to make a girl want settle down and start a family.

While researching this article, I discovered that these bags come in countless shapes and patterns.  They are not only being marketed to new mommies, but to their husbands too!  A company called Diaper Dudes has an awesome collection of bags for sale.  They are simple messenger bag-type designs, with various pockets for diapers, wipes, and baby bottles.  They even come with a padded changing pad.  These bags are available in a distinct camouflage pattern.

Timi and Leslie diaper bags have been photographed countless times, as of late.  They have almost become as popular as the celebrities that sport them.  Celebrities using these fine products include Hillary Swank, Jennifer Garner, and Faith Hill.  Timi and Leslie have a number of designs available, ranging from backpack-style to smaller purse-like bags.  They also come with matching diaper changing pads, and carrying cases for smaller items.

Isabella Fiore also has some brilliant designs.  She has been one of my favorite designers for some time now.  She has a diaper bag that would be simply perfect for summer.  It has a bubble-like design printed on it, and it is very colorful and fun.  It is approximately 16 inches long, 10 inches high and 6 inches deep.  I love it because it is large enough to accommodate all of your baby's necessities, but it is no bigger than the average purse.  This bag has FUN written all over it!

Coach is another company that is starting to produce some wonderful products with this demographic in mind.  They, however, have taken things a step further.  Not only do they design and manufacture some wonderful diaper bags, they are now selling baby clothes and toys to match the diaper bags.  What a brilliant and thoughtful innovation!  All this talk of babies is starting to make me think about starting a family.  Now if only I could meet a decent man……


