Title: 
Hairstyle Fads: How Much Attention Should You Pay To Them?

Word Count:
421

Summary:
Doesn’t it always seem that once a fad has caught the eye of the fashion-conscious, you see the same hairstyle everywhere on everyone of every walk of life? I mean, think about the “bowl” cut of the 90s. Everyone had that cut including men, women and children. I kid you not when I say that while working at the salon I did 20 of these haircuts in one day. I thought I was going to be sick. And that fad hung around for years until everyone was sick.

Granted, it is very tempti...


Keywords:
Hair, hairstyle, beauty, fashion


Article Body:
Doesn’t it always seem that once a fad has caught the eye of the fashion-conscious, you see the same hairstyle everywhere on everyone of every walk of life? I mean, think about the “bowl” cut of the 90s. Everyone had that cut including men, women and children. I kid you not when I say that while working at the salon I did 20 of these haircuts in one day. I thought I was going to be sick. And that fad hung around for years until everyone was sick.

Granted, it is very tempting to go out and get the latest hairstyle fad. In some cases, doing so can make you look like you are on the cutting edge of fashion. In other cases, getting a fad cut can make you look like a copycat with no fashion sense of your own. So, how do you know if it is okay to follow a particular fad? 

First, you should think about the reasons you want a particular cut. Is it because you really like the style and think it would blend well with and compliment your style of dress or do you simply want the cut because so and so has it? When it comes to style and hairstyles in particular, what you wear is an expression of who you are. You should never get a style because someone else wears it and it works well for them. Instead, choose styles that are true to your character even if no one else has them.

Next, you should consider how many other people are wearing the style. If there are only a few and the style is relegated to certain social circles that you are a part of, it might be a good idea to get the cut especially if it is an expression of your style of dress. But if everyone is getting the cut, you would look like you were trying to copy off of everyone else instead of being yourself. 

If there are relatively few people that you have seen wearing the cut and none in the area where you live, a fad cut that suits your personality could be a great way to set you apart from the others. For example: You see a great hairstyle on a movie that you think is perfect for you. Go ahead, get the cut, but be sure to change your style once everyone else has caught onto the idea. Doing so will make you a fad setter instead of a fad follower.


