Title: 
How to find cheap designer perfume

Word Count:
379

Summary:
Designer perfume should not necessarily cost a lot. If you know where to look for, you can easily get pricey perfume


Keywords:
Cheap Perfume,designer perfume ,discount perfume,perfume


Article Body:
How to Find Cheap Perfume

If you are into wearing the trendiest celebrity, designer perfumes like everyone else, you need to get ready spending a small fortune. Most of the perfumes cost hundreds of dollars for one ounce and buying additional products can run you into huge dollar figures. Designer perfume should not necessarily cost a lot. If you know where to look for, you can easily get pricey perfume cheap.

Locate the Right Places

As long as there is no sale at the department stores, skip them if you want to find cheap perfume. Otherwise you will end up paying overpriced amounts for the brand, Instead of hitting the cosmetics counter at the mall department stores, visit a perfume outlet.

Many shopping centers now have perfume outlets, but if your local shopping center doesn’t have one, make effort to drive to an outlet and you will be satisfied with the money you can save. The majority perfume outlets sell designer perfume low-priced. Most of the time they will not have a lot of supplementary products made from your favorite fragrance, however you can generally find most brands of cologne or perfume from thirty to seventy percent off. Just ensure you are buying the actual designer brand and not a knock off. While a knock off can smell just like the brand you love, it usually has a much higher alcohol substance, and most importantly its scent will go off almost instantly.

One other way to find a cheap perfume is to check on discount stores that sell department store seconds and last year’s fashions. Ross, Marshalls, and TJ Maxx are the right places to go to find variety of designer perfume cheap. Just make sure you check the bottles as perfumes are not locked behind cosmetic counters, you may go home with half bottle of your favorite scent.
My favorite is auction sites; you cannot get a better deal anywhere else, sites such as eBay and others will solve your problem. Most of the people sell their unwanted gifts will be just happy to get any amount of money.
Final advice, never ever pay full price for designer perfume. You can buy the best brands of perfume cheap, if you know the right places to look.


