Title: 
How to Determine if a Site is Selling Authentic Designer Handbags

Word Count:
439

Summary:
Many websites on the internet sell handbags. Many of them claim they are authentic, some don't exactly say authentic but trick you into thinking replicas are authentic. In reality, it takes a smart shopper to determine which sites can be trusted. This guide will help you apply good judgment in determining which sites sell authentic products.


Keywords:
Fendi, Prada, Marc Jacobs, handbags, purses, designer handbags, authentic handbags, fashion, purses


Article Body:
Many websites on the internet sell handbags. Many of them claim they are authentic, some don't exactly say authentic but trick you into thinking replicas are authentic. In reality, it takes a smart shopper to determine which sites can be trusted. Many of the sites do indeed sell authentic handbags at discounted prices, and you shouldn't let a few bad apples ruin your chance at scoring a bargain. Just do your due diligence and you will come out on top -- and with a beautiful handbag that you paid only a fraction of what your girlfriends paid for it.

Here are some simple tips to help you determine whether the site is selling authentic handbags:

1. Guarantee: A web site selling authentic hand bags will always have an authenticity guarantee: Authentic or your money back. For example, at www.LuxEurope.com, there is an authenticity guarantee not once, but 4 times on just the front page. If there isn't one, you should be concerned.

2. Quality: If a website is claiming that their bags are "high quality", then this may be a cause for concern. Designer brand name handbags have a brand for a reason -- the brand speaks for the quality, and it's constant throughout. They may be talking about good quality knockoffs. However, this is not a dealbreaker... it may just be a store owner's mistake. 

3. Chinese connections: Chinese companies usually sell fakes. Try going to a WHOIS service (http://www.whois.sc) and enter the domain name. If it's registered to a Chinese company you should be concerned. This is not to say that the Chinese are illegitimate businessmen, but rather, there is less enforcement in China and more availability of fakes. 

4. Contact: Any trustworthy web site will list a street address. If a web site does not list a street address or phone number, you should not do business with them. This applies to any online shopping site.

6. Return policy: Stay away from web sites that will not take returns.


There is not one simple formula to determine if the handbags are authentic. It's a matter of your own personal judgment. You should not be afraid of shopping for handbags online because of this. Don't let low prices scare you away -- they can indeed be bought for 70% off retail. However, apply your own judgment and make sure you can contact the company and return the bag should you desire to do so. Read the descriptions, company information, etc. -- don't just look at pictures. If you are confident after viewing all these things, then you should enjoy your purchase and get out there and show off your new authentic handbag!

luxeuro0606


