Title: 
How To Look Like A Star Without Spending The Moon

Word Count:
954

Summary:
The stars are both in Hollywood and the firmament. Both types of stars, from a distance, look exotic, beautiful and perfect. The idea of a film actor being a “star” is connected to the fact that they are someone so famous that their name and image instantly connects with and attracts the public. Like the stars that are celestial bodies, they light up the darkness—the film star does so in a darkened movie theatre, while the stars above are the constant lights in the eternally ...


Keywords:
How,to,look,like,a,Star,without,Spending,the,Moon


Article Body:
The stars are both in Hollywood and the firmament. Both types of stars, from a distance, look exotic, beautiful and perfect. The idea of a film actor being a “star” is connected to the fact that they are someone so famous that their name and image instantly connects with and attracts the public. Like the stars that are celestial bodies, they light up the darkness—the film star does so in a darkened movie theatre, while the stars above are the constant lights in the eternally black night sky.

Everyday—on television, in print media, across the Internet—we see images of perfect Hollywood bodies. Halle Berry, Brad Pitt, Angelina Jolie, and Denzel Washington are just a few of those people who have set the standard to which many of us believe we should aspire.

Of course, part of the business of being a film celebrity is creating the right look, style and image. Film is a visual medium and half of the battle for a star is looking like that perfect image that we all have of them. It’s their bread and butter and when a movie star starts to age, put on weight or lose their hair, they no longer fit the mold that they’ve created and inhabited for years. Often, their livelihood is thought to be in doubt.

But for most of us, looking like a million bucks is not a primary concern. It usually won’t affect our job status, and as our bodies change most of us don’t have millions of fans that we’re frightened of alienating. But many people dream of looking glamorous, beautiful, iridescent—as perfect as they can.

Here are five things that you can do to give yourself the star treatment without spending a celebrity’s salary.

1) Cubic Zirconia Jewelry: Remember Marilyn Monroe (talk about a star!) when she sang Diamonds Are a Girl’s Best Friend in Gentlemen Prefer Blondes? Well, Cubic Zirconia is a girl’s best-kept secret. Cubic Zirconia jewelry looks like an expensive, brilliant, faultless piece but carries a fraction of the cost. Tasteful and elegant, they’ll give you that star look you long for, while never giving away your thrifty secret. These manufactured stones look precious in their beautiful settings. Wear them with confidence and grace.

2) Tasteful Clothing: Trendy garb can be fun to wear and, in a way, there’s nothing wrong with it. But consider what most of the beautiful people wear. Sure, there’s always a trendsetter, but most celebs wouldn’t be caught dead in something that looks bad on them, no matter how popular the style may be. Also, you’re bound to go broke keeping up with fads. Invest in clothing that, first, compliments your frame; don’t go for the latest fashion if it doesn’t make you look good or runs counter to who you really are. The cut, line and form should conform to your frame, making you look your best. You need to define the clothes you wear as much as they define you.

3) Pamper Yourself: Treat yourself to a new set of nails, cleansing facial and therapeutic massage. You can get the full treatment for under $200. Some places offer group rates, allowing you to save money, while you share the experience with a few of your best friends. You can even make it a full-day and night experience. Indulge yourself at the spa, do some shopping and go to dinner. Individually, you’ll all look and feel fantastic, and together you can admire and praise one another.

4) Hey, knock it off! When you see those stars make their way down the red carpet wearing designer attire and accessories, you’re thinking, “Hey, if I had their money, I’d look awesome too!” Take some time to shop around. You can find clothing and accessories that look identical to Hollywood fashions but for a small percentage of the cost of the designer originals. Knock-offs are inspired by the look, style and feel of master designers but are made from less expensive materials, show fewer details and are not as carefully crafted. You can even find beautiful recreations of the star’s diamonds in Cubic Zirconia jewelry. To the naked eye, it’s tough to discern the real thing from the fake. Simply, fake it!

5) Break a leg! When someone says, “break a leg,” to an actor, they don’t mean literally. It’s a way to wish a performer good luck without saying the dread words “good luck.” (It’s bad luck to say “good luck” to an actor.) But the idea of “breaking your leg” as an actor relates to the performer being relaxed and confident. (The “broken leg” occurs when an actor bends his leg at the knee, making the break and revealing himself to be calm and self-assured.) The thought being that you can’t act without being sure of yourself. One of the things that makes a Hollywood celebrity a star is the confidence they exude. They look good because they are poised and secure in everything they do. So break a leg in real life. Carry yourself with energy, focus and assurance. If you look good and radiate positive energy, you’ll feel good and make others feel the same way.

The bottom line for those aspiring to celestial heights is that they want to make themselves feel special, like those elite on the big screen, in the magazines and on television. One thing to keep in mind—all of those “stars” have many private moments when they look nothing like that perfect image they portray to the public. The only place people always look perfect is in the movies.


