Title: 
How much for that designer handbag!

Word Count:
475

Summary:
A peek into the world of ultra expensive designer handbags. Wealthy handbag fanatics can spend up to $30,000 on a single purse!


Keywords:
Fendi purses, Juicy Couture purses


Article Body:
For as long as I can recall, I have been completely obsessed with designer handbags.  I spent the majority of my youth dreaming of the day when I could afford to buy my favorite designer handbags.  Here I am, some ten years later, still looking forward to that day.  While I have been known to skip out on my bills to buy the latest trendy handbag, I have yet to spend more than $1000.00 on an individual bag.  A girl can still dream, can't she?

I was leafing through some catalogs over the weekend, and I was amazed at how incredibly expensive some of the high-end designer handbags really are.  I knew they were expensive, but I had no clue how very expensive.  Oh…the innocence of youth!  I decided that it would be useful for our legion of faithful readers to have a handy reference of the most expensive designer handbags on the planet.  So here it goes…

It has been written about countless times in the press and in the blogosphere, but I simply cannot resist this little gem!  If I had to name an all-time favorite design house, Fendi would be the one.  I don't know how they manage to do it, but they are consistently able to strike an incredible balance between innovation and classic design in all of their creations.  Fendi designs some of the most exciting handbags in the fashion industry, and the "B.Bag" is one of the most sought-after handbags in the world.  One might think that the $30,000 price tag might be a deterrent, but not for those with the means to support their addiction!

Another bag that has given me far too many sleepless nights is the Hermes "Birkin" bag!  These bags were named after Jane Birkin, the oh-so-fabulous British actress and fashion icon.  These bags are often duplicated, but never truly replicated.  With a price tag of over $20,000, it is easy to understand why they are a favorite of vendors of cheap, imitation handbags.  As you are likely aware, these bags are available by special order only.  Furthermore, the final costs will very much be dependent on the materials and hardware used in their construction.  Wow!  Do I need a Sugar Daddy, or what?

If there was one other bag that creeps into my dreams with any regularity, it would be the "Muse" from Yves Saint Laurent.  It is very much like a traditional bowling bag in shape and design.  The first time I saw her was at Saks on Fifth Ave in NYC, and from that moment I knew one day she would be mine.  If I had my way, I would choose the oh-so-supple white crocodile version.  I cannot think of anything I would rather spend $20,000 on…aside from the "Birkin" bag mentioned above.  Wouldn't I make the perfect girlfriend?  Wanna go shopping sometime?


