Title: 
Jewellery Trends for spring and summer - 2008

Word Count:
549

Summary:
Jewellery has been an exquisitely cherished fashion accessory for many years. In ancient times, it was believed that jewellery was helpful to ward off evil spirits. It was also a status symbol indicating the position of the persons standing in the community. During the course of time jewellery has become a sought after fashion accessory in every persons  wardrobe.


Keywords:
Fashion, Trends, jewellery, design


Article Body:
Jewelery Trends for 2008: Classic costume jewellery will be the hot fashion for spring and summer of 2008. The color that would be in demand will be blue. Blue topaz and aquamarine jewellery will be the most sought after ones. Followed by blue, will be the hue of purple lending popularity to amethyst, with green adding more value to peridot gemstones. Jewellery items with blue jade, blue opals, moonstones, sapphires, lapis lazuli, and handmade lamp work beads in blue will be the charm of the season. Counterpoint color for purple will be gemstones like citrine, yellow topaz, amber, and canary diamond jewellery. Sterling silver with paramount cubic zirconia will be considered as an alluring substitute for diamonds. Cubic zirconia is the worlds premium diamond alternative. Combined with sterling silver, it has a warm look of white gold or platinum and possesses a rich look of a diamond. Diamonds will always have its importance and demand, but the prices are real budget busters, and may not always suit the consumers resources. The same jewellery, done in cubic zirconia and sterling silver will have an elegant look, and can be purchased at a fraction of the price. Cubic zirconia will be inevitable in every jewellery collection.

Fall trends for 2008 also include Greek and Latin black. Black onyx, simulated black diamonds, and classic black pearls will be the perfect accessories that never go out of style, and the upcoming season will see this classic color creating ripples in the world of jewelry. Necklaces, bracelets and earrings in layers is in trend this season, combined with unusual smaller shapes on top of larger pieces of silver, copper, or gold. Antique look is always popular during the fall and winter months. Teardrop stones in all sizes and color will be in craze. Gold and silver earrings with an inlay of turquoise or mother of pearl and silver hoop earrings with cultured freshwater pearls hanging in the center will find its way into the fashion world.

Bridal Jewellery: Tungsten rings and jewellery has become the hottest and fastest growing trend in jewelry segment because of it unique and intriguing appearance, durability and cost. Titanium rings and titanium jewelry are also quite durable, yet extremely lightweight and comes in traditional titanium color or the popular black titanium. It is also is hypoallergenic and hence is ideal for people with sensitive skin. Bride Grooms Ornaments: Tungsten Carbide Watches along with tungsten rings, platinum, or titanium rings will create a bold and classy look as carbide works with any style of jewellery.

Brides Jewellery: Traditional heart pendant with the new vibe of titanium fashion and diamond heart necklaces will be in vogue. Titanium is creating waves both in quality and price topped with a stunning look. Despite the fact that metal colors are always a popular fashion for brides, cool tones of titanium and tungsten jewellery would also make a charming appearance. The global market for gems and jewellery today is US$ 85 billion with key markets having an average compounded annual growth rate of 5-10 per cent in the last decade. Some jewelry trends will move on to become classics, while most others will be passing fads that may be out of style a year from now. The trick is to pick classic designs that will stand the test of time.


