Title: 
Ladylike Looks And Delicate Details

Word Count:
302

Summary:
Spring's fashion runways showcased clean-cut and demure collections with feminine embellishments and silhouettes.


Keywords:
Ladylike Looks And Delicate Details


Article Body:
Spring's fashion runways showcased clean-cut and demure collections with feminine embellishments and silhouettes. 

Designers favor nude and natural tones such as taupe, moss and ivory, while paying tribute to traditional spring pastels such as lilac and mint.

Chadwick's, a popular online fashion resource for career and casual clothing, offers tips on how to update your wardrobe as the air gets balmier: 

Ladylike Silhouettes

Jackets elevate an outfit in both career and casual occasions and are cut shorter this season. 

Fashion brands like Chadwick's offer a variety of stylish features such as 3/4 sleeves, peplum skirting, wide lapels and standup collars.

Try pairing a shrunken linen blazer in a soothing earth tone with a pair of white jeans for a sophisticated yet casual look that is straight off the runways.

After lingering right above the knee for the past several seasons, hemlines have dipped down to midcalf this spring. 

Pack midcalf-length skirts in a wide array of colors, prints and fabrics for business trips and weekend getaways alike. Denim Bermuda shorts cut just above the knee are a stylish way to enjoy sunny days.

Frilly and Feminine Details

Move over, winter wools and tweeds! This spring, lacy shirts will flatter suits, pom-poms and ruffles will adorn dresses and chiffon will softly drape bare arms. This feminine trend translates into delicate lace trims at necklines and hems on camisoles and long-sleeve tees. 

If you've always longed to wear crochet-this is the season to do it. 

Embellished Footwear

The stiletto, fall's ever-popular staple, steps aside this spring for playful espadrilles, wedges and platforms. Metallic sandals in silver and bronze are cosmopolitan yet surprisingly easy to pull off. Try playful touches of macramé and eyelet this season. 

Crochet espadrilles have a vintage appeal when paired with sundresses and make a simple, feminine statement when worn with denim.


