Title: 
Lingerie's Coming Out Party

Word Count:
293

Summary:
Undergarments have gone over the top. The latest trend in lingerie is to pair favorite pieces with a ready-to-wear garment, allowing women to show off certain types of lingerie that they couldn't--or wouldn't--show in the past.


Keywords:
Lingerie's Coming Out Party


Article Body:
Undergarments have gone over the top. The latest trend in lingerie is to pair favorite pieces with a ready-to-wear garment, allowing women to show off certain types of lingerie that they couldn't-or wouldn't-show in the past. 

You probably don't need to be a fashion historian to know that this trend marks a change in fashion rules dating back for decades. Yet stylists say it's an idea whose time has come-and one that's truly taking off. 

For instance, Spiegel Brands Inc. recently launched Cami Intimate®-a line that features five collections of sexy, stylish lingerie that's just "too pretty to hide." Each collection is paired with a coordinating sweater or cardigan that allows the lingerie to tastefully "peek out." Here's a closer look: 

&#8226; The Flirty Collection features chic, ultimately comfortable, seamless mesh lingerie embellished with gorgeous floral embroidery. All pieces are designed with nylon and spandex to provide comfort and a perfect fit. 

&#8226; The Chic Collection includes seamless bras, panties and camisoles that are designed like a second skin to eliminate panty lines or lingerie seams. A special process constructs each piece to create a smooth look under lightweight, body-conscious fabrics and knits. These sleek, sophisticated styles provide comfortable support. 

&#8226; The Sexy Collection consists of exquisitely detailed mesh lingerie with overlays of scalloped lace. Each piece is made from soft, seamless nylon, with rayon for shimmer and spandex for a great fit and comfort. 

&#8226; The Beautiful Collection features classically beautiful lingerie embellished with extravagantly scalloped stretch lace trim. All pieces are designed from soft, seamless nylon with spandex for fit and comfort. 

&#8226; The Glamorous Collection consists of beautifully embroidered satin lingerie in soft, expressive colors for a vintage appeal. Each piece is constructed from smooth nylon with Lycra for a better fit and control.


