Title: 
Look like a celebrity this summer!

Word Count:
391

Summary:
What do the stars look for in a pair of sunglasses? A look at some of your favorite celebrities and their style of shades.


Keywords:
sunglasses, designer sunglasses, celebrity sunglasses


Article Body:
Every celebrity out there knows the real value of a pair of designer sunglasses.  Whether it's to hide the effects of a late night out on the town or an effort to blend in on the street, a pair of quality sunglasses is absolutely indispensable.  We've seen a lot of trends come and go, but a great pair of sunglasses will always transcend the passing fads of the day.

With the summer just around the corner, we have begun our fashion trend spotting efforts for 2006.  Like years passed, celebrities are on the forefront of eyewear fashion.  One of my favorite pastimes is to monitor the fashion trends of my favorite celebrities.  As with last season, big sunglasses are all the rage for the ladies.  God bless you, Jackie O!

Carmen Electra is one of my favorite celebrities, and one of the most stylish women in entertainment.  While I could do without another season of her dreadful "reality" television show, I am dying to get my hands on a pair of the Missoni shades she was recently spotted in.  They are oversized and oh-so-glamorous!  

Catherine Zeta-Jones may have a thing for old, outdated actors but her fashion sense is as fresh as a spring breeze.  I recently saw her sporting a pair of Dolce & Gabbana glasses that were out of this world!  I suspect they were the utterly amazing "4005" model.  They were black, with the D&G logo designed into the arms of the glasses.  The shades are big, bold, and beautiful!

Heidi Klum, our favorite supermodel and partygirl, has incredible fashion sense.  I saw a picture of her earlier this week wearing a classic pair of Aviator shades.  While a number of people in the fashion industry have been lamenting the prevalence of Aviator shades, I couldn't imagine a world without them.  Heidi was wearing a pair made by Ray Ban, and they were absolutely fabulous!  

Speaking of partygirls, how could I go on without mentioning Paris Hilton?  I adore Paris.  She may not be taken seriously as an actress or singer, but she reigns supreme over the fashion world.  She was recently spotted wearing a pair of the new Oakley glasses for women.  That's right, kids.  Oakley just launched a new line of shades exclusively for women, and they are the must-have item for this fashion year.  Believe the Hype!


