Title: 
Many Girls Start Off Wearing The Wrong Size Bra.

Word Count:
554

Summary:
Do you know what Size you are? Have you had yourself measured by an expert? What will you be using the bra for, support, sports, coverage etc..?


Keywords:
bras, sports bra, nursing bra, plus size bra,


Article Body:
Do you know what Size you are? Have you had yourself measured by an expert? What will you be using the bra for, support, sports, coverage etc..? 

Many girls don't start off with the right bra and carry on making this mistake through most of their lives. As teens are constantly growing, the strains that can be caused by a poorly fitting bra can lead to later problems with posture and back pain. That?s why we suggest that you should be measured by a bra expert at least twice a year or after every evident growth. A first bra is not an all-rounder, it is not suitable for every occasion. Nowadays, Bras are available in many varieties; support, sports, wireless, underwired, backless, strapless and the list goes on. You should really have a variety of bras, each one for a specific activity and role. 

A few helpful tips: 
A bra should not be too tight, as a teenager?s breasts are still developing. 
The most important thing to remember is comfort. 
Make sure the bra strap doesn't cut into your shoulders. 
Make sure your breasts don't hang out of the bottom, sides or top of the bra. 
Support is not only for large cup sizes. Smaller cup sizes need support too, to avoid unsightly future stretch marks. 
A simple training bra, or Sports Bra will be perfect for your fist one, and they are available in all sizes from small, medium to large. Training bras are for younger girls who have started to develop breasts but do not fit into the average bra sizes. If your breasts are larger than average and require a full fitting bra, then you should wear one, no matter what your age! 

With all this information at hand, you are now armed with the tools to find yourself the best fitting first bra. Many women have had to endure years of discomfort and sometimes, unbearable pain, simply because they weren?t advised on the right type of bra to wear. Now that you know what to look for, it?s time to narrow down your search and have a look at some of the most recommended bras available at the moment. 

We have whittled the list of bras down to five, so that your choice is made a little easier. 

Playtex Seamless Lace Soft Cup Bra 
This bra is perfect to fit small sizes. It has soft, knitted lace cups, lightly-lined to add to your natural shape. Available in sizes 32AA to 36A, and 34AA to 38B. 

Playtex Small-Busted Fully Padded Bra 
A perfect bra with extra shaping that adds up to a full cup size. It comes with adjustable and elasticized straps to accommodate for natural growth. Available in sizes 32 to 36A and 32 to 38B. 

Maidenform Satin French Demi Bra 
This bra has angled cups to create a shapely uplift. The light lining helps avoid show-through. Available in sizes 32 to 36A, 32 to 38B and 34 to 38C. 

Wacoal Petites Seamless Wireless Contour 
A cotton lined soft cup bra that offers comfort and a natural shape. Includes an elastic double hook back, to allow for natural growth. 

Amoena Elegant Soft Cup 
Perfect for girls as a great first timer. Streamlined with a soft fabric, this bra goes unnoticed under your clothes. You?ll hardly notice you got it on!


