Title: 
Mastectomy Bras Can Give You back Your Confidence and Shape!

Word Count:
376

Summary:
Sometimes, women can lose one or both breasts when undergoing a mastectomy treatment for breast cancer. Mastectomy Bras are designed to hold a prosthesis in the place of natural breasts.


Keywords:
bras, sports bra, nursing bra, plus size bra,


Article Body:
Sometimes, women can lose one or both breasts when undergoing a mastectomy treatment for breast cancer. Mastectomy Bras are designed to hold a prosthesis in the place of natural breasts. 

A mastectomy is a common surgical procedure for breast cancer and involves removing the breast. An artificial breast, called a prosthesis, is then attached to take the place of the removed breast. 

This procedure can not only leave physical scars but emotional ones as well. A lot of us women tend to become recluses after mastectomies, thankfully now-a-days, there's plenty of help at hand. 

It's A Great Alternative For Breast Reconstruction. 

Mastectomy bras are great alternatives for women who do not wish to undergo surgical breast reconstruction immediately. Instead, if a woman chooses to wear a breast prosthesis that does not adhere directly to the skin, she will need to wear a special mastectomy bra with pockets for the prosthesis. 

Most women will be able to wear a breast prosthesis within 2 - 8 weeks of the surgery, when the physician is satisfied that the area has completely healed. However, in some cases, the duration can be longer. 

Mastectomy bras are designed with special pockets in the cup area and these pockets are meant to hold the prosthesis. 

A good fitting prostheses and well designed mastectomy bra are important, since they help balance your posture and also provide protection for your chest and breast cancer wounds or scars. They will also help you reduce your chances of having back problems, neck and shoulder pains. 

Feel Like The Old You Again! 

If the mastectomy bras you wear make people think that you've got plans to join a nunnery, then cheer up! Purely reading about mastectomy bras may make them sound pretty dull and drab. However, there are many attractive bras that come in various colours, including white, ivory, black, beige, etc. 

A wide range of styles and designs are being added to the market every day. These bras incorporate the latest in fashion and will make you feel like your old, normal self again. 

Some stores even allow you to select normal bras and fit in the special pockets separately, to make them mastectomy bras. This is extremely convenient for women who don?t think mastectomy bras do them justice.


