Title: 
New Polymer Clay Jewelry Trends

Word Count:
483

Summary:
Learn about the variety of unique jewelry you can create with polymer clay. This article discusses more about the various jewelry pieces you can create with polymer clay. In the creative and striking world of jewelry design, there are many different materials available for artisans to make into jewelry.


Keywords:
Polymer ClayProjects, Techniques, Patterns, Crafts, Jewelry, Sculpey, Fimo Clay, Free Ideas for, Beads, Supply, Tutorials, Figures, Sculptures, How to Make Beads, Molds


Article Body:
However, the most common choice include typical materials such as metals, gemstones, and possibly glass, but if you look at other available options you will find that there are many other things that can be made into excellent jewelry.

And one such material to make jewelry and perhaps the most popular new sensation in jewelry is polymer clay. Polymer clay is a definite type of clay that is quite different from modeling or pottery clay. It is fashioned from PVC plastic and a type of plasticizer chemical that keeps the clay moldable and soft until it baked into a final shape. Once you use this material, you will find that there are certainly many opportunities while working with it. Many people will wonder how the polymer clay jewelry gets all the colors and sparkle that most of them exhibit and catch the eye. This can be added to it through the use of micas, which are colored pigments, and metallic sparkles and kaolin clay which makes the polymer opaque, make it a very diverse and easily workable medium for creation.

This type of the clay is also definitely a good choice for people who are interested in making jewelry at home. Another great part of polymer clay is that it does not need high temperatures to be baked; in fact for the proper results a home oven can do the job. With the wide popularity, artisans can also find a couple of brands that are well known. These brands include FIMO and Sculpy. Finding these brands is not a difficult task as most of the major craft stores and suppliers carry these brands of clay in many different colors, ranging from fluorescent and day glow hues to metallic shades like silver and gold. In this material, the metallic colors can easily be shaped and used as a replacement for working in the metals themselves, which makes jewelry creation more accessible to designers.

Another amazing benefit this material offers is the lesser number of tools that are needed in order to fashion and create jewelry. Most designers conveniently use a pasta roller machine in order to flatten their clay to desired thickness, and also to acclimatize the clay for use. With this the clay can be easily rolled and shaped into whatever designs the designer wants to use it for. If you want a piece of jewelry that is colorful, less costly and unique then definitely try something made out of this material. Whether you choose to buy it ready made or create your own pieces, this clay jewelry can be a great way to express yourself. Once you have the basics down, experiment with different varieties and brands, each of which has a different level of pliability. You can also get this clay in a variety of effects, such as translucent, iridescent, and glow-in-the-dark, to create beads and jewelry that are truly unmatched.


