Title: 
Silicone Bracelets: Fad, Fashion, or Mainstay?

Word Count:
615

Summary:
The fashionable fad of silicone wristbands appears to be fading. But is it truly? Clark Swihart is quite convincing in his explanation of why custom silicone bracelets are no longer a fad, but a mainstay.


Keywords:
silicone bracelets, silicone wristbands, laser-engraved bracelets, laser-engraved wristbands, printed wristbands, printed bracelets, debossed bracelets, embossed bracelets, debossed wristbands, embossed wristbands


Article Body:
Awareness Bracelet Craze

Ever since Lance Armstrong started the silicone wristband craze with the release of his yellow “LIVESTRONG” wristbands, millions of people worldwide have discovered a new and effective method of supporting their favorite causes.  Today, there is almost every color imaginable to be found on these ubiquitous silicone bracelets; each one performing their part in raising awareness for a multitude of diseases and causes. What does the future hold for this latest fad to take our society (and a plethora of others worldwide) by storm?

Fashionable Fad

Although silicone wristbands have become incredibly popular, it is exceptionally difficult to argue that they are the height of fashion.  Even with the cachet factor, it is essential to remember that they are made of rubber.  Very few consumers are choosing to wear their awareness bracelets to the ball or senior prom.    However, this does not translate into these wristbands as being “unfashionable” either.  Indeed, silicone wristbands have become a “fashionable fad.”  A fad, by definition, is a “short-lived fashion…something that is embraced very enthusiastically for a short time, especially by many people.”  Undoubtedly, many people have enthusiastically embraced silicone bracelets.  But, just how short-lived is this awareness bracelet craze?

From Fad to Mainstay

Simple market analysis reveals to us a dichotomy in the silicone wristband industry.  Retail sales are beginning to lag, yet manufacturers are producing silicone bracelets in record quantities, with no end in sight.  How is this possible?  Simple.  The fad is fading but a new, effective, and inexpensive mainstay has taken its place – the custom silicone wristband.  Silicone bracelets have already proven themselves effective for fundraising.  Now, their fully customized cousins are proving even more effective at targeting a variety of smaller causes, and they are making a dramatic push into corporate promotions and trade shows.  Custom silicone wristbands are being adopted by small non-profit organizations, large corporations, and everything in between as a powerful tool for spreading their message, promoting their brand, and announcing new products or even entirely new businesses.  Is the key chain a fad?  Is the coffee mug, pen, calendar, mouse pad, or T-shirt a fad?  No, these items are here to stay.  Custom silicone wristbands are here to stay as well.  Customized bracelets are more than just a simple promotional or fundraising item.  They are walking billboards.  Human nature dictates that we share anything that we have received free with practically everyone we meet.  If we have purchased a custom silicone wristband to support our local sports team, church youth group, or favorite small charity, human nature often dictates that we share this good deed as well.  

The Bottom Line

The bottom line is that custom silicone wristbands can and will be used by all types of organizations large and small.  They are an inexpensive and incredibly effective marketing tool that puts an exciting twist on word-of-mouth advertising and viral marketing.  Organizations are beginning to realize that an investment of mere pennies per wristband has the potential to reach dozens of prospective customers with each fully customized bracelet introduced into their target market.  In addition, local schools, churches, and small non-profit organizations recognize the benefits of bolstering school spirit or spreading their message while raising funds at the same time.  So, if you are looking for the silicone bracelet fad to fade any time soon, look again.  Custom silicone wristbands are not only here to stay, you can expect to see even more of them as everyone from small local churches to huge corporate conglomerates jump on board.  With the possible combinations of colors, messages, designs, and even sizes being infinite, creative minds everywhere will be looking to harness the power of the custom silicone wristband.


