Title: 
Simon Carter - The King of Cufflinks

Word Count:
409

Summary:
An overview of the UK fashion designer Simon Carter who is widely regarded as the world's leading maker of cufflinks and other men's apparel and accessories.


Keywords:
cufflinks, accessories, ties, fashion, men


Article Body:
Before designer Simon Carter appeared on the UK fashion scene; cufflink designs were regarded as bland. However Simon Carter's very novel approach has changed the way cufflinks are designed and worn forever. Tweaked with tongue in cheek humour, Simon Carter gives men cufflinks we love to wear. 

The Simon Carter story so far…

Simon Carter began retailing pewter brooches and other jewellery for men in 1985 but really found his speciality when he started designing men's cufflinks in the late 1980s. Simon Carter launched exciting, colourful and unique cufflink designs and revolutionised the men's accessories market, which had long been stagnant. Simon Carter cufflinks were a massive success and the designer label began to grow. 

By the end of the 1990's Simon Carter continues to hold his position as UK's the leading designer of shirt cufflinks. He became famous for his uniqueness and variation of cufflink designs, many of which encompass humour and irony. 

Simon Carter cornered the cufflink market through iconic designs like the "Aspirin" cufflink (which stored tablets within the actual cufflink) and the "Crystal Dollar" cufflink (a bling statement for any banking professional). Frequently referred to as the `King Of Cufflinks', Simon Carter cufflink designs continue to lead the market today.

Ties, leather goods and then, a formal and casual range of men's clothing followed; all consistently adhering to the core values of the Simon Carter brand values of the Simon Carter brand, striking a chord with urban professionals looking to inject a contemporary lightness of touch in their own personal style.

Simon Carter's suits have become incredibly popular with the British and American celebrity elite. Indeed Simon Carter's wide collection of excellent quality suits has been very popular with customers and celebrities alike, including Will Smith & Jonathan Ross.

In October 2007, Simon Carter launched a flagship store in London's prestigious Covent Garden where the full range of Simon Carter men's clothing and accessories can be found under one roof.

As 2008 progresses, international expansion is a key focus for Simon Carter having launched a North American store (based in Toronto) in 2007. Look out for further stores worldwide, especially in Japan, a key market for Simon Carter with launches planned in Osaka and Tokyo. Likewise he continues to push international availability of his products which are already seen in over 30 countries worldwide with stockists including Selfridges (UK), Brown Thomas (Ireland), Bloomingdales (USA), and David Jones (Australia).

All in all, the future is looking very bright for Simon Carter indeed!


