Title: 
Six Ways to Look Spectacular in Eyeglasses

Word Count:
279

Summary:
A look at any fashion magazine, TV show or movie proves that eyeglasses are a hot fashion trend.


Keywords:
Six Ways to Look Spectacular in Eyeglasses


Article Body:
A look at any fashion magazine, TV show or movie proves that eyeglasses are a hot fashion trend. 

"With so many people wearing glasses, people are starting to use eyewear as an accessory to match their personal style," said Kristin Bonfield, accessories product manager of LensCrafters. 

The secret to looking good all the time, said Bonfield, is proper care habits that keep glasses looking great. 

1. Keep glasses sparkling. Nothing spoils your look like smudged, dirty lenses. Make cleaning a daily ritual. A spray bottle of professional eyeglass cleaner and soft micro-fiber cloth in your purse, car or desk drawer makes it easy.

2. Use the case. If you need to take your glasses off, put them in their case. Stuffing them in a pocket or purse is an invitation to scratching. 

3. Keep your shirt on. According to one study, 52 percent of people clean their glasses with their clothing. Dust and particles in clothes can scratch lenses. Even dry paper products can grind dust and fibers into the lens. Disposable moist cleaning towelettes make it easy to keep your world sparkling.

4. Give high-tech lenses high-tech care. Today's lenses are thinner, made of lighter materials and often have coatings that prevent glare or add other benefits. Don't damage them by using household cleaners. Even today's concentrated or "extra strength" dish soaps can damage coatings over time. Eyewear cleaners are formulated to safely remove fingerprints, cosmetics, dirt and grime. 

5. Wear goggles for do-it-yourself projects. Removing paint spatters with rough rubbing or chemicals can easily damage a lens. Sawdust and plaster dust can scratch or get ground in during cleanup. 

6. Take time for a regular eye exam. Nothing ruins your look like squinting!  - NU


