Title: 
Spring into Style

Word Count:
451

Summary:
A wonderful article exploring some of the hottest handbag styles of the season.


Keywords:
Hermes, Gwen Stefani, Matt & Nat


Article Body:
Spring is simply my favorite time of the year.  Every year, around this time, the major fashion houses in the world release their new designs to the hungry masses.  This season is certainly no exception, and some of the bags I have seen so far are simply amazing!  We all have certain designers that we have grown to love and trust, but some of the new players out there have really impressed me this year.  If you love purses and handbags the way I do, check out some of these new releases.

I have always been in love with Prada handbags.  In fact, it was Prada that first inspired my love affair with purses.  To be perfectly honest, I have never seen a Prada bag that I didn't love.  This year they have impressed me to no end.  Words cannot describe the feeling I get when I see this bag.  I am talking about the new Prada/Jute Snakeskin Hobo.  For those you that love a bit of glitz and glamour, you will absolutely adore the gold snakeskin accents.  The tan leather trim really helps neutralize the flashiness of the gold, and the simple beige weaved jute brings it a real sense of balance.  The Prada logo is nicely located in the middle of the front side, beautifully mounted on a small wooden plate.  Absolutely stunning!

Fendi is another one of those designers I cannot be without.  While some of their purses are less-than-remarkable, certain others are nothing short of phenomenal.  I have been raving about the Fendi Spy to all of my friends, and now I share this little secret with you.  These might be difficult to find, as women everywhere are going mad over them.  They have a few different purses available in this line, but the one I truly lust over is the Fendi Floral Spy Satchel.  It is oh-so-cute!  This bag has a wonderfully intricate floral appliqué on the front side, and the leather is as white as pure driven snow.  Be still my beating heart!

Isabella Fiore has created what might be the cutest springtime bag ever!  Has anyone out there had the pleasure of holding the new April Woven Bag?  If you haven't, I suggest you stop what you are doing and go find one.  If you have, please wipe that drool from your mouth.  It's gross.  The handles on this bag are constructed from the finest braided brown leather, and the flowers painted on the side are the stuff dreams are made of.  Ooo la la!  It has a magnetic closure, and a wonderfully durable canvas liner.  I want to buy all of them up, so you can't have one.  Happy springtime shopping, ladies!


