Title: 
Tattoo Designs For Men & Women

Word Count:
426

Summary:
Anyone who walks into a tattoo parlor will be greeted with a variety of eye-catching and colorful tattoo designs, including everything from simple to images that are very complex. With the exception of those that have already chosen their preferred image, it can be very difficult to select from the many tattoo designs on the spot. Even if you have already selected a design, the artist may be able to present you with several different options to make your tattoo designs even m...


Keywords:
tattoo designs


Article Body:
Anyone who walks into a tattoo parlor will be greeted with a variety of eye-catching and colorful tattoo designs, including everything from simple to images that are very complex. With the exception of those that have already chosen their preferred image, it can be very difficult to select from the many tattoo designs on the spot. Even if you have already selected a design, the artist may be able to present you with several different options to make your tattoo designs even more personable.

Before arriving for the application of a tattoo, it is best to have a selection of tattoo designs in mind before you enter the parlor. Although there are some exceptions, most men and women will naturally be drawn to different tattoo designs. Men, for instance, would likely prefer something masculine, while women often prefer something dainty and sexy. Of all tattoo designs, women commonly select hearts, butterflies, flowers, lettering, etc. The most popular placement, for women, is the shoulder, lower back and ankle. Men, on the other hand, often prefer that their tattoo designs be placed on the upper arm, chest or back.

While there are tattoo designs that are gender specific, it is important to keep in mind that getting a tattoo is a very personal thing and the image that is ultimately chosen should be one that reflects something that is important to the wearer. Upon discussing the various tattoo designs with the artist, the customer will gain a better understanding of the different options and designs available.

Many individuals select tattoo designs from those presented at the parlor, while others prefer to do some research and help ensure that their design is unlike any other. For certain tattoo designs, some people prefer to look at real life photos or browse through artwork for ideas pertaining to their tattoo designs. If you find an image that you like, simply take it to the artist for an evaluation as to whether or not the image can be recreated in the form of a tattoo.

This article is to be used for informational purposes only. The information contained herein is not intended to be used in place of, or in conjunction with, professional medical advice or recommendations for tattoo designs or placement. Prior to getting a tattoo, individuals should consult with their physician to make sure that it is a safe procedure for them to endure. Some individuals should not get a tattoo if they have certain medical conditions or a weakened immune system. For further information, consult a physician or dermatologist.


