Title: 
The Most Economic To The Most Pricey Handbags

Word Count:
611

Summary:
Picking out the proper handbag for the correct purpose can be a labor of love or an adventure in comparison shopping. Some find great pleasure in shopping for the most chic of handbags while others merely need to find a stout and dependable everyday bag that can get them through their week.


Keywords:
handbags


Article Body:
Either adventure in handbags shopping can be fun and enjoyable. Knowing what you are looking for is the key to finding what you are ultimately looking for.


Just be practical?

A worse headline for handbag shopping could possibly not be thought of. A handbag afterall is a personal and distinctive item. It says quite a bit about whom you are and what you’re all about. Unfortunately, there is a certain amount of necessity in the statement if you’re going to have everything you need for your day at your fingertips when you need it. 


Stylish yet practical

There is nothing to say that if you do a little shopping you cannot find a handbag that is stylish yet practical. When you go about your shopping for this type of bag, simply cut down on the number of options that you are thinking about for an every bay bag. Place style at the top of your list and organization in second spot. You will, however, still want a mobile pocket and possibly an interior zip pocket for theft and just a little organizational reference.
I don’t want practical or organized
Lets just face facts, some people just need to carry everything and want one big space to carry their stuff in. In this case, consider a bit stiffer bag that won’t sag quite as much. You will also want to shop with a cell pocket in mind at the top of the main compartment. You can search for the keys or lipstick but you will want quick access to the mobile.


Investment grade

Practical and stylish may be one part of handbag shopping but possibly you have a few other ideas when it comes to handbags. Buying a handbag for a night on the town only requires space for: a lipstick, compact and mobile. When this is the case, and you have the money to spend on a bag, consider a handbag boutique. These shops do very little advertising so you’ll need to research your local area. In these shops, bags can sell for upwards of $16,000 and are very often limited editions. Function at this point matters very little even if the bag happens to see the light of day more than a few dozen times. Keeping track of what’s hot is the key, as so is trusting the person you are doing business with. “Knock-offs” can very easily be substituted so knowing your stuff is important.

Everything in its place

There are a few elements that will be required in your handbag if you are to keep up. Your requirements may very just a bit but, for the most part, the basics are the same depending upon what the bags main use is meant to accomplish. First off is the main compartment. It needs to be a relatively decent size without getting to the point of making you search through it for a lipstick or pad of paper. If the main compartment is the right size, it will have left room for a another space or two on either side so that papers, purse, compact and other specific items can be sectioned away from where your hand will naturally go for your most used items. Most used items will need their own pocket so that you can go right to them without looking. These pockets are generally reserved for the mobile, keys and purse. Outside pockets are somewhat practical but should be designed in such a way that they are less susceptible to thieves. Even though they are extremely convenient you will not want to put anything of value in them just for this reason.


