Title: 
The World According to Designer Handbags 101

Word Count:
361

Summary:
An insightful and informative article about the latest handbag designer to take the fashion world by storm.


Keywords:
Designer handbags, Pratesi, Matt & Nat


Article Body:
There's a new kid on the block in the wonderful, wacky world of designer handbags.  In case you haven't heard, World According to Jess is taking the fashion accessories industry by storm.  But don't let the amateurish name fool you, this design house is taking no prisoners!  In a relatively short period of time, this company has achieved immense respect and credibility in the industry.  Jessica Alpert-Goldman, namesake and owner of World According to Jess, has firmly entrenched herself in an industry that is not always kind to outsiders.

The designs are bold, quirky, and cute…much like Jess herself.  With an impressive catalogue of designs, and the support of her ever-growing legion of fans, 2006 may just be the year of Jess.  Without a doubt, she is off to a smashing start.  Her bags have already been photographed with famous fashionistas like Beyonce Knowles, Sarah Jessica-Parker, Gwyneth Paltrow, and Lindsey Lohan.

Just recently, Jess had her remarkable designs included in the celebrity grab-bag backstage at the Oscars.  This is, by all means, no small feat.  Every major company in every significant niche wants their product included in the Oscar gift bag.  The mere act of having your product photographed with major Hollywood stars is a guarantee for overnight success but Jess is already well ahead of the game, in that regard.

Jess contributed 250 of her favorite purses to the Oscar cause, and she hasn't looked back.  In her own words, "I worked hard to let the world know that World According to Jess was the only bag designer included in the official Oscar gift bag."  For her efforts, she received countless press accolades and ended up with placements on some of the biggest television programs in America, including The Today Show.

World According to Jess has fun, funky handbags in countless shapes and sizes.  Evening bags, cosmetic bags, wallets, diaper bags, travel bags…it appears that Jess has covered all of the bases.  Some of my personal favorites include the smashing Arthack and the oh-so-hot Scandalous designs.  If these designs are any indication of things to come, World According to Jess is going to be more like world domination.  Ciao, Darlings!


