Title: 
There Is Quite A Good Deal To See In Eyewear

Word Count:
586

Summary:
Some time ago, glasses were thought of as a very uncool piece of fashion, whether you needed them for seeing or not. The teasing seemed to be endless for those that needed to wear glasses just for correct vision. Today, that perception has changed 180 degrees as glasses are now considered an integral part of just about any look regardless of whether they are worn indoors or out.


Keywords:
sunglasses


Article Body:
Styles change just as quickly as shoe styles and the options are almost unlimited. Finding the best pair for the occasion and your personality isn't all that difficult as long as you are willing to spend a little time and have quite a bit of fun. 


Sport ready

Where the sunglasses really excel are for the active person. Each sport has its favorite while golf players have a design put together just for golf. Glare, in the game of golf is a real pain when tracking the flight of the ball, while peripheral vision is important for keeping the head down and still while following through. Fashion is always important when it comes to sport glasses but practicality is still the important part of the game for serious athletes. Polarized lenses are front and center in this regard. Not letting in damaging rays is important, not only for keeping you at 100% of your game but because real damage can occur if dangerous UV B rays are consistently bombarding your eyes. If the wearer is always at altitude this is an even more important feature.


Go active, go prescription

Just because you happen to be blind as a bat doesn't mean that you can’t look good and see well while having some fun. Prescriptions are now being put into active eyewear for a range of sports. Check out the web for:  skiing, moto-cross, motorcycle riding or swim goggles and face protectors. Any option is available and not particularly expensive if you compare them to the glasses you're now wearing. A pair of Wayfarers on the web can be found for approximately $180 depending upon the prescription and added options like polarization/scratch resistance and all those sorts of things they offer.


Are they breakable?

Glasses frames of today are a direct beneficiary of technology in many ways. Frames these days are almost indestructible and believe it or not 'Made in USA' by many manufacturers. Of course the less costly frames still come from overseas but the quality specs are best found made by US citizens. Frame welds are top notch and lenses are ground to tight tolerances. They are your eyes after all and the only pair you'll likely get so it is important to spend wisely on them.

The glare of the spotlight

We see them almost every day, the cause celebrity plying their look on the red carpet. Add in some photographers or just a quick stop at a charity high sun outdoor event and the need for sunglasses is a must. DNKY is a favorite of many celebrities on this circuit while Bolle also makes a splash. Depending upon who you are and what your particular claim to fame happens to be, big "Jackie O" type sun glasses are in for the fashionistas while slimmed down action wear works the best for the hunky actor on the scene.


Studious eyewear

Who knew that looking smart was the "in" fashion statement these days. Wearing the correct pair of glasses, to achieve that "smart look", works well with just about any outfit and gives you the ability to go for an entire new set of looks. Clear wireless frames work well in this regard just as much as those "nerdy" looking glasses frames seen in all the movies stereotyping smart people. These frames, however, are a bit more stylized with a more boxed frame then the typical look you may currently be thinking about. Narrower is also a key part of going for this particular look.


