Title: 
Tips on Choosing the Right Sunglasses

Word Count:
401

Summary:
The world ultimately looks better and hipper through the lenses. But with all the variety of trends coming on the scene, how do we pick the right shades?


Keywords:
sunglasses, tips, eyeglasses


Article Body:
Today, sunglasses have become everyone's bestfriend. We never leave home without them. We carry them just about anywhere our lives take us. We never miss out on every opportunity to sneak at the shades counter whenever we get the chance. Sunglasses are fast becoming indispensable. They don't just keep out those dangerous UV rays but they also exude a lot of attitude. They're our eyes on the world, especially the fashion world. The world ultimately looks better and hipper through the lenses. But with all the variety of trends coming on the scene, how do we pick the right shades? How do we know they fit our facial profile?

Here's a list of quick tips for sunglasses picks to match your face:


Square Face 

   You need slightly curved frames with the top high enough on the face to downplay the jaw line. Try aviator or wrap styles that suit your moods.


Round Face

   Straight or angular frames in a deep color such as black or tortoise flatter the features of your face. For a good fit, try square-framed sunglasses with colored lenses.


Triangular Face

   Defined by a broad forehead and a narrow mouth and chin, your face can be complemented with thin rims and vertical lines. Sleek oval frames with colored lenses also looks becoming on you.


Oblong Face

   Similar to the square face with a little more length, the shape of your face looks best with a frame that covers as much of the center of the face as possible. Avoid large frames, heavy nose bridges, bold colors and square shapes. Experiment on updated classics for a trendy look.


Oval Face 

   With an oval shape, you can choose more shapes than any other. However, always remember to pick frames in proportion to the size of your face.


Aside from finding the perfect frame for your face, you should also consider frames that are proportional to your nose. Oversize frames balance out a large nose, while short noses should find sunglasses with a high bridge and a light color. Long noses are complemented by a double bridge and frames with high sidebars, drawing attention toward temples. 

A good rule of thumb: Go for the frame that is opposite from the shape of your face. Think of the word "balance" and make sure to play around with many different shaped frames before you decide on your final choice.


