Title: 
Traveling in Style

Word Count:
409

Summary:
An entertaining article about shopping for the perfect suitcase


Keywords:
designer,handbags,purses,luggage


Article Body:
A few months ago, I decided I was overdue for a proper vacation.  The last time I had been away for any length of time was five years ago.  After my first year of university, my parents generously sponsored me to go on a European tour.  I visited eight countries in fourteen days, and slept in youth hostels the entire time.  The only luggage I brought with me was my trusty backpack.  Following the advice of some more seasoned travelers, I sewed a Canadian flag on my backpack.  Everyone loves Canadians, eh!

This trip was to be somewhat different.  I have decided to go back to Europe, but this time I will be traveling in style.  I am planning to take a first-class flight into London, and I am in dire need of some first-class luggage.  Luggage is such a difficult thing to shop for.  It is one of those things that will not be used often enough to justify any great expense, but to purchase cheap luggage would be a complete waste of time and money.  I decided to get together with the friends I will be going away with, for an afternoon of good old American shopping.

We spent the afternoon going from department store to big-box store to specialty store and back again.  I finally narrowed my choices down to three potential sets of luggage; American Tourister, Briggs & Riley, and Zero Halliburton.  They each have certain appealing aspects, and they are all reasonably priced.  I read somewhere that American Tourister luggage has one of the best warranties in the industry.  Briggs & Riley have been manufacturing quality products since 1993, and they also offer an extensive warranty.  Zero Halliburton is, well…..Zero Halliburton.

Once I thought about it for a little while, I realized that the Zero Halliburton suitcase was the one for me.  I'll admit that I am actually in love with this luggage.  If James Bond were transporting a suitcase filled with priceless gems, he would use a Zero Halliburton.  I ended up purchasing a 26-inch Suiter for the slightly bloated price of $900.00.  It is constructed from a wonderful brushed aluminum that looks like it would withstand an explosion, much less the baggage handlers at Heathrow.  I will be bringing my prized collection of designer purses with me, so I can rest easy that they will be well protected in my awesome new suitcase.  Do you think I should put a Canadian flag on it?


