Title: 
Trendsetting Handbag Designers

Word Count:
377

Summary:
An interesting article about the latest trendy handbag designers


Keywords:
designer,fashion,handbags,purses,luggage


Article Body:
The popularity of designer handbags is at an all-time high.  Everywhere we look, from the high street to the nightclub, everyone is carrying a trendy new purse.  It seems that we are often so preoccupied with our new handbags that we tend to forget about the people behind the designs.  I started trying to develop a shortlist of my favorite designers, but I realized that I am in love with the work of far too many to list.  The following are just a few of my favorites.

Chloe is, by far, one the greatest design houses in the world.  I absolutely love their work!  At times, I feel that some of the French designers are a little over the top…but where would true fashion be without their sense of creativity and innovation.  Chloe has been a leader in the world of fashion, especially since the Stella McCartney assumed the helm.  Her star power and understanding of classic design reinvigorated a company that was often lacking the cohesive aesthetic that truly binds a collection together.  Make no mistake about it…Chloe is the new Gucci!

Vivienne Westwood has done more for British design that any other designer in modern times.  In many ways, the entire punk genre owes her a debt of allegiance.  Vivienne was just a young girl during the heyday of punk, when she met a fellow named Malcolm McLaren.  For those of you not particularly well versed in your punk rock history, Malcolm was the manager of the consummate British punk band – The Sex Pistols.  After dressing the Pistols for a number of years, she opened her own shop in London called Sex Boutique.  Punks worldwide have adopted her design aesthetic, and the rest is history.

Monica Botkier is yet another brilliant designer.  Her designs are held in high esteem by women all around the world.  After spending the early part of her career as a fashion photographer, Monica Botkier has certainly spent enough time in the fashion world to know what constitutes a great handbag.  She is able to strike the perfect balance between function and form, and her designs are some of the most sought after with fashionistas everywhere.  Monica Botkier's designs are famous for their detailing, hardware, and innate sophistication.


