Title: 
Wholesale Jordan Sneakers

Word Count:
441

Summary:
Why people buy wholesale Jordan sneakers is no mystery. Everybody loves the quality, the design and the great feeling that come with wearing a good designer label sports shoe. The fact that the shoe cost close to $100 does not deter people from vying to buy the latest entrants in the market. Whole Jordan sneakers are, to a great segment of people, a way to save a good amount of money without compromising on the quality of what they purchase.


Keywords:
Hip Hop Clothing  Wholesale Hip Hop clothing and other accessories


Article Body:
There is very little that people do not know about the Jordan sneakers, and based on the rush that is created everytime wholesale Jordan sneakers are available (www.urbanhotlist.com), the craze for the shoe is still on.  However, do you know the basics that need to be followed when buying a shoe for getting the best fit for your feet? 

Experts advise that shoes need to be bought always in the evening. Not because of any type of superstition, but because this is the time when your feet are most swollen and hence, you will know whether the shoe will be comfortable or not. Whether you are buying ordinary day-to-day wear shoes, office wear or wholesale Jordan sneakers, this is a point that you should keep in mind, if you care about your feet’s comfort.

Next you should ensure you always buy at reputed shops. In this way you will be least likely to be cheated or sold cheap replicas or reproductions without your knowledge. Even if you go for replicas, you still gain if you buy them from reputed shops, as they would insist on basic norms of quality, as compared to smaller and unrecognized shops, where the bottom line will be to make some profit. Wholesale Jordan sneakers (www.urbanhotlist.com) make a great bargain and many retail shops sell them at wholesale price during regular sales. All you need is to keep a watch and learn when the shop has their next sale.

There is another point that you should keep in mind when you buy your shoes, i.e. the right size. The best size of the shoe will be having a gap of at least 3/8th inch in front of the longest toe you have. Good quality sports shoes, including wholesale Jordan sneakers, will provide you perfect fit for your feet because they are constructed specifically to give the highest comfort.

Experts advise that you change your shoes, regardless whether the shoe has any notable wear or not. This is because the benefits of the shoe on the foot wears off after a certain amount of usage, even if you do not see it from the outside, and hence, without knowing you will be damaging your feet. Even when you buy a good sneaker such as wholesale Jordan sneakers, you will still need to change it after a maximum of 500 miles of walking on it. By the way, in order to accommodate the need to know how much you have walked, new shoes are coming out which will have speedometers and mileage meters inbuilt.  Now, this is a innovation that would make some waves.


