Title: 
Women’s Handbags - Handbags That Flatter Your Body Shape and Size

Word Count:
554

Summary:
Handbags, next to diamonds and maybe shoes, are a woman’s best friend. Not only are they used to hold everything that we hold dear, from our cellular phones to our credit cards, our palm pilots to the papers that will spell the difference between promotion and demotion. Let’s face it, can you imagine a world without the women’s handbag as we know it?


Keywords:
handbags,designer handbags,discount handbags


Article Body:
Handbags, next to diamonds and maybe shoes, are a woman’s best friend. Not only are they used to hold everything that we hold dear, from our cellular phones to our credit cards, our palm pilots to the papers that will spell the difference between promotion and demotion. Let’s face it, can you imagine a world without the women’s handbag as we know it? 

Today, women handbags are not only “receptacles” of your prized possessions but also fashion statements. Handbags are often used to express moods, individuality, style and status. And even though, it is not really worn so close to the body like bloused, skirts and jeans, there are still shapes and styles of women’s handbags that may be flattering and unflattering to a person. Believe it or not, the handbag that you carry can actually add on or lessen the weight that you appear to carry.

Read on and find out just how to choose the perfect shape, size and style of women handbag that will fit your body type and personal style. 

Look at the shape. 
Choose the shape that is opposite your body type. For instance, if you are tall and thin, look for bags that are more on the rounded side like the hobo or those that are a bit unstructured. This will complement your figure as it would provide a sharp contrast to your body. If on the other hand, you are on the short and heavy side, it is good to carry women handbags that are tall, rectangular or those with really defined shapes. Long and sleek designs will help counterbalance your more rounded figure. Of course, there is no need to buy women handbags that are absolutely reed thin or those with really sharp edges. Silhouettes in soft fabrics and leathers can do the trick. Just remember to stay away from women handbags with rounded designs. 

Think of the size
The size of your bag should complement your size. While the shape should be contrasting and complementing, the size should be in proportion. If for example you are quite tall and big for your age, it would be really awkward for you to carry this really small handbag. The same goes with a really petite person while carrying this really big bag. Awkward. Awkward. Awkward.

Closefitting women handbags or those that can be fit right under the arm at breast level can only look great with women who are slim and those who want to emphasize their cleavage. Using these kinds of women handbags are discouraged for people who have big arms and big busts as the short handles tend to emphasize the large sizes. Remember that the length of the handbag or shoulder bag will always accentuate the part it comes near with. If, for instance, the bag hits your bottom half or hip area, then that area of your body will become more focused as the eyes are naturally drawn to it.

Most women look great with handbags and shoulder bags that end in mid-torso as it flatters the waist. To determine if the length of the strap fits you, try it out. If your arm feels cramped, then it is too short. Try out the bag in the mirror and see for yourself if the bag is flattering to you.


