Title: 
3 Ways CCTV Can Help Your Business

Word Count:
356

Summary:
Many business managers and owners discount the idea of installing a CCTV system on their premises. Worried about costs and benefits, they use other security measures to protect their stock and their staff.

CCTV systems could be more beneficial than you think. Here are three key ways that CCTV can help to protect your business.

Deterrent

Although they won’t stop all crime, it is thought that visible CCTV systems act as a deterrent to would-be criminals. It’s far less ...


Keywords:
cctv, cctv systems


Article Body:
Many business managers and owners discount the idea of installing a CCTV system on their premises. Worried about costs and benefits, they use other security measures to protect their stock and their staff.

CCTV systems could be more beneficial than you think. Here are three key ways that CCTV can help to protect your business.

Deterrent

Although they won’t stop all crime, it is thought that visible CCTV systems act as a deterrent to would-be criminals. It’s far less risky to steal from a shop with no CCTV than from one that explains its system clearly in a window poster and which has highly visible cameras. The presence of a camera at the entrance or exit of a building and watching over key areas like retail sales floors or IT suites can make the difference between your business being targeted and the criminal moving on.

Evidence and Interference

Depending on the type of system you install, CCTV has the potential both to stop a crime before it occurs and to provide the police with valuable images that can help them to detain a suspect. Monitored systems, where the images are fed from the camera to a real-time monitor, allow security staff to see what’s happening at the premises at all times. If they pick up anyone behaving suspiciously they can alert staff on the ground who may be able to prevent a crime. Recorded systems, on the other hand, should give vital information on the appearance and activities of any criminals, which can make a huge difference to a police investigation.

Peace of mind

For anyone working in, shopping in or visiting your business premises, the knowledge that there is a working CCTV system in place brings peace of mind. Not only does it let your employees know that you are concerned for their safety, but customers and visitors recognise it as a deterrent and automatically feel safer than in a business where there are no cameras at all. Whilst not everyone likes the presence of CCTV cameras in public places, most people would say that such systems make them feel more comfortable.


