Title: 
A Guide To Using Internet Fax Services

Word Count:
358

Summary:
Using internet fax service is an easy way to send and receive fax messages over the internet. Online fax services provide great advantages to its subscribers at affordable rates. By subscribing to internet fax services a customer can send and receive fax messages from anywhere at any time – what one need is a computer, an internet connection and an email ID.

Nowadays there are several companies offering web faxing services. Most of these companies provide a paid service an...


Keywords:
internet faxing, web faxing, web fax services, email faxing, online faxing, internet fax service


Article Body:
Using internet fax service is an easy way to send and receive fax messages over the internet. Online fax services provide great advantages to its subscribers at affordable rates. By subscribing to internet fax services a customer can send and receive fax messages from anywhere at any time – what one need is a computer, an internet connection and an email ID.

Nowadays there are several companies offering web faxing services. Most of these companies provide a paid service and a free service. The difference between these two is that if a customer needs to utilize all the features of an online fax service he/she need to subscribe for a paid fax messaging service. Free services are offered with various limitations such as only receiving faxes or sending a limited number of faxes.

Using internet fax services is quite easy, the technology is similar to email services to a certain extend. To start using web fax services, first you need to subscribe with an internet fax service provider. The service provide assigns you a unique internet fax number. Same as email ID, this is the address to which other users can send in their fax messages. The subscriber also has to create an email id in the service provider domain, in order to send and receive faxes. This is where the users are supposed to type their messages and it is where the incoming fax messages will be delivered by the service provider. Once the user sent the fax message, the message will be dispatched to the service provider’s server, where it is converted into a suitable file format before eventually forwarding it to the recipient’s mail box or fax machine, whichever is applicable.

The advantages of using web faxing are that the users can send and receive as many faxes simultaneously or send all faxes instantly. Another major advantage is that, the there is no complexity of a conventional fax machine and those never-ending paper jams. The technology is quick and even cheaper than traditional fax messaging. So why spending time and energy with the traditional fax machine – subscribe for an online fax service now!


