Title: 
A Pocket Pc Is Portability At It’s Best

Word Count:
412

Summary:
A Pocket PC is a handheld computer, which features many of the same capabilities as a modern PC. These handy little devices allow individuals to retrieve and store e-mail messages, create a contact file, coordinate appointments, surf the internet, exchange text messages and more.

Every product that is labeled as a Pocket PC must be accompanied with specific software to operate the unit and must feature a touchscreen and touchpad. Pocket PC products are created by some of t...


Keywords:
pocket pc


Article Body:
A Pocket PC is a handheld computer, which features many of the same capabilities as a modern PC. These handy little devices allow individuals to retrieve and store e-mail messages, create a contact file, coordinate appointments, surf the internet, exchange text messages and more.

Every product that is labeled as a Pocket PC must be accompanied with specific software to operate the unit and must feature a touchscreen and touchpad. Pocket PC products are created by some of the world’s top computer manufacturers, including HP, Toshiba and Gateway. As is the case with any new technology product, the cost of a Pocket PC was substantial during it’s early release. For approximately $700.00, consumers could purchase one of top-of-the-line Pocket PCs in 2003. These days, customers are finding that prices have become much more reasonable now that the newness is wearing off. For approximately $350.00, a new Pocket PC can now be purchased.

Even years after their release, Pocket PCs are a staple in the world of travelers, college students and business leaders. The need to stay in constant communication with family and/or colleagues has kept the portability factor one that remains popular today. When traveling for business or other reason, individuals often need a way to stay in touch. A desktop computer is simply not a feasible accompaniment and notebooks are at a constant risk for being stolen or damaged. A Pocket PC can obviously fit inside of a pocket, but may also find a safe haven in a purse, duffle bag, tote or other small compartment.

Purchasing a Pocket PC can be a difficult choice because of the various models and manufacturers available. When considering the options, consumers must look at any available warranty, included software and capabilities. Much like in the world of traditional desktop and notebook computers, manufacturers are always looking for a way to outdo the competition and the customer often finds that such actions may lead to a real bargain.

Like any other computer, a Pocket PC must be cared for in such a way that it is not exposed to extreme heat or cold for prolonged periods of time, is not shuffled around carelessly and is carefully packed for safety during travel. Owning a Pocket PC means having access to an address book, your e-mail account, the world wide web and your appointment calendar all in the comfort of your own pocket. Carrying the internet in your pocket? Now that is portability at it’s best.


