Title: 
Adobe Graphic Design Website Software Lets Your Creativity Flow

Word Count:
486

Summary:
The design world is buzzing about Adobe Creative Suite 3, a collection of computer graphic design tools that are fully integrated to allow you to work in almost any medium.


Keywords:
adobe software, adobe creative suite, CS3, computer graphic design, website design,  web page design,  computer graphics


Article Body:
Whether you're a web developer, a graphic designer, or an artist, you've undoubtedly counted on Adobe software to help you get the job done. Now, the design world is buzzing about Adobe Creative Suite 3, a collection of computer graphic design tools that are fully integrated to allow you to work in almost any medium. 

Adobe offers six different editions of CS3, designed to fit the needs of a variety of professionals. The six editions are:

Adobe Creative Suite 3 Design Premium - Developed for the designer who works in mobile, Web, and print publishing, CS3 Design Premium includes the professional or extended versions of InDesign, Photoshop, Illustrator, Flash, Dreamweaver, and Acrobat.

Adobe Creative Suite 3 Design Standard - Perfect for the professional who works primarily in print, CS3 Design Premium includes InDesign, Photoshop, Illustrator, and Acrobat Professional. 

Adobe Creative Suite 3 Web Premium - Adobe takes web design software to a whole new level by allowing integration across virtually all Adobe products, including Photoshop Extended, Illustrator, Flash Professional, Dreamweaver, Fireworks, Contribute Cue, Bridge, and Device Central. 

Adobe Creative Suite 3 Web Standard - Perfect for website design, this graphics software integrates Dreamweaver, Flash Professional, Fireworks, and Contribute. 

Adobe Creative Suite 3 Production Platinum - Adobe solves the challenges of video post production by combining a wide variety of products, including Bridge, Dynamic Link, Device Central, Acrobat Connect, After Effects, Premiere Pro, Photoshop Extended, Flash Professional, Illustrator, Soundbooth, and Encore. For professionals working in a Windows environment, it also includes OnLocation and Ultra. 

Adobe Creative Suite 3 Master Collection - The CS3 Master Collection is a computer graphics dream come true, with virtually every Adobe product integrated so that you can create in almost any medium, including film, print, mobile, Web, and interactive. The Master Collection includes InDesign, Photoshop Extended, Illustrator, Acrobat Professional, Dreamweaver, Fireworks, Contribute, After Effects, Premiere Pro, Soundbooth, and Encore. Web applications include Bridge, Cue, Device Central, Stock Photos, Acrobat Connect, Dynamic Link, OnLocation, and Ultra.

Essentially, CS3 provides professionals with product configurations that will enable them to seamlessly accomplish their goals. For example, designers can do web page design, user interface design, game development, e-learning, animation, and mobile development. Those who work with video can do editing and production, multimedia, audio editing and production, and visual effects. And, of course, professionals can edit and fuse images, as well as design for print. 

Professionals also appreciate Adobe graphic design website software because it works on a variety of platforms, including Windows Vista and both Tiger and Leopard on Macs. And, for those who already own Adobe products, it's easy to upgrade to CS3 - even from standalone graphics software programs. Finally, those who purchase one CS3 edition and then decide that they would like an enhanced version (moving from, for example, CS3 Design Standard to Design Premium) can easily make the switch.

There's no question that the creativity of designers has spurred Adobe to step up and develop a toolkit that enables professionals to reach new heights.


