Title: 
Computer Consulting Time Constraints

Word Count:
318

Summary:
Computer consulting requires many long hours, especially in the beginning. How do you effectively manage your limited time to pursue long-term clients in computer consulting?


Keywords:
computer consulting


Article Body:
Where can you find time to do it all?  How can you devote time to finding long-term B2B computer consulting clients when you're already working 60, 70, 80 hours a week? There's no easy answer. In this article, you'll learn some possible options for finding long term clients in computer consulting.  

Do a Time Study

Really looking at where you spend most of your time and figure out if there are some things that you're doing that you can afford to delegate (or automate or eliminate). 

For instance, if you're sitting there building PCs and putting in motherboards and power supplies 10 hours a week, that's something you can delegate.  If you're sitting and minding the retail traffic in a retail computer store and you have someone else who can do that for a day a week, that is something you can delegate, too.

Delegate, Delegate, Delegate

Think about what you can safely delegate based on the staff that you already have. Then you can free yourself up for a day to a day-and-a-half a week to start working on actively cultivating B2B computer consulting clients.

What to Do With the Extra Time

This delegation can free up some time to go out to networking events, planning, marketing campaigns, going out on sales call and making follow-up phone calls.

The Bottom Line about Computer Consulting Time Restraints

Unfortunately, if you're already working a ton of hours, you somehow just need to find the time.  Think through your time management challenges.  Look at where you really spend the bulk of your time every week and figure out if there are a few things that you can delegate to free up some time for the marketing. Really plan how you're going to develop this part of your consulting business.  

Copyright Notice:

Copyright MMI-MMVI, Computer Consulting Blog. All Worldwide Rights Reserved. {Attention Publishers: Live hyperlink in author resource box required for copyright compliance}


