Title: 
Computer Ergonomics:  Keeping Your Mouse … Safe

Word Count:
435

Summary:
When it comes to the matter of computer ergonomics -- making certain that you computer work environment is safe and healthy -- many people focus their attention on such items as their chair, the desk of worktable utilized and the positioning of the keyboard. Of course, these are all important items when it comes to the matter of computer ergonomics. In this regard, many people pay little of no attention to their computer mouse when it comes to the matter of computer ergonomic...


Keywords:



Article Body:
When it comes to the matter of computer ergonomics -- making certain that you computer work environment is safe and healthy -- many people focus their attention on such items as their chair, the desk of worktable utilized and the positioning of the keyboard. Of course, these are all important items when it comes to the matter of computer ergonomics. In this regard, many people pay little of no attention to their computer mouse when it comes to the matter of computer ergonomics and the safe use of a computer and related equipment. When all is said and done, making sure that you are using your mouse in a safe and healthy manner is vital and cannot be understated.

The basic, primary directional device used by most computer operators is the mouse. Many computer users find themselves using a mouse continually throughout the day. In the long run, if a person does not utilize a mouse in a proper, healthy manner, a person can end up seriously impairing his or her shoulder, forearm and wrist.

With these risks in mind, there are some important pointers that you should keep in mind when it comes to properly utilizing your mouse.

When using a mouse, you should rest your entire arm on either the side of your chair, on the table or some other available and level support. In addition, the mouse itself should be located conveniently at the side of the keyboard, on the same level as the keyboard. You should not have to reach for the mouse each time you need to use the device.

When using the mouse, make certain that you do not apply a great deal of pressure to your wrist. Again, it is important that your wrist and arm basically be in a comfortable and resting-like position when using a mouse.

Generally speaking, you should keep your wrist straight when using the mouse. Further, do not grip the device tightly. No matter how stressed you might feel on the job, do not use a stranglehold on your mouse.

Mouse devices come in a wide array of different shapes, styles and sizes. Take the time to select a mouse that fits well into your hand.

Finally, set your mouse speed in the middle range. In a similar vein, reduce the time that you actually use the click and drag feature of the mouse unit. There is now some software on the market that eliminates the need for this particular function all together.

By following these steps, you will avoid causing yourself harm or damage over the long term through the use of your mouse.


