Title: 
Download Free Games & Movies For Iphone

Word Count:
427

Summary:
Yes, you really can get free downloads of games and movies for your Iphone. If you're one of the lucky folks that has got in early and nabbed an Iphone already, you are definitely going to want to know how to get your hands on some of this free media.


Keywords:
download iphone games, download iphone movies


Article Body:
Yes, you really can get free downloads of games and movies for your Iphone. If you're one of the lucky folks that has got in early and nabbed an Iphone already, you are definitely going to want to know how to get your hands on some of this free media.

Before you can download anything at all for your Iphone however, there are a few things you will need. You can't currently download directly to the Iphone, for one reason or another, so these items are a must.

The most obvious is a computer. It's pretty hard to access the internet without one and also you will need to store the downloaded stuff somewhere before you transfer it to the Iphone, right?

Secondly, you guessed it, some form of internet connection. This is probably the easiest part, as if you have a notebook or a laptop you can probably just sit in your local Starbucks and piggyback their wireless connection or something. As always, the faster the connection you can get, the better.

Lastly, and this is the thing most people forget about – you need to have the space to store all the stuff. The iphone may be pretty advanced but it's not bottomless – and it sure fills up fast once you have access to some free downloads.

Once you have all this stuff, (and let's face it if you are reading this article the chances are you already do) you'll need to find somewhere to download the free games and movies from. Most people at one point or another have used a file sharing or bit torrent site to get downloads, but it may surprise you to know that this is against the law – it's illegal to download things from websites like that in the most case, unless you already own a copy of whatever you download. Odd but true. Always check the laws and regulations in your own area.

There are a whole host of download sites for you to choose from these days, and they mainly work by charging you a one-off admin fee which then gives you lifetime access to their download libraries. The libraries are huge, with some having over 100 million files for you to look through. This makes it very easy to find your favourite TV show, or pretty much anything else you may be looking for. These sites are definitely recommended to get your free game and movie downloads from.

This article should give you a great idea of how to safely go about download free stuff for your Iphone.


