Title: 
Download Ipod Nano Songs

Word Count:
415

Summary:
Download Ipod Nano song is not difficult as long as you know what you are doing, and one of the best features is that it doesn't matter whether you have a regular Ipod, Ipod Nano or even Ipod Video! Keep reading, and I'll show you just how to do it...


Keywords:
free ipod music, free ipod downloads


Article Body:
Download Ipod Nano song is not difficult as long as you know what you are doing, and one of the best features is that it doesn't matter whether you have a regular Ipod, Ipod Nano or even Ipod Video! Keep reading, and I'll show you just how to do it...

For this article, I am assuming that you already have the songs you want to download on your computer, or that they are on a CD. If you haven't got them in this form, and are looking to download free songs for your Ipod Nano, please see the links at the bottom of this article.

Step 1-
You should have the Itunes program on your computer, ideally the current version. If you need to get it, connect to Apple.com to update your version. It doesn't take long to update to the current version , and it should be easy to do.

Step 2- 
Before you can download Ipod Nano songs onto your Ipod, you must rip the songs from your CDs and put them into Itunes. This is quite an easy task, but if you need help with this, Itunes will help you with the built in guide 

Step3-
Now that your songs are downloaded into Itunes, you will have to use the Ipod connecting lead to join your Ipod to a USB socket on your computer. It is then easy to drag and drop the songs from Itunes onto the Ipod. You will probably have to wait a little time for the Ipod to register and store all the songs, so don't disconnect it before it has finished.

Step 4-
You can now listen to your downloaded tunes whenever you want to!

It is really pretty easy to download Ipod Nano songs if you already have them on CD, but assuming you want to download some new songs online, you can do one of two things.. 1-Use Itunes, where you have to pay for each song individually, or 2- Find a few good free download sites. These sites can be very useful indeed if you find some which are trustworthy, and I have done my research and found 3 of the best for you, which you can find by clicking the links below. 

Downloading songs for your Ipod or Nano or video or any other kind of Ipod needn't be difficult or expensive, as we have shown you here! If you find this useful why not pass it on to a friend with the link on the top right?


