Title: 
Download Music to Apple iPhone

Word Count:
473

Summary:
In this article you are going to find out how you can transfer music to your apple iPhone


Keywords:
apple iphone, download music to iphone, apple


Article Body:
The new Apple iPhone has started to be one of the most popular entertainment piece of hardware available right now. One of the main ways that this new revolutionary cell phone is going to be used is for playing music. So if you are wondering how you can upload music to your new iPhone, you've come to the right place, because in this article we are going to offer you a step by step guide on what you have to do to put music on your iPhone. The iPhone is a revolutionary piece of equipment. This is because this new gadget manages to integrate all the possible entertainment that is available now. You can use it to browse the web, listen to music (works just like an iPod).

If you are new to handheld gadgets entertainment you must know that there are two ways of transferring music to your iPhone. The first one is to connect the iPhone to your computer, and transfer the music that is currently stored in your hard drive. And you can also download music to your iPhone by accessing some large libraries of music that are currently available on the internet. You are going to use a computer for both these 2 ways of putting music on your iPhone. For the first method, you will need a computer to download a software that is going to help you copy the music from your favorite CDs to your computer, and encode it to MP3. One of the most popular software that does that is AudioGrabber. It's easy to use and all you have to do is push a button and you will copy a music CD to your computer. And from your hard drive you will be able to copy the music to your iPhone.

The first step that you can use to enrich your iPhone with lots of music is to transfer the music that is already on your computer. This is one of the shortest steps. All you have to do is use a software called ripper, that is able to copy your music from your cd at a much greater speed than the normal CD playback, this means that depending your you CD-ROM drive speed you will be able to copy a music CD in 5-10 minutes.

One of the hardest ways to get music to your iPhone is by finding a reliable free music download source. For example if you are going to use P2P software you might get caught and install in the same time some spyware and adware, that can cause damage to your computer.

Another way you can download music legally is by using the software provided by Apple: iTunes. This music download software lets you download music from the internet, but you will have to pay for each song that you download.


