Title: 
Extend The Life Of Your Laptop Battery

Word Count:
499

Summary:
If you are the owner of a laptop computer, you know how frustrating it can be when you are working on the laptop and your battery is low. If you are constantly on the go, it is sometimes difficult to find a place to plug in your computer to let it recharge. There are a few things that you can do to help you take care and extend the life of your laptop battery.

General caution should be observed when running the battery of your laptop. A laptop should be plugged in to the A...


Keywords:
laptops,laptop,computers,notebook,technology,internet


Article Body:
If you are the owner of a laptop computer, you know how frustrating it can be when you are working on the laptop and your battery is low. If you are constantly on the go, it is sometimes difficult to find a place to plug in your computer to let it recharge. There are a few things that you can do to help you take care and extend the life of your laptop battery.

General caution should be observed when running the battery of your laptop. A laptop should be plugged in to the AC adaptor whenever possible. This will ensure that your laptop battery is always charged and ready to go when it is needed. Another tip is to not expose your laptop to extreme weather conditions, especially very cold temperatures. A cold battery will run much slower than one that is warm. Also, try not to use your laptop for long periods of time without recharging the battery. This can cause information to be lost if the battery sudden stops working.

When using your battery on your laptop, remember use as little power as you can by adjusting the settings on the laptop. This will make your computer go inactive when not in use for a certain amount of time. Adjusting the power setting is easy if you go into the control panel and set the display time. It is also possible to adjust the brightness of the screen display to help the life of the laptop battery. Remember to turn programs off that you are not using. This will waste battery usage quicker. Also, running movies and videos will quickly drain the battery charge.

When using your laptop battery you will want to make sure you check the battery charge frequently. Charge your laptop as soon as you see the battery getting low. Whenever you can, plug in your computer. It is a good idea to always plug in your computer so that it is ready to go. Also, take care of your battery. It is important to clean the laptop battery and keep it free of dust and debris. Using canned air or a cotton swab on a regular basis can do this. The battery will run longer if it is cleaned frequently.

Another tip is to have an extra battery on hand. These are easily purchased. Have at least one fully charged at all times for a quick battery change. Some laptops can run with two batteries. Most laptops are also compatible with external batteries that can easily be added and changed when necessary. Battery charges that work in the car are also good options for anyone taking their laptops on trips. Also, if you are purchasing a new laptop computer, consider buying a smaller, lightweight version. These are more efficient and are able to run longer on a battery charge than the larger laptop versions. Following these basic tips can help extend the amount of time your computer can run with a battery.


