Title: 
Finding The Right Property Rental Software

Word Count:
371

Summary:
If you run or manage a busy property rental agency, then you may be considering buying some software to automate the lettings process – making your office more efficient and cost-effective. There are many different software packages on the market, so how do you choose which is right for you? When you are looking at software suppliers, ask the following questions:

1. Do you offer a free trial?

Software developers and suppliers who are confident about the quality of their...


Keywords:
lettings agency, software, property rentals, property management


Article Body:
If you run or manage a busy property rental agency, then you may be considering buying some software to automate the lettings process – making your office more efficient and cost-effective. There are many different software packages on the market, so how do you choose which is right for you? When you are looking at software suppliers, ask the following questions:

1. Do you offer a free trial?

Software developers and suppliers who are confident about the quality of their software will usually offer a free trial. This lets you see exactly how the software would work in the context of your business, and allows you to compare it with other packages you may have worked with or trialled previously. Software can be expensive, and you should always try and see it in action before you buy.

2. What about staff training?

It can be difficult to get to grips with new software, particularly for staff who are used to working with a different package, or who are not confident using computers. A good property rental software company should offer training to everyone who is going to be using the system. That way, the company can be sure that the software is being used in the right way, and the letting agents are confident that staff are happy using the system.

3. Is it flexible?

There may be elements of the standard software package that aren’t applicable to your agency; or you may have additional requirements that aren’t included. Ask the software company if their package can be tailored to your needs and those of your business.

4. Do you provide software support?

Most software packages have times when they don’t do what the users expect them to. As the manager of a busy agency, you need to know that if something goes wrong with the system, there will be telephone and on-site support from the software company. In some cases, support will come as part of the package and in others you may incur a fee. Find out how your supplier works.

A new software solution is an expensive commitment for any agency. Before you decide to buy, make sure you’re confident that what you’re getting is right for you.


