Title: 
Finding The Flat Panel Monitor of Your Dreams

Word Count:
569

Summary:
If you are still not on the flat-panel monitor camp, you have got to be considering doing it soon. And, if not, then you should! It’s the coolest peripheral to own. It represents power, fashion and all things youthful and out of sight. Until you replace your CRT monitor you wouldn’t discover how much you detested that monstrosity! But before you spend your hard earned money, getting to know the ‘object of desire’ will do you good.


Keywords:
big screen tvs,flat panel televisions,flat screen tvs,plasma televisions,flat-panel tv,flat screen tv


Article Body:
If you are still not on the flat-panel monitor bandwagon, you must be considering doing it soon. And, if not, then you should! Its the trendiest peripheral to own. It represents power, fashion and all things vivacious and happening. Until you replace your CRT display you wouldnt realize how much you detested that eyesore! But before you spend your hard earned money, getting to know the object of desire will do you wonders.

Buying information:

1. Flat panel monitors use interfaces - analog or digital. The newer models have digital interface but an all-digital configuration costs a good deal more. If you are purchasing an analog flat panel, you will have to attach it with a digital interface to your video card with a digital out jack to mainstream the signal.

If you are planning to buy a digital interface, you need to investigate its compatibility. There are several digital interface standards available today-Plug and Display (P&D) from the Video Electronics Standards Association (VESA), Digital Flat Panel (DFP) from the Digital Flat Panel Working Group, and Digital Video Interface (DVI) from the Digital Display Working Group (DDWG).

The P&D interface is the oldest of the three criteria and chances are your new model wont sport this convention. Support for DFP standard is seen across many hardware vendors. The DVI standard is the newer and the most popular. Do your research and whichever standard you chose, you need to match its ingredients that include cables and video cards!

2. Pixel-refresh response time: In a LCD monitor, the time required to switch from light to dark objects or vice versa, is referred to as Pixel-refresh response time. If the response time is poor (more than 40ms), you may see ghosting effect, i.e., the image seems to remain longer on the screen than it actually is!

Whereas in a text environment this would hardly matter, in a gaming or media centric environment the effect could be a nuisance. More inexpensive models give more ghosting than their pricey counterparts. Also, pixel-refresh response time is not articulated on the monitors. You need to watch thoroughly to judge the performance of each model.

3. Viewing angle: One problem with a flat panel monitor is its viewing angle. Laptop users must have experienced this problem. Moving away from the monitor in any way causes the monitor to black out! Various models offer different viewing angles horizontally and vertically.

Find the one better suited to your funds! In any case, for a home PC, the viewing angle doesnt make much difference but if the monitor is going to be used for official presentations then it should have viewing angle of at least 120 degrees horizontal and 100 degrees vertical. Also, ask for accessories like pivoting frames.

4. Size: bigger is better, but with flat panel, remember 15-inch screen gives you the experience of a 17-inch CRT monitor. If you can shell out for 17-inch flat panel, by all means, go for it, if not, a 15-inch screen should not be a downer.

Other things to check when buying a flat panel are guarantees and warranties. A three-year warranty is recommended. People change the monitor settings in stores and while purchasing; make sure that you check the piece adequately. You now have the basic information; all you need is time to check out the market!

Check out the great selection of big screen tvs and flat panel monitors at our site today!


