Title: 
Free church management software - is it worth trying?

Word Count:
294

Summary:
Are you looking to try out some software to help you manage the church office?  Wondering how to try it without spending $$$'s?


Keywords:
church,management,software,trial,free,financial,accounting,directory,worship,bulletin,donation,membership


Article Body:
<b>Use Free Church Management Software - to save you time in the office</b>

Are you looking for church management software that fits your ministry and your pocket?  Would you like to try out the latest applications but don't want to commit yourself?

Whether you're looking a solution for a small church with just a few members or a sophisticated solution for a church with hundreds of members, there will be a software solution to match your needs.

Before you start surfing the net looking for a solution, consider what exactly you are looking for.  Do you need it primarily to manage your accounting function, are you looking for something that will create your church website, or maybe you just want something to manage the task of creating your church directory (groan!).  Make a list of the essential and desirables that you are looking for <I>first</I>.

<b>Free Church Software</b>

Many of the most reputable companies providing church management software solutions offer a free trial to enable you to try their system for yourself.  This is an ideal way to try out, without risk, the latest softwares that may offer the solution that you have been seeking.

Traditional uses of church software include management of financial and accounting functions. 

It is now possible to find software that will manage your membership, create a church calendar, keep records of donations, manage your church library, publish your church bulletin, update your church directory, integrate church music, worship songs and data projection.  

In short, if there is something you need done in your church, there's almost certainly software that will do it for you!

For further information and reviews on all the free trials & church management software providers , visit www.church-software-home-page.com/free-church-management-software.html


