Title: 
FTA keys

Word Count:
498

Summary:
FTA satellite TV today is used by millions of people.  It's gaining popularity is making it an average household electronic device.  The entire industry relying on using, entering, and programming the latest FTA keys and Dish keys.


Keywords:
fta, keys, dish, fta keys, dish keys, receivers, satellite


Article Body:
In the last five to six years the FTA satellite receiver has become an everyday household electronic device.  People all over the world are buying free to air receivers because of their growing and always evolving features and capabilities.  FTA receivers these days are gaining popularity all over.  Starting initially in Europe, the craze spread globally shortly after.  With FTA satellite TV being available in almost every country across the globe, FTA satellite is the wave of the TV future.  

Free to air satellite TV channels are free.  You can connect your receiver up to multiple satellite dishes and point your dish at different satellites in space.  There are thousands of 100% free satellites in space with limited channels per satellite.  Some free to air channels include PBS, International channels, and locals.  These companies broadcast their signal for free.  The majority of people with FTA receivers don't point their dishes at these satellites.  Infact, people all over the world including North America are reprogramming their boxes so they can point their dishes at real satellite TV and watch channels for free.   This is actually where FTA keys come into play.  In order to watch FTA satellite TV this way.  You need to be constantly entering what are called FTA keys or Dish keys into your receiver so that your receiver can keep itself updated with the satellites in space.  This enables you to watch TV.

Because the keys are constantly changing and always need to be entered manually each time a key change occurs, this presents a problem and inconvenience to the user.  This is why people program files called autoroll bins on to their receivers.  Autoroll files automatically roll the keys over to the new keys everytime they change.  These are what people often refer to as FTA fixes.  FTA fixes fix your receiver essentially by getting your channels to work with very little human interaction other than initially programming the new FTA file to your receiver a few times a year.  FTA files don't work forever, they also go down from time to time and the user will have to load the new autoroll bins.  

Usually people get their autoroll bin files from sources like FTA Support websites.  FTA Support sites offer a complete support service to their members giving them all the software, files, keys, and online technical support they'll ever need to keep themsselves always up and watching TV.  FTA support sites usually include online support and troubleshooting via email and they usually have all the downloads and setup instructions you'll ever need to get your receiver working all the time.

FTA receivers are getting bigger and better offering new innovative and experimental ideas and technologies that keep them interesting all the time.  Many new features FTA receiver owners have learned to love are 7 day EPG (electronic program guides), PVR functions (record, pause, and rewind live TV), DivX movie watching capabilities, and many more little features and add-ons that keep things very interative and enjoyable.


