Title: 
Guide To Choosing A Custom Built Desktop Computer

Word Count:
623

Summary:
You are probably familiar with the saying “different strokes for different folks”. Well, this phrase rings especially true when it comes to computers and their uses. While a computer may be perfect for one person, it may be useless to somebody else. This is because there are so many variations of what’s actually inside a computer. For this reason, many people are opting to have their computer systems custom built. If you are one of the many people contemplating a similar idea...


Keywords:



Article Body:
You are probably familiar with the saying “different strokes for different folks”. Well, this phrase rings especially true when it comes to computers and their uses. While a computer may be perfect for one person, it may be useless to somebody else. This is because there are so many variations of what’s actually inside a computer. For this reason, many people are opting to have their computer systems custom built. If you are one of the many people contemplating a similar idea, you may be unsure as to where to start. In this article, we’ll present you with a guide to choosing a custom built desktop computer.

The number one appeal for people in choosing a custom built computer is price. It is often far cheaper to build a computer than it is to buy one new from a company. To get the most out of your custom built computer, you will first have to identify the key components that you absolutely need. This will help save you time and money. So, let’s take a look at the perfect custom built desktop computer for a variety of users.

In today’s world, many people use a desktop computer for only two reasons – word processing and internet surfing. If you fall into this category of user, you will have no problem choosing a custom built desktop computer. When deciding on a processor you basically have two choices; Intel and AMD. It is important to note that for simple web browsing and word processing, there is virtually no difference between the two processors. It is recommended that you go with an Intel Pentium 4 or an AMD Athlon. This is strictly a matter of preference, and you may want to do additional research to determine which is right for you. You will also want to determine the amount of memory you make available in your desktop computer. Again, for simple tasks such as these, anything more than 512MB will be more than sufficient. The rest of your system can be built with average secondary components, such as sound and graphic cards, and a CD/DVD drive.

If you happen to be a big-time gamer, you will need a computer with more RAM as well as better graphics capability. It is recommended that you upgrade to 1MB or 2MB of RAM.  It will also enhance your game-play experience if you install a faster processor, perhaps even a dual core processor. These processors make it much easier to multitask while providing the ultimate gaming experience. Lastly, don’t forget to add a nice monitor and speaker system if you are building a computer geared towards gaming. This will also add to your overall enjoyment of your system.

The final type of user we would like to cover in this guide is the person who does a lot of work on the computer. This person will need a high-quality motherboard, which is always the most crucial element of any good computer. A motherboard helps your computer run at its optimum level, while ensuring all secondary components work properly. Somebody who stores a lot of data on their desktop computer will need to invest in a high-end motherboard. In addition, this type of user will also benefit from extra RAM, which will help in storing files.

This guide to choosing a custom built desktop computer should only serve as your first step in making a more informed buying decision. In addition to the aid of this guide, you should also perform thorough research and work with a trusted builder. It is important to remember that what you are putting into your custom built desktop computer will allow you to get the most out of it. Good luck!


