Title: 
How To Download Music Video for Ipod

Word Count:
406

Summary:
So, you are looking to download music video for Ipod? Well,  this article will show you exactly how to do that.


Keywords:
music video download, download free music video downloads


Article Body:
So, you are looking to download music video for Ipod? Well,  this article will show you exactly how to do that. One of the greatest features of Ipods is the versatility they have in being used for not just music.You can even watch music videos! Read on and I will show you how to do it.

The first thing to consider before you even start is that you will perobably have to get some specialised MP4 conversion software. Most music videos, movies etc are in avi or WMV format. These are good formats, but they are not compatible with the Ipod, which needs MP4 videos to play. It is not difficult to find software which will convert avi’s/wmv’s etc to MP4 so do a search with your favourite search engine, and you will certainly find some..

When the files have been converted to the MP4 format, you just have to import them into Itunes as usual. This is not difficult or time consuming, but you must remember to put your files into the right format BEFORE they are transferred to Itunes. If you don't, it can cause problems later.

Once all of the files have been imported to Itunes, simply connect your Ipod and transfer them. How to download music video for Ipod really is that easy!

What is more challenging than how to download music video for Ipod is where to download music video for Ipod. The places where you can find these are not known to most people. You can of course get them from Itunes or whatever, but if you know the right places to find them, you can often find what you would normally have to pay for, available for free!

Take your time to do some research and you will find websites with MILLIONS of Ipod files available for download, from music videos to movies to songs. You have got to be very careful to avoid bad websites which are infected with spyware, but I’ve worked out some of the best ones, so check out the links below to access these sites and get hold of some free downloads.

There you have it, you've now learned to download music video to your Ipod. As I said, it isn't the how that is difficult, it’s the where, but check out the links below and you’ll soon be enjoying all the free downloads you could want!


