Title: 
how to get music for iPhone

Word Count:
487

Summary:
If you have an Iphone, firstly congratulations-it's been very tough to get hold of one, especially in the hustle and bustle of the holiday season, and secondly, have you ever wondered how to get a good music collection onto it?


Keywords:
get music for iphone, iphone music downloads


Article Body:
If you have an Iphone, firstly congratulations-it's been very tough to get hold of one, especially in the hustle and bustle of the holiday season, and secondly, have you ever wondered how to get a good music collection onto it?

If you have, you will be glad to know that essentially there are two main sources for your music (unlike the lucky Zune owners, Iphone owners aren't able to transfer songs directly with their friends). The best way to get an absolutely huge selection of songs into your Iphone is by downloading them from the internet, and the other, slightly less cool way is to simply transfer your existing cd collection onto the iphone. This is ok, but it just means the same old songs for you.

Using either method will mean you need a computer, and if you plan to use the internet you'll obviously need some kind of internet connection, and to transfer from CD you will need some ripping software-this is just a fancy name for a program that records music from your CD and saves in into Windows as a file so you can then do what you like with it. It's pretty fast as well, so it's not like you have to play the whole CD through or anything, it will usually take a couple of minutes tops.

Once you have the songs you want to transfer stored on your computer, it's simply a case of connecting the Iphone to the computer and letting Itunes sync with it, which should then store all the new stuff onto the Iphone. Simple huh?

Downloading songs from the internet is a little more complicated, but then it's worth it as you'll be getting a lot of new music. The main thing to take into account is that you want to stay very aware of how secure your computer system is. Iphones and Ipods etc are very popular, and the hackers and other unsavory characters know it only too well. There are a few sites around which will claim to offer all kinds of free music and downloads etc, only to give you downloads that are infected with trojans/viruses etc. For this reason you need to be very careful what kind of site you are using.

You'll find that there are some sites out there that will give you real free downloads for your Iphone, but they certainly take some finding. A useful way of spotting them is to expect to play a nominal fee to get your membership. It's something like $50 or so for life, which may seem steep but it usually gives you totally unlimited downloads, so offers good value in the long run.

Once you manage to get a few downloads, you can just transfer them to your Iphone using the Itunes program.

This article should have given you a real understanding of how to find and put music onto your Iphone.


