Title: 
How to choose and buy an iPod at good prices

Word Count:
336

Summary:
ipod is a renowned brand of portable digital media player designed and marketed by Apple Computer. The ipod is currently the world's best-selling digital audio player. The ipod family devices provide a simple user interface designed around a central scroll wheel, with the exception of the ipod shuffle.


Keywords:
cheap ipod


Article Body:
ipod is a renowned brand of portable digital media player designed and marketed by Apple Computer. The ipod is currently the world's best-selling digital audio player. The ipod family devices provide a simple user interface designed around a central scroll wheel, with the exception of the ipod shuffle. 

The majority of ipod models store media on a built-in hard drive, while the smaller ipod shuffle and ipod nano use flash memory. An ipod, like most digital audio players, can serve as an external data storage device when connected to a computer. The discontinued versions of the ipod include two generations of the popular ipod mini and four generations of the full-sized ipod, all of which had monochrome screens except for the fourth-generation ipod with color screen, which was previously sold as ipod photo before it replaced the monochrome ipod in the top line. As of December 2005, the lineup consists of the fifth-generation ipod that can play videos, the ipod nano that has a color screen, and the ipod shuffle; all three iterations were released in 2005.
 
The bundled software used for uploading music, photos, and videos to the ipod is called iTunes. iTunes is a music jukebox application that stores a comprehensive library of the music on a user's computer, as well as being able to play and rip it from a CD. The most recent incarnations of ipod and iTunes have video playing and organization features. Other forms of data can be added to ipod as if it were a normal data storage device.

ipod or ipods is the most frequently searched keyword online. There are numerous websites offering tons of valuable information on video ipod, ipod accessories, used ipods and cheap ipod. Some sites offer ipod blog, ipod reviews, ipod news and ipod articles.

These ipod blogs, reviews, articles, news and other information are very helpful to the potential ipod customers. The guys planning to buy ipod products are advised to go through these online sources and read ipod reviews before buying any ipod product.


