Title: 
Information Overload - Stop the Barrage

Word Count:
381

Summary:
Information overload is a serious problem for computer consultants trying to grow their business. Limiting the amount of print magazines that come into the business is an excellent strategy for dealing with information overload.


Keywords:
Information Overload, Information-Overload


Article Body:
Information overload is a serious problem in computer consulting.  As a computer consultant you likely have information about new technology coming at you from all directions.  This barrage of information overload is enough to render you unable to figure out what is important and what is not. 

Luckily, your clients will mostly be small businesses and they are behind the curve.  Much of the information overload you are receiving does not apply to them.  Once you realize this, you can feel comfortable putting your business development needs ahead of your inherent feeling that you need to keep up.

Information Overload Culprits

The source of much of the information overload you are experiencing is print magazine subscriptions. If you ignore 90 percent of your print magazine subscriptions for the next three to six months your information overload will decrease significantly. 

You only have so many hours in a day. The difference between reading a half a dozen magazines versus going out to two more networking events could be the difference between finding two $1000 a month clients. Don't spend your valuable time dealing with things that only create information overload and exasperation.

Information Overload Solution

Limit your subscriptions to two. To stay on top of what’s important to small business consulting in the small, midsize and large markets, subscribe to CRN and VAR Business. CRN is a weekly, online subscription that is free in the US but has other subsidiaries.  VAR Business is bi weekly.  

If you skim these two publications and limit yourself to no more than a half an hour per week, you'll eliminate much of your information overload.  These publications will act as your filter and they will spin the information you need and apply it to business development.

The Bottom Line on Information Overload

Information comes at us from all directions at an amazing rate.  Information overload is easy to encounter and hard to counteract.  By limiting the amount of material that comes to you, you will eliminate much of the source of information overload.  Once you do that, you will have more time to spend doing the things you need to do to grow and develop your business.  

Copyright MMI-MMVI, Computer Consulting 101. All Worldwide Rights Reserved. {Attention Publishers: Live hyperlink in author resource box required for copyright compliance}


