Title: 
Internet Fax – Once There Were Fax Machines

Word Count:
326

Summary:
The fax technology was invented on 1948, long before cellular phones and emails. Is this old communication technology still alive and kicking? Well, not really. Actually, it is slowly dying. Find out all about the internet fax – the new metamorphosis of the old fax technology in the next few minutes.

Till now, you had to own a special machine – a fax machine, which was only made to send and receive faxes. Now using internet fax or as some call it email faxing, you need no ...


Keywords:
Internet fax, email faxing, internet fax service, faxing service


Article Body:
The fax technology was invented on 1948, long before cellular phones and emails. Is this old communication technology still alive and kicking? Well, not really. Actually, it is slowly dying. Find out all about the internet fax – the new metamorphosis of the old fax technology in the next few minutes.

Till now, you had to own a special machine – a fax machine, which was only made to send and receive faxes. Now using internet fax or as some call it email faxing, you need no special device for faxes – You can send and receive faxes via your email.

In fact, think of all the things you needed to maintain and pay for to be able to send and receive faxes: A special fax line, paper, ink cartridges etc. Using internet fax, you need nothing but an internet connection.

Another great advantage of using internet fax is its’ transparency. All your business partners will keep sending you faxes to a fax number. In fact, you can choose a toll free number as your virtual fax number.

The biggest advantage of internet faxing is the ability to manage your time more efficiently. I remember my secretary wandering between her office and the fax machine half a dozen times for a single fax receiving. Not any more, now she receives my faxes through the email service wasting no time. She manages to do more tasks now when running around for faxes have stopped. 

More than that, you can check if new faxes have been received from anywhere in the world using the internet fax service. You just have to log on to your web mail service and check for new mails. You will save a lot of precious time by responding a lot faster to any new fax you get. Recently, I have begun reading new faxes using my wireless PDA. I can’t believe that a year ago I still used the big fax machine with all its’ disadvantages.


