Title: 
Iphone Downloads

Word Count:
487

Summary:
If you own an Apple Iphone, you may have noticed that one of the most fun uses of it is for downloads.


Keywords:
iphone downloads, music downloads for iphone


Article Body:
If you own an Apple Iphone, you may have noticed that one of the most fun uses of it is for downloads. The Iphone is pretty amazing, surely the most advanced cellphone/MP3 player yet seen, and the fact that it has internet connectivity built in only adds to its allure. Not only that, but you can also use it to watch movies and video clips, all stored on its huge onboard memory. Pretty clever stuff.

In order to take full advantage of the Iphone downloads that are available, there are several things you will need to make sure you have. If you haven't got all this stuff, it doesn't matter too much as it's soon expected to be able to download music etc direct to the Iphone itself, but as of time of writing, you will still need a computer to do this. The spec of the computer is not too important as long as it isn't ancient, although a large hard drive can be useful if you are planning on downloading lots of large files. The only other thing you will need is pretty obvious, and that is an internet connection for the computer, the faster the better. It's pretty hard downloading anything without being connected to the net!

You can download things for your Iphone from all different places, literally hundreds and thousands of different sites on the net. This is where the danger lies however, as not all of these sources are 100% trustworthy and reliable. Many people obtain their downloads from P2P/ torrent sites also known as file sharing sites, and though they can seem very useful, sites like this can actually cause lots of trouble. One of the main problems with using sites like this is the law – it's illegal to download anything from them, so you really could end up in jail or with a large fine. The other big problem is that sites like this have no governing of what is uploaded, and this makes it easy pickers for hackers etc to upload viruses and things, for you, the innocent user, to download. It's all too common for someone to download something only to find that it isn't what was described and that they now have a virus or trojan horse etc.

On the more positive side, there is finally a good alternative to sites like this. There is now the opportunity to pay a one off membership fee to certain sites, and then get access to their database of downloads. This will mostly include MP3s, movies, games etc, and all kinds of other bits and pieces. Also in many cases, your membership fee will cover you for life, so for less than $50 or so you can enjoy these free downloads indefinitely.

Hopefully this article has helped you learn that with the speeds of modern internet connections, it's never been easier to get access to unlimited Iphone downloads.


