Title: 
Iphone Software Downloads

Word Count:
389

Summary:
Apple have continued along the lines of the Ipod, this time with the Iphone. This latest evolution of Apple technology works as a cellphone, music player, movie player and will even give you internet access.


Keywords:
iphone software, download iphone software


Article Body:
Apple have continued along the lines of the Ipod, this time with the Iphone. This latest evolution of Apple technology works as a cellphone, music player, movie player and will even give you internet access. The Iphone really has given people a taste of the technology of the future, especially taken into account the software downloads.

Apple have recently decreed that they will not be allowing any third party organisations produce software for the Iphone. Instead they intend to create all software themselves, and the third party guys are going to be limited to the production of peripherals. Be that as it may, the Iphone software has already been compromised by enterprising hackers, and it's now possible to buy software over the net which will allow the Iphone to be used on cell networks other than the ones intended by Apple. This is a mixed blessing for Iphone owners, as it does allow greater freedom with price plans etc, but Apple have already unequivocally stated that these adjustments will instantly invalidate the warranty on your Iphone.

Apple are expected to announce an update to the Iphone software over the next few month. It is thought that the main purpose of this update is to close the backdoor which the hackers have been using to unlock the firmware on these early versions. The other main feature of the update is expected to be compatibility with the Itunes software, enabling Iphone owners to download media directly from the internet, something that has been possible with other cellphones for some years now.

Apple have announced plans to continually update the Iphone software and interface, and to make these updated available regularly, as a free download over the internet. It's thought that the main reason for these frequent updates is to keep the hackers out of the system, but in all likelihood it will only result in a similar situation to Sony's PSP, with certain models being more sought after due to having hackable firmware. This has resulted in a game of back and forth between Sony and the hackers, and is probably the kind of scenario Apple will find themselves in over the coming months.

For any Iphone owner, life will only get more exciting as more and more exciting software developments are announced and implemented for this amazing piece of technology.


