Title: 
Is Your PC Crowding Your Desk?

Word Count:
460

Summary:
When your PC eats up almost the entire space in your computer table, it’s time to have a little re-organizing. Desktop computers, especially those bulky CPU’s and monitors could eat up quite a space which could be a room for other essentials such as folder stackers, telephone or fax machine. Nowadays, bulky personal computers can be really heavy to the eyes, especially since in today’s technology, the adage, “bulk is out, thin is in” is the mainstream. 

Let’s start with yo...


Keywords:
laptop, notebook, computer, ink printer, acer apple, compaq, dell, hp, sony, toshiba


Article Body:
When your PC eats up almost the entire space in your computer table, it’s time to have a little re-organizing. Desktop computers, especially those bulky CPU’s and monitors could eat up quite a space which could be a room for other essentials such as folder stackers, telephone or fax machine. Nowadays, bulky personal computers can be really heavy to the eyes, especially since in today’s technology, the adage, “bulk is out, thin is in” is the mainstream. 

Let’s start with your computer table. Its size may vary depending on your design. It may be wide enough to accommodate two “bulky” PC sets, or it could barely hold one, and you don’t have enough space left for the keyboard or the mouse. 

First things first, remove all unnecessary files, folders, papers, trash, coffee mugs and saucers, ashtrays, etc. on your desk. Clear the area. Your computer table should be just that, a computer table and not a hodgepodge of everything else. However, top designers say that there are some essential things that should be within reach (especially for an office desk). 

The telephone, for one should be within reach. Some very important and frequently used documents could be stacked inside an upright holder which can cover only a little space and is still within reach compared to when just piled up on top of the table. 

However, if the area is already clear, but you can still barely fit a small pen holder on top of it, you should think of getting yourself a bigger desk or… a new set of personal computer.

Super space-saving computers have flooded the market nowadays. Try checking out flat monitors to replace your old, bulky one. Have your CPU re-designed or buy one of those small and slim tower CPUs. Small and compact keyboards are also available, reducing the size of a regular keyboard to almost a half. 

And, if you do not have a place to slide your mouse in, try using a trackball mouse. That way, it occupies just that small space and you don’t have to glide it across a wider area.

Or have all of those pieces in one super sleek laptop notebook. People on the go prefer to have a laptop which they can take along whenever and wherever they go. And nowadays, laptops are not at all far behind in terms of technical capabilities vis-à-vis PCs.
 
It is always a good thing to see a clear and organized computer table. It would compel one to work well, without the mess adding up to the already full and cluttered working brain. And, admit it, it’s nice not seeing those bulky gadgets anymore. It helps ease the heaviness in the mind as well.


