Title: 
ISP Features

Word Count:
459

Summary:
Internet service providers are becoming more and more present as the internet makes its way into more and more homes in America. This is making it harder to decide which ISP to subscribe to. In fact, most of them have a list of benefits to entice customers into subscribing from their ISP. Here is some information on the basic features that should come with a good ISP.

First, is of coarse security. With new viruses circulating the internet everyday, you can’t be too careful...


Keywords:
broadband, uk broadband, broadband feature connections, wanadoo broadband, bt broadband, isp


Article Body:
Internet service providers are becoming more and more present as the internet makes its way into more and more homes in America. This is making it harder to decide which ISP to subscribe to. In fact, most of them have a list of benefits to entice customers into subscribing from their ISP. Here is some information on the basic features that should come with a good ISP.

First, is of coarse security. With new viruses circulating the internet everyday, you can’t be too careful. That is why it is critical for ISP’s to offer virus protection. However, they are now offering popup blockers also. These troublesome ads can become so frustrating that they too can be considered harmful to your computer. This is why ISP’s have started furnishing tools to speed up customer’s computers and create a more enjoyable internet experience. They are also protecting children from the net by providing blocks controlled by parents to block adult material on the net.

Another, feature you want to have from your ISP is multiple e-mail accounts. In fact, many ISP’s provide between 5 and 10 e-mail accounts to one subscriber. This allows every member of the family to have their own e-mail account. That way a father doesn’t have to put up with the cutsie forwards his daughter receives, and she doesn’t have to put up with her father’s daily stock tips. This is the best way to go if you have a family. The more e-mail accounts the better since it is best to have a professional e-mail account, and another for less formal messages.

If you want your own web page posted on the net, you may be able to get one without the unwanted ads. This is because ISP’s are now offering free web space. This space is limited in size, but does not always have the ads that come with other free web spaces. In fact, your ISP may also provide a template or special tools such as counters to place on your site. You should check with your ISP before placing a business site on the web space provided by them. A lot of ISP’s will not allow that kind of use.

Your ISP may also provide for use from multiple computers in your home. This may be free or may cost you a small fee. However, with multiple access you can have the freedom of completing your work assignments online, while your son is researching for a school paper. Whatever you are looking for you may find it. The key is looking around and comparing the features with more than one ISP. This way you will find just the right features for you and your family.


