Title: 
LAN Service Contracts - Grab The Opportunity

Word Count:
363

Summary:
Computer consulting requires lots of preparation. Consider which steps you need to do first to begin computer consulting.


Keywords:
Computer consulting, small business computer consulting


Article Body:
If you've done a lot of research on computer consulting, you probably have information overload. In this article, you'll learn what steps to take when first starting your business of computer consulting.

Pick a Date

First, pick a definite date for launching your new computer consulting business and write it down: Launch date is  ____/____/____.  Why is that important? It gives you something to work towards, a concrete goal at which point you say you know you are starting your computer consulting business. Put the date on your calendar, whether it is six months from today or six weeks from today. 

Narrow down your to-do lists and organize your tasks in top 10 priority. Write down everything that's floating around in your head and then go through that list and pick the 10 most important things.  

Possible Top Ten Priorities

Your list might include:
·	meeting with an accountant
·	getting a business resale license
·	opening up a distributor account 
·	picking a company name
·	coming up with a business card
·	looking through insurance options
·	getting a Web site domain
·	getting a business voice mail box 

There are probably 30, 40, or even 50 things that are on your list. Narrow that down to the ten that you think are the most important to do before launching. 

Order Your List

Once you get those 10, highlight them on paper and try to see if you can rank them in order of some kind of chronological order that makes sense to do.  Just work on one or two a week. If you're a more analytical type and you think you work better on the screen, do this exercise in Microsoft Excel or do it in Microsoft Word. And then narrow your huge list down to your top 10 business priority tasks.  

Develop a Timeline to Start Computer Consulting

Let's say you're launching your computer consulting business five weeks from now and you've got 10 things to do.  Pick two things to do each week.  It seems a lot more manageable when you put it in terms of that kind of time frame.

Copyright Notice:

Copyright MMI-MMVI, Small Biz Tech Talk. All Worldwide Rights Reserved. {Attention Publishers: Live hyperlink in author resource box required for copyright compliance}


