Title: 
MG-Shadow: computer monitoring software – a watchdog protecting your interests.

Word Count:
447

Summary:
Internet has changed our life completely. It brought new perspectives and possibilities. But at the same time Internet is a “phantom menace” to those who are not ready for its traps. This dark side of Internet’s power makes people to use monitoring software to avoid possible troubles especially with somebody they are responsible for.


Keywords:
Computer, software, internet, monitoring, spy, surveillance, children, MG-Shadow, MG WAY CORP, children protection, parents, pedophile


Article Body:
About 64% of all on-line teens say that do things online that they wouldn't want their parents to know about. 
   11% of all adult internet users visit dating websites and spend their time in chatrooms. Some of the classify their behavior as “cyber affair” 
   More then 60% of employees use company PC for the personal needs during their work hours as long as 80 minutes per day. Do the math. It's an essential time and money waste

  That's why today the question of controlling the internet usage is on the rise. The best way to verify the proper usage of your PC is to use the software known as monitoring, spy or surveillance software, developed to record user's activities on a computer. Such software can be easily purchased and downloaded from vendor's websites.  But sometimes the word “spy” appeals to our ethical issues. Can such software be classified as spyware?

As soon as we ask this question we might have the reason to use spy software. And, first of all we should ask ourselves what do we need it for: to protect or to attack. If we have good intentions, all means are good. The thing is that any tool can be used for very different purposes. Imagine what can be done with bread knife other then slicing bread for family dinner. We shouldn't be afraid of a weapon we should be afraid of a man carrying it.

  MG WAY CORP launched its pilot version of computer monitoring software MG-Shadow last year. Though there is a big number of monitoring programs on the market, MG-Shadow can be easily classified as one of the fastest, stable and very easy to use programs. And coming on the market recently it has already gained its popularity. 

  MG-Shadow's features that highlight it from the crowd of competitors are: 
·	Advanced scheduler which gives you a possibility to run the Program at specific periods of time on your wish and put it in a "sleep mode" when monitoring is not necessary; 
·	Built-in content filter which prevents users from using and visiting undesirable internet resources; 
·	Mail Manager will send all the information you need in the form of reports to your personal e-mail box; 
·	For your convenience you can watch all the screenshots made by the program using advanced Slideshow mode. 
There is no annual or update fees.
And you will also receive 6 powerful bonuses ($300 value) including access to our “Investigation Center”, that are not available with any other computer monitoring software. 
For more info about MG-Shadow or MG WAY COPR contact Max Galitsyn visit www.mg-shadow.com <http://www.mg-shadow.com> or www.mgwaycorp.com <http://www.mgwaycorp.com>
Press contact Alex Falcon
E-mail: contact@mgwaycorp.com


