Title: 
Mouse Hunt – Not The Movie (Choosing The Perfect Mouse For Your Computer)

Word Count:
652

Summary:
Computer Mouse – it’s something you wouldn’t run away from. Instead, it is the one thing you would search for. In fact, every body is in search for a good one. And it has actually become a not-so-easy task to “hunt” for a good mouse – for your pc. 

What do you look for, when you say “good computer mouse?” Often, when you buy a whole pc set, a mouse is already included. But there are others who still search for a good one.

In choosing a mouse, you must consider its compa...


Keywords:
laptop, notebook, computer, ink printer, acer apple, compaq, dell, hp, sony, toshiba


Article Body:
Computer Mouse – it’s something you wouldn’t run away from. Instead, it is the one thing you would search for. In fact, every body is in search for a good one. And it has actually become a not-so-easy task to “hunt” for a good mouse – for your pc. 

What do you look for, when you say “good computer mouse?” Often, when you buy a whole pc set, a mouse is already included. But there are others who still search for a good one.

In choosing a mouse, you must consider its compatibility with the pc and of course, with you, the user. As the technology advances, there are many types of mice to choose from ranging from mechanical (the ball-inside-type) to optical (ones that use laser to detect movement). Check the connectivity, as there are different mice with different connectivity ports: RS-232C serial port, PS/2 port and the USB. 

The cordless (or wireless) mouse uses infrared and Bluetooth devices to receive and send signals. The advantage of cordless mouse is that the user wouldn’t have to deal with messy wires. It is necessary though, for the pc (or laptop notebook) to have a Bluetooth or infrared capabilities. Also, most cordless mouse require batteries to operate.

Use the foot mouse when you do not want your hands to get off the key-board. This unusual idea was prompted by Hunter Digital, for the purpose that both hands can continually work on the keyboard while the foot can simultaneously move the mouse.

The touchpad (or glidepoint) is a usual input device found on laptop notebooks, and portable PCs. This built-in mouse and mouse pad is operated by the fingers gliding along the pad which sends signals to the censors and eventually moves the cursor. Like a normal external mouse, the touchpad also has two buttons which you can click to access icons, buttons and tabs. 

The intellimouse, which is also known as the scroll mouse has become the standard mouse that comes along with the PC set. It has a “wheel” in between the two buttons that can be used to scroll up and down on the window. You don’t have to point and drag on the vertical scroll bar which is usually at the side of the window. On some programs, the wheel can be used to open a link in tab.

Normally, the ball of the mouse is found inside the mouse. However, the trackball mouse has the ball on top of the gadget. This reduces the movement of the wrist of the user. The fingers or the thumb are used to move the ball that prompts the cursor to point at an object in the screen. 

The trackpoint is another built-in device found inmost laptop notebooks and portable pc. It is a subtle, almost like a pencil eraser isometric joystick located between the letters GH and B. It enables the user to navigate the cursor without removing his hands on the keyboard. The two buttons of this joystick are found under the spacebar.

You must choose a mouse in which you, the user, will comfortable using. It would be best to check for the following in choosing a mouse:

Find a mouse that is as flat as possible and that would fit just right in your palm. This would reduce wrist extension.
 
Find a mouse that would easily glide as you prompt it. This way, you can reduce tension in your wrist and you can prevent restrictions in the circulation of blood. Remember, it is in your wrist where your pulse is--it should have a relaxed and free flow of blood to avoid injuries. 

It is also beneficial to find a mouse that easily be configures to a left or right hand usage. This way, should your other hand be tired, you can shift the work to the other and give the former hand a little rest.


