Title: 
Plan an attractive Myspace background with freshness

Word Count:
510

Summary:
Planning an attractive Myspace background with freshness can be a challenging task unless the new features are not brought in.


Keywords:
Myspace Layouts, Myspace Backgrounds, Myspace Codes, Myspace Graphics


Article Body:
Planning an attractive Myspace background with freshness can be a challenging task unless the new features are not brought in. The new features can be anything that can add value to the background of the Myspace background. But take care to ensure that your individual profile is safely maintained. On occasions, there are chances that the new features could spoil your profile or cause much damage to the way you planned to create the web page. Under those circumstances, it is imperative for the myspace member to retain the original identity. Begin with the starter background of the myspace page. Maintain the profile for at least two weeks and study what additional features can be added to it. To make an assessment of the additions to the background, visit other sites and study the profiles carefully. The profiles are created on the basis of the character and the attitude of the individual. Some wish to let out their desires float in the form of the web page of the myspace account. You decide what is best for you, whether to identify your individual identity or present the inside by streaming information.

If you want to mask your identity, the best way to create is a disguised profile. Most people these days use a disguised profile to keep their identity protected. Such people can bank on a variety of backgrounds that are of optimum use. The background appears high tech in nature and futuristic. If the user wants to be a bit adventurous, then the photo can be masked to provide only a glimpse of the member. The masking should be carried out in such a manner that the entire image is not sent to the background. For instance, only the eyes or certain key parts of the face can be highlighted while the rest are hidden for view from the public visitors. However, some people carry images that are not original. They present themselves in the form of others. For instances, people loving beauty, normally have images of Marline Munroe or Madonna on the web page. Though it is illegal for myspace users to have the images of renowned personalities on the web page background, some follow it. However, it is advised that people do not post the images of well known personalities on the background. The best way to mask one's identity is to keep the page free from any image. This will ensure that the identity is fully protected. Besides, there is no curiosity from the visitor to identify the user.

However, users can also have images of theirs of younger days. It is not necessary that the images should be latest, taken in the near time. It will be all the more better if people use the images in a collage format. It is often found that youngsters like to sport a collage on the background. Multiple meanings can be conveyed through a collage. It will evoke considerable interest from the visitors. The collage could be a collection of images or designs relating to your favorite subjects.


