Title: 
Playing to win - how to find the best gaming laptop

Word Count:
400

Summary:
Technology advancement in computers and laptops changes at the speed of light. Keep up to date with the latest information, tips and reviews on what's Hot and what's Not.


Keywords:
laptop, gaming laptop


Article Body:
Finding the best gaming laptop can be very frustrating at times. In fact, finding the best of any computer related products can be frustrating because the technology field is so fast paced. 

One thing is for sure that whatever is top of the line today most assuredly will not be in the top in a couple of months. 

As I said, the pace of technology is simply astounding. And it can also get pretty frustrating if you just bought what you thought was the king of gaming notebooks, only to have a new king appear on the market a few weeks later.

This is why it may be better to consider looking for certain qualities in a gaming computer, rather than a specific brand or model. 

Models get switched out every so often. 

Brands get hyped by the reporters and computer magazines one issue, only to have their reputations bashed in the next. 

Instead, what I recommend is to hunt for consistent quality across the board instead of just a flash in the pixilated pan.

No matter what brand or model your considering, the best gaming laptop must first and foremost come with Intel Centrino mobile technology. 

First off, these new chipsets make sure that your notebook doesn’t burn through its battery after only a few rounds of Doom III. And secondly, this mobile technology maximizes the graphic output, making images and movement appear smooth and crisp, not choppy and blurred.

Of course, to really appreciate these high-grade visuals, you need a large, potentially wide screen display. In the area of 14 or 15 inches, with wide angles and crystal clear imaging. 

The extra display size may make your laptop a bit more unwieldy, but you’re there to play the computer, not lug it around.

Finally, to maximize your web gaming, you should get a laptop with the finest in wireless technology, such as Bluetooth and Wi Fi connectivity. These will add the mobile to your mobile gaming, allowing you to challenge the competition in San Diego, California and San Juan, Costa Rica.

Now when your comparing prices and models, it goes with out saying that you should maximize your hard drive space, games and graphics need alot of space. Also remember to maximize RAM memory, and processor speed as well. For all of these components are literally the backbone of any computer system, let alone the best gaming laptop.


