Title: 
Prepaid Calling Cards: Don't Leave Home Without One

Word Count:
494

Summary:
People are always making phone calls. There is always someone to call and something to talk about. There are phones in every home and store in the country. Sometimes, however, it gets frustrating to pay so much to make long distance calls or to tr to find enough change to make a call at a pay phone. Fortunately, there are prepaid calling cards that can save the day.

Prepaid calling cards are just what their names says. Simply, they are a card that you prepay to make phone ...


Keywords:
prepaid calling cards


Article Body:
People are always making phone calls. There is always someone to call and something to talk about. There are phones in every home and store in the country. Sometimes, however, it gets frustrating to pay so much to make long distance calls or to tr to find enough change to make a call at a pay phone. Fortunately, there are prepaid calling cards that can save the day.

Prepaid calling cards are just what their names says. Simply, they are a card that you prepay to make phone calls. You can buy prepaid calling cards at a variety of stores, supermarkets, and gas stations throughout the country. You can spend as little as ten dollars or as much as one hundred dollars on a card. The more money you spend, the more minutes you will be able to use the card to talk.

Prepaid calling cards are easy to use. There is an eight hundred number that you dial, followed by a pin number that you enter. An operator will tell you how many minutes remain on your prepaid calling card and then ask you to enter the number you wish to call. It is as simple as that. Dial the number, listen to the phone ring, and then have a nice conversation with a family member or friend.

Prepaid calling cards are convenient. When you are out and about and need to make a call, instead of having to find the correct amount of change, just pull your prepaid calling card out of your wallet and begin. No change needed. Or when you are wanting to make a long distance call, no need to worry about how much it will cost, just use your prepaid calling card to make the call.

You will definitely save money using a prepaid calling card. Not only will you be able to stop searching for spare change, but you will also be able to completely cancel your long distance phone service and use the card instead. There are no monthly fees and no charges per call. Once you buy the minutes you can use them to call a neighbor or a friend on the other side of the country.

Another great benefit of using a prepaid calling card is that you prepay. You know how much you are spending when you purchase the card, so there are no surprise phone bills at the end of the month. Your prepaid calling card will not work when the minutes run out, so you can easily track how much you have spent and how long you have talked. What a relief to not have a huge phone bill each month.

Prepaid calling cards are easy to use, they are really convenient for people with busy lifestyles, and they erase the dreaded monthly long distance phone bill when used instead of a plan. What more could you ask for? Get a prepaid calling card and don't leave your home without it!


