Title: 
Refurbished Laptops – Are They For You?

Word Count:
519

Summary:
Refurbished laptops are popular choices for those who need a new laptop, but do not want to spend a lot of money. Refurbished and used are not the same though. A used laptop usually means that a private individual is selling their computer for some reason. Often, there are no guarantees. A refurbished laptop is one that is certified for resale and usually offers some sort of guarantee or warranty. 

When buying a refurbished laptop, you will be looking for one will many of ...


Keywords:
computers,laptop,laptops,notebook,technology


Article Body:
Refurbished laptops are popular choices for those who need a new laptop, but do not want to spend a lot of money. Refurbished and used are not the same though. A used laptop usually means that a private individual is selling their computer for some reason. Often, there are no guarantees. A refurbished laptop is one that is certified for resale and usually offers some sort of guarantee or warranty. 

When buying a refurbished laptop, you will be looking for one will many of the same features and qualities of a new laptop. Consider the size of laptop you are looking for before making a purchase. If you will carry your laptop with you on travels or on business trips, research the smaller, lightweight laptop versions. This will usually be much easy to carry than the larger sized laptops. Also, when looking at refurbished laptop computers, think about the size of memory you will require.
 
Many of the lower priced laptops come with minimal amounts of memory. That may be fine if all you need from your computer is very basic web access and data processing. If you need to store large amounts of documents, videos or pictures, look into getting a laptop with a larger amount of memory. 

The other thing to consider when looking for a refurbished laptop is the speed of the computer. Laptops are generally a bit slower than desktop computers, but with new technology, a good laptop can be just as fast. If you are considering a refurbished laptop, make sure that its features can be upgraded if necessary.

It is important to remember that refurbished laptops are generally a better risk than buying a used computer. Used computers usually have no guarantee and what you buy is what you get. Refurbished laptops are carefully repaired and are certified for resale. These laptops have been thoroughly examined and inspected for worn and damaged parts. This means that in theory, you get a “new” laptop and a fraction of the cost. Also, refurbished laptops usually come with a warranty or guarantee making them a wise buy for consumers concerned with the quality. 

Refurbished laptops can be purchased several ways. There are many online dealers who sell certified refurbished laptops. Often these dealers purchase and refurbish products by the lot which makes them able to sell them to the consumer for a lower price. Also, check with manufacturers. Many times, if you are looking for a specific brand, they can recommend authorized sellers of their refurbished equipment. This is often a good way to get exactly what you are looking for and know for certain it is being purchased from a reputable dealer.

Before you purchase any refurbished laptop, it is highly recommended to make sure you know whom you are dealing with. Be aware of computer dealers that you do not know or cannot verify they are a genuine company. Refurbished laptops are often the target of sales on the black market and are often found to be stolen goods. If the dealer does not offer a warranty, consider purchasing the computer from somewhere else.


