Title: 
The Helpful Uses For The Seemingly Obsolete Typewriter

Word Count:
406

Summary:
In our high tech world with computers on every desktop, laptops, palm pilots, cellular phones, the day of the typewriter seems to have come and gone. So is there still any use for the typewriter?

You might think the typewriter is the office dinosaur of the 21st century. In fact, if you ask some of the youngest and brightest upcoming students you might be surprised to discover some of them don’t even know what a typewriter is. Not surprising in our modern world. But like al...


Keywords:
typewriters


Article Body:
In our high tech world with computers on every desktop, laptops, palm pilots, cellular phones, the day of the typewriter seems to have come and gone. So is there still any use for the typewriter?

You might think the typewriter is the office dinosaur of the 21st century. In fact, if you ask some of the youngest and brightest upcoming students you might be surprised to discover some of them don’t even know what a typewriter is. Not surprising in our modern world. But like all old dinosaurs there’s got to be some uses for all those old typewriters. And there is.

Let’s start with the using them. Even in our high tech world there are plenty of uses for typewriters. There are some office tasks that can be completed much quicker, more effectively, and with a lot less hassle using a typewriter than with a computer.

There are many situations in the work environment where all you need is a single label, or you just need to print one envelope but with a computer this can be a real hassle. By the time you open up the software package, configure everything just to print a single label, and then discover your computer printer isn’t capable of printing individual labels you’ll quickly see why the typewriter is the easiest way to quickly accomplish this task.

With the typewriter you simply place the label or envelope on the roller, load it, type your address or message, and remove it from the typewriter. It’s that easy!

And because typewriters are compact and require no additional equipment like monitors, they don’t require big desks, or lots of space. You can set up a typewriter on a small typewriter stand which also gives you the convenience of being able to move it around easily.

Besides use in the office, typewriters have become very collectable. From the old to the new there are collectors around the world building interesting collections. Some of the oldest models can actually attract a nice sum of money. So if you’ve got an interest in the history of office equipment, why not consider starting a typewriter collection.

Is there still a use for the typewriter? Absolutely! Don’t write the typewriter off as an extinct piece of office equipment. It still is a valuable asset in any office and it helps keep simple tasks simple and non time-consuming.


