Title: 
The best classroom training solution : computer rentals

Word Count:
504

Summary:
For classroom training, renting computers, sound systems and projectors from a computer rental company is the easiest and most cost efficient way to coordinate corporate training initiatives with the least amount of headaches.


Keywords:
computer , computer tips


Article Body:
For classroom training, renting computers, sound systems and projectors from a computer rental company is the easiest and most cost efficient way to coordinate corporate training initiatives with the least amount of headaches. 

Save Time and Money with Training: Computer, Projector, and Sound System Equipment Rentals 

Even if you own all the equipment you need for a computer training session you will save money by using the installation services of a computer rental company. Computer rental companies coordinate everything technical so you can concentrate on the execution of your computer training program. 

Trainers can become technicians very quickly when training computer equipment doesn't work properly. 

Training directors know how difficult it can be to 'work out all the bugs' before, during and after each training program. 

Execution is the key to training results and efficiencies. If 20 f the computers don't work, you can have a training disaster on your hands. 

Add up all the costs and distractions from your computer training goals. Put a value on your time, say $100 per hour. Now multiply the time you and your staff spent on hardware setup, delivery, installation, maintenance and removal. Keep in mind that all computers need to have the same configuration to maximize productivity. 

Here is a quick checklist of common tasks that need to be accomplished on every computer training session. 

1. Install same versions of operating systems and training software 

2. Install sound system, projectors, printers 

3. Run network cables 

4. Tape down all wires 

5. Connect to network services 

6. Test each computer 

7. Troubleshoot installation problems 

8. Diagnose and fix all problems 

9. Service equipment during training sessions including having spare equipment available. 

10. At the end of the computer training, disconnect, pickup and return all the equipment to various locations in your company. 

How many man-hours would it take for you and your company's staff to accomplish the classroom training setup, service and teardown? 

Here are some things to find out if you use a computer rental company for computer training sessions: 

Find out if the computer rental company has any experience with the classroom training hardware and software you need. If they do often they can remember all the pieces and parts that easily get overlooked by a non-experienced rental company. 

Some rental companies will install software or 'image load' all rental computers prior to delivery. 

For example, you can have your training program software and the OS of your choice installed on all desktop or laptop computers! 

Have the computer rental technicians test each application by following your testing directions. This ensures that your training software will work as planned. 

Make sure delivery, setup is planned well in advance of computer training sessions. 

Make sure you are covered with an on-site service program! Ask for extra, spare equipment can even be included for your computer training class! Often you can get a spare unit for free! 

Focus on your core competency...your computer training session. Don't be distracted by hardware and software problems. Let the experts focus on their core competency; your computer training hardware installation and management!


