Title: 
The Benefits of Owning Waterproof, "Tough" Laptops

Word Count:
751

Summary:
When you think of a laptop, a picture of someone working in an office will probably conjure in your mind. However, not all people work in an office. There are some who need to work outside and an ordinary laptop will not be able to meet the pressure of an outdoor job. That is where tough laptops come into the picture.


Keywords:
tough laptops


Article Body:
Waterproof, "tough" laptops are designed to have focused pieces of gear. These are especially useful for people working in a not so ideal condition. Laptops are designed to be taken anywhere and with its design is the recognition of fact that accidents may occur when taken out of the confines of the office. Accidents are beyond anyone’s control, thus manufacturers came up with laptops with protection gears.

In the past, certain parts of laptop were not easily protected from accidents. Yet manufacturers have come up with ways of protecting these components from dropping, vibration, temperature change and effects of water. Many laptops are devised with rubber fitting for protection and for firmer hold. However, this isn’t enough to protect other parts if not given special attention. Certain parts susceptible to damage are the hard disk, CD-ROM and screen. With tough laptops, the disk and screen are protected by a gel type shock absorbing mount preventing the shock to be transmitted to these parts.

Waterproof or tough laptops have motion sensors that detect the rapid changes in motion.  This sensor indicates a fall and with this condition, the sensor stops the disk's heads. Waterproof laptops use gaskets that create joints with waterproof connectors. These connectors are covered with rubber that attaches with the socket for water protection. Keyboards are also prone to damage. tough or waterproof laptops come with rubberized membrane providing it with protection against water. 

One cause of damage is the varying temperature range. New models of laptops are installed with heaters that maintain the operating temperature range of the parts. Keyboards are designed to have larger keys that make the laptop usable even when the user is wearing gloves. Some tough laptops are designed with glow in the dark screen and keyboards that enable the user to use it outdoors at night. Equally, tough laptops are provided with screens which are easily readable during the day time. 

tough laptops have programs that store guidance, workloads, manuals and diagrams. These features are extremely beneficial to those who need to stay in fields or to those who are on the move. tough laptops are designed with hardware with longer base life. 

Companies that rely on distribution, warehouse, sales force and mobility will find financial benefits from using tough laptops. Well-protected machines can’t be taken elsewhere and the mobile activities are limited. Air force and armies now use the latest computer technology for their tactics in the field and the toughest and toughest equipment is greatly needed. Utility workers that do installations and outdoor works require an efficient computer system to help them with their job. tough laptop can stand extreme heat and cold. It is resistant to dust particles, liquids and any hazardous materials. It can stand shock caused by dropping or shaking. Thus, a tough laptop is perfect for anyone to use at any time and any place.

For the most part, people who do not work in the traditional environment will find tough laptops very useful. However, the great use and benefits of owning a tough laptop is not confined to outdoor jobs. Even inside an office or home, a number of benefits are given to those who own them.  tough laptops are relatively more expensive than the standard but prolonged life of the laptop is one of the many benefits of owning a tough laptop. It means more savings and lesser stress.  

For that reason, in buying something, particularly what you need most, you need to evaluate the level of protection against the value and the condition. If you are someone wanting protection from accidents, you might think of buying a laptop with the reasonable degree of toughness at a moderate price. If you think your laptop will be very useful and will be very much needed in a not so friendly environment, you might be interested to buy a laptop with the highest degree of toughness with a relatively expensive cost. 

Buying a tough laptop isn't a cheap choice making individuals and companies decide to buy an ordinary one. However, these low budgeted laptops more often than not cause frequent failures and eventually are put into junk. One thing a buyer must know is that throwing an old laptop and buying a new one doesn’t save the lost work and lost time. One should realize that the data lost from laptop damage is more valuable than the laptop itself. It would be a practical idea to invest more than suffer in the end.


