Title: 
Tips For Buying Inkjet Catridges

Word Count:
348

Summary:
Computers have become an important part of everyday life. Printers also come along with computer use. Buying the inkjet cartridge for your printer can be a confusing matter. Knowing how to best chose one for your printer can help take the hassle out of the process.

The warning that your printer is almost out of ink can signal stress in some people. Figuring out which inkjet cartridge is best can seem like an impossible task. The best place to start is taking a look at the ...


Keywords:
inkjet cartridges


Article Body:
Computers have become an important part of everyday life. Printers also come along with computer use. Buying the inkjet cartridge for your printer can be a confusing matter. Knowing how to best chose one for your printer can help take the hassle out of the process.

The warning that your printer is almost out of ink can signal stress in some people. Figuring out which inkjet cartridge is best can seem like an impossible task. The best place to start is taking a look at the cartridge in your printer. Check what type it is and try to buy the same one. In some cases, though, the cartridge may not be available or for some reason the same cartridge can not be found. In that case the following tips may help.

- Avoid generic cartridges. The ink used in these cartridges may damage your printers nozzles.

- Figure out the printing quality you need. Ink cartridges made by the same manufacturer as the printer will produce the best results. These cartridges are also the most pricey.

- Take a look at the printer warranty. Some manufacturer’s warranties are void if an ink cartridge is used that is made by a different manufacturer.

- Look at the page yield of the ink cartridge you are buying. This will tell you how much printing the cartridge will do.

To prolong their life of your inkjet cartridge and save money on refills you can also take a few steps. Do not let the cartridge dry up as this can burn out the printer making it unable to print even with a new cartridge. Do not run one cartridge when the other is out because this will also ruin the jets and cause future issues. You can also lightly shake a cartridge side to side to help the printer use the remaining small amount of ink. 

The above tips will help you make the most out of buying and using ink cartridges. While there are many choices on the market, following simple tips will help you to chose the best ink cartridge for your needs.


