Title: 
Top 3 Ways To Buy An LCD TV

Word Count:
423

Summary:
This may come as a surprise to you. Just like other types of big screen TVs, LCD flat screen TVs have some disadvantages, as well. Yes, it's true. For example, LCD TVs have lower contrast ratios than plasmas, because they have a harder time reproducing deep black and dark grays. Their screen also tend to be thicker than plasma screens.

However, a LCD flat screen TV is not susceptible to burn-in and usually is less expensive than plasma televisions. LCD TVs also run cooler ...


Keywords:
lcd tv, lcd television sets, lcd tvs, sharp lcd tvs, lcd televisions


Article Body:
This may come as a surprise to you. Just like other types of big screen TVs, LCD flat screen TVs have some disadvantages, as well. Yes, it's true. For example, LCD TVs have lower contrast ratios than plasmas, because they have a harder time reproducing deep black and dark grays. Their screen also tend to be thicker than plasma screens.

However, a LCD flat screen TV is not susceptible to burn-in and usually is less expensive than plasma televisions. LCD TVs also run cooler than plasma TVs, thereby minimizing the need for noisy fan cooling. Many LCD sets can double as a PC monitors, as well. In terms of longevity, LCD flat screen TVs can last up to 60,000 hours, whereas plasma TVs, on average, last 30,000 to 40,000 hours.

Ready To Buy a LCD Flat Screen TV?
So, you are all set to buy your first LCD flat screen TV? Cool! Here are some shopping tips before you set you mind on a particular model. 

1. Check The Black-When you are shopping for your LCD flat screen TV, bring along a DVD movie that has dimly lit scenes. Use this to check for good black reproduction. Don't worry, the sales people won't think you are odd-maybe slightly obsessive, but not weird.

2. Remote Control-A good remote could be the difference between relaxation and frustration. Make sure that the remote control has backlighting so you can see you options in the dark. Also, make sure that the remote is comfortable. It is going to be in your hand a lot! 170-degree Viewing Angles-Try to find a LCD flat screen TV that has 170-degree viewing angles so that you may watch the image from anywhere in the room.

3. HD-Ready-HDTV stands for high-definition television. 
So, a HDTV is a television with a built-in digital tuner that shows high-definition broadcasts in true high-definition resolution. We recommend that you buy a LCD flat screen TV that is HD-ready, so that you may view HD programming- it's the wave of the future.

So, look around before you buy the perfect LCD flat screen TV for your home. You should understand that there are some disadvantages to each kind of television format, and nothing can reach perfection-yet. Well, except for maybe a jumbo 65-inch Sharp Aquos TV. LCD TVs can be simply awesome if you know what you are doing when you shop for them.

There is more than meets the eye when LCD TV shopping. These points only scratch the surface (if that!). Find out all the insider info on LCD TVs today.


