Title: 
Understanding Computer Ergonomics In The 21st Century

Word Count:
394

Summary:
Without a doubt, the most widely used tool in any workplace in the 21st century is the computer. The same holds true in the academic environment as well. When all is said and done, computers are used everywhere and on a continually basis. As a result, understanding and applying computer ergonomics is of vital importance in this day and age.

Perhaps the most widely understood and utilized definition of computer ergonomics runs something like: The science with a primary purp...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Without a doubt, the most widely used tool in any workplace in the 21st century is the computer. The same holds true in the academic environment as well. When all is said and done, computers are used everywhere and on a continually basis. As a result, understanding and applying computer ergonomics is of vital importance in this day and age.

Perhaps the most widely understood and utilized definition of computer ergonomics runs something like: The science with a primary purpose of designing computer equipment, workstations and related products in order to allow people the ability to undertake their jobs or tasks in a safe and healthy manner. The actual, scientific definition of ergonomics is:

“Ergonomics and human factors use knowledge of human abilities and limitations to design systems, organizations, jobs, machines, tools and consumer products for safe, efficient and comfortable human use.”

Computer ergonomics is now understood to be very important. By appropriately applying ergonomic principles to the design and utilization of computers and related equipment, people are able to avoid serious injuries and conditions that might otherwise occur or develop as a result of using computers and related items.

Interestingly, when it comes to ergonomics, people who study this field have adapted Leonardo Da Vinci’s famous drawing of a man to be utilized as their symbol of their practice. This is the drawing featuring a man manipulating his limbs, a man drawn surrounded by a circle, a very famous and widely circulated drawing indeed.

Ergonomists understand the keen interrelationship between designing safe equipment and practices and increasing efficiency. The simple theory is that the more comfortable a person is in the use of equipment such as a computer, the less of a negative impact the use of such equipment will have on his or her body, the more effective and efficient he or she will be over both the short and the long term.

In summary, if you are like most people in the workaday world who must use a computer and related equipment with regularity, you will want to make certain that you are considering ergonomics in both the design and utilization of the workstation, equipment and related items. Your present productivity and your future health will depend on properly implementing concepts associated with computer ergonomics. You will be well served both in the short term and well into the future.


