Title: 
USPS Click-N-Ship Software Provides Free Delivery Confirmation

Word Count:
430

Summary:
Gone are the days of having to stand in line at the post office just to mail a package.  These days, thanks to the advancement of the internet and technology, postal customers can now print postage from the convenience of their own home.


Keywords:
software, business, technology


Article Body:
Gone are the days of having to stand in line at the post office just to mail a package.  These days, thanks to the advancement of the internet and technology, postal customers can now print postage from the convenience of their own home.  Using a standard printer, along with USPS Click-N-Ship software, consumers can print shipping labels, postage stamps and even delivery confirmation numbers.

Many individuals, who make their living at online auction sites, are constantly in need of additional convenience relating to mailing and expenses.  The software, which installs quickly, is one way to save shippers a bundle of time by allowing them to print postage directly from their printer.  Using standard typing paper, the software enables the shipper to print a complete label featuring the return address, shipping address, barcode and a delivery confirmation.

Widely promoted as being a shipping convenience, the Click-N-Ship software often goes unrecognized for one of it’s best features.  If purchased at the post office, delivery confirmation is $0.45 per package but, with Click-N-Ship, it’s free.  Consider mailing 100 packages per month with delivery confirmation.  At the post office, customers would pay $45.00 but, with the software, they save that amount of money.  Over time, free delivery confirmation can add up to a bundle of cash and, if shipping is your business, it pays to save wherever possible.  Before mailing the packages with delivery confirmation, it may be a good idea to keep a record of each shipment and it’s corresponding tracking number.  This will be very beneficial to any shipper who may later need to provide proof of shipment.

In order to properly use the Click-N-Ship software, customers must have some idea as to the weight of their package.  Therefore, it may be a good investment to purchase a portable postage scale.  In addition, customers will be prompted for the dimensions of their package prior to obtaining a total.  With Click-N-Ship software, customers pay for their postage online before being able to print any labels.  This eliminates the need to stand in line at the post office because the postage has already been calculated, printed and affixed to each package.  In fact, many shippers simply take a box full of packages for mailing, which have been postage-paid using the Click-N-Ship software,  into their post office and leave them for later processing.  

The USPS Click-N-Ship software is available for free download at usps.com or included on selected AOL software CDs as a bonus.  Otherwise, customers may be able to ask their postmaster for additional information on obtaining a copy of the Click-N-Ship software.


