Title: 
Want PDA Buying Ideas that can Help You

Word Count:
644

Summary:
So you have decided to purchase a PDA.  Congratulations—you will be buying a form of technology that will help you get your life organized!  Yet, if this is your first PDA purchase you may find that you will benefit from some of these PDA buying ideas.


Keywords:
pda, pdas, pda buying ideas, pda tips


Article Body:
So you have decided to purchase a PDA.  Congratulations-you will be buying a form of technology that will help you get your life organized!  Yet, if this is your first PDA purchase you may find that you will benefit from some of these PDA buying ideas.  

1) Find a PDA at a price that you can afford.  Don't go crazy when you purchase a PDA, more money doesn't always equate to a better PDA.  If you are unsure as to what PDA is worth the money you are planning to pay, read various PDA reviews to see what others think of the product.  In fact, in reading PDA reviews, you can successfully determine which PDA will meet any and all of your needs. I strongly urge you to use PDA reviews, they can save you a lot of grief when purchasing your pda.

2) PDAs are diverse in size and you should find one that you will be comfortable in handling on a regular basis.  Some PDAs are very tiny while others are smaller than a laptop, but still relatively large.  If you are comfortable with a tiny device then get a small device, but if you have a repetitive motion injury or if you have a problem with your fine motor skills, a smaller PDA may not be the best thing for you and you may want to consider purchasing a larger PDA.
This is so true, you really need to sample a pda, I mean actually hold it in your hand and try it out. Because if it's not comfortable to use then down the road you won't use it. 

3)  Again, the size of your PDA and its keyboard is so vitally important.  No one wants to be constantly aggravated by a PDA keyboard that has keys that are designed too close together or that are small and difficult to utilize.  This is especially true for those individuals that have problems with fine motor skills or have a repetitive motion injury.  Therefore, thoroughly examine the usability of a PDA's keyboard before you make your PDA purchase. 

I just want to reemphasize this point, I not to long ago bought a PDA for my wife. Sure I sampled them found one I thought she would like and low and behold found out the opposite. She liked the small size but did not like the keyboard. So I took her to the store so she could sample them herself  I then purchased the one she was comfortable with. 

4)  If you are considering using your PDA to get Internet access, invest in a PDA that offers you wireless Internet access.  The whole idea of enjoying the use of a PDA is the portability that the product provides and using cell phone dial up, although more secure, is in no way less costly than wireless Internet access.

5)  If you plan to carry quite a few files or images on your PDA, you may want to purchase an expanded memory card.  Because PDAs are small, handheld devices, their memories are a bit limited.  Therefore, if you plan some heavy-duty use of a PDA, you many need to purchase additional memory so you don't slow down the processing that can be handled on your PDA.

Or better yet, purchase a PDA with more installed memory. You can always buy expanded memory down the road if you need it. But purchasing a PDA initially with larger installed memory for your current needs is cheaper than buying one with less and then adding a memory expansion card.

In the end, if you keep the above mentioned tips in mind, you will easily find a PDA that is right for you.  Now all you need to do is start your research and your sampling of PDAs.  Visit the nearest electronics dealer to determine what PDA you want and get your life organized today!


