Title: 
Watch Movies On Iphone

Word Count:
563

Summary:
If you'd like to watch movies on your Iphone, you've come to the right place. In order to do this, you have a few different choices and ways to go about it.


Keywords:
free iphone movies, download free movies for Iphone


Article Body:
If you'd like to watch movies on your Iphone, you've come to the right place. In order to do this, you have a few different choices and ways to go about it. This is due to the Iphone needing the movies to be stored as MP4s. If you'd like to find out exactly how it's done, check out this article.

In order to be able to watch movies on an Iphone, they need to be saved onto the Iphone itself in the MP4 format. This makes it much easier to download movies to watch rather than transfer them from your DVDs, as many downloadable movies will be in MP4 format already. If you do want watch your existing movies (DVDs) on your Iphone, it can still be done, it will just mean you need to obtain some ripping software to rip the movie from the DVD and convert it into the necessary kind of file.

Ripping software varies in price, you can get some decent software for free or you may need to pay up to $50 or so for the better stuff. Run a few simple google searches to find some examples, and you may want to search for “freeware dvd ripper” or something like that to help you find the less expensive stuff. Once you have the ripped files saved as MP4s on your computer, you can transfer them across using Itunes, the way you would any other file.

As we said before, it's a little easier to watch downloaded movies on your Iphone, as quite often they will already be in the correct format, so you don't have to fool around with different software etc. In order to download the movies, all you need is a decent speed internet connection and a good idea of where to download the files from. It may seem that you can download movies from all kinds of places on the internet, but always try to avoid the torrent/P2P style sites, as they are illegal and can cause huge problems with viruses etc and things like that. In general, it's always better to stay as far from these kinds of sites as possible, and if you do go near them try to make sure your security and antivirus programs are fully updated and in good working order.

Thankfully there are a few legitimate download sites springing up on the net these days, and these are a much safer bet than all the torrent sites. Basically they work by charging you a one off fee to get your membership, which lasts for life, and then giving you unlimited download access to their huge databases. Quite often the selections at places like this have to be seen to be believed. It's more than just movies too, you can expect all the movies you can think of, plus millions of music files and games and TV shows too. It can be quite mind boggling the first time you visit. These sites are the most recommended for anyone wanting to download movies to their Iphone

Most of the movie files will come in MP4 format, and so you can just use Itunes to transfer them to your Iphone.

As you've seen, downloading stuff to your Iphone isn't as straight forward as you may think, so I'm hoping this article has helped you get a better understanding.


