Title: 
Why Using Noise Reduction Headphones With An Mp3 Player Is Better Than Earbuds

Word Count:
562

Summary:
MP3 players and portable CD players usually come with the standard “earbud” headphones. Earbuds fit into the ear like a hearing aid and are lightweight and portable. Their advantages, however, stop there. When it comes to the quality of the music you are listening to, that quality can be greatly diminished due to the inability of earbud headphones to filter out the noises that you are not interested in listening to; such as the voices, car engines, train noises, and barking d...


Keywords:
noise,reduction,cancelling,headphones,mp3,music,hearing,sound


Article Body:
MP3 players and portable CD players usually come with the standard “earbud” headphones. Earbuds fit into the ear like a hearing aid and are lightweight and portable. Their advantages, however, stop there. When it comes to the quality of the music you are listening to, that quality can be greatly diminished due to the inability of earbud headphones to filter out the noises that you are not interested in listening to; such as the voices, car engines, train noises, and barking dogs that may be all around you when you are out in public.

One of the great advantages of MP3 players, such as iPods, and portable CD players is that you can take them with you wherever you go. Sometimes the very reason for bringing them along on an outing is so that you can entertain yourself while you are engaged in other activities, such as jogging, riding on the subway, or waiting in line at the Department of Motor Vehicles. Soothing music being piped into your ear can go a long way in easing tension when you are running errands; and upbeat, rhythmic music can help tremendously when you are exercising and need incentive to go that extra mile. 

Fortunately, there is an excellent alternative to earbud headphones. Noise reduction headphones can enhance the quality of the music you are listening to by making sure that you get nothing but the music, in exactly the way you should be hearing it. While earbuds sit inside your ear, possibly causing irritation and discomfort, headphones are styled to fit around your ear like earmuffs, guaranteeing that they will not only reduce outside noise, but will feel comfortable as well. While, with earbuds you usually have to increase the volume to be able to hear the music that you are trying to listen to, noise reduction headphones can keep the volume at a comfortable level and allowing you to enjoy your music in the top-quality manner that it is intended to be heard.

The portability of MP3 players encourages prolonged use, especially by teenagers. Unfortunately, the combination of increased volume and longer listening time may cause hearing damage which can lead to hearing loss. The use of noise reduction headphones can help protect hearing by delivering music without the increased decibel level. This also allows listener to enjoy their music longer without suffering hearing damage.

Noise reduction headphones work not only by surrounding your ears, therefore helping to block out outside noises, but also by using noise-cancellation technology, which further enhances your “music only” experience. Not only do noise reduction headphones help to filter out all noises except what your MP3 player is outputting, they also contain your music thus not disturbing those around you. The noise reduction works both ways – you hear your music like you are supposed to, and others don’t have to listen along with you. 

A good set of noise reduction headphones does not have to be cumbersome, either. Taking into consideration what portable music device users need, the makers of noise reduction headphones are making their product light, foldable, and easily portable. 

When you purchase your MP3 player or portable CD player, one of the best things you can do after that is to put aside the earbud headphones that come with it and buy a good set of noise reduction headphones. You won’t be sorry.


