Title: 
4 Tips For Choosing An Mp3 Player, Part 2

Word Count:
307

Summary:
Part III - So what am I looking for?

Probably the last question you need to ask yourself.  Weigh up between image (size, shape, style, colour), performance (play time, memory, compatibility, gizmos, other functions) and quality (useability, interface, design, battery life).  Work out what's important, and Google or eBay will do the rest for you (or if not, then your younger brother or sister will also suffice).  There is always a cheaper price for something, but there is a...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Part III - So what am I looking for?

Probably the last question you need to ask yourself.  Weigh up between image (size, shape, style, colour), performance (play time, memory, compatibility, gizmos, other functions) and quality (useability, interface, design, battery life).  Work out what's important, and Google or eBay will do the rest for you (or if not, then your younger brother or sister will also suffice).  There is always a cheaper price for something, but there is always more hassle to get something that you want exactly.  If you've ever bid for an eBay item, then found something way cheaper than what you've just bought, then you'll know what I mean.  Look, if you're going to spend money (any amount of money), then it's important to at least pick something that works long enough for you to at least look the part, and one that you won't throw out the window because that's all it's good for.  Therefore, battery life, memory, interface and compatibility should not be taken lightly.  

Part IV - So what do I do with it?

You've got yourself an MP3 player, so what's next.  Well, you can use it as a fashion accessory, play some MP3 music, or just leave it sitting in the closet until a better model comes out.  It's hard to say unless you've got one, and once you've got one, you'll work out what to do with it.  Sometimes it's an expensive lesson to learn, but most times when you spend money for something, you invariably find a use for it, even if it's just another item on the eBay used section.

Useful advice?  Well, don't just take my word for it, because even bad advice needs to be taken to be believed. Take these suggestions into account when you are choosing your mp3 player, and you'll be well equipped.


