Title: 
5 Cool Mobile Phone Features

Word Count:
533

Summary:
The world is becoming a smaller place…literally! Gadgets of the yore used to have a certain presence in one's home, but today most have shrunk down to fit in the palm of our hand. Technology has come a long way since the days of Alexander Graham Bell and Thomas Alva Edison. In today’s fast paced world, ‘multi-tasking’ is the mantra for gadgets and people. For instance, today’s mobile phones are powerful feature packed devices that you can slip into a pocket of your favorite b...


Keywords:



Article Body:
The world is becoming a smaller place…literally! Gadgets of the yore used to have a certain presence in one's home, but today most have shrunk down to fit in the palm of our hand. Technology has come a long way since the days of Alexander Graham Bell and Thomas Alva Edison. In today’s fast paced world, ‘multi-tasking’ is the mantra for gadgets and people. For instance, today’s mobile phones are powerful feature packed devices that you can slip into a pocket of your favorite body hugging denims.

In the beginning, cell phones were used to merely make calls. Today, mobile manufacturers compete with each other to launch feature rich cell phones all the time. Here is a list of some of the coolest features available on a mobile phone today:

1.	Cameras: The camera phone was invented in 1997 and now it constitutes 85% of all mobile phone sales in the United States. There are two types of cameras available on cell phones, these are VGA and digital. Camera Mobile technology has come so far that people can now even make mobile films using their phones. Mobile phones with cameras offer a great way snap pictures or shoot videos wherever and whenever. You can then transfer these images and videos onto your PC at your own convenience.

2.	 Music: With the current models of mobile phones, you can listen to you favorite tunes while on the move. Mobile phones these days can store and play most music formats including MP3 and .wav. In fact, you can even tune in to your choice of radio stations on your mobile phone and enjoy uninterrupted hours of musical nirvana.

3.	Business: Many cell phone models have been customized to serve the needs of the traveling business man. Features include personal organizer, calendars, memos, reminders, email facility, etc. 

4.	Connectivity: The latest models of mobile phones offer a host of wireless connectivity features such as Bluetooth, infrared, etc. The Bluetooth is a software that allows you to connect and exchange various files with any mobile phone with a Bluetooth function within a radius of approximately 10 meters. This can also be executed with the infrared function, only in this case, the infrared ports of both the phones need to be aligned with one another in order for the exchange to take place. A mobile phone can even act as a wireless modem to the PC and one can even surf the internet using the GPRS feature on the mobile phone itself.

5.	Appearance: Apart from the many high-tech features, mobile phones come in a plethora shapes, sizes and colors. The colors may range from a cute pink to blazing red, from the simple matte black to flashy chrome. Even the way you can operate the keypads of these phones has changed. Besides the various keypad designs with different backlight options, you can buy yourself different styles of cell-phones, ranging from the normal to the flip and slider varieties. 

Any way you look at it, mobile phones are becoming smaller, slimmer, faster and smarter. There is one that fits every budget, pocket and personality. So go ahead and pick one up for yourself and discover a whole new world of mobile phone technology.


