Title: 
6 Voip Features That Attract People

Word Count:
598

Summary:
VOIP is an advanced technology which has surpassed the telephone companies and the mobile companies. Its popularity is increasing enormously with an increase in its network coverage. It has proved to be an astonishing invention which has created a new mode of telecommunication by using internet. VOIP is an abbreviated form of Voice Over Internet Protocol.

Salient Features Of VOIP

The VOIP technology possesses many salient features which have attracted a large section of...


Keywords:
voip, voip features


Article Body:
VOIP is an advanced technology which has surpassed the telephone companies and the mobile companies. Its popularity is increasing enormously with an increase in its network coverage. It has proved to be an astonishing invention which has created a new mode of telecommunication by using internet. VOIP is an abbreviated form of Voice Over Internet Protocol.

Salient Features Of VOIP

The VOIP technology possesses many salient features which have attracted a large section of people towards itself. 

1 - With the introduction of VOIP technology, the making of calls has become easy and cheap.   You can easily make local, long distance, and international calls by using a broadband net connection which is a high-speed net connection.
 
2 - Its one of the significant advantages is the capability of directing the incoming calls to the VOIP service and one can easily get the details of incoming calls from any computer possessing internet by using VOIP system. 

3 - It is a network that follows you wherever you go therefore you will never miss any of your important calls even if you are out of town. 

4 - It has helped a lot in cost reduction because of the cheap call rates, the monthly telephone bills have cut down. Therefore, setting up of VOIP is very much beneficial economically.

5 - There are many value added services offered by the various VOIP service providers. For example, there is voice mail facility, 3-way conference, speed dialing, call forwarding, simultaneous ring, call waiting, caller ID, call return, caller ID block, anonymous call rejection, an interesting feature of do not disturb, and last number dial. All these services are mostly free of cost in their basic service plan.

6 - There is a facility of managing your VOIP account online from any corner of the world if there is an availability of a broadband internet connection.  

Drawbacks Of VOIP Technology

The dark side of using VOIP technology has made the customer to reach the state of dilemma whether to go for VOIP technology or not. The major disadvantage of VOIP is that a problem can be cropped up by using VOIP technology and text messaging because it has been found that the use of this technology can lead to many security flaws. 

Experts are working on the problem of security flaws, but have not come to any results yet.  Therefore, one cannot rely completely on the use of VOIP technology. In terms of security, VOIP is not also completely supportive for their encryptions. Because of this weak point, it has become easy for the cyber attackers to impede the communication system. 

How To Call Without VOIP

It is also very easy to make calls without possessing VOIP service by using an adaptor. This adaptor will be hooked up to a regular phone and to your VOIP in order to utilize the residential VOIP phone which can be a VOIP phone, landline, or cell phone. This adapter has proved to be very much useful for those who do not want to make investment in VOIP service. 

Residential VOIP
 
Residential VOIP is a type of software which permits the downloading of technology on your computer to chat with anyone across the globe. In this system of communication, computer will be solving the purpose of the telephone. There is one specification in using residential VOIP service and that is the person whom you want to contact should also need to possess the software with same technology on his computer. 

Therefore, after considering the both positive and negative aspects of the VOIP technology, you should come to an apt and appropriate decision whether to opt for it or not.


