Title: 
A Cheap Cell Phone Addition: Free Ringtones Show Off Your Style

Word Count:
528

Summary:
Express Yourself with Free Ringtones

Downloading free ringtones may be one of the newest ways to express to strangers and friends alike you affinity for certain music. It’s free, and it’s right at your fingertips on the internet. With ringtones, you can display not only your taste in music, but your preferences in general, or even your sense of humor.

Ringtones in General as a Context for Free Ringtones

Typically costing around $3 in the United States, ringtones are ...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Express Yourself with Free Ringtones

Downloading free ringtones may be one of the newest ways to express to strangers and friends alike you affinity for certain music. It’s free, and it’s right at your fingertips on the internet. With ringtones, you can display not only your taste in music, but your preferences in general, or even your sense of humor.

Ringtones in General as a Context for Free Ringtones

Typically costing around $3 in the United States, ringtones are being likened to previous possibly personalized digital interfaces, such as skins. They are even being compared to bumper stickers as a way for people to express their musical opinions. There is also a practical side to getting an individualized ringtone – if many people around use the same service provider, people will get confused as to whose phone is ringing if they all stick to the standard ringtones that come with the phone.

Because of their general popularity with the public, ringtones have become big in the music industry as well. In fact, ringtones have their own billboard chart.

Are Free Ringtones the Best Option?

A technological and frequent way to assert your individuality, free ringtones allow you to express yourself. One of the most popular searches on the internet today, free ringtones are convenient, but watch out because you get what you pay for. If older songs are what you are looking for, free downloads that don’t compromise quality may be available. But if you want good quality popular songs, it could cost you a dollar or more per ring tone to get it on your phone. So weight the importance of quality before you spend time on free ringtones.

Where do Free Ringtones Come From?

Often of poor quality, free ringtones are frequently illegally obtained, often unbeknownst to many downloaders. Remember that free ringtones are free for a reason – maybe the free ones are in such low demand, that they don’t even deserve to be priced. However, it is possible that some ringtones are free because their copyright has expired and they are in the public domain; again, this will likely be older songs, though.

Free ringtones are typically created by people hired by cell phone companies and are cheaply produced through playing single keys on a piano or keyboard. Ringtones may also be free because they are being used to promote brands, products, or celebrities. Still other varieties of free ringtones may be created by other mobile users just for kicks.

Sometimes free ringtones aren’t really even free – they could be available by subscribing to a monthly service, for instance.

Ringtones and Copyrights

Each separate song that a user downloads is supposed to have its own separate license. Licensee’s must request and obtain these or risk being in infringement of copyright law. Ringtone produces sometimes offer sharing, but this too can be a violation of copyright. The only exception is if the copyright has expired and the music is in the public domain (mostly only with older music) or if the artist has licensed their music to be shared. Ringtones are subject to the same copyright laws as any other digital recording.


