Title: 
A Comparison Of Dish Network And Cable Television

Word Count:
425

Summary:
It's a very competitive business world out there, and the situation is not different in the home entertainment sector.

At the moment cable television operators are fighting the battle of their lives with their satellite counterparts. What is at stake is a big crown and whoever comes out on top will go home with the hearts and wallets of millions of subscribers.

But midway into this war of attrition, all discerning observers knew where the pendulum will swing in the end....


Keywords:



Article Body:
It's a very competitive business world out there, and the situation is not different in the home entertainment sector.

At the moment cable television operators are fighting the battle of their lives with their satellite counterparts. What is at stake is a big crown and whoever comes out on top will go home with the hearts and wallets of millions of subscribers.

But midway into this war of attrition, all discerning observers knew where the pendulum will swing in the end. And you the reader will also realize this because by the time you are through with this you will be wondering why anyone still maintains subscription with a cable television company.

Dish Network is unarguably the biggest satellite TV operator in the U.S, and with its quality service and cutting edge technology, there is no way any cable television firm can compete with it for business, and that is a fact.

In terms of value, Dish Network offers far more programming channels and with a low entry price of $20, compared to the $70 charged by cable companies and with far fewer channels to boot. Are you getting the drift now?

In reality Dish Network offers hundreds of channels, but the best cable companies can muster is just about a hundred, and for a fact can never provide more than 150. Want to know the implication of this? When you are provided with fewer program channels then your options will be very limited.

With Dish Network you can get additional channels like ESPN Gameday, NHL on the Ice, and NBA League Pass. These are packages no cable operator can provide.

But what really nailed the coffin of cable satellite television is its limited availability. Anyone that desires cable TV service must be resident in or near a mid sized town. On the contrary Dish Network signals can be received anywhere as long as the satellite dish is aimed at the southern sky.

The rather high cost of cable television subscription can be traced to the amount of data that can be sent over a medium, which is technically known as the bandwidth.

By nature, the amount of data cables can carry is very limited, but the companies are trying to get over this problem by resorting to the use of higher capacity cables, which unfortunately still fall short of the requirements.

Dish Network however transmits its signals using electromagnetic waves which are not constrained by bandwidth problems. This is the reason why operator keeps up with subscribers demand and provides better service than their cable rivals.


