Title: 
Act! Premium For Workgroups

Word Count:
385

Summary:
ACT! Premium for Workgroups organizes customer information for small teams of sales professionals for easy access that allows them to prioritize activities and track all information than can lead to an increase of productivity.

ACT! Premium for Workgroups is scalable to accommodate larger teams and workgroups. It delivers all ACT! features and functionality while, at the same time, providing a company with central administration, information security and personnel fielding...


Keywords:



Article Body:
ACT! Premium for Workgroups organizes customer information for small teams of sales professionals for easy access that allows them to prioritize activities and track all information than can lead to an increase of productivity.

ACT! Premium for Workgroups is scalable to accommodate larger teams and workgroups. It delivers all ACT! features and functionality while, at the same time, providing a company with central administration, information security and personnel fielding recommendations.

With ACT! Premium for Workgroups software, stay organized by centralizing critical contact and customer information. ACT! Premium for Workgroups allows users access to detailed contact and customer information, manage individual and team calendars and activities, capture all customer communications, track opportunities through the sales process, and report on overall effectiveness.

Maintain a high degree of quality communications link. Use the ACT! Premium for Workgroups e-mail client which is made compatible with Lotus Notes and Outlook. Track critical customer contact information in the contact record. Win the advantage by using multiple calendar views including a customizable work week view with ACT! Premium for Workgroups schedule manager.

Sales professionals can use ACT! Premium for Workgroups to keep track of sales opportunities from initial inquiry through close utilizing the standard sales process or a process customized to suit their business. Simply click follow-up and a new activity will be created with opportunity details. ACT! Premium for Workgroups comes with 20 reports for sales activities and 20 other standard report forms.

ACT! Premium for Workgroups is designed to address the needs of teams for centralized administration, information security, tracking and personnel deployment. ACT! Premium for Workgroups have different levels of security for restricting access to information. Customize access levels by allowing certain personnel to read and edit information, read only information or no access at all.

ACT! Premium for Workgroups may be used as a stand alone program or can be used to work in conjunction with ACT! Premium for Web. Integrating these two ACT! software allows for access to the ACT! central storage system via web browser. This system removes the necessity for data synchronization. Instead, information updates are sent and received by ACT! users in real time.

Finally, access ACT! Premium for Workgroups from anywhere to view customer contact and history information. This last provision can lead to better sales productivity outputs and higher customer retention and satisfaction levels.


