Title: 
ACT! Crm Software

Word Count:
428

Summary:
Act! CRM software is a magnificent tool for streamlining, speeding up, and making more accurate your daily business tasks while at once taking your sales and marketing efforts to another level.

Finding and contacting new prospects is made easy with Act! CRM software. You can import targeted lists right into the system and have all the relevant contact data right at your fingertips as you place calls, send emails, and so on and so forth. You can easily update the record wit...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Act! CRM software is a magnificent tool for streamlining, speeding up, and making more accurate your daily business tasks while at once taking your sales and marketing efforts to another level.

Finding and contacting new prospects is made easy with Act! CRM software. You can import targeted lists right into the system and have all the relevant contact data right at your fingertips as you place calls, send emails, and so on and so forth. You can easily update the record with every contact or contact attempt made, either incoming or outgoing, until a case is closed or a sale is made. Sending product information, quotes, and proposals is also made into a seamless and integral process. After a prospect becomes a client, scheduling follow up calls, service calls, cross-selling contacts, and new product offerings is made easy and effortless. Act! CRM software installs easily and is bug-free.

The software is easy to use and intuitive to pick up on. Act! CRM software acts as a one-stop, centralized repository of all of your vital and most important client and prospect information, such as highly detailed prospect and client contact information, to-dos, scheduled activities, copies of documents sent, emails sent and received, conversation records, and reports. With Act! CRM's Opportunity Manager feature, your salesmen and managers can always know precisely what position they are in with regards to each individual prospect and client. The sales opportunities can be seen from an all inclusive overview perspective or you can utilized Act labels to get more specific. These include Users, Estimated Close, Date, Status, Sales Stage, Amount, and Probability of Close. You can track all sales and buying motion activities and opportunities from the point of first contact through to the close and you can customize a sales process that is just right for your business. A salesman can customize a sales approach that is just right for his own personality, too. Act is also easy to integrate with your MS Office Suite.

Salesmen seem to love Act!. Act CRM software includes a lot of vital components for corporate work groups including security of data, centralized overseeing, and flexible methods for deployment, while at once remaining very easy and user-friendly to operate. Your sales force does not want to have to learn complicated tools. Those people already have enough on their minds! Act! CRM software makes the salesman's job easier and helps him take care of niggling little details faster and easier with more accuracy. What this means for you is more efficiency and productivity concerning your sales and marketing efforts.


