Title: 
Adobe Photoshop Image And Editing Power

Word Count:
573

Summary:
Adobe Photoshop CS2 promises a lot of image editing power and in the right hands, it can transform any photo into virtually anything you want it to appear. Photoshop CS2 is Adobe's Photoshop v. 9.0, which was released in 2005. CS stands for Creative Suite and CS2 marks the 2nd version since the re-branding of Adobe's products. The software features a more intelligent transform tool, a better replacement tool and multiple layer selection. Some of the best tools in this version...


Keywords:
photo shop tutorial,adobe photo shop tutorial,free photo shop tutorial


Article Body:
Adobe Photoshop CS2 promises a lot of image editing power and in the right hands, it can transform any photo into virtually anything you want it to appear. Photoshop CS2 is Adobe's Photoshop v. 9.0, which was released in 2005. CS stands for Creative Suite and CS2 marks the 2nd version since the re-branding of Adobe's products. The software features a more intelligent transform tool, a better replacement tool and multiple layer selection. Some of the best tools in this version were only available as plug-ins in older versions.

If you want to learn Photoshop CS2, use the many resources that are available online. You'll find the best CS2 tutorials here, all for free. Here are some sites you can start with:

Adobe.com

Start with the experts. After all, they did create Photoshop CS2 and you'll find a lot of background information on this version from this site. And they're giving it away for free. Go to the tutorials page and look for the link to CS2 (there are links to other Photoshop versions like 7.0 and CS3). There are thousands of tutorials on this site. Simply pick which ones you need to start you on CS2.

You can also check out http://Photoshop.Support.com, a technical support and advice site. Every free CS tutorial you'll find here is the work of CS2 experts. The tutorials page lists some of the most comprehensive tutorial sessions, enough to make any burgeoning CGI artist feel like a pro.

Access the index on Photoshop CS2 tips by Jennifer Apple to find how to work with layers and type. If you think everything you need to learn about these features are covered by v. 7.0, think again. There's plenty more and this page will show you.

Graphic-Design.com

Want to learn feathering, displace maps and pixelsmithing? Go to this site. The free CS2 tutorials are taught using no-nonsense approach and the instructions are easy to understand and follow. There are several specific tutorials on the homepage you can click to but if you want to learn step 1, go to the tutorials link. You'll find some very valuable lessons on CS2 from there.

Lombergar.com

This site is maintained by an award-winning artist and Photoshop user so you can be sure the free tutorials are well-written and taught. You can access the video tutorials featured on the site, although you'll need the latest version of QuickTime player to view them. Each video tutorial is 15 minutes long but it will cover everything you need to know about a particular CS2 lesson. Learn how to fake long exposures, create fake fog and real-looking rain, and many more. You can also access more of the author's video tutorials from the site.

RussellBrown.com

Another site to access free CS2 video tutorials is this site. The friendly tone should set you at ease and as the amiable Dr. Brown will assure you, learning CS2 should be fun. Simply scroll down the page to find the specific CS2 tutorial you need. All video tutorials can be accessed using QuickTime, so make sure you have downloaded your own version.

The free Photoshop tutorials are worth your time so you will need some patience when you're trying to download them from the site, especially if you have slow connection. You might also want to switch a Firefox or Safari browser if you're short on patience. All tutorials are provided for free courtesy of Brown and Adobe Systems.


