Title: 
Advanced Photoshop Fun

Word Count:
523

Summary:
If you’ve gotten a good handle on the basics of Adobe Photoshop and just want to take a few tutorials to learn some advanced speedy little tricks here are some neat online Photoshop tutorials to try.

The very newest of the Photoshop tutorials is the lesson on replacing color. This will teach you not only how to replace color throughout the image, but how to go about replacing a series of the same color in various shades with the same kind of color gradient in a different c...


Keywords:
photoshop,adobe,tutorials,paint,computers,design,websites,internet,business,services


Article Body:
If you’ve gotten a good handle on the basics of Adobe Photoshop and just want to take a few tutorials to learn some advanced speedy little tricks here are some neat online Photoshop tutorials to try.

The very newest of the Photoshop tutorials is the lesson on replacing color. This will teach you not only how to replace color throughout the image, but how to go about replacing a series of the same color in various shades with the same kind of color gradient in a different color.

You can take part in this Photoshop tutorial from the vendor’s Web site or can download it as a PDF and read it at your leisure.  

Should you have no Adobe Acrobat reader installed on your computer you’ll need that to use the PDF but it’s easily downloaded from the site at no charge in just a few quick seconds.

Another of the clever Photoshop tutorial lessons is the means to form your Photoshop text in a circle. This circular text formatting has traditionally called for a vector but the version 5 lets you create your circular text with much more ease, and no vector.

This Photoshop tutorial, as with the other advanced training programs, can be read online or with a downloadable PDF.

For those of you who like the creative effect of a curling page you can learn how to do this with a Photoshop tutorial as well. In the same lessons you can learn to use Adobe paths and to create gradients of your own.  
 
One whimsical little Adobe Photoshop trick taught through tutorials is called flag in the wind. Created at the request of several Photoshop users who logged onto Usenets, the technique teaches photographers how to use Photoshop’s displace filter to create the look of a breezy movement.  

Once the above techniques have been mastered additional advanced Photoshop tutorials teaching things like custom interfaces, and the quick photo effects of masking. One of the fun uses for this tactic is to take one head and place it on the body of another person. Everyone needs that technique right?

Some of the Photoshop tutorials are specific to materials and fabric. Tutorial number nine, for example, teaches the use of Adobe Photoshop with metal, while the next lesson number ten teaches the use of wood as a Photoshop material.

Textured spheres and round buttons can be designed with Photoshop with any material once you’ve taken the basic materials lessons.

Wood texture tutorials teach bevel and button creations, while metal textures can be used for interfaces as well.

GIF lessons are important additions to your Photoshop basic tutorials. GIFs are not that easy to master, but their transparency is the reason they’re still important.  

You can tackle runny text lessons in advanced tutorials too. Just in case you have a bent for the bloody, say at Halloween time, you can learn this point and click technique with Photoshop classes.

Other advanced Photoshop tutorials teach gold and raised text creation, soft text with a beveled look and an alien skin, chrome and textured 3-D text, and layered masking.


