Title: 
Adware And Ad-aware.

Word Count:
352

Summary:
There are so many kinds of software out there in the world. You may have heard of peer to peer systems, patches, and internet relay chat programs. There is also something out there today called adware. You may be wondering what adware is. What is adware anyway? Adware is basically any kind of software that automatically downloads advertisements and displays them on your computer. A lot of companies use this in order to promote their products. For example, if a company wants t...


Keywords:
adaware,spyware


Article Body:
There are so many kinds of software out there in the world. You may have heard of peer to peer systems, patches, and internet relay chat programs. There is also something out there today called adware. You may be wondering what adware is. What is adware anyway? Adware is basically any kind of software that automatically downloads advertisements and displays them on your computer. A lot of companies use this in order to promote their products. For example, if a company wants to promote its new soap then they will display an ad on your computer. This is a highly efficient way for companies to advertise because they have information about the user’s browsing habits. Through adware, a company can find out which sites you like and where you spend most of your time on the internet. This sound a bit scary because you might think that there is someone spying on you. You are right. There is some sort of spying going on.

 Since adware gets information from the users or customers, it gets information from you. Spyware and malware are just like this. They get the information from your computer and then they use it to their advantage. If malware tries to harm your computer and spyware tries to steal your bank account number then adware is doing something similar too. It is stealing the information of how you browse the net. You can stop adware by using Ad-aware by Lavasoft.

Ad-aware by Lavasoft is one of the ways that you can combat people spying on your confidential information. Through ad-aware, you will be able to combat any kind of hostile attack ion your computer. This includes any form of Trojan or virus that attempts to attack your computer in any way. You will be shielded from spyware and from malware through this kind of software. If you think that adware is harmful then you should also think that spyware and malware are just the same. You should get Ad-aware from Lavasoft if you want to keep your computer safe from any hostile threats now and in the future.


