Title: 
All In One Printers Are Affordable

Word Count:
537

Summary:
Most of the all in one printers are of now of high quality, and the prices have come down considerably. So buying a printer can be a complicated business but you can make it easy and ask for recommendations and just pick one. Although there are more shapes, sizes and types of printers available to the home and small business user than ever before, the competition has made us many excellent printers to choose from. OK, there are many different types of printers on the market t...


Keywords:
all in one printer,hp all in one printers,dell all in one printers,canon all in one printers


Article Body:
Most of the all in one printers are of now of high quality, and the prices have come down considerably. So buying a printer can be a complicated business but you can make it easy and ask for recommendations and just pick one. Although there are more shapes, sizes and types of printers available to the home and small business user than ever before, the competition has made us many excellent printers to choose from. OK, there are many different types of printers on the market today, but still the inkjet printer is the dominant force.  

You can now find a number of inkjet printers on the market that are capable of deploying dye-sublimation techniques. Although there are a number of affordable models available, some of the best CD label printers can cost more than a thousand dollars. Therefor the ink jet printers, though the slowest type of printer, are also the most affordable.  

There are various type of CD printers available in the market today, the manual, automated and integrated printers. As those are a bit more costly you still have several great alternatives with ink jet printers, monochrome laser printers and color laser printers.  

The bar code label printers are the most common dot matrix, laser, ink jet and thermal printers. The advantage with direct thermal printers compared to thermal transfer printers is that they do not require the mechanisms and electronics that are necessary to control and run an ink ribbon.  On the other hand, direct thermal and thermal transfer printers require print software and an optional bar code label design.  

Inkjet printers are a good choice for many as they have a lower initial purchase cost. They will cost more to run though as the ink is more expensive when measured on a per page basis.  Another alternative is the toner cartridges for laser printers. They have a higher unit price than inkjet cartridges, on the other hand they have a higher capacity so that the cost per page is lower for lasers.  

Nowadays we can purchase an inkjet printer at a much lower price than all the other up-to-date printers. But, as said before they have higher maintenance cost than laser printers. With all the fantastic technology offered in laser, color and photo quality printers you can also get the all-in-one printers. All in one printers offer scanning, printing, copy and fax to amazingly low prices. Around $100 is really a good bargain for the functionality you get.

There is still some way to go until the modern technology has taken over completely. In many offices we still have to use an older technology, critical to running many of the day to day business operations. Traditionally, the laser printers have been the best printing solution for office users as they produce a very high quality black text finish and to relatively low running costs. For now the monochrome laser printers offer the best balance between print quality, price and speed. 

The prices of all in one printers and others are so low now that the manufacturers do not make any profit on them or very little profit. Selling the ink and toner cartridges over and over is where the manufacturers make the money.


