Title: 
An Introduction To Security Cameras

Word Count:
678

Summary:
Security Cameras

Security is an aspect of concern for all to ensure protection of self and family members, property, offices, and livestock etc. Use of security cameras is considered as best way of deterring the criminals from causing harm to you or your property (even when you are thousands of kilometers away from your place), keeping away intruders and even for checking activities of your kids. You must have seen security cameras installed at vital installations like bus...


Keywords:
security cameras, security camera, security camera cctv, wireless security cameras, home security ca


Article Body:
Security Cameras

Security is an aspect of concern for all to ensure protection of self and family members, property, offices, and livestock etc. Use of security cameras is considered as best way of deterring the criminals from causing harm to you or your property (even when you are thousands of kilometers away from your place), keeping away intruders and even for checking activities of your kids. You must have seen security cameras installed at vital installations like business houses, malls, banks etc. Some of the security cameras are visible whereas some are hidden cameras. Most of the security cameras are connected to computers (camera network security software). Some manufacturers offer you free security camera software. A cost-effective and breach proof security camera network can be created with the help of PC, webcam and security camera software.

Security Camera CCTV: The concept of use of CCTV security cameras is in existence since many years. However, with the advancement of technology the equipment used in the latest security camera CCTV system have changed significantly.

Change couple Device (CCD) or CMOS chips are used in CCTV security cameras for producing images. However, the images obtained through CCTV cameras with CMOS chip are poor in quality. CCD chip produces high quality images. The sharpness of picture is related to number of TV lines. Cameras with more than 400 TV lines are considered as good resolution and more than 500 TV lines are considered high resolution. Black and White security cameras provide greater resolution and higher light sensitivity. Color security cameras provide more natural and realistic images.

Following are some of the common types of security cameras, categorized on the basis of camera body.

• Professional grade security cameras
• Bullet cameras
• Board cameras
• PC based CCTV systems
• Stand Alone systems

Home Security Cameras: As indicative from the name security cameras used for security of home are called as home security cameras. Use of security camera has been in existence in offices and stores since long time. With the decreased prices and increased security consciousness, home security cameras are also becoming popular. You can attaché the security camera to your TV and view it like a normal TV channel. As you can see all visitors approaching your home, through home security camera, you can keep away intruders and suspicious people as well as vehicles and equipments. Home security camera can provide you information about the happening that tool place in your absence by recording events. Home security camera can be used as a device to check your kids. Security cameras can also be fitted at farmhouses with an aim of stressing trespassers and suspected danger to livestock. With the help of internet connected home security cameras you can ensure security of your home even when you are thousands kilometers away from home.

Home security cameras provide better results when placed on strategic locations in and around home and are adopted as part of combined security camera systems such as detectors, control panels and alarms. Home security cameras are available in various cost ranges.

Wireless Security Cameras: Security has become concern in our daily life. Use of various electronic devices is considered as best option for deterring criminals from causing harm to you or your property. Wireless security camera is one of such security devices. Initially Wireless security cameras were used in vital installations like banks etc. With reduction of cost and easy availability these cameras are now used on large scale in places like airports, casinos, departmental stores etc.

Network Security Camera Software: Use of video surveillance software is an excellent and cost-effective method for developing centralized security network. You can use bullet cameras or normal hidden cameras along with the surveillance software. Network security camera can be used for home security as well as at business places. At present Windows and Mac are the only two versions of internet video surveillance software available. Some of these network security cameras have Picture in Picture (PIP) feature. Recording facility, DVD play and burn facility and live broadcast via internet are the other features of network security camera software.


