Title: 
Apple iPhone: It's About Time

Word Count:
308

Summary:
Apple iPhone is no longer a mystical rumor; it exists, and it’s the rage for all those techie consumers out there. The Apple iPhone is expected to become available from Apple and Cingular in June ‘07 for $499 for the 4GB and $599 for the 8GB version. It’s a fully multi-tasking communications device that allows the user to read a web page while downloading email in the background over Wi-Fi or EDGE. Other appealing features are its slim profile and lack of keys (only three har...


Keywords:
apple iphone,iphone,apple phone,new apple iphone,mobile phone,cell phone,


Article Body:
Apple iPhone is no longer a mystical rumor; it exists, and it’s the rage for all those techie consumers out there. The Apple iPhone is expected to become available from Apple and Cingular in June ‘07 for $499 for the 4GB and $599 for the 8GB version. It’s a fully multi-tasking communications device that allows the user to read a web page while downloading email in the background over Wi-Fi or EDGE. Other appealing features are its slim profile and lack of keys (only three hard keys), that make this phone the ultimate fashion accessory.

The cost of the iPhone is remarkably high, but it is to be expected with any market entrance. Overtime prices will lower much the same way that the Motorola RAZR did. As aforementioned, an 8-gigabyte model will cost $599 and a 4-gigabyte model $499. Regardless of the high price, the image of this product is so high that it will be widely accepted by consumers willing to pay the price.

Features for Apple's iPhone include HTML email (IMAP, POP3), with Safari as the browser, 2 separated batteries, flash memory, slide out keyboard, and touch screen on the outside. Utilizing a familiar graphic interface, and other user centric features different from most mobile phones the launch of the iPhone today is reminiscent of January 1984 when Apple first introduced their Macintosh personal computer. There is no doubt that Apple will follow their success with the iPod by delivering a compelling, relevant, and user friendly product.

Ultimately, the Apple iPhone is a combination of three different products: a cell phone, a widescreen iPod with touch controls and an Internet communications device. The iPhone will revolutionize the cell phone industry posing threats to others who have been in the industry for ages. The good news for consumers is that Apple has raised the bar which promises better products from all manufacturers.


