Title: 
Are Fancy Cellular Phones Really Necessary?

Word Count:
317

Summary:
We’ve all seen them, and some of us may even own one—a cell phone that has numerous capabilities beyond a normal phone. Some may contain cameras, games, internet access, blue tooth devices, speakerphone, and even video recorders, which enable its users to create mini home movies. What is the purpose of all of all these capabilities, and are they really necessary? Well of course, there are opposing opinions about this.

Some people are old-school, meaning they aren’t really ...


Keywords:



Article Body:
We’ve all seen them, and some of us may even own one—a cell phone that has numerous capabilities beyond a normal phone. Some may contain cameras, games, internet access, blue tooth devices, speakerphone, and even video recorders, which enable its users to create mini home movies. What is the purpose of all of all these capabilities, and are they really necessary? Well of course, there are opposing opinions about this.

Some people are old-school, meaning they aren’t really into all the latest technology. They may not see the necessity in having a blue tooth device attached to their cell phone, or the ability to access the internet from it. They may have a very simple mobile phone that has the minimal amount of abilities because their needs don’t require them to buy all the extras. These people may feel that people who are willing to pay hundreds of dollars for a simple device are ridiculous and are wasting their money. If they want to access the internet, then they can just do it the usual way—by using a computer.

Most people, of course, wouldn’t live without their cell phones and all the extras. They relish making mini home movies of their families and friends, and they enjoy the convenience of the ability to multitask with the addition of the blue tooth wireless device. Let’s face it: Many people lead busy lives and they may not have the time to do the things that other people do. Like take the time to sit at a computer to check email or they may have the need to clean out their desk as well as talk to a client simultaneously. Holding a traditional cell phone between their ear and shoulder, and may cause neck cramping and pain, but with the use of the handy new blue tooth devices, multitasking is easy and hassle-free.


