Title: 
As The Fax Machine Dies

Word Count:
419

Summary:
Have you ever found yourself wondering how offices ever functioned or operated without the use of the fax machine? Today this technology is so common in every workplace that it has become of the essence. A business without a fax machine in today's world would be the equivalent of a middle-class family that avoids using a telephone. Communication would be slow, at best, and any business attempting to forego this expense, would very quickly lose out as rivals edged them out.
...


Keywords:
fax, online fax, internet fax


Article Body:
Have you ever found yourself wondering how offices ever functioned or operated without the use of the fax machine? Today this technology is so common in every workplace that it has become of the essence. A business without a fax machine in today's world would be the equivalent of a middle-class family that avoids using a telephone. Communication would be slow, at best, and any business attempting to forego this expense, would very quickly lose out as rivals edged them out.

Today the fax machine isn't just a fax machine, and technology is not stopping its expansion to bring newer communication methods into the business sector. The fax machine should soon become as outdated as the record turnstile. Why is this? Because the Internet has launched a global revolution that is making it possible for every organization to let their work go on  the net. That's right. Services and products are expanding at such lightening speed, that even something as simple as sending a fax may be carried out by simply clicking on a mouse.

Online faxing is a means of using the Internet and your email and their corresponding attachments to send out faxes to distant clients. Like an ISP, you must get a user ID with an online fax service to get your fax number. Once you have installed the necessary software (software, not equipment) you can fax directly from your computer in quite the same way as you would from your fax machine.

This mode of faxing is so revolutionary that many businesses want more of this technology. The convenience and simplicity that online faxes offer is being so highly appreciated that fax machines have to pack up and leave now. Moreover, many cellular phone providers are offering the same service so that you can use your cell phone as a hand-held wireless browser and send faxes from it. Imagine sitting in traffic wondering how you will reach on time. This stress could be eliminated if you fax your project over by pressing "send" on your mobile phone.

The advantages of online faxing have been multiplying. Your business will no longer require the expense or bulk of an extra phone line. Gone are the days of hold signals, wrong numbers, or busy signals. The mobility of Internet faxing makes faxing as easy as ABC. And ultimately, when you weight the costs of your fax machine and annual phone bills, Internet and online faxing has to be a great solution to all kinds of business communication issues.


