Title: 
Assistance Needed! Choosing Between LCD Or Plasma TV

Word Count:
388

Summary:
When the time comes to upgrade your television, there are many choices available, including the standard cathode ray tube, projection, LCD or plasma TV. While one of the main considerations in choosing a television remains price, the picture quality and screen size is also important to individual viewers. In many instances, the size of the unit plays a role in making a choice fo those looking for a television that remains closer to the wall, the choice is narrowed down to a L...


Keywords:
plasma tv,plasma tvs,plasma tv guide,plasma tv reviews,panasonic plasma tv,pioneer plasma tv,


Article Body:
When the time comes to upgrade your television, there are many choices available, including the standard cathode ray tube, projection, LCD or plasma TV. While one of the main considerations in choosing a television remains price, the picture quality and screen size is also important to individual viewers. In many instances, the size of the unit plays a role in making a choice fo those looking for a television that remains closer to the wall, the choice is narrowed down to a LCD or plasma TV.

With technology of both types still relatively new, LCD televisions initially cornered the market for smaller screen units, commanding a large segment of the computer monitor industry. The restriction of size in LCD monitors also held a slight edge over plasma technology until a few years ago when it was able to increase the screen size to about 40-inches. In making the choice between LCD or plasma TV, there are a few other factors to consider.

When large plasma televisions first hit the market, a 50-inch unit could cost as much as a used compact car, but better manufacturing and competition brought the prices down to where buying a LCD or plasma TV did not have to focus entirely on price. Plasma units, however, are still relatively unavailable in smaller sizes, a market the LCD technology still dominates.

Larger Rooms Use A Larger Screen

The viewing room in which the unit will be installed, is another consideration. The larger the room, the larger the television that will be required. As far as setting up chairs around the room, the plasma television has a slight edge on the angle of view, while both enjoy a major advantage over projection televisions. Also consider the lighting in the room when choosing between LCD or plasma TV. An LCD unit generally offers a brighter picture in bright lighting conditions, whereas a plasma television usually has a higher contrast level providing a sharper image.

The technology of an LCD or plasma TV is also different, and the backlighting necessary for LCD’s sometimes does not provide for a true black image while plasma televisions can better show a solid black. The power demand of the LCD or plasma TV is about even, although the brighter the image on a plasma television the more electricity will be used.


