Title: 
Automatically Check Your Spelling In Oe

Word Count:
336

Summary:
Dear Computer Lady,

Before my computer went to the shop, when I clicked on the send button in Outlook Express email it would check autimatically the spelling which was a huge help to me.

Now it doesn't and I'd like to know how I can get that back like it was. I have Windows Xp.

Thank you in advance, Cheryl.

Dear Cheryl,

I would be glad to tell yo uhow to get your Outlook Express to automatically check the spelling again. Just follow these directions:

1. Open...


Keywords:
email, spelling, Outlook Express


Article Body:
Dear Computer Lady,

Before my computer went to the shop, when I clicked on the send button in Outlook Express email it would check autimatically the spelling which was a huge help to me.

Now it doesn't and I'd like to know how I can get that back like it was. I have Windows Xp.

Thank you in advance, Cheryl.

Dear Cheryl,

I would be glad to tell yo uhow to get your Outlook Express to automatically check the spelling again. Just follow these directions:

1. Open Outlook Express and click on "Tools" and then "Options..." in the menu bar.

2. In the "Options" window, click on the "Spelling" tab at the top.

3. On the Spelling page, click to put a check mark in front of the option that says, "Always check spelling before sending".

4. Click the button at the bottom of the window that says "OK" to save your changes.

For those of you using Microsoft Outlook, the steps are the same.

If you are using Mozilla Thunderbird for your e-mail, follow these steps:

1. Open Thunderbird and click on "Tools" and then "Options..." in the menu bar.

2. In the Options window, click on the "Composition" icon in the top row.

3. There are three tabs visible under Composition, click on the "Spelling" tab.

4. Click to put a check mark in front of "Check spelling before sending".

5. Click the "OK" button at the bottom of the window to save your changes.

Microsoft does not include a spell checking program in Outlook Express. Instead, they used the spelling included with Microsoft
Word. If you don't have Word installed on your computer there is a free program available to fix this problem. It is called Outlook Express Spell Checker.

Many of the links to this program have been removed from the internet, but I have made it available from my website at:

http://asktcl.com/free/freeOEspell.htm

Just install the program once you download it, and you will be able to use Spell Check in your Outlook Express program.

Elizabeth


