Title: 
Between Gas And Electric RC Helicopter

Word Count:
411

Summary:
Rc helicopter has become one of the more popular “boy toys” that hit and hit big. Its popularity is not surprising at all. Imagine fulfilling your dream of flying an aircraft without spending too much. And most of all: without leaving your foot off the ground. Now that’s a good plus factor if you simply don’t want to risk your life flying with a spinning rotor above your head.

Rc helicopter usually come in either gas or electric powered. Here are the things you should know...


Keywords:
rc helicopter, helicopter, remote control helicopter


Article Body:
Rc helicopter has become one of the more popular “boy toys” that hit and hit big. Its popularity is not surprising at all. Imagine fulfilling your dream of flying an aircraft without spending too much. And most of all: without leaving your foot off the ground. Now that’s a good plus factor if you simply don’t want to risk your life flying with a spinning rotor above your head.

Rc helicopter usually come in either gas or electric powered. Here are the things you should know about the two:

Electric rc Helicopter – If you are a novice rc enthusiast, then the most advisable thing to buy is the electric rc helicopter. The reasons are simple. Electric rc helicopter is simpler than other types of rc helicopters especially the gas rc’s. With the electric, you don’t have to deal with the engine and the gas it will consume. You would not need to have proper knowledge about mechanics just to make it fly. You don’t have to spend a lot of time reader the manual just to understand how it works. And if the helicopter fails, you don’t have to figure out how to fix it.

If you are thinking that electric rc helicopter would not fly for long then you should change you perspective. Most modern electric rc’s are powered by lithium batteries and coupled with brushless motors. This makes it fly much longer. In fact it can out last some of the gas rc’s.

And last thing: It is quiet on air thus you cannot disturb other’s privacy.

Gas rc Helicopter – A more experienced rc helicopter pilot prefers gas powered rc helicopters for several reasons. One is, flying gas rc helicopter flies like flying a full-size helicopter since the sound that the engine creates can trigger excitement. Oh! You might think that it is quite absurd. But no! The sound of the engine makes it more exciting to fly. Another reason is that gas rc helicopter is more complicated that keeps its pilot more addicted with it. Why? This is because the pilot is not only limited to flying the helicopter alone. Pilot is involved with how the mechanics of the RC. This gives him more reason to become excited on the RC.

Choosing between an electric RC helicopter and a gas RC helicopter is up to you. Evaluate carefully so that you get most out of your rc flying experience.


