Title: 
Bluetooth Headset Basics Revealed

Word Count:
518

Summary:
What is a Bluetooth headset? You've certainly seen them, those things connected to people's ears that make them look like they just walked out of a Star Trek convention. At first glance, it almost looks like a giant bug has attached itself to the side of the person's face, causing a moment of alarm as one prepares either to help the poor victim or run for cover. Other times, people walk down the street, apparently talking to themselves in either calm or vigorous tones. It isn...


Keywords:
bluetooth headset


Article Body:
What is a Bluetooth headset? You've certainly seen them, those things connected to people's ears that make them look like they just walked out of a Star Trek convention. At first glance, it almost looks like a giant bug has attached itself to the side of the person's face, causing a moment of alarm as one prepares either to help the poor victim or run for cover. Other times, people walk down the street, apparently talking to themselves in either calm or vigorous tones. It isn't until a quick turn of the head reveals a Bluetooth headset.

A Bluetooth headset is an odd name for what this little gizmo is and does. First of all, it's usually not blue, it doesn't have anything to do with teeth, and it isn't really a headset: it fits around the outside of your ear like sleek CD player headphone earpieces. With a Bluetooth headset, nothing gets draped around the neck or over the head.

A Bluetooth headset, in English, is a wireless device that connects one to mobile phones, PCs, laptops, digital cameras, printers and even video game consoles. It has global range capabilities and a short-range radio frequency. The distance a Bluetooth headset can pick up frequencies is determined by the power of the transceiver microchip inside, and most headsets can pick up anything as long as the other party or object is in range. The Bluetooth headset device also uses a radio communications system, and as long as the signal can be picked up, so can you. Be advised however, that in order to make a Bluetooth headset work, you need to meet certain specifications, and your Bluetooth headset must be compatible with that of the person or device with which you wish to communicate. Make sense?

One of the most positive aspects of Bluetooth headset capability is that it allows hands-free use. Especially with new laws on the books regarding people driving with cell phones, a Bluetooth headset offers a safe alternative, and yet allows necessary communication between parties or hardware. Believe it or not, a Bluetooth headset can also communicate with a PC mouse, printers and keyboards. A Bluetooth headset also allows users to transfer data from the headset to a destination such as a palm pilot as well. The younger groups will appreciate the fact that a Bluetooth headset can control gaming consoles such as Playstation 3, Nintendo, and new Wii technologies.

Bluetooth technology isn't limited to the Bluetooth headset. It's also found in just about any newer types of electronic and computer equipment being manufactured today. Even Wi-Fi uses the same frequency as a Bluetooth headset, while Bluetooth technology is more user friendly. First designed in 1994 by two Swedes, the original company now has thousands of companies worldwide. Major global companies such as Intel, Nokia, Sony and IBM have all taken advantage of boom in Bluetooth technology and developed products and services to support it. So, a Bluetooth headset is much more than a cute little mobile phone that fits over your ear. A Bluetooth headset is riding the crest of the wave into the future.


