Title: 
Broadband Internet: What You Need To Know, Part 1

Word Count:
333

Summary:
Broadband Internet involves using a high speed modem. This allows you to access information on the internet very quickly, so it is commonly referred to as high speed Internet. Broadband Internet can be in the form of DSL, cable, or satellite. As the popularity of the internet exploded in the early 2000’s, Broadband Internet emerged, offering computer users something better. It was quite expensive at first but has become more affordable. Today it is featured around the world. ...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Broadband Internet involves using a high speed modem. This allows you to access information on the internet very quickly, so it is commonly referred to as high speed Internet. Broadband Internet can be in the form of DSL, cable, or satellite. As the popularity of the internet exploded in the early 2000’s, Broadband Internet emerged, offering computer users something better. It was quite expensive at first but has become more affordable. Today it is featured around the world. 

If you are still using dial up Internet connections then you may be wondering what all the hype is about. After all, it does get you connected to the internet as well! Most people switch their home Internet service to Broadband after experiencing the difference between the two while accessing the internet on their office computer. You can go to a public library as well to try a computer with Broadband Internet for a couple of hours, and then decide which one you would rather have.

DSL is the most common type of Broadband Internet connection. DSL stands for Digital Subscriber Line. It allows high volumes of data to be transmitted quickly. Some rural areas have cable that offers Broadband connections. One downside of it is that all the customers share a certain amount of bandwidth so you can find your Broadband Internet functioning slowly at times. Cable companies try to avoid this by adding additional connections as the number of customer’s increases. A satellite Broadband connection works the same way. 

Broadband Internet has become very popular because it offers so many advantages over dial up Internet access. It is up to 10 times faster. This means you can access information on the Internet almost the instant you click on it. Since it doesn’t operate on your phone line, you can still take phone calls while being connected to the internet. This also means you won’t get disconnected in the middle of something or not be able to get online during peak hours.


