Title: 
Buyer's Guide To Home Theater Systems

Word Count:
815

Summary:
Having your own home theater is something for your entire family to enjoy.  This is the reason that the entire family should be involved in the purchase of the new home theater system.  Shopping for a new system can be fun for the whole family because you get to go to many different stores and listen to and play with many different systems until you find the one that is right for everyone, especially Dad.

When shopping for a home theater system, most people get overwhelmed...


Keywords:
bose home theater


Article Body:
Having your own home theater is something for your entire family to enjoy.  This is the reason that the entire family should be involved in the purchase of the new home theater system.  Shopping for a new system can be fun for the whole family because you get to go to many different stores and listen to and play with many different systems until you find the one that is right for everyone, especially Dad.

When shopping for a home theater system, most people get overwhelmed with all of the technical garble that goes hand in hand with the systems.  The average Joe may not be familiar with terms such as AC3, Aspect Ratio, Bridging, and many other terms that are too difficult to say.  These technical terms do nothing for the layman and are all meant for the technical side of the electronics industry.  If you are getting discouraged because you feel like you should know everything that there is to know about the home theater, including the technical jargon, then search online for an electronics dictionary, or maybe a list of terms relating to home theaters.

The most important parts of picking out a home theater system are knowing what viewing quality you are looking for and what sound quality you desire.  Traveling to the local electronics store will help to give you options and display these attributes for you in a real life situation.  Many of the larger electronics superstores have soundproof rooms where you can sit and enjoy a home theater system so you can get the full effect of the system you are considering.  Not only can you get the quality in real life situations, you are likely to find a human there that can explain the AC3, etc in terms you can understand.

Once you have decided on the best system for you, you will likely want to shop around to save yourself some money.  OF course, you will want to take into account how much the store you visited was helpful to you.  In many cases, you will find that the internet has the exact same system for a much lower price and you can have it professionally installed by someone outside the store for a cheaper price.  I am not an advocate for going behind the back of someone that helped you, I am just advocating saving a dollar.

The number one level of importance, as we discussed, is the video quality.  You will want to pick a television that is flat screen.  The flat screens are a little higher in cost, but the picture quality is so much better on these new screens. The glare is gone and the lines are crisp.  Plasma screen televisions are even better, but they do not fit into many Americans' pocketbooks as of yet.  You will want to choose a t.v. that is at least 27 inches.  Anything smaller is hard to see from across a room.  Steer clear of the televisions with built in components such as DVD or VCR.  These parts, if broken, are generally very expensive to replace.  Contrary to popular belief, the rear projection tvs do not normally provide an advantage in viewing quality.  HDTV is one of the hottest things going right now, and it helps to create a crisp, clear picture on your screen.

Your number two level of importance should be the sound quality.  The sound that normally comes with a television is put out by one or two small speakers built into the plastic box that houses the tv.  If you are building a home theater, the sound coming from your television is more important to you than with the average couch potato.  Extra speakers can be added to support higher quality sound, and the arrangement of the room and flow of the furniture can play a huge part in the quality of sound from your system. The shape of the room, the wall coverings, the floor coverings, the type of furniture, and the amount of furniture all contribute to the sound quality in a room.  For example, a square room with cathedral ceilings and hardwood floors and modern wood and metal furniture will have a much different sound that a long rectangular room with carpet, a comfy sofa, and lots of curtains.  The extra speakers can be added along any walls, behind the viewer, near the doors, etc.  Running speaker wire is one of the easier parts of installing a home theater, but knowing the ideal place for speaker placement is another story.

I hope these tips have helped you in some way to make some wise decisions regarding home theater purchases.  Keep in mind that professional installers and salesmen will be glad to help you make the final decisions regarding this major purchase. Installers and salesmen will be glad to help you make the final decisions regarding this major purchase.


