Title: 
Call Logging – Improving Customers Relations By Streamlining Information

Word Count:
407

Summary:
Over the past several years, technology has come a long way toward helping customer relations between both companies and their wide range of customers.  The automotive industry is now enjoying the same customer relationship improvements other industries have begun to employ, all in one converged, web-enabled productivity suite.  While there are several packages from which to choose, the idea is the same across the board; to improve customer relations and increase productivity...


Keywords:
phone call recorder


Article Body:
Over the past several years, technology has come a long way toward helping customer relations between both companies and their wide range of customers.  The automotive industry is now enjoying the same customer relationship improvements other industries have begun to employ, all in one converged, web-enabled productivity suite.  While there are several packages from which to choose, the idea is the same across the board; to improve customer relations and increase productivity.  This is, of course, no surprise since the automotive industry is among those who have used computer-based system as the core of their work, installing computers in cars that provide various options to drivers.  

Because many companies are now using such a system, it has become an affordable, comprehensive communications solution that provides this industry with several tools and benefits that will help increase customer awareness, and with that, sales.  

Other benefits include: increased service traffic, a reduction in advertising costs, workforce optimization and process execution, and an overall improved bottom line.  This is done through the software as it tracks and manages advertising response, records telephone conversations and network screen activity, provides instant wireless desktop messaging, call accounting and reporting of phone system activity, automated dialing options for customers, and promotes contact and updating of campaigns.  Other advantages are speech-based call routing, which can help decrease call time and increase real-time customer relations.  This works to facilitate overall customer contact and activity reporting by cutting down on the time it takes to receive the desired feedback between the time of the sale and initial contact. 

This type of software has been test in many automotive retail outlets and is designed specifically for a web-based system.  This makes it easy for employees to access this information virtually any time, anywhere, and can help facilitate a faster turn-around.  Customers will also enjoy the ease of use, while still having ample opportunity to speak directly to a dealer.  Customers will still be able to ask questions and obtain information as easily as before, with these added benefits.  

Employees will also be able to keep up with customer information, and through that, can update customers on new products and features available.  The same is true for other services as well, as they will be more easily maintained.  Through this, overall customer relations can be improved, as other options are added.  The objective is to target the customer, and that is exactly what this industry is striving to do.


