Title: 
Canon Digital Camera

Word Count:
411

Summary:
The Canon Corporation has an astounding product line of Canon digital camera devices, and compact photo printers that will fit the most discriminatory shopper. Within the Canon digital camera product line are categories of digital cameras that will fit the need of every consumer throughout the world.

The High-End Canon digital camera line features the Power Shot digital camera that is available in three styles, Power Shot G7, Power Shot S3 IS, and the Power Shot S80.
The ...


Keywords:



Article Body:
The Canon Corporation has an astounding product line of Canon digital camera devices, and compact photo printers that will fit the most discriminatory shopper. Within the Canon digital camera product line are categories of digital cameras that will fit the need of every consumer throughout the world.

The High-End Canon digital camera line features the Power Shot digital camera that is available in three styles, Power Shot G7, Power Shot S3 IS, and the Power Shot S80.
The features of these three high-end Canon digital camera models include still image recording on the Power Shot S80 and Power Shot Se IS models, with still image capabilities and motion picture and monaural capabilities on the Power Shot G7.

All of these models of High-End Canon digital camera models have the 4x digital zoom feature. The total pixel counts of these three high-end Canon digital camera models range from 8.3 megapixels to 10.40 megapixels.

There are 19 Canon Point-and-Shoot digital camera styles available in the Canon digital camera line. The most recent additions to the Canon digital camera Point and Shoot product line are the Power Shot SD900, Power Shot SD800, IS, Power Shot SD40, Power Shot A710 IS, Power Shot A640 and the Power Shot A630.

The features of these Point-and-Shoot models of Canon digital camera devices differ slightly, with a total pixel count that ranges from 7.1 to 10.40 megapixels, with the latest Canon digital camera models varying on the capability of still image recording not being available on 2 models, the Power Shot A710 IS and the Power Shot A640. These models offer still image recording as Normal, Fine and SuperFine instead.

Canon Corporation also offers a superb collection of Digital EOS Canon digital cameras. They are the EOS-1Ds Mark II Digital, EOS-1D Mark II N Digital, EOS 5D Digital, EOS 30D Digital, Digital Rebel Xii, and the Digital Reb XT. The newest addition to the Canon digital camera EOS line is the Digital Rebel XTi.

Some of the features in these Canon digital camera models are 16.7 megapixels, full frame CMOS sensors, DIGIC II Image Processor, fast and responsive EOS class performance, and improved image display. This is a professional level image photography tool line.

Because Canon Corporation cares about the quality and performance of their products, Canon digital camera photography equipment is constantly being reviewed by their well-qualified staff of photographic engineers for safety updates and taking an active stance in solving performance issues to provide their customers with a high-quality photographic experience.


