Title: 
Capturing Special Moments With A Digital Camera

Word Count:
833

Summary:
There are millions of people around the world who share a keen interest in photography. The charm of capturing a moment in a camera is truly amazing. Probably, this is one of the strongest reasons why a growing number of people are joining the cult of professional photographic pursuit. Traditionally, taking photographs, film processing and developing them in the dark room was a painfully long process. But as digital technology evolved, it enabled camera manufacturing companie...


Keywords:
digital camera, photo, photographic camera


Article Body:
There are millions of people around the world who share a keen interest in photography. The charm of capturing a moment in a camera is truly amazing. Probably, this is one of the strongest reasons why a growing number of people are joining the cult of professional photographic pursuit. Traditionally, taking photographs, film processing and developing them in the dark room was a painfully long process. But as digital technology evolved, it enabled camera manufacturing companies to come up with high-end digital cameras. 

Digital cameras are an ideal gadget for taking pictures without having to worry about running out of snaps of roll which is the case with the traditional film cameras. This apart, there is no need of having to wait till the entire roll of film gets used just to find the blown-up pictures in the dark room. Digital cameras allow you to take any number of photographs and see each one of them right after you take them. Also you can connect your camera to the USB port of you Personal Computer and store your snaps there in a folder. What is more is that you can customize each photograph, thru software, just the way like it. In case, you want to take a hard-copy of the pictures, you can always use the printer to get your favorite photograph printed out.

Buying a digital camera is a matter of serious deliberation. Since different brands of companies are offering cameras with special features, you have be aware of the standard features of the digital cameras in order to be able to make the right purchase. The following are some of the must-know tips that you should be familiar with before you swipe you credit card in a digital camera kiosk of a shopping mall or punch in the CVV number in the box while shopping online for a captivating camera.

Price Range: 

The price of digital photographic cameras can usually range anything from US$100 to $1000. If you are buying a digital compact camera for the first time, then don`t go for an expensive one. It is quite easy to get tempted into spending a lot of money to buy a digital SLR camera offering features that are just of no use to you. Get to know your needs and settle for a prudent purchase. Ensure that the digital camera you pick should be light-weighted and easy-to-use. Later on, after you learn the basics of digital camera photograph, you may opt for an high-end edition.

Features: 

The standard features of digital cameras of all make are almost similar except for some special features introduced by some renowned brands in the market. Features such as zoom, automatic functions, special effects, black & white images and video recording facilities are usually offered by most brands. However, as a prudent buyer you have be careful of the claims some manufactures might be making. For instance, the feature of digital zoom magnifications may not actually live up to your expectation level if you are hoping to get the optimal clarity especially if you are aiming at say 8x10 or larger size photos. Do not be tempted by the flashy promotional gimmickry of the brands. Consider the features keeping your pre-established price range in mind.

Lens:

All digital cameras provide two types of zoom features: optical and digital. While the optical zoom feature is based on the lens magnification and gives you images with a sharp and crystal-clear clarity, digital zoom relies on the magnification of the digital image which results in less sharp and fuzzy images. Make sure that the digital camera you buy should at least have the optical zoom features. However, as mentioned earlier, you have to be careful of the digital zoom magnification claim. You can look for digital cameras having lens auto focus and image stabilization features.

Image Resolution: 

Image Resolution or Pixel Resolution is one of the most striking features of digital cameras. For personal and email purpose digital cameras having 2.0 mega pixels will deliver clear photos. However, many manufactures are now offering digital cameras with 8.0 and above mega pixels. You get better and clearer images with higher mega pixels. High mega pixel resolution plays a key role in image enlargement. So if size matters to you, consider this aspect seriously.

Battery Type and Longevity: 

If you are likely to use the digital camera for outdoor activities, it is important to consider how long the built-in batteries will last. Even if you think of using some extra rechargeable batteries, just make sure whether the digital camera you are buying support the same batteries. 

LCD Screen: 

Every digital camera has the LCD Screen feature. Just make sure that the screen size should be at least 2 inches or above. It will give you better and clear images.

This article is under GNU FDL license and can be distributed without any previous authorization from the author. However the author's name and all the URLs (links) mentioned in the article and biography must be kept.


