Title: 
Carry Hidden Camera Detector In Tanning Salons

Word Count:
378

Summary:
You visit a sophisticated tanning salon, spend the modest amount and get the best treatment as an important customer. Its so simple and comfortable. And you get a rich, safe and desired tan. There is no worry of changing lamps, maintaining the right temperature and all those little but cumbersome tasks that are so common with the home tanning sessions.

But are tanning salons really safe? Think over. Have you ever thought of the situation wherein your naked pictures are sho...


Keywords:
tanning, tanning beds, tanning tips


Article Body:
You visit a sophisticated tanning salon, spend the modest amount and get the best treatment as an important customer. Its so simple and comfortable. And you get a rich, safe and desired tan. There is no worry of changing lamps, maintaining the right temperature and all those little but cumbersome tasks that are so common with the home tanning sessions.

But are tanning salons really safe? Think over. Have you ever thought of the situation wherein your naked pictures are shot to earn handsome bucks on the Internet! This is quite possible. The cops have raided many tanning salons indulged in this mischievous and shameful business. Hidden wireless cameras are located at many places within the tanning room.

Please note that I do not intend to suggest that each and every salon is doing this. But you need to be careful in this matter. You can go to a tanning salon without the fear of being captured in the frame, if you really play a little smart game.

While you are in a tanning salon and inside the private room for undressing, checkout yourself if there is any hidden eye peeping over there. Now this could be a difficult task to perform. That's true since modern technology had made the hidden cameras in the form of pin heads. In a case reported, an owner of saloon confessed to the police that he used the camera inside a wall clock inserted in the dial nob! So now how to detect them?

It's very simple. You need a camera detector. The camera detector is also smaller in size and can be carried inside your pocket or purse. Before you undress and lie inside the tanner assure yourself the safe environment. Switch on the detector and wave it around the room, over the booth and every corner, electrical outlets, plugs, wall clocks and other areas. The detector will automatically beep and the LED will flash lights on proximity to any thing emitting RF signal. If you find any thing suspicious come out immediate and do whatever you like.

So go to the salons for tanning without any second thought since you know that you are more smart than that fat grinning saloon owner. The hidden camera can never read you intelligence!


