Title: 
Carry Your Photos With You

Word Count:
483

Summary:
Every year the Apple iPod gets better.  Every year they come up with new and great features that people will love and become dependent upon.  First, it was just great to be able to carry your favorite music with you everywhere you went.  You could even set up different music mixes- one for the gym, one for meditation, one for the grocery store, one for the commute.  Wasn’t that just the best thing invented since sliced bread? The iPod Photo allows you to carry 15,000 songs an...


Keywords:
ipod, digital photo, digital photography


Article Body:
Every year the Apple iPod gets better.  Every year they come up with new and great features that people will love and become dependent upon.  First, it was just great to be able to carry your favorite music with you everywhere you went.  You could even set up different music mixes- one for the gym, one for meditation, one for the grocery store, one for the commute.  Wasn’t that just the best thing invented since sliced bread? The iPod Photo allows you to carry 15,000 songs and 25,000 pictures along with you.  No more school pictures in the wallet you proud parents, put them on your iPod.

So, here are the details.  The Apple iPod Photo (4th Generation) allows you to carry your great music and photos and will also display them on the lighted two-inch screen.  The iPod has fifteen hours of battery life when fully charged.  The iPod is compatible with Mac OS X or Windows 2000 SP4 and XP and all the essentials including FireWire and USB cords.  The iPod photo dock is also handy for picture lovers and allows you to upload your pictures in a snap.  

Twenty-five thousand photos, which covers five thousand square feet of wall space.  Have a really big family?  Well, you can store them all on your iPod.  The picture display is fantastic with vivid colors.  You can view your pictures exactly the way they are supposed to look with all 65,536 colors.  The iPod also displays 25 full-color thumbnails on the screen.  This is a great way to share photos with friends and family.  No more carrying around pictures in your wallet or purse and no more having to worry about special photos becoming scratched, bent or torn.  

ITunes 4.7 has been optimized for photo importation.  Simply move your photos to iTunes and then onto your iPod photo folder on your Mac or PC.  You can also organize your photos or make changes and adjustments through the Adobe Photoshop Album 2.0 or Adobe Photoshop Elements 3.0.  From here you can zip your photos straight to your iPod for easy viewing.  Another great feature is that iTunes 4.7 will auto-synchronize album art onto your iPod.  

The 60 GB iPod includes all the great features with massive amounts of memory.  With the 40 GB iPod, you can still enjoy your music and photos - just not as many.  The 40 GB model holds 10,000 songs and 25,000 photos.  

Digital photography is now the way of the world in most situations.  Everybody has a digital camera these days and the iPod is making it easier to view and share your photos.  Even if you don’t have a digital camera, you can upload photos from a photo CD into iTunes and then place them on your iPod.  These CDs are available at most photo shops when you have your film developed.  The iPod Photo is a really handy way of carrying around your memories.  

With You in Technology
Adam White


