Title: 
CCTV Technology:  Where You Go, I Will Follow

Word Count:
512

Summary:
Picture this: A man is followed by CCTV cameras. He walks into a crowd and is supposed to get lost from the cameras’ eyes, but he doesn’t. The camera is focused on him, and even if he switches jackets or puts on a fake beard, he is still in focus. Sounds incredible? It’s possible.

The new CCTV system

James Bond would have willingly died or wriggled his way out to have one of these. The new surveillance, or “spying”, system can track a suspect without losing him even in ...


Keywords:
CCTV


Article Body:
Picture this: A man is followed by CCTV cameras. He walks into a crowd and is supposed to get lost from the cameras’ eyes, but he doesn’t. The camera is focused on him, and even if he switches jackets or puts on a fake beard, he is still in focus. Sounds incredible? It’s possible.

The new CCTV system

James Bond would have willingly died or wriggled his way out to have one of these. The new surveillance, or “spying”, system can track a suspect without losing him even in a crowd.

This was developed by the scientists of the BAE Systems, Sagem (a French telecoms company) and the University of Reading. The system, now being tested by a popular British commercial chain, was funded by the European Commission. This outstanding CCTV technology will enhance police surveillance, and crime prevention and detection.

These eyes have it

When the operator focuses on a suspect, the cameras will follow him through crowds and will be able to detect changes in the suspect’s appearance. The computer is able to track his movements on film, when small clusters of pixels locks on to the tags after the footage has fixed on the different parts of the suspect.

When the suspect removes his hat or puts on his sunglasses, the system will pass the information to the CCTV cameras. The system is also programmed to detect suspicious behavior or body language; therefore, it can also identify would-be criminals.

The new surveillance technology will raise the level of public surveillance, improve police crime detection and prevention, as well as strengthen public security. In the interest of national security, the system has much to offer.

It’s different if it’s you being tracked

If you are the one being watched, or you suspect you are being scrutinized behind those secret cameras, the natural response would be to guard your behavior. Nobody wants to be caught on camera picking one’s nose or scratching one’s crotch. But some habits die hard and are recorded on CCTV.

If you are a law-abiding citizen and have nothing to hide or to fear from the law, you may argue that you can live with the new CCTV system. This will be rebutted by the opposition that frowns on any surveillance system as an intrusion into their privacy.

There are negative and positive reactions to being watched. Some feel they have degenerated from respectable human beings to animals in a laboratory. Others feel they have to sacrifice their privacy for security. Still, many argue that public surveillance is different from covert surveillance done on you right in your home, so there would be conflict about it.

This new technology, if used in the wrong hands will pose a threat to unsuspecting individuals. This is recognized by all governments that are updating their local legislations on covert surveillance.

If you suspect you are being followed, even in the thickest of crowds, then your guess is accurate, because wherever you go, these CCTV eyes will follow. There is no escape at all.


