Title: 
CD Clock Radio - A Personal Review.

Word Count:
442

Summary:
I simply love my CD clock radio. For me the way you wake up in the morning is important, so why not do it the right way? Why torment yourself with some earsplitting and obnoxious beeping alarm clock? Since the time I got my CD clock radio I’ve been waking up in the most luxurious ways possible.

At times if I’m feeling especially sophisticated I’ll set on some Bach or perhaps some Beethoven to wake up to on my CD clock radio. There’s really nothing like starting the day off...


Keywords:
cd clock radio


Article Body:
I simply love my CD clock radio. For me the way you wake up in the morning is important, so why not do it the right way? Why torment yourself with some earsplitting and obnoxious beeping alarm clock? Since the time I got my CD clock radio I’ve been waking up in the most luxurious ways possible.

At times if I’m feeling especially sophisticated I’ll set on some Bach or perhaps some Beethoven to wake up to on my CD clock radio. There’s really nothing like starting the day off with some timeless classical music softly wafting into your ears and easing you from your slumber into a state of wakefulness. There have been times when I have dreams of hearing this music before I arise, and the rest of the day I feel composed and rested instead of irritated and rushed.

Obviously, I presume the main reason people prefer loud buzzers to wake up to, is to ensure they really awaken, but personally I have found that even gentle music from my CD clock radio almost always does the trick. Or if I’m worried about getting up by a certain time, I can set the CD clock radios buzzer alarm as well as the music. First the music plays, but then five minutes later I set the buzzer to go off just to make sure. Despite the fact that I never had to hear that buzzer, it’s reassuring to know that its there.

Another nice feature about my CD clock radio is the alternative sounds it has to wake up to. Made by Timex, my CD clock radio has a selection of ‘nature sounds’ to play in place of a buzzer. Though it may not have a very extensive selection of sounds, but they are actually pretty nice. One of them is not really a nature sound, but is a series of gentle wind chime like tones that play in a very Zen like manner. Perhaps if I’m tired of waking up to classical - Bach, I can adopt a more Eastern style of starting the day and wake up feeling like a Buddhist monk instead! With regards to the sound quality on my CD clock radio is only fair, and is not really designed to replace or act as a CD player.

CD clock radios are just great alternatives to your standard clock radios, and enable you to slip in any kind of music you want to wake up to. And yes! You even have the option of waking up to the radio as their names imply, if you run out of CD ideas.


