Title: 
CD Mailers & DVD Mailers. What Are They?

Word Count:
414

Summary:
Many people want to share copies of the compact discs and digital video data with family and friends, and sometimes they might need to use the Postal Service to deliver the disc to their loved one. The multitude of choices for CD and DVD mailers are astounding, and some people will have a hard time making up their mind.

If the music has been replicated by a professional then the album style mailer might be a good choice. This professional looking mailing is designed just l...


Keywords:
cd mailer, dvd mailer, mailers, send cd, send dvd by post


Article Body:
Many people want to share copies of the compact discs and digital video data with family and friends, and sometimes they might need to use the Postal Service to deliver the disc to their loved one. The multitude of choices for CD and DVD mailers are astounding, and some people will have a hard time making up their mind.

If the music has been replicated by a professional then the album style mailer might be a good choice. This professional looking mailing is designed just like the large record album sleeves of the past, with one opening on the right that allows the CD to slip right in. The outside cover of the album mailer can be digitally printed during the replication process to produce an heirloom quality CD mailer.

Other people might choose the basic style of CD mailer. This single mailer has an opening at the top where the compact disc will slide right in. The outside of the single CD mailer can be professionally finished with digital photography, and with an additional label can be ready for mailing in a few moments. These materials are usually made from cardboard material that have been processed to produce a smooth finish.

People have a lot of fun with the wallet CD mailers. These mailers are very decorative and usually depict a theme that the customer can choose to match the theme of the data contained on the compact disk. The wallet style contains a large flap on the left side of the CD mailer and can be folded over to the right after the CD has been placed inside.

Some people prefer to use the wallet style disc mailer with the zip strip closure because they are easy to seal. The wallet style disc mailer with zip closure contains an area that is recessed that is circular shaped to hold the compact disk in place. Some people will use these without ornamentations, but they can be imprinted with any message.

There is a business card and mini compact disc mailer for people who have the smaller sized compact discs to mail. This business like compact disk mail opens from the top and has an area on the lower portion where people choose to place the compact disc. The top folds over and there is ample room for people to insert a business card. Salesmen use these mailers quite a bit when they are introducing a product through a digital presentation on the disk.


