Title: 
Cell Phone Batteries

Word Count:
736

Summary:
The world used to be a very different place.  When accidents happened away from home, victims had no way of calling for help.  If a driver broke down on the road, he or she would have to either go to a stranger's house to use the phone, or wait for a good Samaritan to stop and offer assistance.  Thanks to cell phones, it's now easier than ever to stay in touch, and stay safe.  

This is not to say that cell phone users don't have emergencies.  They constantly face the dange...


Keywords:



Article Body:
The world used to be a very different place.  When accidents happened away from home, victims had no way of calling for help.  If a driver broke down on the road, he or she would have to either go to a stranger's house to use the phone, or wait for a good Samaritan to stop and offer assistance.  Thanks to cell phones, it's now easier than ever to stay in touch, and stay safe.  

This is not to say that cell phone users don't have emergencies.  They constantly face the danger of running out of batteries.  While this may seem fairly unimportant, a dead cell phone is of no use when your care breaks down.  And it can certainly be a problem if the cell phone battery dies in the middle of an important conversation. 

There are differences in the types of cellular phone batteries, and in the phones that use them.  An analog phone, for instance, will typically go through batteries faster than digital models.

Capacity
It is possible to buy high capacity cell phone batteries that provide more talk time and stand by time between calls.  High capacity batteries do weigh a little more, so they might not be the best choice for those wanting a featherweight cell phone.

Value
You can now buy cell phones for a fraction of what they used to cost, but they can still involve a sizeable investment.  You might have to save up to buy the cell phone you want, and you will need to budget your monthly income to accommodate the user fees and call charges.  Another expense that should be considered is the cost of better cell phone batteries.  Most phones come with a basic battery, but you might want to upgrade to a higher capacity.  So, as with any purchase, the cell phone battery that costs less may not be the best quality options.  Basically, you get what you're paying for.   If you find a high-capacity battery at a super-low price, make sure it's not restored rather than brand new.  Restored cellular phone batteries are usually made with old components, and don't work as well as new ones.  If you're offered a battery at an incredibly cheap price, it's probably restored.

Warranty
Cell phone batteries do not come cheap, so you need to be sure that your investment is protected.  A warranty is important because, like any manufactured product, some cellular phone batteries may not work properly, or last as long as expected.  If your battery fails to meet the manufacturer's promise within the specified amount of time, they will usually offer a new battery in place of the faulty one.  

Here are a few tips to help ensure that your cell phone and battery enjoy a long and happy life together:

1. When charging your battery for the first time, be sure to follow the manufacturer's instructions carefully.

2. If you have to remove the battery from your phone, make sure that it doesn't come in contact with metal objects such as keys or pocket change.  This can keep the battery from working properly.

3. Cell phone batteries are prone to damage from extreme temperatures.  Don't leave your phone in the car, or anywhere it will be exposed to excessively hot or cold temperatures.

4. Try not to drop your cell phone. Dropping your phone, especially on a hard surface, can irreversibly damage the phone and the cell phone battery.

5. Different phones, and cell phone batteries, need different chargers.  Make sure that you're buying the right charger.

6. Your cell phone will most likely last you a year or two, or even more.  Don't skimp on quality; choose a cell phone that will meet your needs now, and has the lasting reliability you need to keep you talking for years to come.

7. You can get more life from your cell phone, even when you're done using it.  There are many community services, such as women's shelters, that will happily accept your cell phone donation.  Think of other ways that you can reuse or recycle your cell phone and accessories.

Cell phone batteries can sometimes set you back as much as an entire new phone will cost.  For this reason, you need to extend the life of your battery as much as possible.  If you do find yourself in the position of buying a new battery, make sure you get the one that offers best performance and a solid warranty.


