Title: 
Cell Phones And Brain Tumors

Word Count:
406

Summary:
The use of cellular phones has increased rapidly during the late 1990’s. On that period, newer wireless communication technologies have emerged. Currently, According to CTIA - The Wireless Association, cellular phone owners in U.S have reached to 194.5 million which captured over 65 percent of total U.S. Population.

However, there are several issues being discussed to asses the safety implications of mobile phones to human health.

For many users, a new finished study wa...


Keywords:
cell phone, technology, satellite, mobile phone, gps, recreation, news


Article Body:
The use of cellular phones has increased rapidly during the late 1990’s. On that period, newer wireless communication technologies have emerged. Currently, According to CTIA - The Wireless Association, cellular phone owners in U.S have reached to 194.5 million which captured over 65 percent of total U.S. Population.

However, there are several issues being discussed to asses the safety implications of mobile phones to human health.

For many users, a new finished study was published online in the International Journal of Cancer. The study was done by a collection of researchers from many universities headed by Anna Lahkola of the Radiation and Nuclear Safety Authority in Finland. Study shows that using a cell phone causes the risk of developing a brain tumor called “Glioma”.

Below are the facts that you need to know about the effects of mobile phones on human brains.

• The study compared 1,521 cellular phone users who received a     Glioma to 3,301 control participants without tumors.

• The people who have used a modern cellular phone for more than 2000 hours duration, the risk of getting a brain tumor will rose up to 270 percent.

• The study is considered the second that firmly associates cell phone usage to the increased risk of developing certain brain tumors.

• The danger was highest among people under the age of 20.

• Older-style analog mobile phones have been shown as the source of brain tumors. However, even in using more advance digital cellular phones, the risk is still there.

• Scientists associated with the web site foodconsumer.org, stressed that the study results should not make readers assume that ten years of cell phone use will result to an immediate tumor, but that the tumor will show up later than that.

• On the other hand, research done by other scientists indicate that prolonged use of mobile phones may cause hot-spots to develop inside the brain, causing damage that could lead to Alzheimer’s disease

However, here are some simple steps that cell phone users can take to reduce any remaining risk:

First, it is recommended to use a headset or speakerphone mode. That moves the phone and its antenna away from your head. Second, observe using cell phones for shorter. Third, in a car, use an external antenna mounted outside the vehicle to move the source of the radiation farther from you. Finally, the effects of cellular damage are greatest on growing developing organisms (i.e., the young) and so limit children's use of cell phones.


