Title: 
Cell Phone Features

Word Count:
639

Summary:
It's not a 21st century gadget. It was developed in 1947 in the form of a car mobile phone.  The concept of cellular phone (telefone celular) was produced by Bell Laboratories with the permission of FCC (Federal Communication Commission), and had everything to do with broadcasting and sending a radio or television message out over the airwaves. But there was a scientist, who gave a new shape to the same device. Dr Martin Cooper, a former general manager in Motorola, made the ...


Keywords:
cell phone, telephone, cellular, celular


Article Body:
It's not a 21st century gadget. It was developed in 1947 in the form of a car mobile phone.  The concept of cellular phone (telefone celular) was produced by Bell Laboratories with the permission of FCC (Federal Communication Commission), and had everything to do with broadcasting and sending a radio or television message out over the airwaves. But there was a scientist, who gave a new shape to the same device. Dr Martin Cooper, a former general manager in Motorola, made the first call on a portable cell phone back in 1973.

The first ever cell phone (telefone celular) was very large and bulky. It almost looked like a radio frequency device. The weight of Motorola's first cell phone was 2 pounds.  But now the structure of cell phones has evolved to match the style and comfort of the user. They have shrunk drastically both in size and weight. It is easy to tailor cell phones by choosing its features and functions for one’s comfort. There are phone covers that change the face and design of the device. Various accessories are available such as car chargers, belt clips, phone covers, data cables and etc.

Cell phone (telefone celular) emerged as a device of luxury, but in the fast growing technical world, it plays a much bigger and important role. You can get wireless Internet service through your cell phone, with web and email capability. A cell phone with a mini web browser can help retrieve web emails and chat, etc., while you are on the move. A special kind of browser is used for surfing the net on a small cell phone screen. If internet use is a must, make sure that when buying a cell phone you make the choice for graphic browser capability instead of a text-based browser. Also, if you think you will browse the wireless Internet often, you may want to consider buying a cell phone with a larger than average display size. 

There are International websites that allow sending mails, without having a computer. All you need is a basic GPRS enabled mobile phone and you can access your mail on your cell phone (telefone celular) anytime and anywhere. It is no wonder that cell phones have become a bed-side essential for us today, like a bottle of water that we may need any time. It is no longer a device of entertainment. From local weather forecast in the morning to your loved ones good night messages, it keeps you connected all the time. 

With cell phones (telefone celular) becoming a device with all the modern technology, its theft is growing across the world. In a survey it was found that in the UK a cell phone is stolen every three minutes. In the United States, the statistics are very similar too. By keeping a note on the IMES identification that each phone has, you can trace a phone, though it's a tedious process. The IMES code is individual to each cell phone, when you lose your phone, you can refer the code to your network provider as well as handset provider and trace back the cell phone, or at least block the applications in the phone. The person who stole the cell phone can't use it after the IMES code is blocked. 

Cell phones (telefone celular) have definitely become a very popular consumer electronic product. Not just for plain conversation, but for lots of other purposes. With the availability of internet connection, cell phone as broaden even more its options of uses. Not to mention GPS capability, a life saver for tracking cell phone users who are in emergency situations.

Whether for personal or professional purposes, people just can’t seem to live without cell phone (telefone celular). A luxury item in the early days, now it is a must have item at all times.


