Title: 
Choosing Email Management Software For Bulk Email Sending

Word Count:
630

Summary:
In the modern world of computer technologies bulk or mass email has become one of the more successful ways to promote and sell a company's products and services. Like any marketing strategy, bulk emailing has advantages and downsides.

The main disadvantage of the bulk email strategy is that the email may not reach its target recipient. This can happen because of bulk email blockers setup for email accounts. Blockers direct bulk email into a separate email folder, so the re...


Keywords:
Bulk Email Marketing, bulk email software, email newsletter software


Article Body:
In the modern world of computer technologies bulk or mass email has become one of the more successful ways to promote and sell a company's products and services. Like any marketing strategy, bulk emailing has advantages and downsides.

The main disadvantage of the bulk email strategy is that the email may not reach its target recipient. This can happen because of bulk email blockers setup for email accounts. Blockers direct bulk email into a separate email folder, so the recipient cannot directly access it from his inbox.

At the same time, one of the advantages of bulk emailing is that it makes it possible to communicate directly to the target market. Such communication is done individually, so that the recipient may be addressed personally in the message. Another benefit for companies and organizations using this strategy is that they do not have to spend much on advertising. Promoting services and products by means of bulk email is actually much cheaper than using print, radio, or television advertisements.

How to send bulk email? One of the most commonly used ways is signing up for bulk email services and hosting. Companies that provide those services usually offer a variety of product packages with different specifications. The customer can choose a reputable company and the plan that best suits the needs of his business. You can search the Internet for the companies that offer bulk email services and hosting.

Another way to distribute bulk email is by using computer software. Different kinds of programs designed to cope with this task are available on the Internet.

How to choose the right email management software? Email marketing, with its ever-growing complexity and infrastructure, requires perfectly suited software. The email messages emails are the least responded forms of communication and therefore bulk mailing is needed most of the time. Bulk email marketing is surely one of the most cost-effective strategies on the Internet as the cost of a single email is minimal. There are many types of email marketing software that are designed to send bulk email. Some programs are freeware and do not require any investment at all. Even though these freeware programs don’t have many valuable features included in paid software packages, they generally suit for a small email marketing campaign.

For a successful email marketing campaign, bulk email management software must have some basic features such as email templates, tracking system, and contact list management capabilities. A good software package must handle both plain text and HTML messages. A tracking system is important for measuring an email campaign response rate. Most standard email programs are capable to let you know whether or not the email messages you sent to your mailing list were delivered or read. Another important feature of the email marketing software is the ability to manage mailing lists. A good email marketing program must allow maintain multiple lists in the address book. This is very convenient because you can segment your recipients by their preferences and send more relevant email messages to each list. The Merge capability is also one of the essential features you should look for. The experience shows that impersonal emails get less response rate. Using the Merge feature you can personalize the message for every recipient and thus, build stronger relationship with your email list.

So, before buying an email marketing program, look at the various features it provides, as well as its cost. Another thing that you should take into account is the compatibility of the software with your system configuration. It’s ideal if the company offers a free trial period for software. Many companies allow a 30-day trial period for their software. It’s quite enough to evaluate all the features of the program and decide whether it suits your business needs.


