Title: 
Choosing From The Many Calling Cards On The Market

Word Count:
376

Summary:
Calling cards make life simple for many people today.  In the past, people were limited to using pay phones to make long distance phone calls, or to making collect calls from their own home phone.  Calling cards allow users to put a certain amount of money on a card that enables them to make long distance phone calls whenever they choose.

Calling cards resemble credit cards and may be used to either prepay for your service or you can pay as you go.  With a standard calling...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Calling cards make life simple for many people today.  In the past, people were limited to using pay phones to make long distance phone calls, or to making collect calls from their own home phone.  Calling cards allow users to put a certain amount of money on a card that enables them to make long distance phone calls whenever they choose.

Calling cards resemble credit cards and may be used to either prepay for your service or you can pay as you go.  With a standard calling card, you can use the card and the charges for your phone calls will appear on your monthly bill.  Many people find that this is a great way to make phone calls when away from home.

When choosing a calling card you will need to assess your individual needs before determining which type of card is best for you.  Also, consider how much each call will cost when using a standard calling card as opposed to using a prepaid service.

You may also choose to purchase calling cards that use a Pin or a Pin Free service.  With a pin free service you never need to remember a number to use your card.  When using a pin free service, you will register the phone number that you will make calls from.  As long as your calls are from the registered phone number, you won’t need to enter a pin.  This offers great advantages to those who don’t like to remember pin numbers.

Many calling cards also offer online services.  These offer wonderful benefits for those who would like to access their account information online or verify their call history.  If this is a concern of yours, consider choosing a calling card that offers an online call history feature.  Another feature that you can use with many calling cars is the ability to use speed dial.  By accessing your account online, you can store several numbers in your account.  Then, when you need to make a phone call with your calling card, simply enter in your speed dial number and your call will be connected.  There are many options to choose from when considering calling cards.  Make sure that you choose a card that best fits your needs.


