Title: 
Choosing The Right Digital Camera

Word Count:
429

Summary:
In the market for a new camera, or just looking to replace your old film camera. If so then you might want to look at a digital camera. Unlike film cameras, digital cameras are lighter in weight, offer more features, can store more pictures, and are reasonably priced. However, the search for a new digital camera can be a daunting one, especially for new customers who are unfamiliar with digital cameras and their features. Hence, in this article we will examine some points whe...


Keywords:
camera, digital camera, SLR


Article Body:
In the market for a new camera, or just looking to replace your old film camera. If so then you might want to look at a digital camera. Unlike film cameras, digital cameras are lighter in weight, offer more features, can store more pictures, and are reasonably priced. However, the search for a new digital camera can be a daunting one, especially for new customers who are unfamiliar with digital cameras and their features. Hence, in this article we will examine some points when choosing a digital camera.

Camera Resolution

Generally the resolution of a digital camera should reflect the use of the camera. If you are a general photographer and only looking to putting pictures on your blog, website or in an email then a 1 megepixel camera should be sufficient. If you are going to print your own pictures, such as a family portrait, then you will need a camera of at least 3 megapixel capacity. The higher the number of megapixels, the higher the quality of the printed photos, and the size at which those photos will look good at.

Camera Connection

Older digital camera used to connect to the computer via the serial port, cameras now connect directly to the PC through a USB connection. Unlike the serial port, a USB connection is faster and easier to set up. Most New cameras now come equipped with USB 2 ports capabilities. Like USB, USB 2 will allow users to upload pictures to the computer but at faster transfer speeds.

Storage medium

Most cameras use either a Compact Flash Card or a Memory Stick. These cards are about 1/4 the size of a credit card and can hold up to 4 GB of pictures. If the camera doesn’t come with a built in USB port then you will need to get a card reader. This can be a hassle as you will need to install additional software and hardware when transferring pictures from the camera to the computer.

Camera Battery

Most digital cameras take the standard AA batteries which are usually good for a couple of days. Other come equipped with rechargeable battery packs that have to be recharged overnight. When buying a digital camera, one should also consider buying extra batteries or battery packs. Also most batteries and battery packs are only good for a year before they start loosing their charge capacity.

Warranty

Most digital cameras come with the standard 1 year warranty which should suffice for the average users. If you are worried about your investment or you are a traveler then you may wish to buy an extended warranty.


