Title: 
Common iPhone Complaints

Word Count:
436

Summary:
The hype surrounding the launch of the iPhone has given it great attention. We should not be surprised that the actual product did not live up to publicity for some people. Many people are complaining about how the iPhone did not meet their expectations. Surprisingly, within weeks of the launching Apple has already been bombarded with iPhone complaints and some first class action lawsuits.

With the brand new product, users have reported that there are bugs and deficiencies...


Keywords:
Common iPhone Complaints


Article Body:
The hype surrounding the launch of the iPhone has given it great attention. We should not be surprised that the actual product did not live up to publicity for some people. Many people are complaining about how the iPhone did not meet their expectations. Surprisingly, within weeks of the launching Apple has already been bombarded with iPhone complaints and some first class action lawsuits.

With the brand new product, users have reported that there are bugs and deficiencies in the iPhone. The lack of memory expansion slot to increase the basic memory, the low call and speaker phone volume, slow download speeds on AT&T network, short battery life between charges and problems with text messaging are just a few of the iPhone complaints.

More iPhone complaints are that the browser does not save passwords, or synchronize passwords from the big-screen browser, he Mac RSS can not display aggregated feeds the way Safari can on a Mac, the inboxes in the email are not aggregated as they are in Apple Mail and that the iPhone has no search tools which is useful for finding music or contacts.

Iphone Complaints Regarding Battery

One of the lawsuits involves the iPhone battery. The iPhone battery is sealed in the unit and soldered on the inside of the device so it cannot be changed by the owner. The common iPhone complaints centered on the fact that this was not established before the release. Users wanted to be informed beforehand of this built in battery feature.

Apple had proudly stated that Apple iPhone will be a monumental interface just like the iPod wheel and have distinctly touted its touch screen feature as revolutionary innovation. Most common iPhone complaints are about the touch screen being hampered by the use of gloves because the screen only reacts to human skin.

Some iPhone complaints are about its exclusivity to AT&T. Any individual will incur several thousands worth of call charges for calling local people using other cellular phone networks as well as calling abroad. The exclusive use of iPhone for AT&T is also one of the iPhone complaints since AT&T is said to have less coverage and not as great service compared to other cellular phone companies.

Your perception to the iPhone may have been biased due to the media hype that its release has generated. The growing number of iPhone complaints might just turn some people of from buying it. Although, many of the iPhone complaints have been dealt by Apple accordingly, the idea that such and innovative device could have so many errors is daunting. http://www.the-iphone.biz


