Title: 
Comparing PDF Documents With Compare PDF

Word Count:
511

Summary:
To learn about the changes made in file whether the changes are correct, you will need to compare files word-by-word. The need for a tool that could perform this task with ease arose when documents with multiple versions existed and when there was a need for identifying the differences in similar files little differences. Also, ability to compare files was developed for files that had a common antecedent. It is useful in a case you have two versions of the same document. This...


Keywords:
Compare PDFs,compare Adobe Acrobat files,compare files


Article Body:
To learn about the changes made in file whether the changes are correct, you will need to compare files word-by-word. The need for a tool that could perform this task with ease arose when documents with multiple versions existed and when there was a need for identifying the differences in similar files little differences. Also, ability to compare files was developed for files that had a common antecedent. It is useful in a case you have two versions of the same document. This utility came to the market in the form of Compare PDF 2.0 that allowed comparison by keywords that helped people to compare unrelated documents. Differences could not be pointed out without using such a tool. Comparison by keywords is helpful in case you want to learn what changes were made in the common context of the document. For example you can learn what the key difference between documents was or what the focus of both compared files was. You can have two unrelated documents which can be quickly viewed and analyzed by keywords.

Compare PDF aims at helping you find out whether documents are similar and spot the differences between the two. By identifying the mostly used keywords in both files you can learn about the topic and focus of the documents. Compare PDF can be used for several types of comparisons such as by characters, words and keywords. You can also perform folder comparison by using the folder comparison function. By using this function attempts to find differences for all files stored in compared folders. Compare PDF inspects folders and subfolders for files with same names and compares them and can display results by creating a report. Compare PDF also presents functions for many types of comparative analysis like finding changes, checking for reflected changes, and identifying the document's focus.

The Compare PDF tool can be used to compare software file character by character to find changes in the word and highlights changed characters by software engineers or web masters. The added, deleted and modified characters are color coded for easy identification. It can also be used to find common idea of two texts, when need to find the focus of each document, key word by keyword by Legal, health care, education, finance professionals. Unique and common keywords are color coded for easy identification. It can also be used by professionals for comparing two files word by word when documents have a common ancestor. Added, deleted and modified words are color coded.

Compare PDF supports all these types of comparisons. You can compare files by characters, words, and keywords. After running Compare PDF select the required comparison type in drop down menu. You can also automate compare and integrate Compare PDF with other software products by using the command line. A comparative report makes comparison of two files effective. You can easily draw comparison details to a structured report. Report enables you to easily communicate with your colleagues and share knowledge. PDF Compare tool is a handy tool to get rid of any possible problems with PDF documents.


