Title: 
Computer Security Certification

Word Count:
403

Summary:
If there has ever been a growth field, it is computer security certification. With a good computer security certificate from a reputable college, you can go anywhere. Even if you go to one of those IT training schools the you see advertised on daytime television, your certification computer security will probably open doors for you. There are all kinds of jobs for computer security experts, from Homeland security to private industry. You can help prevent data theft, write com...


Keywords:
buisness oppurtunities,dmain names,bussiness oppertunities,computer security certification,id theft,


Article Body:
If there has ever been a growth field, it is computer security certification. With a good computer security certificate from a reputable college, you can go anywhere. Even if you go to one of those IT training schools the you see advertised on daytime television, your certification computer security will probably open doors for you. There are all kinds of jobs for computer security experts, from Homeland security to private industry. You can help prevent data theft, write computer security software, or investigate hackers for law enforcement. For a security certified network professional, the sky is the limit.

I had never expected to get into computer security certification when I was growing up. If anything, I was on the other side of the law. Many of the experts in computer security certification were hackers when they were kids. I used to try to break into all kinds of things just to see if I could do it. It wasn't a matter of malicious intent. I just wanted to test the boundaries and see what holes computer security systems had in them. To me, it was more of a game or an intellectual exercise than an act of vandalism. Unfortunately, law enforcement did not see it that way. I was caught when I was 16 years old, breaking into the offices of a major multinational corporation. Because of my age I got off with probation, but I realized that I had to turn my life around.

I got my computer security certification training after a few years of soul-searching. To be honest, I was tempted to give up computer hacking altogether, but finally I realized that this was not the course for me. I was just too fascinated by computer networking and the security issues that it involved. I knew that, if I did not go into computer security, it was only a matter of time before I would get into trouble again. Temptation would overwhelm me, and I would suddenly found myself hacking into something or other. Although a I could get away with it for years this time (I had learned from my mistakes) is still didn't seem to be worth the risk. In the long run, I would get caught. That is why I got my computer security certification. As a certified information security auditor, I can make my hobby into my life and stay on the right side of the law.


