Title: 
Converting DVDs And Videos To iPhone Format

Word Count:
347

Summary:
Would you like to play your favorite videos and DVDs on your new iPhone? Keep reading this article to discover which tools will help you convert your videos for the iPhone format and where you can try them for free today.

The hug popularity of Apple's iPhone is largely due to it's excellent video playing capabilities. It allows you to share fun videos with friends and family and watch them while you're on the move.

So how do you go about converting your favorite videos ...


Keywords:
shareware, software, iPhone, ipod, dvd , video, video software, dvd converter


Article Body:
Would you like to play your favorite videos and DVDs on your new iPhone? Keep reading this article to discover which tools will help you convert your videos for the iPhone format and where you can try them for free today.

The hug popularity of Apple's iPhone is largely due to it's excellent video playing capabilities. It allows you to share fun videos with friends and family and watch them while you're on the move.

So how do you go about converting your favorite videos into a format which can be viewed on an iPhone? You just need to find the right video to iPhone software tools.

Fortunately some third party software developers were very quick to provide a number of shareware tools which allow you to convert your videos quickly and

easily.

You can convert almost any video format from your hard drive or DVDs including AVI, WMV, MOV and MPEG.

You can then convert to iPhone MP4 M4V (MPEG-4), DVD to iPhone MP3, and also convert to M4A audio formats.

With the right video to iPhone converter tools you can burn videos to iPhone format with your desired resolution, frame rates, video bit rates and sample rates. Usually the default settings will produce good quality results, but it always helps to experiment with the different software settings.

Some of the best providers of video to iPhone converter tools include Cucsoft who have released the excellent Ultimate Video Converter, PQ's complete DVD to iPhone Video Suite, Amerisoft who provide the Aimersoft DVD to iPhone Converter and Wondershare who offer their iPhone Video Converter.

These popular video converters can be downloaded for free as trial versions so you can practise converting your DVDs and videos straight away. Once you've chosen a favorite software you only need to pay between $25 and $35 to own the full version.. The small fee allows you to convert your entire collection of video files and DVDs for months or years to come.

Don't delay converting your videos and DVDs to iPhone format so you can share them with family and friends.


