Title: 
Cool Flash Drives: What's New

Word Count:
507

Summary:
Lately, more than ever flash drives are serving more than one purpose. Now you can find a flash drive that has a built in mp3 player, a knife, even flash drives that are bullet proof and water proof. This opens up the field for nearly anyone who needs some form of data storage or additional entertainment throughout the course of the day. Even if a particular flash drive does not contain an mp3 player, you can still store music on the device for listening on any computer. Addi...


Keywords:
cool flash drives, cheap flash drives, personalized flash drives, customized flash drives


Article Body:
Lately, more than ever flash drives are serving more than one purpose. Now you can find a flash drive that has a built in mp3 player, a knife, even flash drives that are bullet proof and water proof. This opens up the field for nearly anyone who needs some form of data storage or additional entertainment throughout the course of the day. Even if a particular flash drive does not contain an mp3 player, you can still store music on the device for listening on any computer. Additionally, more and more car audio systems have usb ports for the addition of mp3 formatted music. For those who are in the market for their first are even a replacement cool flash drive, here are just a few types of what is available.

ToughDrives

These particular flash drives are great for rough conditions. The chips used inside these flash drives are usually military grade meaning that they can handle extreme temperatures and vibration. Additionally, most of these flash drives have some form of water resistance. A ToughDrive is not only great for field personnel, but also users with children who are prone to causing destruction. Ask any parent and you are most likely going to hear at least one story of how their child destroyed some electronic device.

Biometrics

Some people need extra security when it comes to storing their information. Maybe you have a few pictures that you do not want anyone to see or just some important business files. Whatever the case may be, a good biometrics flash drive is most likely the best answer. A biometrics flash drive not only stores your information, but also contains a thumb or fingerprint scanner built into the device. Additionally, you can use this type of flash drive to secure other files and programs on your computer.

Credit Card Flash Drives

If you are part of the workaholic crowd, then odds are that your wallet or purse is equivalent to a filing cabinet. Face it, there is not very much room left in that wallet or purse for much more and in some cases simply storing a toothpick could be the end of your trusted filing cabinet. Credit card flash drives are pretty much exactly what they sound like. Picture a credit card sized piece of plastic that has one corner of it shaped perfectly for a usb port. That’s it. Not only are these flash drives convenient in size, but they also have plenty of storage. Storage can vary by model, but most credit card flash drives will hold 1 Gigabyte of data.

For those who need some extra data storage, but also like to listen to their music on their way, an mp3 player flash drive is the answer. These cool flash drives are not only capable of holding regular data, but they also will play mp3 formatted data as well. These are a great gift for any college student, since they contain not only a form of entertainment, but also the means to store assignments, reports, ect.


