Title: 
Creating An Index For Your PDF Files

Word Count:
552

Summary:
PDF or the Portable Document Format is widely used in the present time next to the Microsoft Document. Various presentations, electronic books and all sorts of files are now converted to PDF because of its viewing convenience. In addition, PDF is easy to manipulate by enlarging or minimizing the size of the page to better view illustrations and text. With these kinds of user-friendly functions, you can possibly get tons of PDF files in your computer regardless of the informat...


Keywords:
index PDF,PDF searching,search pdf


Article Body:
PDF or the Portable Document Format is widely used in the present time next to the Microsoft Document. Various presentations, electronic books and all sorts of files are now converted to PDF because of its viewing convenience. In addition, PDF is easy to manipulate by enlarging or minimizing the size of the page to better view illustrations and text. With these kinds of user-friendly functions, you can possibly get tons of PDF files in your computer regardless of the information contained in them.

Searching for the certain file is somewhat a little troublesome if you have hundreds of them in your hard disk. If you are in a rush to look for a file, maybe for your presentation or a file for your lesson, you will find yourself cramming by checking each of the files in your hard disk.

It is probably because you could not remember the file name itself. This is now the advantage of creating an index for all of your files to a faster search without even memorizing the whole file name or the text of the file. It is like you're looking at the back of your textbook in the index page. But the best thing about indexing is that the search result can also show you a small peek on what the file actually contains.

Just how can you create an index for your PDF files? What are the things considered for a better index or archive? Well, various applications offer this kind of functionality. One best thing about indexing is that you can have the dynamic re-indexing function. It means that the application will be the one to update the stored information if there are changes made in the files.

To begin with, you can choose an option for creating an index. You can choose a short index, which only contains the keywords from the text of your files or the full index, which contains the full text of the file. Next, is also to decide on the index type where you want the path of the file to be at. It is possible to make a full path of the file so you can save in anywhere, or if you desire to make relative path information by creating a searchable CD.

After setting all this, choose where you wanted your index to be saved every time you create an index. Of course, towards the end of the process, specify which folders in your computer you would want to index and select the files you want to index. These files can include .txt, .pdf, .xls, .doc, .htm, and .html. Then after that, you are now ready to index! The application will now do the rest for you just like how you have set up the settings of your index format.

Creating and index is not that too complicated because most applications that provide this kind of function are user-friendly. Therefore, you would not spend endless time in trying to recall the file names and content of the things you want to search in your hard disk. Most especially if you have a several gigabytes in your hard disk. That is sure a head-breaking task if you are a busy person. Create an archive for your index and ensure the fast locating of your PDF files.


