Title: 
Crystal Repair

Word Count:
307

Summary:
From chandeliers, to figurines, to household accents, to plates, to wine glasses, to office items, trophies, and favors, crystals have long been a way of life and are represented many households.The demand for crystals and their use is widespread because they not only add elegance to one's lifestyle but are available in abundant varieties.

However, these fine pieces are also exceptionally delicate and fragile items. One slip and the dollars spent for it can be lost. Howeve...


Keywords:



Article Body:
From chandeliers, to figurines, to household accents, to plates, to wine glasses, to office items, trophies, and favors, crystals have long been a way of life and are represented many households.The demand for crystals and their use is widespread because they not only add elegance to one's lifestyle but are available in abundant varieties.

However, these fine pieces are also exceptionally delicate and fragile items. One slip and the dollars spent for it can be lost. However, it is often possible to repair crystal pieces and return it to it's original appeal and resplendency.

Many crystal repair companies exist these days. One such company is Crystal Restoration.

Owner, Terry Merritt, is among a handful of people in the US who are experts in the art of restoring chipped or broken crystal. Today, after over twenty years, Terry Merritt’s business of giving new life to fine crystal that has been broken or damaged is considered one of the best in the country. He uses a resurfacing process which involves grinding away chips, rebeveling the rim and shining with a diamond compound. If the chip is less than ¼ inch deep, then the piece can be restored to full value.

Crystal pieces that are broken can be bonded together using an ultraviolet acrylic bonding agent. However, broken crystals cannot be restored to full value but can be repaired for use.

Murano Glass Repair is another crystal repair company that repairs chipped glass and crystal cups, goblets, bowls, and pitchers. They have been engraving and repairing china, crystal, chandeliers, and Venetian mirrors since they came to the US thirty five years ago. Nason, the expert of the crystal repair business says much can be done to recoup glass or crystal items. He has succesfully made cracks disappear and re-created missing pieces with colors and finishes that mimics the original.


