Title: 
Cs2 Photoshop Tutorial

Word Count:
561

Summary:
Photos of animals having body parts belonging to other creatures have been doing their rounds lately.  Imagine a duck with the feet of a monkey or a monkey with the head of a dinosaur?  These are not drawing but these are real photographs tinkered by graphic designers using photoshop effects.

Photos of people can also be made to look different depending on the requirement of the client.  A woman who has acne while her photograph was taken can have her acne removed and her ...


Keywords:
photo shop tutorial,adobe photo shop tutorial,free photo shop tutorial


Article Body:
Photos of animals having body parts belonging to other creatures have been doing their rounds lately.  Imagine a duck with the feet of a monkey or a monkey with the head of a dinosaur?  These are not drawing but these are real photographs tinkered by graphic designers using photoshop effects.

Photos of people can also be made to look different depending on the requirement of the client.  A woman who has acne while her photograph was taken can have her acne removed and her face flawless thanks design special effects.

Or how about a person not present in a photo session suddenly taking his place anywhere within the group?  How about a building that suddenly appears out of nowhere in the photograph?  These are just some of the special effects that can be created by a designer using photoshop.

A person who is interested in these things can have his chance too by learning CS2 photoshop tutorials.  Some people interested in design and photo manipulation enroll in graphic design and computer aided design classes.  However, design classes can be tiring considering the time and effort needed to go to class.  It is good if the class is being conducted on a one on one basis.  But what if it is a class of ten or more students?

Getting into these classes will not teach a person the secretts of CS2 photoshop the soonest possible time.  A lot of the students will require the time and attention of the trainer that not everyone can learn anything if he just listens to the lecture all the time.  Most often a person gets tired of reading the tutorial he gives up on it even before he has started.

A person interested in learning photoshop will have more chance learning design and photo manipulation by downloading a CS2 photoshop tutorial from any of the online sites offering free software downloads.  He has to start with basic photoshop but there are tutorials that are so easy to grasp he can already create special effects even after one session.

Downloading a photoshop tutorial can take a few minutes and then a person can already start with his design lessons.  One can choose a favorite scanned photograph to experiment on.  Photoshop tutorials offer a step by step guide in creating different effects and one can have a good time looking at his handiwork.
 
Photoshop is easy to manipulate and getting a downloadable video tutorial will show anybody that it is as easy as choosing a specific tool and then applying the desired effect.  A person can choose from various tools in photoshop.  He can make new photographs look old, old photographs new and even create black and white photos out of colored photographs.

Learning the various photoshop effects will not only give a person the satisfaction of knowing he has been successful in learning a new skill.  With a lot of practice and artistry a person can establish a business using photoshop effects as his product.

People are never content with how they look and they somehow want to recreate themselves.  Cash in on this and create photos with special effects through photoshop.  A person may start with zero knowledge in design but with a good tutorial he will be able to produce photographs that may be worth hundreds if not thousands of dollar to the right person.


