Title: 
Cut Costs By Choosing The Best VoIP Service Provider

Word Count:
304

Summary:
This article aims to guide you in choosing the best VOIP service provider for your needs.

The latest in communications technology, VOIP (Voice Over Internet Protocol), uses the internet instead of the traditional telephone for voice communications. Businesses that use this technology are seeing an increase in productivity and lower costs through the improvement in communications that this technology affords them. The bottom line is an increase in profits.

Residential us...


Keywords:
VOIP Service Provider, VOIP Service, VOIP Provider


Article Body:
This article aims to guide you in choosing the best VOIP service provider for your needs.

The latest in communications technology, VOIP (Voice Over Internet Protocol), uses the internet instead of the traditional telephone for voice communications. Businesses that use this technology are seeing an increase in productivity and lower costs through the improvement in communications that this technology affords them. The bottom line is an increase in profits.

Residential users are finding that they can cut their phone bills both nationally and internationally by using their existing internet connection and taking advantage of offers by VOIP service providers of free software downloads, which enable connection to their network, and then they can talk to their friends and family with similarly enabled computers for free.

Levels of Service You need to decide if you want:

* Residential VOIP - LINK
* A VOIP Business Phone System - LINK
* Business to Business VOIP Service

Available Services A VOIP service provider will provide your business with includes any or all of the following services:

* Wired Service
* Wireless Service called a mobility service
* Multimedia
* Voice Application
* Messaging

Of utmost importance is finding a VOIP service provider that will provide you with an excellent service, combining reliability, high quality equipment and connection, good customer service, multiple user features e.g. caller-ID, voice mail and 3-way calling, and reduced cost phone bills.

You should also be aware that your VOIP service provider has to adhere to certain regulations both national and international and conform to customer protection laws.

VOIP service providers are keen to get your business and some of the major players such as Earthlink and Skype are offering free VOIP services, allowing users to talk to their friends and family using the internet at no cost, plus other benefits so it is worth shopping around and getting the best value deal.


