Title: 
Dab Digital Radio:  The Analog Alternative

Word Count:
415

Summary:
DAB, or digital audio broadcasting, brought to the radio industry what the digital technology of cellular phones brought to the telecommunications industry--an alternative to analog technology.   Using the Eureka 147 format,  broadcast companies in Europe and the UK made the shift form analog broadcasting to DAB digital radio broadcasting; the Eureka format became globally standardized everywhere except in the United States.

The United States chose instead to have its DAB ...


Keywords:
Digital Radion Online, DAB Digital Radio, Digital Radio Recorder


Article Body:
DAB, or digital audio broadcasting, brought to the radio industry what the digital technology of cellular phones brought to the telecommunications industry--an alternative to analog technology.   Using the Eureka 147 format,  broadcast companies in Europe and the UK made the shift form analog broadcasting to DAB digital radio broadcasting; the Eureka format became globally standardized everywhere except in the United States.

The United States chose instead to have its DAB digital radio broadcasting formatted in hybrid-digital radio, which make it the only country to have done so, and more or less stopped the adoption of DAB digital radio technology altogether.  In the United States, satellite radio has received all the broadcasters’ and broadcasting equipment manufacturer’s attention.  Why?

Because satellite radio requires listeners to purchase expensive receivers, and in addition, to shell out the cost of subscribing each month.  Radio listeners in other countries must simply raise their eyebrows at the prospect; they receive Eureka 147 and digital radio at no cost.

DAB Digital Radio Features

When the UK decided to make a massive commitment to DAB digital radio in 2001, all of the BBC’s public radio stations, and more than fifty private ones switched their operating systems from analog to the analog and digital hybrid.  The radio receivers used to pick up HD audio broadcasts have the capacity to display information relevant to the audio content of the broadcast.

DAB digital radio transmits radio text to the listener, providing tidbits lie the name of particular musical artist when his or her song is being aired, or the plot summary of a radio drama for which the listener may have tuned in a bit late.  It will identify the participants in a talk program, or give up to the minute scores for sporting events. For more info see http://www.digitalradio-review.com/Articles/Digital_Radio_Recorder.php on Digital Radio Recorder.

A DAB digital radio receiver eliminates the need for fine tuning the reception on your favorite station as you move through its broadcast area.  All you need to do is scroll through the list of stations available and then hit a button to select the one of your choice, for crystal clear reception.

iBiquity Digital

In the United States, iBiquity Digital has been approved by the FCC as the only supplier of hybrid digital analog technology, which it claims enormously increase the amount of broadcast channels, improve the sound quality so that AM sounds like the FM of the past, and FM achieves CD quality.


