Title: 
Dangerous Cell Phone Usage

Word Count:
432

Summary:
Cell phones are handy little devices that people everywhere have come to rely on. They are easy to use, small, making it easy to stash them anywhere, as well as convenient. What most people don’t realize, though, is the potential danger associated with using a cell phone. This can happen in many ways.

The first way that a cell phone can be dangerous is at a gas station. Although most people have never paid much attention, most gas stations post warning signs near the pumps...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Cell phones are handy little devices that people everywhere have come to rely on. They are easy to use, small, making it easy to stash them anywhere, as well as convenient. What most people don’t realize, though, is the potential danger associated with using a cell phone. This can happen in many ways.

The first way that a cell phone can be dangerous is at a gas station. Although most people have never paid much attention, most gas stations post warning signs near the pumps, warning customers of cell phone usage while pumping gas. The gas station owners are afraid of an electrical spark from the mobile phone somehow causing an explosion. Even though the ability of cell phones causing gas station fires is unsubstantiated, some areas are strict about enforcing the rule of not using a cell phone while pumping gas. Some states will even issue a fine to anyone caught using a wireless phone at a gas pump.

One very serious danger of using a cell phone is while driving. There are several ways that driving while having a cell phone conversation can be dangerous. First, a person may not properly pay attention to the road as they are dialing a phone number. This could result in a car accident. Also, a person could be so engrossed in a conversation that the same result could occur. It’s doesn’t matter if the conversation is negative or positive, it could still cause an accident. A person could be arguing with someone, causing them to be upset and suffer from impaired judgment. They may miscalculate the time that they have to make a certain turn, or make a similar mistake that they wouldn’t have made had they not been involved in a cell phone conversation. Even if the driver is having a pleasant conversation, it is still possible for them to become so engrossed in the good news or whatever it may be, that they may a serious mistake that causes a car accident. Car accidents are usually very serious, too. People can get seriously injured or even killed. And if the police find out that the person causing the accident was using a cell phone as they drove, that person could be charged with vehicular manslaughter.

Who wants to risk going to jail, just to use a cell phone while they drive? No one does. This is why people need to practice more responsible habits while using mobile phones. Sure, wireless phones are convenient and important, but using them in the wrong situation can have some tragic consequences.


