Title: 
Data Protection Software:  When You Can’t Afford The Loss

Word Count:
475

Summary:
Have you ever gone thought all the files you have stored on you computer and repeatedly thought, “I’d better back that up”?  What you want to backup might not even be important to anyone else; you may have learned not to keep your bank account, stock portfolio, and credit card account passwords stored on your computer.  

But how about those family photos or the love poem you’re writing for someone special?  Would you be as comfortable having a stranger’s eyes looking at al...


Keywords:
hard drive, external hard drive, free recovery tools


Article Body:
Have you ever gone thought all the files you have stored on you computer and repeatedly thought, “I’d better back that up”?  What you want to backup might not even be important to anyone else; you may have learned not to keep your bank account, stock portfolio, and credit card account passwords stored on your computer.  

But how about those family photos or the love poem you’re writing for someone special?  Would you be as comfortable having a stranger’s eyes looking at all you files as you are yourself?

PCs are amazing machines, and give us the opportunity to record our lives in far more detail than at any time in history.  But we have become so comfortable with them that we often forget they are vulnerable to intrusion, until the intrusion occurs.  Data protection software can fill the breaches in our PCs’ security. 
 
Types Of Data Protection Software

If you want to make sure your computer is snoop-proof, data protection software which lets you secure your folders and files with passwords is essential.  Password data protection software will keep your folders locked even if your hard drive is connected t is connected to another computer.

If you want to keep data protections software to guard your files and folders--n fact your entire operating system--safe from viruses, Trojans, and key loggers, you need a firewall.   A firewall will examine the packets of data trying to reach your computer and if that data does not make it through the firewall’s filters, which are updated regularly to guard against threats, it doesn’t get to your hard drive. Those trying to probe your computer are also blocked.

Protecting Your Data From Your Own Mistakes

Data protection software can also save us from our own carelessness, which can lead to deleting files by mistake.  This kind of data protection software is called file recovery software, and can be a lifesaver.  Even the most vigilant PC users can accidentally delete crucial files by saving other files over them, and data protection software which can perform file recovery has saved businesses billions of dollars each year. 

The most sophisticated form of data protection is encryption software. Data protection encryption software secures you data I its most basic bit or byte form--making it virtually impossible for someone else to access even if they steal your hard drive.  The latest operating systems, like Windrows Vista, have built-in encryption, but you can download data protection encryption software for earlier systems from online vendors. For more info see http://www.pcdatarecoveryhelp.com on hard drive.

It’s not just data; it’s a big part of your life’s effort and it deserves to be kept safe.  Data protection software will give you the peace of mind which comes from knowing that your information remains yours alone.


