Title: 
Data Fiber Optics – Light Speed Transmission

Word Count:
485

Summary:
Why settle for slow speed, high electricity costs and a technology invented a hundreds years ago if you can have the latest in data transmission at less the cost and many times the speed?

With the use of glass or plastic threads to transmit data the fiber optics is an upcoming technology. A bundle of glass threads capable of transmitting messages that are transformed into light waves is what makes the data fiber optics. Sharing a variety of technical details in the flowing...


Keywords:
fiber,optics,internet,speed,technology


Article Body:
Why settle for slow speed, high electricity costs and a technology invented a hundreds years ago if you can have the latest in data transmission at less the cost and many times the speed?

With the use of glass or plastic threads to transmit data the fiber optics is an upcoming technology. A bundle of glass threads capable of transmitting messages that are transformed into light waves is what makes the data fiber optics. Sharing a variety of technical details in the flowing article, I hope to make you have a better understanding of the subject of fiber optics. The functions will be demonstrated by explaining how the technology uses light energy to provide information and data to a variety of sources.

Engineering Science
Part of applied science consists of data fiber optics and the engineering behind it is comprised of the science and technology of transmitting data or energy. The basic fundamentals of fiber optics are defined through scientific processes and mathematical equations that fall closely under the realm of physics where you will find that the actual flow of the data can easily be put into observable and replicable systems. So even though most people do not understand “light” is can be show to them though scientific methods.

Data fiber optics or optic fibers are often used in the field of imaging optics, sensors, telecommunications, and lighting in general. This is mainly due to the data transmission speed and the fact that it doesn’t require electrical impulses to move the data. It is causing the need for electrical power in terms of data transmission to become nearly obsolete because the light transmits energy faster and cleaner than any other know technology.

Telecommunications and Data Fiber Optics
For you to fully understand the implications on technology by using fiber optics, we need to understand how it works in terms of telecommunications. By conducting signals over distance for communication purposes telecommunications was born. Telecommunications are widespread and there are many devices that assist in the spread of this communication, such as the radio, the fax machine and the television. One of the heavy factors in these mediums is the Data fiber optics technology.

A telecommunications system’s basic fundamentals are the transmitter, the receiver and the transmission medium. A transmitter is an electronic device that sends an electromagnetic signal with the aid of an antenna, essentially taking information and converting it to a signal for transmission which passes it on to the transmission medium. A receiver is, of course, the receiving end of the communication channel. The transmission medium is the material or device over which the signal is transmitted. 

By serving as an effective transmitter of information the data fiber optics plays in the telecommunications process. Using light energy sent through glass has changed the way the world communicates and has revolutionized the process of telecommunications from this day and into the future.


