Title: 
Deciding If You Are Ready For A Home Theater System

Word Count:
529

Summary:
Do you think you are ready to purchase a home theater system?  Have you done research to determine which television is best for your room or which sound system is best for the layout and decor or your home theater?  If you have not, then you are not ready to purchase your home theater yet.

Spend some time in the rooms of your house that you are considering for your home theater.  If you are building a new room for the home theater, make sure you know a lot about the room b...


Keywords:
home theater speaker


Article Body:
Do you think you are ready to purchase a home theater system?  Have you done research to determine which television is best for your room or which sound system is best for the layout and decor or your home theater?  If you have not, then you are not ready to purchase your home theater yet.

Spend some time in the rooms of your house that you are considering for your home theater.  If you are building a new room for the home theater, make sure you know a lot about the room before making any purchases.  Ask yourself if this room is going to be used solely for the home theater or if it is going to be a multi-purpose room that will be used for many other things as well.  Take measurements of the room and heed the warnings of other home theater owners and gurus regarding size constraints on televisions as well as furnishings.  You don't want to sit three feet away from a 54 inch television, and you don't want to sit 22 feet away from a 13 inch television.

Keep measurements in mind for sound quality as well as picture.  You want to make sure that before you make any purchases, you know how many items you will be connecting and how many feet of speaker wire and connecting cables you will need.  It is important to keep screen reflection to a minimum in your new home theater, and this can be done with optimal placement of all furnishings in the theater.  Also keep in mind that sound quality is greatly lessened when it bounces off of bare walls and windows, so include some draperies and accents to help absorb sound.

Before the initial purchase, decide what the main focus of your new home theater will be. For most people it will be the television watching, but for some it will be listening to music.  Determining what aspect is most important will help you to determine where you want to spend the bulk of your money.

Play around online with the retail stores and on forums and chat rooms as well as blogs to find out what people are saying about the components that interest you.  Go to the local electronics store and spend some time looking around and asking lots of questions.  Ask friends and family who have had experience with home theaters to give you their honest opinion and what they have learned from their home theater.  Do all of these things before you buy any single piece of equipment.

Revisit any lists or notes that you have made prior to making any purchases.  Make sure that you have not missed some vital point that someone made regarding the system that interests you.  If you are able, spend lots of time in a friend or family member's home theater and determine what you like and dislike about theirs and what you would change in your own.

It all boils down to research.  Before you make this major purchase and change to your home, do the research.  By 
checking things out thoroughly before you buy them, you will save yourself a major headache in the long run.


