Title: 
Digital Perfect Photography At Your Fingertips

Word Count:
400

Summary:
There was a time photographers had to shoot then develop the shots to find out if the right image was captured. Some photographers refer to this as the trial and error of this art form.

Many photographers have now shifted from the old camera to the model capturing a picture digitally. This will surely give the user more time to focus in taking the shots since images that are not at par with the standards of the artist can be deleted off the camera’s memory.

Since the fu...


Keywords:
digital photography


Article Body:
There was a time photographers had to shoot then develop the shots to find out if the right image was captured. Some photographers refer to this as the trial and error of this art form.

Many photographers have now shifted from the old camera to the model capturing a picture digitally. This will surely give the user more time to focus in taking the shots since images that are not at par with the standards of the artist can be deleted off the camera’s memory.

Since the functions of the digital camera are a bit different, it is advisable to spend time getting acquainted with this new toy. The owner should then shoot a few practice shots to be able to get a hang of things.

If the person uses the camera a lot and may not have time to download the images to a computer, it will be good to invest in memory cards or those that have more space. This will surely keep the individual busy for choosing such a profession.

Individuals who use a digital camera no longer have to look at the lens to be able to get the perfect shot. This is because most models have LCD screen which will tell the person almost immediately if another shot needs to be taken.

Here are some tips that will aid the person in getting a perfect shot using digital photography.

1. Traditionally, people love to take a shot involving the full body into the background. Those that do this will realize that the image of those in the picture are too small so it is advisable to take an upper body shot or from the shoulders up.

2. If this is too difficult for the user, another way to get the shot will be to put the people on the picture on the side rather than the center. The owner should just zoom in properly in order to get both properly.

3. Lighting still plays a factor whether using the old or the digital camera. This is because an image with the sun behind the subject will turn out to be a silhouette while the same effect with the light in front will make the person squint unless there are sunglasses on.

The techniques in getting the right shot have not changed. Digital perfect photography has merely improved it by making this art form easily done by anyone.


