Title: 
Digital Video Surveillance Systems: They Watch

Word Count:
558

Summary:
Have you ever felt watched? No, don't dismiss that feeling as paranoia. Maybe you are being watched. In light of recent tragedies - terrorist attacks, illegal activities, and the onslaught of crime, petty or otherwise, people from both the public and private sector have been obsessively setting up digital video surveillance systems everywhere possible. These days, it's almost impossible to enter a building or even stand on the sidewalk of a busy street without being under sur...


Keywords:
digital video surveillance system, digital video surveillance systems


Article Body:
Have you ever felt watched? No, don't dismiss that feeling as paranoia. Maybe you are being watched. In light of recent tragedies - terrorist attacks, illegal activities, and the onslaught of crime, petty or otherwise, people from both the public and private sector have been obsessively setting up digital video surveillance systems everywhere possible. These days, it's almost impossible to enter a building or even stand on the sidewalk of a busy street without being under surveillance. 

Video Surveillance with Hot Fudge, Please
Digital video surveillance systems are designed as a security measure to apprehend criminals, and maybe even act as a deterrent to crime. There are several digital video surveillance systems available nowadays and choosing the right one can be like a trip to Baskin and Robbins - you simply don't know which flavor to pick. Digital video surveillance systems also come with hefty price tags, so before you waste time shopping for a system, make sure you can actually afford it.

The most common digital video surveillance system is the lowly webcam. You're probably thinking that it doesn't make a very good surveillance system and you're right. It doesn't. If you've seen the movie American Pie, however, you know it can be done. It does not stop there, though. Digital video surveillance systems can be a complex labyrinth of wires, cameras, and monitors, so whatever you do, don't attempt to set it up yourself. Contact a reputable company that specializes in digital video surveillance systems. Otherwise, you'll do no better than Jim and his pie.

A Star with CCTV Systems
You've probably heard of CCTV systems, or closed circuit television systems. This is just an example of a digital video surveillance system and is probably the most popular, too. In the days of yore, CCTV systems were grainy and in black and white, and have brought about many a case of mistaken identity. Recent developments, however, have since improved the quality of CCTV systems, and all digital video surveillance systems for that matter. You can now be watched in full color on high-tech LCD monitors while you rob a bank or steal your neighbor's underpants. 

Video and Voyeurism
Virtually unheard of just 15 years ago, night vision security cameras are now the talk of the town. Don't let the name fool you. This type of digital video surveillance system is no night owl. It works as well in daylight as it does at night. For the voyeur who is looking for material for a reality television show, DVR, or digital video recorder, surveillance is just the thing for your viewing pleasure. With DVR surveillance, you can save your footage and watch it as you please. It's almost like recording your favorite television show on the VCR. If you or a family member is clumsy, you can minimize wiring-induced accidents by investing on a wireless home security system. You're not only safe from crime; you get to keep all your limbs.  

So before you surreptitiously scratch an itch on your privates or floss your teeth with your hair, you might want to think twice and wait until you're in the safety of a rest room. Come to think about it, rest rooms might not be safe anymore so you might want to wait before you get to your own house. If you're lucky, nobody has set up surveillance there yet.


