Title: 
Digital Camera Photos:  From Point And Click To Pointillism

Word Count:
615

Summary:
First the digital camera was the next big thing in photography. Now thousands of ten year olds are walking around with digital cameras on their cell phones, emailing themselves pictorial records of their lives.

The digital camera has removed  most of  the science and a lot of the artistry from the art of photography, because anyone who knows how to scroll down the camera menu and correct its settings for the lighting can point, press, and review the resulting digital camer...


Keywords:
Digital Video Camera Rental, Smallest Digital Camera, Waterproof Digital Camera


Article Body:
First the digital camera was the next big thing in photography. Now thousands of ten year olds are walking around with digital cameras on their cell phones, emailing themselves pictorial records of their lives.

The digital camera has removed  most of  the science and a lot of the artistry from the art of photography, because anyone who knows how to scroll down the camera menu and correct its settings for the lighting can point, press, and review the resulting digital camera photos in a matter of seconds. Not a roll of film, light meter or darkroom in sight, and many botched digital camera photos can simply be erased and re-shot.

While the convenience and user friendliness of digital cameras has opened the doors to millions of new photographers, those who have been fans of digital camera photos from their beginning have expanded their horizons to include putting the artistry back into the art.  What the amazing FX people of the Hollywood motion picture industry can create on the silver screen has its counterpart on the computer screen for those who are willing to learn how to use software to alter their digital camera photos.

While you can purchase the software to rework your digital camera photos, you can also download many very sophisticated software programs from the Internet at no charge.  Whatever software you choose, however, should clearly state that it is compatible with both your digital camera and you personal computer.

How To Use Your Digital Camera Photo Editing Software

Once you‘ve installed your software, select one of your digital camera photos which is the same as it was when you transferred it from your camera to your PC.  Save it under a new name.  By doing this you’ll still have the original photo as you downloaded it, and the copy which you are going to be altering.  If you don’t like the way the copy turns out, you can always delete it and start again from scratch with the original.  Always give your reworked digital camera photos new names before you save them.

Put the copy of your photo into the digital camera photos editing software, and read the software help if you like.  Otherwise you can just begin experimenting.  If you don’t like an effect, you don’t have to save it.  The digital camera photos editing software will give you the ability to make of your digital camera photos fantastical creations to satisfy your every creative urge.

Digital Camera FX

Are you a nostalgic sort?  Try exchanging the colors of your digital camera photos for the sepia tones of yesteryear.  Or go for the striking and stark black and white landscapes of Ansel Adams.  Transform the clear pixilated surface of your digital camera photos into newsprint graininess. Or the Impressionist paint strokes of Van Gogh.  Or the pointillism of Georges Seurat. For more info see http://www.topdigitalcamerareviews.com/Articles/Waterproof_Digital_Camera.php on Waterproof Digital Camera.

Give your digital camera photos the appearance of having been shot through a filter-- Grand Canyon scene done in red or purple; an autumn woodland shot in rust or orange.  Make a drop of water into prism with the rainbow effect.

Reshape your digital camera photos with the software cropping feature; turn that rectangular autumn scene into a pumpkin shape; make the picture of your favorite rosebush into a rose.  Exaggerate or eliminate shadows and blemishes as you please.  Your digital camera photos software is your portal to a visual world where you make up all the rules.

It certainly it beats being a ten year old emailing yourself a pictorial record of your life from your cell phone!


