Title: 
Digital Videos Are Great For Adding Special Effects

Word Count:
515

Summary:
Digital video is a new technology that can be used and manipulated much easier than the old analog signal. This generic term is not to be confused with the name DV, which is a specific type of digital video.  In the past video was recorded on tape but today with digital video it can be recorded on tape, DVD or straight to the hard drive of a computer.  This generic term is not to be confused with the name DV, which is a specific type of digital video.  Digital video can be pr...


Keywords:
video,digital video,video edit,digital editing,videos,digital videos


Article Body:
Digital video is a new technology that can be used and manipulated much easier than the old analog signal. This generic term is not to be confused with the name DV, which is a specific type of digital video.  In the past video was recorded on tape but today with digital video it can be recorded on tape, DVD or straight to the hard drive of a computer.  This generic term is not to be confused with the name DV, which is a specific type of digital video.  Digital video can be processed and edited very easily today, special effects are easy to add with digital editing.

Digital video can also be edited on a personal computer which has the proper hardware and software.  Regardless of software, digital video is generally edited and needs quite bit of disk space to store everything. Digital video is also used in modern mobile phones and video conferencing systems.  The quality of the digital video is far superior to the analog counterpart. 

Artistic people will claim that the quality of digital video is cold, that you don't have the warmth of the look of film images.  But one thing is for sure.  Digital video is here to stay, which means that our films of our 25th anniversary celebration are also here to stay.

These new cameras can record for several hours on end.  The recording is done either on a small videocassette, blank CD or a DVD.  Visuals are continuously recorded by these cameras and can be played on the screen.  

Marketing videos with poor picture quality are likely to reflect a poor quality company in the mind of the viewer, so try to get the best quality video you can get. When people talk about interlacing they are talking about a special technique that improves the quality of the picture without increasing extra or more bandwidth. Using a camera that is analog you will need multiple tapes for long filming, but with digital video you need plenty of disk space to store all of the video.  In the past when recording with tapes you will lose the quality of the recording when duplicating the information but with digital recording you do not have that problem plus the footage will last forever.  Today many of the cameras come with many features that you only find in professional cameras.  You can get better picture quality when using a more expensive digital camera.
 
When filming with a DVD format it will allow you to record right to digital disk, the other type of technologies are HDD and this allows you to record right to a hard drive.  As the tape format is slowly being phased out by major manufacturers, it is a good idea to invest in disk or hard drive based digital video cameras.  While this format is very easy to use and is supported by practically all software it is not efficient as there is no compression applied.  

With digital video cameras today there are features that allow you to take low or medium quality footage to save space.


