Title: 
Digital Camera Buying Decision Parameters

Word Count:
695

Summary:
Before you buy any digital camera, you must think beforehand how you would use your camera as well as what you will do with the pictures. If you intend to buy it, you require balancing number of competing features and parameters. Obviously, your target will be to have a camera that provides you with shooting controls and image quality of your choice in a package that is quite comfortable and easy to use. Also, your ultimate decision will be based on your affordability of the ...


Keywords:
digital camera, camera, camera buying guide, 35mm camera,


Article Body:
Before you buy any digital camera, you must think beforehand how you would use your camera as well as what you will do with the pictures. If you intend to buy it, you require balancing number of competing features and parameters. Obviously, your target will be to have a camera that provides you with shooting controls and image quality of your choice in a package that is quite comfortable and easy to use. Also, your ultimate decision will be based on your affordability of the particular camera. So, you can consider some of these buying decision parameters before reaching any final decision.

Making a Budget before Buying a Digital Camera

Before making your decision of buying a digital camera, it is essential that you make a budget. Setting of the budget is important, no matter whether you wish to buy the camera online or from the market. Similar to the buying of any other big item like computer, car or house, you will also get thousands of options of digital camera. It is obvious that you do not want to get stuck with those cameras that you cannot afford. Certainly, high-end camera would offer you the best zoom, more mega pixels, which are not necessarily meant for good images and some other extra features. But you need to remain careful as they cost you more than your affordability.

Especially, if you are just a beginner in the field of digital photography, then it is advised that you must not spend on buying high-end digital SLR or prosumer cameras. You can definitely have some cheaper but powerful compact digital cameras, which are easy to hold and will not add to your luggage during travel. It is the best options to become familiar with the basics of these digital cameras and thereafter only, spend your money to have high-end digital cameras.

Consider Optical Zoom

Some people would disagree but it is the fact that instead of giving too much preference to digital zoo, it must be the optical zoom that needs to be considered.

Actually, the function of digital zooming is to perform an interpolation or computer based guesswork of an image in an effort to extend the perceived zoom distance. It may result in “fuzzy” images or the images may have less clarity. However, the optical zoom performs the function of actual “zoom-in” and “zoom-out “on your subject.

It is okay that higher optical zoom camera will enable you to have a good variety of images, but it will be expensive. This is the reason that lower priced cameras would advertise their digital zoom capabilities more than the optical zoom.

Two Things to Remember

If you are planning to buy a digital camera, then you have number of choices including image quality and zoom capability. However, there are two more things that are must to consider, before buying a digital camera. These are:

Media Type: You will find numerous media types for cameras like Compact Flash, Secure Media and so on. If you have been using a Compact Flash cards earlier then obviously, you will not like to buy a camera that would use some different kind of memory, except in the case that it is providing you with some outstanding features that would compensate your loss.

Battery Type: If at present you are using rechargeable batteries, then you will have to see before buying the camera whether the new one would support the same type of battery or not. However, you may think of having one such camera that has its own custom battery provided that it offers you with double of the mega pixels, a wider zoom lens and better quality photographs.

Small is not necessarily Underpowered- There are certain advantages of buying a small digital camera. First of all, you can easily carry them with you wherever you go. Besides their features like light weight, less conspicuous, they are no more underpowered digital cameras.

It is true that they may not have features similar to digital SLRs or high-end prosumer digital cameras, but still they cannot be underestimated. Their mega pixels are matching and at times even better than their high-priced contemporaries are.


