Title: 
Discovering The Beauty Of Landscape Photography

Word Count:
496

Summary:
Symmetry, repetition, contrast, asymmetry, coherence, symbolism, and a dash of irony—these are the major components that construct a beautiful photograph taken by exceptional photographer. These are also the very same components that one needs balance when taking one of the easiest yet most difficult subjects to photograph— landscapes.

LOOKING BACK

Since they are permanent, familiar, accessible, and part of nature, landscapes have been one of the most favorite subjects ...


Keywords:
photography


Article Body:
Symmetry, repetition, contrast, asymmetry, coherence, symbolism, and a dash of irony—these are the major components that construct a beautiful photograph taken by exceptional photographer. These are also the very same components that one needs balance when taking one of the easiest yet most difficult subjects to photograph— landscapes.

LOOKING BACK

Since they are permanent, familiar, accessible, and part of nature, landscapes have been one of the most favorite subjects by most photographers. Landscape photography can be traced as early as 1849 when the book “Egypte, Nubie, Palestine et Syrie” containing prints of paper negatives was published. In the 19th century, many eminent landscape photographers emerged which dominate large photography collections in museums and galleries worldwide. Today, many budding photographers continue to fall in love with nature. And as they pursue the road to landscape photography, more and more works and techniques continue to emerge.

FALLING IN LOVE WITH LANDSCAPES

Unlike other kinds and styles of photography, most people would say that it is easy to take landscape photographs because you don’t need to instruct you subject and you can choose whatever angle you want. On the contrary, most photographers believe that landscape photography is one of the most difficult because you will need an intense set of equipment and a very keen eye to make an “ordinary” scene quite extraordinary.

Imagine capturing the natural beauty of a majestic landscape with your camera and in your own preference. Here are some of the elements you need to pay attention to before you delve into the realms of landscape photography:

1. Camera, lens, and lens shade are great deals. Although you can use any camera, most photographers would recommend SLR or digital SLR because these give wider selection of lenses and ensure superior results. Wide-angle lenses are also advised because it gives a great view into any picture. In order to protect your lens, look for a good lens hood or shade.

2. Tripod is a must. This is a very invaluable and important asset for landscape photographers to avoid the blurred outcomes and to ensure the maximum depth of field.

3. Invest on film and filters. Any film today can be used because it can record nature’s color vividly. You just have to be wise in using the right ISO film to avoid grains in your photo prints.

4. Consider camera position. This greatly affects the overall quality of your photo because it requires your creative decision. (TIP: If there is a horizon line in your composition, keep it leveled so there is a room for greater possibilities.)

5. Set the direction and the type of light to be used. Proper direction accompanied with balanced lighting will make or unmake your landscape piece so make sure that you visit the location and predict the weather before your shoot.

6. Be hands-on in post exposure manipulation. To get the job done, try to learn mastering the do’s and don’ts in the darkroom so you’ll get the result you desire.


