Title: 
Divorced Moms And The ABCs Of Video Surveillance Systems

Word Count:
598

Summary:
If you are a working mom and are suing for divorce, expect a bitter and long-drawn struggle for the custody of the kids. A reliable nanny and a smart home surveillance system will put your mind to rest while you’re at work. But do you know anything about video surveillance systems? Aye, there’s the rub.

A Nasty divorce to begin a new life with?

A painful divorce can put a cloud over your rosy plans for the future. But when living with a cheat of a husband cannot be endu...


Keywords:
video surveillance systems


Article Body:
If you are a working mom and are suing for divorce, expect a bitter and long-drawn struggle for the custody of the kids. A reliable nanny and a smart home surveillance system will put your mind to rest while you’re at work. But do you know anything about video surveillance systems? Aye, there’s the rub.

A Nasty divorce to begin a new life with?

A painful divorce can put a cloud over your rosy plans for the future. But when living with a cheat of a husband cannot be endured anymore, divorce is the easy but torturous way out. There are your small children to think about, the divorce lawyer, and your job. Everything is in hazy whirl. There’s not time for emotions. You have to think smartly all the time. Even before the dust has settled, you should take action to secure your home and your kids’ safety. Shopping around and comparing video surveillance systems should keep you busy and forget that you are still stinging from the breakup.

What video surveillance systems should you get?

If all the geeky talk about video surveillance systems puts you off from getting one, you should try to at least know the basics. Be guided by your budget and purpose. You would surely like something that would show who is behind the door. Would you like a secret camera installed to record the kids and nanny’s movements? Then, that is something you should consider.

With kids running around and the nanny after them, you may want wireless video surveillance systems and a camera fixed over the baby’s bed. For maximum satisfaction, you can get high resolution cameras, meaning the images are more defined and clearer, or you may opt for surveillance system with voice recording features.

The things you need to know

Out there, you are barraged with information on video surveillance systems that you might just get lost in translation. You just want the nitty-gritty like cost, extent of security, and convenience. As a mom, technical jargon will intimidate you or somebody else comfortable with cooking and dressing up. You don’t want to be talked through the nose too.

You’re likely to come across the following: wireless home security systems, CCTV camera systems, and X10 video security system. So what now? Here are their different features:

• Wireless security systems - As the name implies, no visible wires. You can still watch the kids while cooking or going through the bills. You can transfer the camera from one place in the house to another where the kids are.

• CCTV camera systems -  CCTV is closed circuit TV. This is a wireless security system which is also cheaper to install. The video cameras transmit the images or signal to a monitor or monitors you have selected for the purpose. You buy the cameras including the monitors and the necessary software. You can install this yourself and you don’t need to pay monthly monitoring fees.

• X10 video security system - This is the king of the wireless video surveillance systems. This system allows you to watch the kids at play outdoors while you are indoors. The system can run 24 hours a day on your TV and PC. You can even watch the kids through the Internet! Two of these cameras are full color while the other half are low-light cameras; hence, these can function in any lighting condition.

Now that you have the basics of video surveillance systems, you can now make your choice. After all, with alimony and child support payments, you certainly can afford them.


