Title: 
Do you want to make your site profitable?

Word Count:
523

Summary:
Profit is the main target of every business. Those who host website have many questions to boost their sales and to conquer the Web. So, by foreseeing the profit, many enquiries about the right colors to use, layout, content and the likes raise up in their minds.  
To make your web site profitable, it must exude total equilibrium with all its elements. Here, the total equilibrium includes six crucial rudiments. They are Design, Objectives, Quick routing, Suitable Domain name, Systematical and Technology. When one of the rudiments is lacking means it is incomplete. Now lets us go through all these rudiments.


Keywords:
webdesign, website samples, sample website


Article Body:
Profit is the main target of every business. Those who host website have many questions to boost their sales and to conquer the Web. So, by foreseeing the profit, many enquiries about the right colors to use, layout, content and the likes raise up in their minds.  
To make your web site profitable, it must exude total equilibrium with all its elements. Here, the total equilibrium includes six crucial rudiments. They are Design, Objectives, Quick routing, Suitable Domain name, Systematical and Technology. When one of the rudiments is lacking means it is incomplete. Now lets us go through all these rudiments. 

Design 
A design should be something that will not hurt the eyes of the readers, something that will not look shameful but should be memorable and professional epitome of both art and function. It is advisable to use toolbars on homepages. However, it must not be more than ten. Another thing that you should consider is its size. Ordinary home page has a standard 17” size without any scrolling involved. Design must be simple with web safe colors and which is comfortable for viewing.  

Objectives
All sites have goals. In order to achieve that goal, objectives are necessary. Objectives must be met in a way that the target audience can relate and look forward to working hand in hand with you. And that is essential for the up growing of a website.

Quick routing
It is a kind of navigation. That way visitor can transfer from one page to another without any difficulty. Giving burdens to visitor may mean annoyance and will most likely result to poor cooperation and realization of your goal. Every thing should be smooth to the visitors.

Suitable Domain name
The domain name must be easy to be memorized. It can bear the company/business name or something that will easily be connected to your products or services. It must have a one-to-one marketing practice – an abode that will make clients comfortable and at ease. It must also be something that will make visitors come back for more. It should make them appealing. 

Systematical
A theme based design is better.  Just like a piece of art, each detail must contribute to the overall projection of the whole. Nevertheless, it must only have what it needs and nothing more. It is with semblance to the maxim in clothing that it is better to be underdressed than overdressed. This is because it can tend to lead the visitors astray. They may not be aware of where to go or where to look at. This is the reason why it is always safe to keep it simple and in order yet not tedious. When you follow the basic rules it leads your readers to be attached with your site. 

Technology 
A website should use accurate technology in order to meet its objectives and dynamics. It must be recent and up to date so that your target readers may not find it boring and ugly. You can utilize all possible resources so long as it will redound to the benefit and efficacy of your website. Then it will be appealing to the visitors.


