Title: 
Doing Digital Photography Prints

Word Count:
415

Summary:
In this transition phase of analog to digital photography, everyone knows the difference on how each images is processed into a nice print. For analog photography, the negative (film) is developed into photos in small shops called developing studios, low-end or high end, available some walks away from a nearby establishment.

They come in cheap price for every piece of shot but they come expensive in rolls. This is the conventional way of accomplishing photography. Nowadays...


Keywords:
digital photography, digital prints, photography prints


Article Body:
In this transition phase of analog to digital photography, everyone knows the difference on how each images is processed into a nice print. For analog photography, the negative (film) is developed into photos in small shops called developing studios, low-end or high end, available some walks away from a nearby establishment.

They come in cheap price for every piece of shot but they come expensive in rolls. This is the conventional way of accomplishing photography. Nowadays there is digital camera mania everywhere! Who would not want private photograph shots from a handy dandy digital camera, where printing is done at home at one's convenience?

Convenience and privacy are the perfect words for digital photography. The question is how convenient is it to produce a copy? About privacy, there is no doubt, when you take a shot with a digital camera, it does not have to go out of the house.

All you need is a printer. When you need a printer, the array of other needs will start to fall in line one by one because it takes the following to create you own printing of digital photography. For a good digital photography printing, you will the following:

- A high-resolution digital camera with at least 2 mega-pixel resolution
- A stand-alone digital printer (no need for a computer)
- Fully loaded personal computer

It goes to show, processing digital printing at home is not cheap. The mania is only applicable to those who have PCs at home. Let's say you have all the equipments for digital photography printing, the next requirements are quite complex than it seems.

Digital cameras are capable of deleting undesirable shots at once. There is no more worry for wasted film for bad shots. Now it is time to transfer or load your images to your PC.

At a subdirectory you will see the photos transferred into digital files commonly in JPEG or RAW format. In the future, this will change.  The setting and configuration of your digital camera will greatly affect the output you expect.

The very important aspect to be understood when doing digital photography printing is having knowledge about RESOLUTION. What you see in the computer monitor is not what you will see in the printer. This is overwhelming for beginners. Dot representation or pixels comprise an image.

At minimal requirement, a setting of 300 dpi (dots per inch) will already make a good print. For better prints, resolution must be higher. Expect the computer to slow down, assign a realistic values.


