Title: 
Editing Software For Digital Cameras

Word Count:
586

Summary:
Digital cameras usually come with with editing software. They provide basic editing tools including a red-eye reduction and cropping. Some have instant fix tools that are intended to correct color and lighting, but they can damage your photos with irreversible correction where you have not saved a RAW file to return to if need be. To make the most of your photos you will need to invest in a graphics software program. Investigate the various software packages out there to ensu...


Keywords:
digital camera, canon digital camera, digital camera review


Article Body:
Digital cameras usually come with with editing software. They provide basic editing tools including a red-eye reduction and cropping. Some have instant fix tools that are intended to correct color and lighting, but they can damage your photos with irreversible correction where you have not saved a RAW file to return to if need be. To make the most of your photos you will need to invest in a graphics software program. Investigate the various software packages out there to ensure quality.

1. Basic Tools

The software should include basic tools like cropping or cutting a portion of the photograph in one easy step. There should be a tool to combine various elements from different images to make a collage. It is essential to have a manual adjustment tool for brightness and contrast. You will need a software editing tool that allows you to adjust the color balance and saturation. Filtering tools will ideally include custom, CC or Wratten filters. The tool that allows you to convert the image color to black and white should include several editing options. Two of the most common are greyscale and duotones.

2. Dodge, Burn, Smudge Tools

Other important Digital Art tools that will assist you in making artistic statements with your photographs include global or selective dodging, burning, blurring and mosaic. More advanced editing programs include vignetting, linen, solarizing, posterizing and embossing. Most wordprocessing and photo editing software provide image management options today that allow you to place an image in front of text, in-line with text or behind text. Sophisticated desk-top publishing software will provide text and image boxes to manually place your material.

3. Printing Options

Photo editing software should allow for a variety of print options including duplex printing and large format document prints. When buying computers and printers be sure to consider the need for a full-color photography printer ideally with CD imprint capabilities. Depending on your needs, you may want to include video editing software options that will allow you to integrate your photographs in short movies and audio-video presentations for home or work. CD and DVD burner capabilities make sharing, archiving, labeling and storing the creations you make from your photographs much easier.

4. Scrapbooking

A popular new use of digital photographs is for digital scrapbooking. It is a great way to present your photographic treasures to family and friends. Digital cameras can be used to document artifacts, art and items you want to sell on the Internet. Digital scrapbooking and gallery techniques with related software will assist you in achieving the best result.

Scrapbooking software may include tools for restoring old or damaged photographs and for retouching dirt specks and scratches. The software will have settings for sharpening and unsharp, masking, removing distracting backgrounds and creating album pages. Be sure the software includes tools for resizing images, monitoring and changing the photographs dots per inch or dpi resolutions. Resizing should provide several measurement options including per inch.

5. Placing Images On The Web

Try Java Script if you want to edit images on the internet. This allows you to manipulate your photos in a variety of ways using mini programming techniques. Java Scripting may become an artistic goal of your photography and thus inspire a variety of options while you are taking photos.

Digital photography can be shared with anyone who has internet access! That is ample motivation for presenting the best image we can produce with the time and resources we have. Become more familiar with editing programs and make the best out of your keepsakes.


