Title: 
Ensure Safety With Cctv Security Systems

Word Count:
553

Summary:
In this day and age, you can't be too complacent about the safety of your own home. Crime abounds everywhere, and even the seemingly safest areas are not spared. Crime prevention is a near impossible feat. However, crime detection leading to prosecution is not, thanks to CCTV security systems.

CCTV Surveillance Defined
Having a CCTV security system for video surveillance and live monitoring purposes is like having an entire television network devoted to the safety of your...


Keywords:
CCTV security system, CCTV security systems


Article Body:
In this day and age, you can't be too complacent about the safety of your own home. Crime abounds everywhere, and even the seemingly safest areas are not spared. Crime prevention is a near impossible feat. However, crime detection leading to prosecution is not, thanks to CCTV security systems.

CCTV Surveillance Defined
Having a CCTV security system for video surveillance and live monitoring purposes is like having an entire television network devoted to the safety of your home. CCTV security systems may comprise of a single or a group of surveillance cameras on a private in-home network. They can be linked to an observation monitor with well-placed cables or even wirelessly. 

CCTV security systems are commonly used in areas in need of high-security, such as banks, casinos, and airports. But because CCTV security systems are relatively inexpensive and simple to use, they are now being used in private homes to bolster homeowners' peace of mind. 

CCTV Surveillance vs. Crime
CCTV security systems rapidly gained popularity as an aftermath of the terrorist attacks on London's public transport system. Surveillance videos identified the men responsible for the attacks, leading to their capture and eventual prosecution. 

This proves that a CCTV security system is an effective tool for crime detection and can provide solid evidence. Furthermore, with constant vigilance, a CCTV security system is a powerful deterrent and may even stop crime before it actually happens. 

CCTV Cameras and Your Home
CCTV security cameras are simple enough to be used at home. They can take images with resolutions as high as 1600 x 1200 pixels on a time lapse or motion detection basis, depending on your setup. Some CCTV security systems have add-on features like tilt-zoom, low light, and infrared. CCTV security cameras are relatively inexpensive. Prices vary, depending on factors such as size, type, display, resolution, zoom, and connection. CCTV security cameras are commonly available as domes, bullets, and standard c-mounts. They are available in black and white or colored, with audio or without audio. 

With a good setup, CCTV security systems can monitor up to 16 rooms and areas in your home, all the while providing clear and highly visible images. You can monitor your garage, your kitchen, your front yard, and even your mailbox. CCTV security systems are able to record suspicious activities real-time. The cameras subsequently transfer the captured images to a PC or laptop through a USB, coaxial cable, or a wireless adapter. 

Study your needs before you install your CCTV security system. Consider the area that you want covered, as well as consider future expansion. If installed outdoors, invest in specialized weatherproof housings and proper protection from vandals. Lighting is also an important thing to consider. The absence of proper lighting will produce muddy pictures that could end up being useless. Lastly, ensure that you have a stable power source and power supply. 

CCTV Surveillance and the Law
Video surveillance is subject to privacy laws. Your home is your private domain and you have every right to protect it. A CCTV security system is a powerful addition to your home security system. However, you have to check the legality of your system. It is best to consult with a lawyer or at least get in touch with your local law enforcement department to ensure that all local, state, and federal requirements are met.


