Title: 
Ergonomic Chairs

Word Count:
519

Summary:
A normal day spent by any individual at his work place entails a lot of work pressure. One has to work in varied postures and intense circumstances for attaining the daily target set for him or her. Physiologically a lot of stress might generate a number of physical ailments like backache, leg pain, headaches etc. It is essential that a person remains fit and fine for optimal performance at work place. A lot of physical pains not only distract a person from his or her job but...


Keywords:
ergonomic mouse


Article Body:
A normal day spent by any individual at his work place entails a lot of work pressure. One has to work in varied postures and intense circumstances for attaining the daily target set for him or her. Physiologically a lot of stress might generate a number of physical ailments like backache, leg pain, headaches etc. It is essential that a person remains fit and fine for optimal performance at work place. A lot of physical pains not only distract a person from his or her job but there continuity might mean inconsistency in achievement of goals. No company would like to leverage its profitability for an inconsistent and stressed employee. Therefore, under worst circumstances regular physical stress might lead to demotion or termination.

Physical postures in which we sit for long durations at workplace affect us immensely. Sitting at a stiff chair for long hours might lead to backache. On the other hand, a too soft chair might make an employee lethargic. An experience of sitting on an oversized chair is also not a comfortable one. Moreover, sitting on a chair smaller than your size for several hours might make you uneasy and can lead to pain in multiple tissues of the body. Not only does the size of the chair matters but also the material with which it’s built must be considered important. Wooden or velvet chairs are not always the best choice for a workplace. A chair that can adjust to the varied stressful situations of a work place could be considered as the best choice. The chair must be flexible enough to adapt to various postures. It must also be resizable to cater to any physical built. It should be made using a comfortable yet not so lethargic material for facilitating long hours of sustained attention.

Ergonomics the science of human mechanics comes to rescue all such organizational problems related to fatigue and discomfort. Ergonomics has three main sections namely cognitive ergonomics, physical ergonomics and organizational ergonomics. Organizational ergonomics is the study of equipments and processes at workplace and improving them for optimal results. Typically, it can be defined as adjusting to the workers environment. An ergonomic chair is designed keeping in mind the amount of physical and cognitive stress an employee undergoes during work hours. An ergonomic chair thus must be highly adjustable. It should not only have an adjustment knob but should also have a flexible back and adjustable sides for resting hands. An ergonomic chair is designed to support the curves of body. It supports the body where it is required.

Almost everyone makes use of computers; however those who utilize it for more than one hour a day must consider buying an ergonomic chair. It is an investment in ones own health and wellness. Moreover, it improves productivity by reducing stress and fatigue. For a computer professional who sits over a computer for several hours a day an ergonomic chair is a must. Buying an ergonomic chair is not just enough people must be trained to use these chairs as they have several mechanical features like an adjustable height or back.


