Title: 
Expensive, Useless Software. Don't Get Caught Out

Word Count:
538

Summary:
This is a piece of advice for those people intent on making a living from the internet who have been conned into buying, or are thinking of buying, software that automatically places comments in blogs.

This is called spamming, and you have wasted your money. The people who sold you the software have told you lies. They have suggested that blogmasters won’t notice your spam, will accept it if it is inoffensive, or the software you spent so much money on will place your comm...


Keywords:
spam,spammers,blogs,software,internet,posting comments to blogs


Article Body:
This is a piece of advice for those people intent on making a living from the internet who have been conned into buying, or are thinking of buying, software that automatically places comments in blogs.

This is called spamming, and you have wasted your money. The people who sold you the software have told you lies. They have suggested that blogmasters won’t notice your spam, will accept it if it is inoffensive, or the software you spent so much money on will place your comments so far down the blog calendar that the blog owner won’t even notice they are there.

None of this is true.

When you add a comment to most blogs, the owner gets an automatic email message announcing that there is a comment waiting for approval. At this stage your comment hasn’t been published and your link is not visible to the search engines. Owners don’t even have to go to their blogs. They can delete your message (which they can see) right from that email and that’s what thousands of blog owners do.

Your comment never sees the light of day, you gain nothing by attempting to post it and you have been ripped off for $97 or more for a useless piece of software. Please wise up. You will not make a fortune on the internet using these methods. In fact, you are unlikely to even make 1 cent. The people making the money are the ones selling you the software.

Take my advice, demand your money back right now while you are still in the guarantee period. If enough spammers see the light and do that these sharks preying on internet minnows will go out of business, and the web will be well rid of them.

You can make money in reasonable amounts from the internet if you stick to legitimate ways of doing it and work hard. If you use spamming techniques, please don’t think you won’t be noticed. You will rapidly build a reputation that will put you on the outside of the marketing community (it’s smaller than you think) in no time at all. If you sell the software as an affiliate, no-one who has bought it will ever forget that you ripped them off.

There are no short cuts to internet business success. The people who sell this kind of software don’t actually use it themselves, they just pretend that they do and get others in their joint venture circle to support them in their claims, for which they in turn receive a commission.

These so-called program designers, most of whom use outside programmers, have put a huge amount of time and money into these software investments, relying on the gullibility of people looking for a fast buck to earn them their returns.

Don’t be a sucker. Demand your money back right now. The software you bought is useless. Do you really think that blog owners like me don’t keep an eye on the comments that are posted and are happy to allow any rubbish in? Would you?

Give these snake oil salesmen the flick and help to make the internet a better place to do business in.


