Title: 
Exploring Photoshop Cs2

Word Count:
567

Summary:
Many people might have purchased the Photoshop CS2 program and installed it already in their computers. Undeniably, this program is perfect for all your creative endeavors.

The Photoshop CS2

There are many things to explore in the upgraded version of Photoshop CS2. Here are some of the features that people enjoy in their Photoshop CS2 that you can also learn.

1. Adobe Bridge

Adobe Bridge is a convenient Photoshop CS2 feature that allows you to have a detailed prev...


Keywords:
photo shop tutorial,adobe photo shop tutorial,free photo shop tutorial


Article Body:
Many people might have purchased the Photoshop CS2 program and installed it already in their computers. Undeniably, this program is perfect for all your creative endeavors.

The Photoshop CS2

There are many things to explore in the upgraded version of Photoshop CS2. Here are some of the features that people enjoy in their Photoshop CS2 that you can also learn.

1. Adobe Bridge

Adobe Bridge is a convenient Photoshop CS2 feature that allows you to have a detailed preview of the photos and graphics even before you open the file. This will help you organize your work more easily, utilizing minimal time as much as possible.

2. Red-Eye Removal

The old version of Photoshop also requires a lot of manipulations before red-eye can be removed. Learning Photoshop CS2 will let you get rid of the red-eye in an instant.

3. Font Options

Another likeable feature with Photoshop CS2 is its font preview. Before, all you see in the drop-down menu are the font names. Now, you can easily pick the fonts you need from the preview, saving you more time.

4. Spot Healing Brush

The Spot Healing Brush lets you repair imperfections in your graphics with just a simple click of the mouse. There is no need to find any source point like it used to be with the old program.

Photoshop CS2 Tutorials

If you think that you still have not taken the most out of your installed program, then better explore your options. This is where taking Photoshop CS2 tutorials can be the best choice for you to make.

The Photoshop CS2 tutorials are introductory courses on the Photoshop program. This will let you learn everything you have to know, from the basics of the program down to the detailed units you can manipulate.

With this tutorial at hand, you can learn the ins and outs of the Photoshop CS2. The tutorial can also give you a general overview of how you can maximize the product for your own needs.

Here are some of the Photoshop CS2 tutorials that you can explore to learn more about the program and use it to the fullest.

1.Web Page Tutorial

You can easily browse the web for sites that offer Photoshop CS2 tutorials in their pages. They give the services for a fee. Thus, you can easily explore this anytime you encounter something you do not know in the program, as long as you are online.

2.Demo Versions

Some people opt to get a demo version first of the tutorials. These demos are given for free although they only have few chapters of lessons. They are perfect for evaluating the offers first before purchasing fully the package.

3.CD Package

The CD package is also a good option. It allows you to have everything you need to know in your hands. You do not need to be online to learn. This tutorial package can be purchased for less than $100.

4.PDF Formats

Tutorials can also be offered in the PDF format. This is a perfect choice for people who prefer to read printouts to learn.

5.Online Video Tutorials

The online video tutorials can provide more detailed instructions to you. You will be guided in every step of the way with what you can view from the videos.

Conclusion

Take the Photoshop CS2 tutorials and you will surely go a long way with your creativity and productivity using the skills you learned with the program.


