Title: 
Factors That Affect The Effectiveness Of Photo Shop CS Tutorials

Word Count:
560

Summary:
You might be aware of the fact that a lot of people offer various tutorials for Photo Shop CS. This is because of the fact that Photo Shop is the most widely used image manipulation program in the world today. People use it not only to edit their images for printing, but also for sharing over the internet. However, not all Photo Shop CS tutorials are effective in equipping users. What factors affect the effectiveness of Photo Shop CS tutorials?

Media – Sometimes, the metho...


Keywords:
photo shop tutorial,adobe photo shop tutorial,free photo shop tutorial


Article Body:
You might be aware of the fact that a lot of people offer various tutorials for Photo Shop CS. This is because of the fact that Photo Shop is the most widely used image manipulation program in the world today. People use it not only to edit their images for printing, but also for sharing over the internet. However, not all Photo Shop CS tutorials are effective in equipping users. What factors affect the effectiveness of Photo Shop CS tutorials?

Media – Sometimes, the method used to transmit the information has a huge effect on its effectiveness. Some Photo Shop CS tutorials today can be downloaded as text files.

Although text files consume the least disk space, they are also a bit tiring for people who are used to the interactivity provided by the internet. Text file Photo Shop CS tutorials can contain a lot of details but, unless they are made by good writers, tend will have the tendency to be very boring. This means that they aren't as effective as video tutorials.

Video tutorials are better at connecting with the target audience. This is because of the fact that video tutorials can actually show people what to do instead of just saying it. This means that people will better understand the various instructions and thus, be able to do them better.

However, video Photo Shop CS tutorials don't really give much in terms of interactivity. A great alternative to this can be found in online Photo Shop CS tutorials. Through the technology of the internet, one can interact with various people regarding the tutorial. This means you can clarify some key points and make corrections on the way that you follow instructions.

Some people, however, believe that the best medium of instruction is still by discussion and application during in-person sessions. This is the usual "tutor-and-student-meet-face-to-face" type of instruction. People find that this is the best although a person needs to invest a lot of time in this type of Photo Shop CS tutorial.

Content – Of course, different Photo Shop CS tutorials have different content. Some tutorials may focus only on teaching you about the basics of editing images. Others may teach you about using your Photo Shop CS program with other members of the Adobe Creative Suite. Whether or not a person reaches his or her objectives in taking the tutorial depends on whether or not the tutorial is designed to meet those goals.

Attitude – Of course, the effectiveness of the Photo Shop CS tutorial does not depend on the tutorial alone. A huge part of learning depends on a person's attitude towards the subject. Even if the medium of instruction is boring, you would still be able to learn if you wish to do so. You also need to see whether or not you actually intend to get results from the Photo Shop CS tutorial. Results can only be observed through application and, more often than not, people tend not to apply what they have learned. Some do this because they might have lost interest in the program and are looking for others that they can use.

These are just the main factors that affect the effectiveness of Photo Shop CS tutorials. There are, however, more underlying factors that need to be adjusted in order to make sure that you get the most out of every tutorial.


