Title: 
Features Required In A Cell Phone

Word Count:
406

Summary:
The mobile phone market is growing rapidly. New brands of cell phone and new accessories keep entering the market frequently. People have to contend with the wide range of choices available to them, which makes the task of selection of the right cell phone or the right accessory extremely difficult.

The most popular cell phone manufacturers are Nokia, LG, Siemens, Sony Ericcson and few others. The quality of cell phone manufactured by these companies is extremely good. The...


Keywords:



Article Body:
The mobile phone market is growing rapidly. New brands of cell phone and new accessories keep entering the market frequently. People have to contend with the wide range of choices available to them, which makes the task of selection of the right cell phone or the right accessory extremely difficult.

The most popular cell phone manufacturers are Nokia, LG, Siemens, Sony Ericcson and few others. The quality of cell phone manufactured by these companies is extremely good. These brands compete with each other in terms of features in their cell phones, bargains offers and also the prices. People with a moderate knowledge about cell phones can distinguish between the good and bad models, and discrepancies in each model. However, there is no way in which a person with no knowledge of cell phones can accomplish the above task.

The time when cell phones were used just for the purpose of communicating is long gone. Cell phones today come with a number of additional features like multimedia support and connectivity with other devices like computers. This makes them capable of being used as multipurpose devices. However, people should not let the cell phone manufacturers lure them by installing additional and unnecessary features into the cell phones. For most people, cost is the main factor and hence they need to do the proper research to do out the best cell phone model for them.

There are a large number of features available in the cell phones today, which the person may not be even aware of. Some of these accessories are music players, Blue tooth and USB ports, GPRS, EDGE and WAP. There are actually two types of people we can find. One type who are aware of these features, but have no use for them. Second type who has no knowledge of these features at all.

Before buying a cell phone, each person must try to analyze various functions for which he will be using his cell phone. Each person must buy a cell phone and buy only the required accessories that help him to run all the required applications on his cell phone. For instance, an executive who is on the move regularly will need a quad-band phone. Students can buy cell phones at moderate expense and looking sleek and stylish. People who use cell phones only for communication can be cheap phones available at discounts. The choice of phone being purchased should be made properly.


