Title: 
Finding The Right Noise Cancelling Headphones

Word Count:
551

Summary:
Think all noise cancelling headphones are alike? Think there's basically just one use for head phones? Well, actually there are many, many uses for head phones and - more specifically - for noise canceling headphones. The major brand names for this style are Shure, SkullCandy, Etymotic Research, Ultimate Ears, Sennheiser and others.

There are basically a couple different ones to choose from...active and passive.

Active uses electronic circuitry to sense the incoming sou...


Keywords:
noise cancelling headphones, noise canceling, noise reduction, headphone, headphones, head phone


Article Body:
Think all noise cancelling headphones are alike? Think there's basically just one use for head phones? Well, actually there are many, many uses for head phones and - more specifically - for noise canceling headphones. The major brand names for this style are Shure, SkullCandy, Etymotic Research, Ultimate Ears, Sennheiser and others.

There are basically a couple different ones to choose from...active and passive.

Active uses electronic circuitry to sense the incoming sounds to lower the amount you hear.  These are the type that are over the ears. One of their disadvantages is they require batteries to operate. Passive needs no power and are the type that go in the ears to block outside sounds....earphones, and to a lesser degree the type that come with the Ipod...earbuds.

1.  Use these while you're on the airplane. Listen to music at a low volume and the circuitry in the headphone will reduce any background sound. That way, if you need to have some quiet or to get a good sleep, this is the ideal way to do it. They make perfect for the business traveler who wants a little quiet on a loud airplane (piercing voice?) or wants to get a good night sleep in a hotel (why do they always seem to put YOU beside the party room?).

2.  Use when you have to listen to training and seminars at work when you want the world to yourself, or the ringing phones or the sound of the fax machine. 

3.  Use when you want to hear music or watch your favorite movie and you don't want to subject others to your entertainment while at the same time you don't want to have to hear other sounds, which will diminish the potential of your entertainment.

4.  Use when you want to play video or computer games and you want to truly become a part of the experience. Many sporting events become better when the sound is made to be an integral part of the game. This occurs when you forget that you're in a busy college dorm or a loud apartment building and you actually feel that you are in the race car or the dungeon or the basketball game (or wherever else your game happens to take place.

5.  They are also great if you are a passenger in a car on a long trip and have trouble sleeping in the car. The head phones will cancel out the road noise, the rustling of the map, the sound of the car radio, etc. and you'll be able to sleep peacefully.

6. Use when your child is learning to play an instrument. If they are learning an electric instrument, like guitar, bass, or piano, you can give them these headphones so they don't hear other noises (and so no one else can hear them!). You'll have a happy son or daughter with a good musical ear and you'll also have peace and quiet in your house!

7.  Remember, to make a great gift for everyone and particularly to make a great gift for the individual who has everything, these are ideal. For that hard to buy for person on your list this year, give them a pair of noise cancelling headphones. And if they listen to music you don't like, you can consider it a gift to yourself, too!


