Title: 
Find Files In A Heartbeat

Word Count:
537

Summary:
Find files in a Heartbeat - or two. Let's face it, finding a file that has long been forgotten is a hassle. In some cases the using basic file search programs that come with Microsoft Office is as easy as pie! That is, if you have the file name handy, problem is - most of the time, you don't.

These are instances that require the assistance of file search programs that are able to find files quickly - that is, after they have been installed and have segregated your files al...


Keywords:
find files,searching files,find text


Article Body:
Find files in a Heartbeat - or two. Let's face it, finding a file that has long been forgotten is a hassle. In some cases the using basic file search programs that come with Microsoft Office is as easy as pie! That is, if you have the file name handy, problem is - most of the time, you don't.

These are instances that require the assistance of file search programs that are able to find files quickly - that is, after they have been installed and have segregated your files already. Once you've done this, you can indeed find files in a heartbeat or less. But, as always, the basics may sometimes be the best. With the basics, you don't run the risk of having to install programs that may be less than reliable and safe. Here, you will learn the basics of finding files with the use of what is readily available in your computer system.

Let us start off with what we have - in this case, working with what Microsoft affords us upon installation. Everybody knows this already. To an experienced and even a newbie, the procedure of finding files on your computer can be as easy as reciting your ABC's, given that you do indeed find reciting the alphabet easy.

For those who do need help, here are the basic steps: Start by clicking on the START button at the lower left hand of your computer screen. For those using Windows versions before Windows ® Vista, it appears as a button with the word START written on it. Easy enough, right? For those with the Windows ® Vista program, the start button appears as the Microsoft Windows logo. Now that we have that, click on the said button.

Once you have done that, locate the SEARCH button (For Microsoft Windows Vista users), it appears with a magnifying glass beside it. For Windows XP and below, it appears as a button that states: FIND FILES AND FOLDERS. Click on that button and a search window will appear. For Windows XP and older, you can enter your Keyword(s) for the file you are looking for on the side bar to the left. You can also choose which part of your computer you want to search in. For Windows Vista Users, you can enter your keyword(s) on the upper right hand corner of the window. After you have entered data, press ENTER on your keyboard to begin the search. If you decide to search on a bigger area of your computer, the search may take a while, once the search is finished, a report of your search will be displayed on the Window. Now, look for your file on the file names listed below.

If you do not find the file you are looking for; then try initiating another search using more specific keywords. If you have entered every possible keyword you can think of, yet still, you are not able to find the files that you need; try narrowing your search to one area of the computer. Try searching in one drive where you think the file may be located. Better yet, try looking in a folder. This way, the search process is faster and may produce better results.


