Title: 
Four Great Accessories For Cell Phones

Word Count:
541

Summary:
Cell phones are such an integral part of our lives today that they we take them almost for granted. With so much multi-tasking and constant activity in our lives, we rely on them every day, and it’s only when they become cumbersome or don’t work for us that we realize how much we’ve come to count on them. The right accessories can improve the functionality and convenience of your cell phone as well as making it the envy of all your friends. These accessories are absolute must...


Keywords:
cell phone accessories, cell phone, cellular accessories


Article Body:
Cell phones are such an integral part of our lives today that they we take them almost for granted. With so much multi-tasking and constant activity in our lives, we rely on them every day, and it’s only when they become cumbersome or don’t work for us that we realize how much we’ve come to count on them. The right accessories can improve the functionality and convenience of your cell phone as well as making it the envy of all your friends. These accessories are absolute musts for today’s best-dressed cell phones!

1. Anything Bluetooth. Bluetooth is simply a term for a low frequency radio wave signal frequency that is used to make any type of electronic equipment – in this case your cell phone – wireless. No more using those awkward wired headphones that you have to plug into your cell phone! Bluetooth earpieces are small, sleek and have enough range for you to walk about your desk or step away from your parked car while chatting away. You can also get Bluetooth car kits for hands free dialing. These allow you to talk all you want while driving with voice activation and dialing. Typical Bluetooth systems give you up to eight hours of talk time and 150 hours of stand-by.

2. Antenna Booster. You would think cell phones would have clear reception and great coverage just about everywhere these days. You’d be wrong. Getting an antenna booster is a simple solution that’s inexpensive, easy to install and will widen your coverage area instantly. There’s nothing more annoying than a dropped call or talking to someone who’s cutting in or out. Weird problems like buildings that block cell phone reception are solved with a good antenna booster as well.

3. Amplifier Antenna. For cell phones that are the life line of road warriors, an amplifier antenna installed on the car is a must. These antennas are more powerful than the antenna boosters installed in the actual cell phones and are mounted on the rear windshield of the car. They give users great coverage in those areas known as “dead zones” between cell towers and in valleys or mountain areas.

 4. Mobile phone charger. Yes, this sounds vaguely old-fashioned, but we still believe this is an essential accessory for anyone who travels a lot and talks a lot. After all, why run down your cell phone’s battery when you’re driving if you can be using a charger and prolonging the battery life for when you get out of your vehicle? The simplest solutions are usually the most elegant, and today’s chargers for cell phones are light years beyond those old versions with the big coils and bulky plugs for the cigarette lighter that you could brain someone with. Check out the newer ones that feature slimmer, shorter cords and dashboard mount, drop-in holders for your cell phone.

Almost a quarter of people in the United States today use cell phones as their primary personal telephone. A few added accessories like the ones mentioned above can make them even more reliable and versatile. When you go shopping for your next phone purchase, be sure to look at a few good extras as well as the best cell phones.


