Title: 
Free Microsoft Certification Training For MCDST

Word Count:
589

Summary:
Microsoft has many computer certifications that appeal to a wide range of expert computer repair technicians to operating system geniuses. They also have certifications in administration and engineering. Microsoft Certified Professionals are a standard above in the field of information technology. Microsoft certification is widely accepted and recognized by the service and support industry. Microsoft curriculum has the practical knowledge that only an advanced developed compa...


Keywords:
Free Microsoft training, Microsoft training, Microsoft certification, MCDST, free MCDST training


Article Body:
Microsoft has many computer certifications that appeal to a wide range of expert computer repair technicians to operating system geniuses. They also have certifications in administration and engineering. Microsoft Certified Professionals are a standard above in the field of information technology. Microsoft certification is widely accepted and recognized by the service and support industry. Microsoft curriculum has the practical knowledge that only an advanced developed company can provide.

MCDST is one of the most sought after Microsoft certifications on the market today. Microsoft Certified Desktop Support Technician is a title that has much recognition for employers who want a highly qualified technician to work as a help desk specialist and give desktop support by phone and by servicing the individual station. Microsoft Certified Desktop Support Technician (MCDST) on Microsoft Windows XP is a certification that validates the fundamental and higher skills needed to enter the IT industry as a support desk professional.

Because of the recognition that Microsoft Certified Desktop Support Technician (MCDST) receives many online and classroom IT schools are offering some free tutoring. You will find free information technology Microsoft computer training on the web almost as much as you will find pay certification training. There is a long list of online schools that offer free study guides, some free online tutoring and free practice exam questions in order to prepare you for your certification.

MCDST certification demonstrates valuable troubleshooting expertise with the Windows Desktop Operating System to employers and consumers. It provides a structure for learning the skills that support technicians need. As a desktop support technician, you will use excellent customer service skills, educate users, and solve hardware or software operation and application problems on the desktop. You will learn valuable skills and best practices consistent with networking and file sharing to maintaining DHCP communications devices and Domain name system for Internet system to translate names into IP addresses.

Microsoft Certified Desktop Support Technician certification validates the fundamental skills needed to enter the IT industry as a support professional. It communicates the technical skills of the individual to clients and employers and distinguishes career candidates from their peers. MCDST certification enhances job satisfaction through increased technical proficiency as you increase your knowledge and skills. MCDST certification helps advance support technician careers by providing a structured framework for learning skills, and provides a knowledge basis for additional Microsoft certifications, such as the MCSA and the MCSE.

Microsoft Certified Desktop Support Technician Certification Requirements on Microsoft Windows XP are to pass two core exams that provide a valid and dependable measure of technical proficiency. These exams are developed with the input of professionals in the industry and reflect how Microsoft products are used in organizations throughout the world. The two core exams are: Exam 70-271: Supporting Users and Troubleshooting a Microsoft Windows XP Operating System consisting of about 60 questions and Exam 70-272: Supporting Users and Troubleshooting Desktop Applications on a Microsoft Windows XP Operating System consisting of about 50 questions.

A candidate for Microsoft Certified Desktop Support Technician will need training for your Microsoft certification. There is free Microsoft training available online with free Microsoft practice exam questions, free study guides and free MCDST training to make your preparation less complicated. Free will only take you so far, you will need to purchase some Microsoft certification training in order to be fully prepared for your actual exam. Your training is not the objective but receiving your Microsoft certification. Learn how to pass your information technology certification exam. There are good resources accessible all you will need is a little searching.


