Title: 
Free Online Resources For Photoshop Tutorials

Word Count:
618

Summary:
Photoshopping is more than just a neologism.  It has become an industry all on its own.  From doctored pictures to special effects to stunning works of art, Photoshop has let itself be known and while there have been many imitators, Photoshop remains the premier image editing software trusted by millions.  If you want to get into the action, learn Photoshop using free tutorials online.  Here's how:

Free online tutorials
Go to the main men themselves at http://Adobe.com.  ...


Keywords:
photo shop tutorial,adobe photo shop tutorial,free photo shop tutorial


Article Body:
Photoshopping is more than just a neologism.  It has become an industry all on its own.  From doctored pictures to special effects to stunning works of art, Photoshop has let itself be known and while there have been many imitators, Photoshop remains the premier image editing software trusted by millions.  If you want to get into the action, learn Photoshop using free tutorials online.  Here's how:

Free online tutorials
Go to the main men themselves at http://Adobe.com.  Photoshop is one of Adobe's most recognizable and popular products other than Adobe Acrobat.  This is also the site you should go to if you want to learn more about the features and functions offered with every Photoshop version.  Every time a new version comes out, http://Adobe.com not only publishes valuable information about it, they also update their tutorials page.

Simply go to this page and find the tutorials appropriate for your particular Photoshop version.  This is a veritable fiesta of free Photoshop tutorials, offered buffet-style.  Simply pick which ones interest you and start learning.  However, if you've never used Photoshop before, take advantage of the free tutorials and spend some time with the basics.  You'll be glad you did, especially later when you'll be taking up the more advanced lessons.

Adobe.com has enough free Photoshop tutorials to keep you busy, but there are other sites you can check out for other tricks.  Check out http://Tutorialized.com.  This is a site that provides free tutorials for every sort of lesson you've been dreaming about.  They have nearly 6,000 free Photoshop tutorials that will let you in on the secrets to creating spectacular digital art and amazing special effects.  

You can click on any of the 19 categories to choose what you want to learn or check out the newest offerings recommended on the site.  You can also get in touch with other Photoshop users through the site by joining the discussion forum.  If there is a Photoshop problem you can't seem to solve, you can ask any of the users online or post a message to get an answer to your inquiry.

Another site worth checking is http://IntelligentEdu.com.  If you have a specific Photoshop tutorial in mind, try using this site, a free training blog for various software such as Photoshop, Dreamweaver, FrontPage, Flash and other Adobe Macromedia applications.  It's also a great resource page for books on various computer subjects.

Go to http://SketchPad.net.  The free tutorials are outlined on the page, allowing you to choose from the most basic features to the most advanced.  Learn about paths, custom textures, layers and effects in simple and clear instructions.  You can also jump forward to the free photo-retouching tutorials or learn the vector principle through their tutorials on the special Photoshop project.

Another site that offers great Photoshop tutorials for free is http://PhotoshopTutorials.com.  This is actually a directory that offers a listing of quality Photoshop lessons, although there are some really great sample tutorials you can try from the site, courtesy of other sites such as http://NewTutorials.com, http://Depiction.Net and http://PhotoshopLab.com.  Simply click on the link to Adobe Photoshop Tutorials to access the page or start with the featured tutorials immediately.  You might want to explore a little bit, though because the site has a lot to offer.

Looking for free Photoshop tutorials are not that difficult because there are literally tens of thousands you can use online, not to mention the dozens of tutorials offered through CDs and DVDs.  If you want to learn Photoshop, start now and check out the sites.  The earlier you learn, the faster you'll be able to use Photoshop with confidence.


