Title: 
Free Satellite Tv: Too Good To Be True?

Word Count:
477

Summary:
If you have a mail box, and most people do, you have undoubtedly received an advertisement for free satellite TV. This is not a misleading statement, in most cases. Most satellite TV providers offer free satellite TV, however, you should read the fine print. As you may have heard before, “Nothing in life is free,” and that still holds true but you can get free satellite TV, at least at first.

Free Installation

When you see an advertisement for free satellite TV, the car...


Keywords:



Article Body:
If you have a mail box, and most people do, you have undoubtedly received an advertisement for free satellite TV. This is not a misleading statement, in most cases. Most satellite TV providers offer free satellite TV, however, you should read the fine print. As you may have heard before, “Nothing in life is free,” and that still holds true but you can get free satellite TV, at least at first.

Free Installation

When you see an advertisement for free satellite TV, the carrier is most likely first talking about installation. When you sign up for satellite TV, a technician will come out to install your satellite dish absolutely free. 

That means that you get to watch all the satellite TV you want for nothing up front. That’s what they mean by free satellite TV. Once the dish is installed, you’re free to roam the many channels you can only receive with satellite TV.

The dish the technician will install is probably ten inches to a foot in circumference and can be placed on your roof or even in your yard. If you live in an apartment, or another type of rental unit, ask your landlord what their procedures are regarding the placement of satellite dishes. Some apartment complexes require an extra deposit if you wish to have a satellite installed for your apartment, so make sure you are within the rules of the complex.

Some carriers may also offer a month free on top of the free installation. They do this because many people are used to cable. When they think of TV, they automatically think of cable. They hear the horror stories regarding satellite TV, usually that they aren’t very reliable, which is for the most part untrue, and they fear getting rid of their cable only to feel regretful afterwards.

The satellite carriers offer free satellite TV to entice those who would normally not have thought about getting satellite TV. Sometimes, the carriers will provide free satellite TV for a certain length of time and will allow you to try out, just to see how you like it. If you don’t, you can return the dish and the equipment and there is no obligation to sign up for service. This is a great way to see if satellite TV is for you and you should take advantage of it if you ever do run into a deal of this type.

For those with satellite TV, they love it and would get it even if it weren’t free. For those who have never had satellite and are curious, seek out a company that offers free satellite TV and try it out free of charge. If you like it, you can sign up and if you don’t, you can turn it back in and you haven’t wasted a penny.


