Title: 
Garmin And Magellan GPS Review

Word Count:
677

Summary:
Garmin Review:

Indisputably, Garmin is the world’s biggest manufacturer of consumer gps and the name has almost become synonymous with the product. The company has a long and envious history of producing quality and versatile GPS. Garmin has produced many kinds of GPS – some for automobiles, hikers, etc. Within each category there are different models to suit every activity.

For example the Garmin StreetPilot c340 has a text to speech functionality. So you have the adde...


Keywords:
Garmin GPS, Garmin GPS Review, Garmin GPS Nuvi


Article Body:
Garmin Review:

Indisputably, Garmin is the world’s biggest manufacturer of consumer gps and the name has almost become synonymous with the product. The company has a long and envious history of producing quality and versatile GPS. Garmin has produced many kinds of GPS – some for automobiles, hikers, etc. Within each category there are different models to suit every activity.

For example the Garmin StreetPilot c340 has a text to speech functionality. So you have the added advantage of hands free operation and then the ability to concentrate on the road whilst driving and not looking at the GPS display to see what is written there. This mode of operation can take complex commands such as Turn Right at Next Intersection. This feature is a big plus for people who need to keep looking ahead on the road whilst driving fast.

This device can also be fitted with a traffic receiver so you can get real time traffic information. With this
feature, you can avoid traffic jams, road, diversions etc so you can reach your destination quicker.

Garmin also has the Nuvi 200 which is quite basic compared to others by the same manufacturer. But they come with some interesting fittings such as the unit converter. For those who want enhanced functionality, you can subscribe to travel information services.

This low cost range has some good features too such as the SD card slot to allow for the installation of add ons like extra maps.

The favorite in the 300 series of the garmein GPS is the Garmnin. 396. This product is an improvement over the 200 series as it displays information on satellite weather, has colorful maps and displays terrain warnings. Perhaps the biggest feature is the ability of the 396 to warn the user of any disturbances in the area of approach. For example if there is war or a conflict, you are informed accurately. The 396 also deserves some commendation for its crystal clear images which are visible in even poor light.

Magellan Review:

Magellan GPS is the preferred navigation system by many people because of its high adaptability. You can use the Magellan GPS as a portable hand held device or mounted permanently in your vehicle to give weather, traffic and road directions.

The uses of the Magellan GPS are beyond description. As a navigation system you can use it to find your way in unknown cities – saving the time you spend asking people for directions and sometimes getting lost due to poor descriptions and cardinals. Aside that, the Magellan GPS can be used as a car tracker. If you had you car stolen, you can use the signals beaming from the system to track the location of the car.

Magellan GPS come in various models and each has its specialties. The Magellan Triton displays full color maps and data with excellent graphics. This product is very rugged and is waterproof. The Magellan Maestro is ultra slim and touch screen enabled. You can see your maps in 2D or 3D modes as you want.

This unit also has voice alerts so you do not need to read the instructions on screen.

The Magellan CrossoverGPS is pocket-sized but has all the advanced features of the car and hand held types. It is good for hiking, camping, fishing or other personal outdoor activity.

The Magellan RoadMate has thousands of road maps and Point of Interest data. So you never get lost with this device. You have both audio and visual road directions. The outstanding feature of the Magellan crossover is the Integrated Receiver Feeds LIVE incident reports that brings you real time update of road conditions.

The eXplorist can save tracks and other Points of Interest in a more versatile way than the others. The map can be expanded and has been designed for both right and left handed people. You have one touch access to all other features and the menu of the system. The backlight makes the display readable during day and night without trouble. Most importantly, you can customize the screen to display only the information you want.


