Title: 
Get Yourself A VoIP Headset And Reap The Benefits

Word Count:
340

Summary:
This article looks at what a VOIP headset is and how it can benefit you in either a work or home environment.

What is a VOIP headset and how does it work?

VOIP (Voice Over Internet Protocol) is one of the new kids on the block in communication technology, using the Internet instead of traditional phone lines to make and receive phone calls. You can call others and have them call you provided that you both have the necessary software on your computers, which is free to d...


Keywords:
voip headset, voip telephone headset, headset voip


Article Body:
This article looks at what a VOIP headset is and how it can benefit you in either a work or home environment.

What is a VOIP headset and how does it work?

VOIP (Voice Over Internet Protocol) is one of the new kids on the block in communication technology, using the Internet instead of traditional phone lines to make and receive phone calls. You can call others and have them call you provided that you both have the necessary software on your computers, which is free to download from a number of suppliers of residential VOIP services. It is also possible to call landlines and cell phones using this technology.

Normally to use your VOIP system effectively you would need to be sitting in front of your computer as the voice of the person you are speaking to will come through the speakers of your computer and you will need to speak into a microphone attached to your computer, only really convenient if you are always sat in front of your computer screen and even then it will not afford you any confidentiality.

Like having a headset for a traditional telephone, having a VOIP headset for your VOIP system will be just as convenient, affording you hands free communication wherever you happen to be.

A VOIP headset fits on you head in the same way as a headset for your land line with an ear piece and a small microphone that fits close to your mouth. Therefore you can hear the person's voice via the ear piece and talk into the microphone of the headset.

What are the benefits of a VOIP headset?

Hands free communication

Allows you to work whilst communicating, without being in front of your computer,improving efficiency

Have confidential conversations as the person you are talking to speaks into your headphones

Be prepared for calls by continually wearing the headset.

So a VOIP headset will allow you to take advantage of this latest technology and give you the freedom of a traditional hands free phone system.


