Title: 
Get Connected With Microsoft Dynamics CRM

Word Count:
671

Summary:
There are many different customer relationship management software options but none quite as superior or affordable as Microsoft CRM and you can choose between a locally installed program or you can get connected and have Microsoft do the hosting.

Microsoft CRM Connected provides you with all of the benefits of the stand alone software. Of course each method has their pros and cons. The biggest problem with hosted software is an ongoing expense month after month that never...


Keywords:



Article Body:
There are many different customer relationship management software options but none quite as superior or affordable as Microsoft CRM and you can choose between a locally installed program or you can get connected and have Microsoft do the hosting.

Microsoft CRM Connected provides you with all of the benefits of the stand alone software. Of course each method has their pros and cons. The biggest problem with hosted software is an ongoing expense month after month that never goes away.

Locally hosted has a larger cash outlay in the beginning but then it’s over with and you have minimum costs associated with it. It really comes down to which method fits your budget the best.

There is no question that the hosted CRM Connection solution gets you up and running faster and easier but then again you have no control over your software or your data which is stored somewhere else. Connecting to the host can be a perfect solution for smaller businesses that don’t have an IT department but want the benefits of a sophisticated reliable and flexible CRM package.

Each year more and more businesses decide to turn to ASP or Application Service Providers for their IT infrastructure and to host their applications and never has there been such an excellent CRM choice then with Microsoft Dynamics CRM. It’s great that Microsoft offers choice to their customers depending on individual company needs. The new connected version changes the dynamics completely.

You can access Microsoft CRM Connected from any web connection and you can integrate your Microsoft Outlook on your local server with your Microsoft CRM connected. It’s easy to set up, and you can customize it to your personal needs. It’s very flexible and you can also add Microsoft Business Solutions Financials to your integrated system. In fact there are also some third party applications that can be integrated. Add as many users as you like.

Whether your business runs 9 to 5 or is open 24/7 you have secure access to your online Microsoft CRM anytime, anywhere. And with your CRM software sitting on the web you don’t have to concern yourself with installing software, managing it, or upgrading it. Then again remember nothings for free and if you are going to be paying for the service of hosting. The simple pricing scheme can be easier on your pocket book initially but then you’ll pay forever.

Sure software is a big investment for any company and packages as complex, complete, and integrated as Microsoft CRM can be a bit hard on the budget – between hardware, software, and training the pocket book can become taxed to the limit. But – and this is a big BUT because this is an investment that you can write off and you don’t have an ongoing monthly expense.

Choosing the web based software may reduce your costs and training is just a matter of end user. Just open up, log in, and get to work and it doesn’t matter where you access it from. So whether you have one business location or locations around the world you will stay connected. On the other hand you will not really understand your software nor will you be in complete control of your software or data.

I know what you’re thinking – “If I outsource my stuff to Microsoft Dynamics CRM I don’t have to worry about a implementation.” Well sure but then again a good stand alone system leaves you as secure as a hosted site. Stuff can happen whether on a hosted site or stand alone and the key is to have a good backup system in place.

So really you can see where each has it’s pros and cons. Should you get connected with Microsoft Dynamics CRM or should you go stand alone. It really depends on your business and your budget. What’s for sure is that when you invest in Microsoft Dynamics CRM you never have to worry again about your customer relationship software.


