Title: 
Getting The Best Out Of Your Digital Camera

Word Count:
622

Summary:
Any digital camera has an array of functions and uses that enable the handler to take excellent pictures. However, many of the functions are not fully understood and the pictures are not of the best possible quality. Understanding these features enable the user to have complete control over their machine, and therefore get the best possible images.

Firstly the quality of the image that can be produced relies upon the resolution of the digital camera. This is made up of meg...


Keywords:
digital camera, photo, photographic camera


Article Body:
Any digital camera has an array of functions and uses that enable the handler to take excellent pictures. However, many of the functions are not fully understood and the pictures are not of the best possible quality. Understanding these features enable the user to have complete control over their machine, and therefore get the best possible images.

Firstly the quality of the image that can be produced relies upon the resolution of the digital camera. This is made up of mega pixels. The number of mega pixels determines the level of detail in the picture. The pixels are the tiny dots of colour that make up image. These look fine on the computer or screen. However, once transferred to the computer and enlarged, images containing a lower number of pixels show these dots and so the image is flawed. Therefore, for good quality images the best digital camera to choose is one that has a high number of mega pixels. 

The quality of the digital camera lens will also affect your picture quality. The lens should have a zoom feature, which enables you to zoom both in and out to create the perfect composition for your image. Each device will differ, but the concept is the same. The lens should be labeled with two zoom numbers; the smallest states the shortest possible zoom distance and the biggest number shows the longest possible distance. Consider the type of photographs that you are going to take when choosing your digital camera. If the pictures will mainly be indoors, then a lower number is required to be able to zoom out in enclosed areas.

The average digital camera will have an inbuilt auto focus function which will serve most amateur photographer`s needs. However, for more effects or for advanced photography, select a camera that has a manual focus option also. The auto focus can be turned off in some devices, which is an exceptional feature as the photographer can choose which option is best for the photograph being taken. 

Another consideration is the shutter delay on the digital camera. The shutter delay affects the quality of focus and composition. The delay means that the picture is actually taken some time after the button is pressed on the camera. This means that the subject of the composition may have moved, clouds may shadow the expected lighting effects, or that your hand may shake and so the image is distorted and blurred. A good way to combat this is to only half press the button when you are composing the picture. This activates the auto focus and prepares the device for the shot. When the button is pressed, the photograph will be taken much more quickly, and will help combat any distortions. 

Memory space is important if you want to take good photographs with your digital camera. Not only does this enable lots of storage, it also gives you the opportunity to take several photographs, in search of that one perfect shot. 

Any digital camera will have inbuilt storage but this is minimal, averaging around 16 megabytes in total. The memory space can be added to with the use of a memory card or stick. The type chosen will depend upon what is compatible with your camera. Any memory card or stick is good, and they go up to 2GB in size. It is important that the type chosen is compatible with your home computer so that the images can be transferred and stored, giving you access to more photographic opportunities.

This article is under GNU FDL license and can be distributed without any previous authorization from the author. However the author's name and all the URLs (links) mentioned in the article and biography must be kept.


