Title: 
Globalstar Satellite Phone Offers Reliable Service

Word Count:
494

Summary:
Although we are most familiar with cellular phones, there is a whole different breed of portable phones some people are not aware even exist. While cell phones rely on towers to transmit voice signals, satellite phones transmit through a variety of satellites in the sky. 

Because they rely on satellites, these phones can work even in places where cell phones can’t. This gives them the advantage for people who travel, like to hike or hunt in places not covered by cell phone...


Keywords:
satellite, satellite phone, globalstar satellite


Article Body:
Although we are most familiar with cellular phones, there is a whole different breed of portable phones some people are not aware even exist. While cell phones rely on towers to transmit voice signals, satellite phones transmit through a variety of satellites in the sky. 

Because they rely on satellites, these phones can work even in places where cell phones can’t. This gives them the advantage for people who travel, like to hike or hunt in places not covered by cell phone service, or people who have businesses that take them or their colleagues to remote locations often. These phones give you the peace of mind you can always be reached or reach someone if needed.

GlobalStar began offering its services in late 1999. This main premise behind their company is that nearly 50 percent of the world is without phone service. This accounts both for landline phones and cellular phones. The satellite phone is marketed toward anyone who often visits remote areas either for work or leisure purposes. These phones offer a means to communicate with the rest of the world even if you are miles from nowhere.

Satellite phones are similar to cellular phones and can even be used as cell phones when service is available. Generally, satellite phones are a little larger than the traditional cell phone because they require a larger antenna. This satellite antenna must be within sight of the main satellite in order for the phone to work. This means you can not use the phones indoors when in the satellite mode.

If you are thinking about investing in one of these phones, remember, good things don't come cheap. One of these satellite phones can set you back as much as $2500 for a fixed phone. A fixed phone is one you plan to install somewhere such as a cruise ship, personal boat or temporary office. 

If you don't have quite that much to spend on a phone, you can pick up a handheld, portable model for about $700. If you only need a phone for a short period of time, local dealers often have phones available for rent. Check with a dealer in your area for rental charges.

Remember, the price of the phone includes only the phone - airtime packages are extra. These packages include multiple choices for voice services as well as fax and data options. 

If you are willing to sign a contract stating you will use their services through June of 2010, you can get a discounted loyalty rate from GlobalStar. If not, you can expect to spend anywhere from $350 and up each year for programming for your phone. Reliability does come at a cost!

If you need a phone more reliable than even a cell phone, you might check out the option of a satellite phone. While these phones do give you the ability to communicate from where ever you may be, they also come with a fairly hefty price tag when compared to other phone services.


