Title: 
Goldmine – The Latest CRM Solution

Word Count:
477

Summary:
Customer Relationship Management solutions is an important and integral part of any business and GoldMine Enterprise Edition is an excellent solution. In fact it’s taken several awards.

The GoldMine Enterprise Edition is a complete Customer Relationship Management that reduces sales and marketing costs, increases revenue, and improves the entire customer experience. And of course you know what happens if your customers are happy. It’s a win-win for staff and customers.

...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Customer Relationship Management solutions is an important and integral part of any business and GoldMine Enterprise Edition is an excellent solution. In fact it’s taken several awards.

The GoldMine Enterprise Edition is a complete Customer Relationship Management that reduces sales and marketing costs, increases revenue, and improves the entire customer experience. And of course you know what happens if your customers are happy. It’s a win-win for staff and customers.

The innovative technology that drives GoldMine means you have a great deal of flexibility, and mounds of features. It has a full analytical platform, access of customer information across departments, and a dashboard that makes it easy to navigate and requires very little training to get your staff up and running.

This innovative software allows you to be much more sensitive to your customers needs and in a real time mode. No more putting them on hold for hours or having to call them back. And happy customers buy more, spread the word about your company which can increase sales. On top of that all that cohesion between departments and less wasted time means costs are decreased. Overall it’s good for the bottom line with increased profits.

One of it’s unique features is the ability to morph to your business’ specific needs. For an out of the box product that’s pretty darn impressive. GMEE is the new CRM solutions standard and it’s designed to adapt the software to your business model rather than having to change the business to work within the software. That gives you terrific potential to get the most out of this software without spending a fortune.

Because your contact and prospect data is all stored in one repository the central customer database means that much of your services can be automated decreasing the number of hours your staff are spending on menial tasks.

Your customer’s history is only a mouse click away and it doesn’t matter if you are in technical support, sales, or the manager. You can instantly see pending activities, history on purchases, technical support, repairs, and just about anything else you’d need to know.

You can close more sales by creating a sales methodology that is consistent with your sales processes and your new CRM GoldMine software.

GoldMine Enterprise Edition lets managers automatically assign tasks, projects, and create rules and processes across departments, territories, or based on any business rule they define. It doesn’t get any easier than this!

With GoldMine everyone is ahead of the eight ball and knows exactly what is going on so there is no missed communication or misunderstandings, no foul ups with the customers, and with everything running so smoothly staff have time to attack larger projects.

Your GoldMine Enterprise Edition software is a small investment compared to the increase in revenue you can experience.


