Title: 
Goldmine Software Sales Automation Software

Word Count:
432

Summary:
Goldmine Software has earned a reputation for providing quality sales automation software but it has also decided to enter the contact center market. The 32 bit version of this contact management software is readily available.

This is a product that not only automates your sales division but offers you all kinds of tools such as report writing capabilities with spell checker and graphical organization charts. You are going to impress them with this quarters report! You als...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Goldmine Software has earned a reputation for providing quality sales automation software but it has also decided to enter the contact center market. The 32 bit version of this contact management software is readily available.

This is a product that not only automates your sales division but offers you all kinds of tools such as report writing capabilities with spell checker and graphical organization charts. You are going to impress them with this quarters report! You also get a calendar where you ca schedule all your appointments and activities and it’s been improved considerably since the previous version. Finally let’s not forget about the ACT! Import Wizard. This piece of software is no wimp. It’s packed with power to get the job done.

FrontOffice 2000 integrates with Goldmine providing sales personal, marketing staff, and call center agents with a single complete customer database which quickly provides them with whatever information the need to know about the customer and the products the customer has. This unified system ensures that everyone has up to date information on the customer.

Managers love it because with the click of a mouse they have a complete overview of what’s happening in their department and they can now quickly and effectively track not only problems but trends and patterns too. As well they can monitor their department’s activities and communication and they can compare it across departments. It’s a powerful tool for managers to find and correct internal problems.

With departments being able to quickly trade information managers are much more able to ensure cohesiveness not only in their own department but across the board. You don’t even have to be in the office because it can all be accessed remotely.

This program might not bring you all the bells and whistles of larger packages such as Siebel’s but this is solid technology for the average budget and it goes from the box into production with no technical support required. This is a turnkey piece of software and it was designed with the small to medium call center in mind.

Goldmine Software offers training and lets you tap into the full power of this software. You can pay for on site training or have a few staff attend classes at there site. That said this software is also easy enough for staff to learn on their own. The training however gives you the skills to get the full power out of the Goldmine Software.

Goldmine Software certainly is the right name because any business running it is sitting on a gold mine.


