Title: 
Hands-free Conversations Through The Cell Phone

Word Count:
525

Summary:
It is always a great advantage if you can carry on a conversation through your cell phone without hampering the use of both hands.  The cell phone, even with its multi-faceted functions in your everyday life also has the distinct disadvantage of being a device which should constantly be held with one hand and should be held near your ear when you talk to somebody through it.  

The Enhancement in Cell Phones:

Although some cell phones feature speakers for a hands free op...


Keywords:



Article Body:
It is always a great advantage if you can carry on a conversation through your cell phone without hampering the use of both hands.  The cell phone, even with its multi-faceted functions in your everyday life also has the distinct disadvantage of being a device which should constantly be held with one hand and should be held near your ear when you talk to somebody through it.  

The Enhancement in Cell Phones:

Although some cell phones feature speakers for a hands free option when talking, this is generally unwise since users rarely want their neighbors to hear bits and pieces of their conversation, right?  Loudspeaker options in some cell phones  are commonly used for playing music and videos on a cell phone and it is imprudent and irresponsible for cell phone users to use this feature when talking to somebody else on the phone.  

Technological advances have been made to remedy this and one such advance is the use of headsets and headphones that enable you to talk to somebody without the inconvenience of holding the cell phone to your ear.  Headphones for the cell phone function more like a normal earphone but with an enhancement of a microphone in it to enable the user to listen and talk to the recipient of the call at the same time.  This enhancement is great but long wires trail from your cellular phone to your ear every time you use them.  Dangling wires are also irritating and a bit frustrating for some users.  This may be the reason why the manufacturers of such headsets moved on to introduce the Bluetooth enhanced headphones for a more convenient use.

The Bluetooth Enhanced Headphones:

The innovation of Bluetooth enhanced headphones for cellular use rapidly provided a solution for the constant hassle of dangling wires.  It promptly brought users to the latest breakthrough in technology for cellular phones.  Linking your cell phone to a Bluetooth headphone is not a problem since most cell phones offered in the market today also include Bluetooth connective features.  Computers also offer the same Bluetooth features, making this enhancement device not just compatible with the cell phone but with the computer as well.  Pairing passwords are needed to connect to your cell phone or PC though.  What’s great about the Bluetooth headset is that when you carry a conversation with someone through your cell phone, you do not need to carry your cell phone with you when you are within the range or distance that the Bluetooth covers.  Simply carry the Bluetooth headset with you and you can easily answer a call.  The ease and convenience of not having to hold your cell phone, not dealing with dangling wires and having a multi-functioning headphone is indeed tempting, right?  

One downside to a Bluetooth Enhanced headphone though is that it is quite bulky.  Extensive technological innovations have been added to make this headset function and a battery is added for its power source so you have to be prepared for this headset to be a bit uncomfortable when first used.  But when compared to the benefits of having one, mere discomfort may not be bothersome, right?


