Title: 
High Quality Fiber Optic Splice Tent For Fiber Cabling Contractors

Word Count:
302

Summary:
Now everybody enjoys the convenience of emails, instant message, great web sites and even VoIP phone calls that high speed fiber optic communication network provides. But have you ever wondered how those magic fiber optic cables are installed from San Francisco to New York?

One secret weapon all those fiber optic cable installers must have to conquer the rough task of installing fiber cables in 50mph windy days, 120°F hot summers and -40°C freezing winters: A high quality ...


Keywords:
fiber splicing tent, fiber splice tent, fiber optic splice tent, cable splicing tents, work tents


Article Body:
Now everybody enjoys the convenience of emails, instant message, great web sites and even VoIP phone calls that high speed fiber optic communication network provides. But have you ever wondered how those magic fiber optic cables are installed from San Francisco to New York?

One secret weapon all those fiber optic cable installers must have to conquer the rough task of installing fiber cables in 50mph windy days, 120°F hot summers and -40°C freezing winters: A high quality fiber optic splice tent.

Fiber optic splice tents provide outside plant fiber installers a peaceful work space even in those harsh outdoor environments. They are highly portable (in most cases) and can withstand up to 60mph wind.

Some fiber work tents have a reflective suncap to effectively reduce temperatures in the tent. Typically, temperatures inside of a fiber optic splice tent can be reduced to 20% below outside temperatures. The suncap is made of metalized fabric, designed to reflect the sun’s heat rays.

Some tents are designed for aerial line work. They have rotatable clamps so the tent can be fastened to a strand or gate guard without any additional hardware. They even have fiberglass legs for added safety.

Fiber work tents come in many different sizes and configurations. They range from 4’x4’x6.5’ up to 12’x10’x8.5’. Specialized fiber splice tents are designed for ground work, aerial line work and many other applications.

How to set up a fiber optic splice tent in just 30 seconds

1. Lift roof strut and uncover the fiberglass rods

2. Grab rods connected to roof struts-raise and spread

3. Raise high enough for bottom rods to spread out tent side

4. Hold upper rod with one hand-push disc out and down with other hand

5. Grab rods connected to roof struts-raise and spread

6. Spread lower legs push out and down

7. Pop out side


