Title: 
How To Compare HTML Online

Word Count:
516

Summary:
If you're a webmaster to the Internet, and you want to create a slick and well built website, you might be at a loss as to how to go about it. Well, first and foremost you will need some type of basic HTML skills. While you don't actually have to be able to write HTML or get really in depth with JavaScript or any of that, you at least have to understand the nature of and be able to compare HTML tags and what each tag means and what they represent. This understanding can only ...


Keywords:
compare html,compare web page,compare htm


Article Body:
If you're a webmaster to the Internet, and you want to create a slick and well built website, you might be at a loss as to how to go about it. Well, first and foremost you will need some type of basic HTML skills. While you don't actually have to be able to write HTML or get really in depth with JavaScript or any of that, you at least have to understand the nature of and be able to compare HTML tags and what each tag means and what they represent. This understanding can only be achieved by in-depth study, but there is a simple way to skip all the hullabaloo that is associated with learning to code and compare HTML and write webpages on the Internet. The user can simply go to the website of their choice that they believe is elegant and aesthetically pleasing or is otherwise well-written, such as the websites where the proper search terms and keywords are well-placed or what ever other details the user is seeking out are present when they compare HTML. Once the suitable website has been located the user can simply click on the view button at the top of the screen in their web browser and go to view > source and see the raw HTML that the website has been written in. Whatever content that the user sees on the website that he likes, it's easy enough to compare HTML and modify webpages, providing that the user knows something about how to compare HTML and the nature of the encoding.

By following these simple steps, even a novice webmaster can compare HTML from assorted sites and cut and paste into a simple program such as Notepad or WordPad and doctor up all the HTML to create the effect that they hope to achieve in their webpage and coding. A unique trick with using the compare HTML technique is to take bits and pieces of different websites and combine them into a new and unique website of your own design. This takes very little effort other then the cut and paste that is included in the user's text editor software. In this way you can take advantage of the work that has preceded you and was conducted by other people by simply cutting and pasting the best bits that you enjoy when you compare HTML from other users and webmasters.

It is always important to remember that webmasters should always be careful of copyright law on the Internet, as plagiarism is illegal and can be prosecuted for extreme punishments. While very few would say that stealing HTML could be construed as copyright infringement, the content and text written on the webpage itself is covered under copyright law no matter how you may translate the HTML. Using the compare HTML technique is safe and effective when used in small amounts and the technique of swiping bits and pieces from different websites and combining them is utilized. Providing that the webmaster does not steal any copyrighted material, there should be nothing but positive effects from the compare HTML technique.


