Title: 
How To Get More Life From Your Black Ink Cartridge

Word Count:
432

Summary:
Having a printer is great, but the costs for the ink cartridges can get out of control, especially for businesses that a large number of printers to purchase ink for.  Having your office at home can be costly as well, as you will most likely be using your printer on a daily basis, not to mention the kids using it for their homework.  Many homes today have multiple computers, which means multiple printers. Of course, the easiest way to go would be paper-free but unfortunately ...


Keywords:
printer ink, inkjet supplies, refill ink, discount ink cartridges, inkjet cartridges


Article Body:
Having a printer is great, but the costs for the ink cartridges can get out of control, especially for businesses that a large number of printers to purchase ink for.  Having your office at home can be costly as well, as you will most likely be using your printer on a daily basis, not to mention the kids using it for their homework.  Many homes today have multiple computers, which means multiple printers. Of course, the easiest way to go would be paper-free but unfortunately that doesn’t always work.  By following a few simple guidelines, you can extend the life of your black ink cartridge.

The use of draft printing will extend the life the cartridge immensely, as this option allows you to print with minimal ink.  This also speeds up the printing, as well, so you get the paper in half the time as you would have, printing it in the best quality mode.  Save the best or top quality for your final print.  

You can choose this option from the file tab and choosing the print option.  This will open the box for printing and print choices.  You will want to choose the paper/quality tab and select the setting for printing such as the draft quality. Your file will print at a lower resolution allowing you to save on the ink.

If you're dealing with a long document, print two sheets to a page if you can. Your printer may allow you to print two pages side-by-side in 'landscape' orientation -- and you'll save on paper costs, too. 

Reduce your inkjet costs by economizing on ink when you are able to do so.  Make sure to keep your ink cartridge supplies ready for when you need to do high resolution printing.  

You may want to consider out-sourcing your big printing jobs as it may be cheaper to have a print shop print your big jobs than it is to buy a new cartridge to get the job done at home.  Many places will allow you to place your order online, allowing you to pick up at your convenience or you can even have them mailed to you.

If you are not using your ink often, you may want to consider an ink cartridge case.  This will keep the cartridge from drying out and will keep it free from dust and particles that can clog when it sits too long.

Stretching your ink doesn’t have to be difficult. Just use the ink wisely and follow a few simple guidelines to help you get the most out of your ink.


