Title: 
How To Choose A Dvd Player

Word Count:
545

Summary:
Whether buying for yourself or a gift for a loved one, finding just the right DVD player isn't as easy as it seems. There are so many formats, sizes and added features for DVD players today that you might sift through hundreds of players before finding the right one at the right price. Use this quick guide to compare the types of DVD players available on the electronics market.

DVD Player Sizes

Determine what size player you will need. If you're adding a DVD player to y...


Keywords:
dvd, technology, tech


Article Body:
Whether buying for yourself or a gift for a loved one, finding just the right DVD player isn't as easy as it seems. There are so many formats, sizes and added features for DVD players today that you might sift through hundreds of players before finding the right one at the right price. Use this quick guide to compare the types of DVD players available on the electronics market.

DVD Player Sizes

Determine what size player you will need. If you're adding a DVD player to your home entertainment system, determine where you will put it and how much space is available. Normal-sized DVD players can be rather wide so you'll want to be sure of your available space before shopping. DVD players are also very thin in height and most have a slot on the front that slides in and out for inserting the DVD. This is great if you have a wide space that is limited in height.

For odd-shaped spaces or very tight spots, there are different sizes and shapes of DVD players. These are usually available at electronics stores online so you'll have plenty of styles to choose from. The vertical DVD player, for example, sits upright similar to a vertical computer drive. It comes with a stand to hold it in a sturdy position. If you still have your old VHS collection, there are DVD/VHS combo machines that play both formats. This saves space as well. Also available are super slim DVD players and "space saver" DVD players to fit your personal needs.

Types of DVD Players

Once you determine the size you'll need, you're ready to compare name brands and features at the electronics store or website of your choice. You can often find many different brands and styles of players at one single electronics mall online. This will allow you to compare without spending hours searching through many websites.

Some of the features you'll see include progressive scan, time-slip recording, EZ editing, zoom, slow motion, HD (high definition) DVD, front audio/video input jacks, CD-R/-RW playback, MP3-CD playback, D/A converter, favorite scene selection, TV Guardian, and many others. You may not find one particular DVD player that carries every feature, so it's wise to determine which features are important to you before selecting a player. Which features will you likely use the most? Which will you probably never use?

You'll also notice there are many brand names for DVD players. Some of the well-known brands include Philips, Coby, Emerson, Toshiba, Magnavox, Sanyo, and Panasonic. Pricing for DVD players can range from around $50 to $500 depending on the features you choose.

If buying a DVD player for your child, there are also players with children's themes. The player will actually look like the child's favorite cartoon character! To find the DVD player that's right for you, search online by brand name, features, or price to compare. Or, you can visit an online mall to compare all in one location. Besides electronics, you can also find other great items at an online mall such as computers, laptops, lingerie, pets, automotive products, telephones, jewelry, household products, toys, and more. Take your time to find the DVD player that will meet your needs. You'll enjoy years of quality entertainment!


