Title: 
How To Protect Or Hidden Your Personal Folder

Word Count:
326

Summary:
Do you have many sensitive files and documents that don’t want others to visit or modify. Does your company has some important data to protect. Now this tool is an ideal solution for you to keep your data security. Folder Lock is an easy-to-use tool to create a password protected folder, which you can use to store all your sensitive files and documents. The application was design by New Software, Inc. and work with Win98/ME/2000/XP/2003/Vista. It’s very small and only 2172 KB...


Keywords:
security,software,downloads,reviews


Article Body:
Do you have many sensitive files and documents that don’t want others to visit or modify. Does your company has some important data to protect. Now this tool is an ideal solution for you to keep your data security. Folder Lock is an easy-to-use tool to create a password protected folder, which you can use to store all your sensitive files and documents. The application was design by New Software, Inc. and work with Win98/ME/2000/XP/2003/Vista. It’s very small and only 2172 KB. This review is form SoftSea.com – it provided the latest software reviews with downloads for free trial. All software are safe and friendly.

The folder is completely hidden while it is locked, and the files and folders contained in the Locker are inaccessible from Windows Explorer or even DOS mode. The program is very easy to use, it offers a simplistic interface that lets you unlock/lock and open the protected folder, and then simply drag new files into the Locker. Folder Lock offers 3 different protection methods (lock, scramble and 256-bit Blowfish encryption). You don’t have to keep folder lock running all the time in order to keep your files protected, just launch it when you need to gain access to your protected area or want to add new files.

The program is completely self-contained, and you can use it to protect removable drives (e.g USB drives) and transfer data securely from one location to another without the need to install any software. Additional features include file shredding, stealth mode, hack attempt monitoring and more.

Folder Lock offers a free trial, but only can be experienced 30 days free and some features are disabled. Its current version is 5.7.5 and you can get registration for only $35.00. It’s standalone software and does not need any extra software and hardware requirement. What are you waiting for? Download the free trial now and experience what powerful and effective it is at once!


