Title: 
How To Capture And Download Flash

Word Count:
315

Summary:
When you find some Flash files on the web page are displayed which you will be interested in. and you want to save these on your computer or send to your friends, Some useful tools which will capture and download Flash files from web pages makes your download process easier and faster. I recommend three tools, Flash Saver 6.0, Flash Capture 1.72 and Easy Save Flash 1.41.

Flash Saver is a flash dowload tool that can help you download Flash files from the Web easily and quic...


Keywords:
Capture Flash,Download Flash,Flash Saver


Article Body:
When you find some Flash files on the web page are displayed which you will be interested in. and you want to save these on your computer or send to your friends, Some useful tools which will capture and download Flash files from web pages makes your download process easier and faster. I recommend three tools, Flash Saver 6.0, Flash Capture 1.72 and Easy Save Flash 1.41.

Flash Saver is a flash dowload tool that can help you download Flash files from the Web easily and quickly. Flash Saver provides many search and download modes. The easiest way to search and download Flash files is by a right click on the web page, Flash Saver will show all the Flash files on the current page. It can automatically check if it has installed the Flash plug-in.

Flash Saver 6.0 enables you to save all Flash animations from web pages, including Flash Websites, Flash games, Flash MTV, Flash Movies, Flash advertisements, or what ever Flash files you find in the web by using the shortcut bar and hanging windows. You need just click once! Flash saver is a fantastic "What You See Is What You Get" flash saver making tool!

The another useful tool is Flash Capture, Flash Capture is a program to download Flash files (*.swf) from the web pages you are browsing. It analyses the HTML code in the web pages and find out the Flash files. Features include: download flash files from the url you type; search flashs file in your cache files; preview flash files.

The third useful tool is Easy Save Flash, This Internet Explorer plugin adds a new toolbar that allows you to save Flash, IMG, music and others files embedded in Web pages to a local drive. Save Web pages to BMP or JPEG files. Repair your start page and unlock registertools. Clear IE listboxcache, cookies and history. View source of Web page.


