Title: 
How Can You Stop Spam Emails?

Word Count:
507

Summary:
Are you having problems with Spam emails, like thousands of us we receive a few spam emails everyday in our email account. But if you don’t have any spam email protection you are more likely to receive hundreds of spam emails every week, so what can you do about this?

The first thing to do is to get anti-spam software installed on your computer this does help alot and can prevent you from receiving the hundreds of spam emails you don’t want. Most email accounts now have an...


Keywords:
How can you stop SPAM emails, spam, spam filter, anti spam


Article Body:
Are you having problems with Spam emails, like thousands of us we receive a few spam emails everyday in our email account. But if you don’t have any spam email protection you are more likely to receive hundreds of spam emails every week, so what can you do about this?

The first thing to do is to get anti-spam software installed on your computer this does help alot and can prevent you from receiving the hundreds of spam emails you don’t want. Most email accounts now have anti-spam software included but there are some when this is not an option, you just have to press the Junk button when you receive junk emails this does reduce them but no where as much as other email account operators. An account like AOL has anti-spam software on your email account so when and if you do receive spam emails they go directly into the Spam box. This is a good thing but you do have to check if frequently as some emails that aren’t spam do make there way into the spam box, the easy thing to do it click on the email and click on the button Not Spam, this tells AOL that it isn’t spam and from then onwards that email address will turn up in your email inbox not your spam box. This is called email filtering and accounts like Hotmail, Yahoo and Google all use this kind of software to help their users get the most out of their email account.

Microsoft Outlook 2003 and 2007 have an automatic spam protection which catches spam and places into a junk email box, this sometimes can catch regular emails too but it defiantly helps you would just need to check the spam box.

Other ways to help you stop unwanted spam getting into your email account inbox is to choose a long email address which is a combination of letters and numbers with punctuation marks. Don’t click on links on spam emails as this will allow more spam to affect you, as well as don’t open spam attachments, don’t reply to spam emails, only give your main email address to your friends and family and don’t post it on your own website or on internet directories, don’t buy products, services or donate to charity via spam emails if more people take this action the less spammers will send, if you use a spam filter report spam that gets to your inbox so the filter can block it as spam next time one is sent and finally if you do have junk spam folders check them regularly as some regular email may get through.

If you take the precautions shown above you have a very good chance of reducing the spam reaching your regular inbox, the more people who do this and everyone doesn’t respond to the spam emails, links and attachments the more likely spammers are to stop sending these spam emails. We all need to fight spam today!!!


