Title: 
How To Turn Your Computer Into A Virtual Casino

Word Count:
843

Summary:
It's astonishing to me at how quickly the world has changed.

When I was growing up -- and it wasn't that long ago -- if I wanted to have any sort of gambling excitement, I'd have to go and take a trip to either Las Vegas or Atlantic City. (Okay, there was also a weekly poker game in my Uncle Frank's basement but I didn't like to go there because he always cheated.)

Now, part of what I loved about going to an actual casino was that they had the one game there that I actu...


Keywords:
roulette, gambling, casino, betting, games


Article Body:
It's astonishing to me at how quickly the world has changed.

When I was growing up -- and it wasn't that long ago -- if I wanted to have any sort of gambling excitement, I'd have to go and take a trip to either Las Vegas or Atlantic City. (Okay, there was also a weekly poker game in my Uncle Frank's basement but I didn't like to go there because he always cheated.)

Now, part of what I loved about going to an actual casino was that they had the one game there that I actually did fairly well at -- roulette.

Unfortunately, there just weren't many places where I could actually play roulette. It's one thing to invite some friends over for a friendly game of poker but it's something else to pick up the phone and go, "Hey, guys, how about coming over and playing roulette at my place?"

You'd be surprised at how many people don't really want to take you up on an offer like that.

Now, don't get me wrong -- I love poker and blackjack and even playing the slot machines. But for me, roulette was always something that I managed to do a decent job at winning. Granted, I didn't win big -- but I sure did better than when I sat down to play poker. (I'm not going to mention the time that I lost my Fiat Spyder to a full house.)

One day, I was mentioning this situation to a buddy of mine and he said,

"Why don’t you try playing online roulette?"

Now, I'm not exactly the most computer literate guy in the world -- and the thought of actually playing an online roulette game seemed a little weird to me. For one thing, I was afraid that I'd wind up with a crooked casino or something and the next thing I'd know, there'd be a couple of guys at the front door who wanted to repossess my house.

"It's not like that," he said. "There are places that are totally legit -- and where you can actually make some pretty good money."

And that's when he told me about a site that explained all about online roulette and which also provided an eBook at no charge to the people who visited the webpage. Naturally, that set off alarms in my head. I'm one of those guys who has learned that there's no such thing as a free lunch -- and some of the things out there that are "free" have cost me more than I'd like to recall.

But there's something that I learned a long time ago from my father. Whenever an opportunity would come along, he'd always check it out. He might not have bought into it but he always went to see what it was about. I asked him why he would do that and he said, "I'd hate to think that I'd let the chance of a lifetime slip by just because I was too lazy to look into it."

So I went to the website and to my surprise, it was on the level. I checked it out and there was information that was useful to the beginning player (as well as the advanced player) and I didn't even get the slightest whiff of something being amiss.

But does anyone really play those online roulette games?

The answer is a resounding YES! In doing my research, I found out that some of the online sites have a steady stream of customers -- and some of them are constantly paying out to players in the know.

In fact, the website that I went to had an offer for an eBook -- and they didn't want anyone to pay until they had tried the book out. Right there, I tried to figure out what the catch was -- and I found out there wasn't a catch. It was one of those places that was just convinced that they had a useful product and that people would pay money once they saw that it worked.

The site I'm talking about is http://www.RouletteMadeEasy.com.

So, after checking out some of the websites and after looking through the book, I decided that I'd go ahead and give it a whirl -- and to my amazement, I actually started to make money. At first, it was only a little bit but before I knew it, I was actually making some real money.

The amazing thing is that when I showed my friends the system and they tried it, they discovered that I wasn't exaggerating about the amount of money that they could make. In fact, one of my buddies from the auto repair shop has earned enough money from online roulette to actually pay off his house.

Is everyone going to make that kind of money? Probably not -- but one thing that I've learned is that by playing sensibly and by using some of the systems that are available online, just about anyone can walk away from the table a winner.

I don't know about you but I sure like those odds.


