Title: 
How To Sell Your Digital Pictures

Word Count:
543

Summary:
Digital photography has created new opportunities for photographers of all skill levels to make money from the sale of their pictures. It seems like a new photography website goes online every minute and it appears this healthy market will only continue to grow. This makes now the perfect time for opportunistic amateurs to learn the secrets of selling their digital images.

The first step in forming your own picture selling empire is to make sure you take the right pictures...


Keywords:
pictures,photography,camera,stock,photograph


Article Body:
Digital photography has created new opportunities for photographers of all skill levels to make money from the sale of their pictures. It seems like a new photography website goes online every minute and it appears this healthy market will only continue to grow. This makes now the perfect time for opportunistic amateurs to learn the secrets of selling their digital images.

The first step in forming your own picture selling empire is to make sure you take the right pictures. Since most of the people who your buyers will be using them for design purposes, it is important that your capture the popular topics. This can be things like nature pictures, tourist attractions, or action poses. Just think of anything that might be useful in publishing a website or magazine, as this is the audience you want to appeal to.

Next you need to edit your photos as necessary. Fine tune the colors and review each picture to make sure it is crystal clear and very vibrant. No one will want to buy a picture that is out of focus or dull. You may also need to crop your images to center the subjects or eliminate unwanted items in the background. You can also use the cropping feature to resize the image so it focuses on a particular subject or element.

Once your pictures have been proofed, you are ready to take them to the market. There are literally hundreds of websites that will host your images and pay you a percentage of each sale that is made through them. This could be from the direct sales of your portfolio, or even when someone clicks on an advertisement within the page your image is hosted on. The hardest part is determining which sites offer the best deal for your situation and finding who offers the largest payouts.

Once you have experimented with uploading your images to the different online marketplaces, you then need to monitor your success and try to determine patterns within the sales. Ideally you will find a specific niche or subject that seems to sell well for you. Since photography is an art form, some people take better shots of certain subjects. By testing the waters, you can improve your chances of finding that profitable niche that can generate thousands of dollars.

After you have experienced your taste of success, it is important to continue to seek new opportunities. Get involved with the online photography community and learn from the experiences of others. You can visit some of the many picture-related blogs and photography forums where people discuss the different ways you can make money in the photography market. The key is to network and always strive to learn more about your craft.

Selling your digital pictures is great way to make some extra money and subsidize your photography hobby. The learning curve for making consistent profits can be frustrating for beginners, but following the tips laid out in this article should help. The best advice is to jump right in and start gaining experience. Take tons of pictures and upload as many as you can to a wide variety of profit sharing sites. You will soon get the feel for what sells and what is a waste of time.


