Title: 
How To Watch Free TV On Your PC

Word Count:
365

Summary:
Technology has come a long way and with the Internet this is no exception. One technology that has advanced rapidly is satellite TV which will allow you to watch free TV on your PC. Two methods exist and are described below.

Hardware based:

Requires specialized hardware attached to your PC known as PCTV cards. Depending on your preference, there are two types of TV tuner cards, one is internal and the other is external.

- External hardware:

Usually comes in a box ...


Keywords:
watch free tv on your pc,watch tv online,satellite tv for pc


Article Body:
Technology has come a long way and with the Internet this is no exception. One technology that has advanced rapidly is satellite TV which will allow you to watch free TV on your PC. Two methods exist and are described below.

Hardware based:

Requires specialized hardware attached to your PC known as PCTV cards. Depending on your preference, there are two types of TV tuner cards, one is internal and the other is external.

- External hardware:

Usually comes in a box that connects to your PC via USB port (USB 2.0 will perform best) or audio/video inputs. Wireless solutions also exist and can be used with media centers for a home theater system.

- Internal hardware cards are more popular since they are PCI based and easy to install. They also eliminate the bulky hardware that is required with external connections. For best picture and audio quality the cost of the hardware can be expensive.

The other end will be connected to your telephone line Dish, or cable line depending on the type of broadband access you are subscribing to.

Software based:

Requires no hardware. Software can be downloaded onto your PC instantly. Once installed, the television channels are streamed through your connection. The faster your connection, the better picture and sound you will get. A Broadband connection will deliver much improved audio and video, while a modem connection at 56k pitcher and audio quality will be less desirable.

There are no complicated installation processes, you simply download it and then click install, it couldn’t be any easier. There is no need to be a computer wiz to operate this system, which makes it so appealing to the average person. Best of all there is usually no subscription needed.

When deciding which solution is the best, for me it's software based. The low cost and flexibility can't be beat. If you travel a lot, having Satellite on your PC will help pass the time away if you have a wireless connection and can connect to a network. Sure beats sitting in an airport for hours waiting for your flight to depart. At least you can watch free TV on your PC anywhere in the world.


