Title: 
How To Send SMS Text Messages Online For Free

Word Count:
454

Summary:
Mobile phones, undoubtedly, can be labeled as the greatest invention of modern times. They make our life easier with their countless advantages, one of which is the highly effective SMS or Short Messaging Service. SMS is the general term for the technology which provides people with the ability to send and receive text messages via mobile phones.

With recent technological advancements, free international sms messages can now be sent on a global level anywhere in the world ...


Keywords:
sms, free sms, international sms, global sms, mobile phone, cell phone


Article Body:
Mobile phones, undoubtedly, can be labeled as the greatest invention of modern times. They make our life easier with their countless advantages, one of which is the highly effective SMS or Short Messaging Service. SMS is the general term for the technology which provides people with the ability to send and receive text messages via mobile phones.

With recent technological advancements, free international sms messages can now be sent on a global level anywhere in the world through many online service providers. And the best part is that you don’t even need a mobile phone if you have a computer. You simply register with the desired information on any of the sites that offer free SMS service and just follow the simple instructions. There is a space for the mobile number of the recipient, as well as space for the message. It depends on the free sms provider, but usually, the maximum number of words allowed is generally fixed at 137 characters. However, some India sms providers allow even more than this. SMS messages can include words, numbers or any alphanumeric combination. Also, binary format is usually supported.

Some free sms service providers offer many additional services to senders, such as delivery confirmations or replies. This way, you'll be able to track your sent messages and see when it gets received. Also, if you opt for replies, the recipients can even reply back to you. This two-way sms communication without spending a dime is possible only through a free SMS service provider on the Internet.

Considering the fact that you usually have to pay to send SMS, sending free, international SMS through online sms service providers is a great, quick way to communicate with friends and family. For example, In the United Kingdom, messages cost £0.10, and with people sending tens of messages each and every day, costs can mount up.

Also, writing a text message using your cell phone just takes too long compared to using your keyboard. Even on the most modern mobile phones with advanced predictive text messaging, it can be very difficult and time-consuming to write a message. Just think how quick it is to type a message on your computer keyboard, it is much quicker than using your mobile phone.

Being free, some messaging services are reliable, some do not work at all, and others are very slow. Also, many services will add and advert to the bottom of your message, although this does not cause much problem, for, it does reduce the number of allowed characters.

Be very careful when registering for a free SMS service. Not all are as free as they claim to be, some send chargeable sms messages to your phone, making the service rather expensive.


