Title: 
How To Find A Good Computer Tech

Word Count:
522

Summary:
When your computer is having definite issues and you have tried all you can possibly think of to repair the problem, short of throwing the computer right out the window, it may be time for you to contact a computer tech. Depending on your budget you have one of two options when it comes to getting a technician to help you with your computer hardware or software issues and these are free solutions or paid solutions.

If you can find a good computer tech using a free solution...


Keywords:



Article Body:
When your computer is having definite issues and you have tried all you can possibly think of to repair the problem, short of throwing the computer right out the window, it may be time for you to contact a computer tech. Depending on your budget you have one of two options when it comes to getting a technician to help you with your computer hardware or software issues and these are free solutions or paid solutions.

If you can find a good computer tech using a free solution then that is great. In some cases, websites such as IT Help Desk, Data Doctors, Experts Exchange, or GeekSquad, can be sources of great technicians, if you are lucky enough to find them. The thing about these places and online forums that offer help is that you never really know if the person on the other side really knows what he or she is talking about or if they are just using big words to make it seem like they do. It could be very risky to take advice from someone on these websites. However, in most cases you might find that the solution is quite simple and they really are loads of help to your situation.

Paid solutions are generally the best bet. While they may cost you some money, you will typically get someone to your house, in person, to actually look at your computer. If you simply do not have a good solid computer tech in your area, you might want to consider a nationwide service that provides you with certified technicians that are both qualified and experience, who actually guarantee the work done on your computer.

The internet and yellow pages might be viable solutions for you as well. However, when going this route, you will want to make sure that you are getting someone competent, honest, reliable, and experienced. The following tips will help you understand what you should be looking for a good computer tech.

1. Take a look at the skills specified by the technician. You want to make sure that the tech has experience in the areas that surround your system such as your computer type, the operating system, hardware, network, and software.

2. Find out if the computer tech holds any degrees, certificates, or licenses. If not, question the tech on how many years they have been working in the field.

3. Manners count in this field. You want to make sure that the computer tech is accommodating and polite, as well as willing to explain the process of the repairs.

4. Professionalism is a key factor as well. You want the tech to look neat, clean, have appropriate dress, and show up on time.

5. Make sure the costs are competitive, comparable, and reasonable in regards to the costs of others in your area.

6. You want to ensure that the tech completes the work needed in a timely fashion and on schedule, with little leeway.

Overall, if you check out the above tips, you will have no problems in finding a good computer tech to help fix your computer problems, before you have to throw it out the window.


