Title: 
How To Identify Poor Quality Printer Ink

Word Count:
321

Summary:
Most people who own a computer printer have run into print quality problems at some point or another. One page the printer is doing great, the next page the printing is spotty or blurry.

Most people suspect the printer as soon as these problems crop up, but the fact is it is more often the ink that is at fault. This can be even more true if you use refilled ink cartridges with your printer.

Most modern printers are made to work with specific types of ink, and if you use...


Keywords:
printer ink, inkjet supplies, refill ink, discount ink cartridges, inkjet cartridges


Article Body:
Most people who own a computer printer have run into print quality problems at some point or another. One page the printer is doing great, the next page the printing is spotty or blurry.

Most people suspect the printer as soon as these problems crop up, but the fact is it is more often the ink that is at fault. This can be even more true if you use refilled ink cartridges with your printer.

Most modern printers are made to work with specific types of ink, and if you use a slightly different ink in the cartridge it can have a huge effect on the print quality. When you go to refill the ink, it seems simple enough - either black or the 3 colors (blue, red, yellow). There is a vast difference, however, in black from one type of ink to another and even more so with the colors.

When you use the proper ink in your printer, your prints will be sharp and clear, with bright, accurate colors. They will also last for many years without fading or losing their color.

The wrong type of ink will result in blurry, smudged prints with dull colors that may not be accurate to the original picture.

When replacing your ink, whether refilling your empty cartridge or buying a recycled cartridge, you need to be sure that the ink is specifically compatible with your brand and model of printer.

For example, if you have an Epson printer you need to be sure to use an ink that is specified as Epson compatible. If you use an ink that is made for an HP or Canon printer, your print quality will not be what you expect.

If you are refilling your own ink cartridges, be sure that you follow the refill instructions correctly. Today's printers are pretty high-tech and they are extremely dependent on the quality of ink and the fitness of the cartridge.


