Title: 
How To Save Money On Your Inkjet Printer Cartridges

Word Count:
357

Summary:
If you've ever bought inkjet printer cartridges, whether for your own business or your employer, you know how expensive they can be. It doesn't really matter what industry your business is in, you've probably got reams of reports, announcements, invoices and other paperwork that you have to print regularly.

The end result of this constant stream of printing is that you have to replace the ink in one or more of your printers on an ongoing basis. This can send your monthly o...


Keywords:
printer ink, inkjet supplies, refill ink, discount ink cartridges, inkjet cartridges


Article Body:
If you've ever bought inkjet printer cartridges, whether for your own business or your employer, you know how expensive they can be. It doesn't really matter what industry your business is in, you've probably got reams of reports, announcements, invoices and other paperwork that you have to print regularly.

The end result of this constant stream of printing is that you have to replace the ink in one or more of your printers on an ongoing basis. This can send your monthly office supplies expenses through the roof, particularly if you buy your ink cartridges from your local office supply store. If you do a lot of printing, you can save quite a bit of money by ordering your ink online instead.

Online ink retailers generally save you money in 2 ways. First, the "branded" ink from your printer manufacturer is usually less expensive. Online merchants don't have the same overhead as a traditional "bricks and mortar" store, and they pass that savings on to you in lower prices. They're counting on the fact that they'll make up the difference in volume.

The other way you can save on your printing costs is by using remanufactured ink cartridges. As you would expect, these are recycled cartridges that are sold under a generic name.

These ink cartridges are recycled versions of the original ink that have been thoroughly cleaned and tested to be sure they will continue to work properly. They are refilled with ink that meets the original manufacturer's standards.

This remanufacturing has not always worked well, but it has come a long way in the last several years with most users reporting results as good or better than the original ink.

And according to an article from USA Today, these remanufactured cartridges can sell for up to 85 percent less money than their original brands. This adds up to a lot of money over the course of several months or years.

Printer ink will always be necessary for any office, in spite of the computer industry's promise of a "paperless" office. If you can save some money on these cartridges, that will go directly to your bottom line.


