Title: 
How To Select The Right Digital Camera For Yourself

Word Count:
612

Summary:
Capturing moments was never so easy before digital cameras came into the photography world. Ever since, there has been a big international market dealing with digital cameras. Japan, South Korea and China have been the main players in manufacturing new digital cameras since its inception.  Today, no media house can run without digital cameras. Forget media agencies, in our day-to-day life, we have started considering digital camera as a handbag's must-keep item. It has truly ...


Keywords:
digital camera, photo, photographic camera


Article Body:
Capturing moments was never so easy before digital cameras came into the photography world. Ever since, there has been a big international market dealing with digital cameras. Japan, South Korea and China have been the main players in manufacturing new digital cameras since its inception.  Today, no media house can run without digital cameras. Forget media agencies, in our day-to-day life, we have started considering digital camera as a handbag's must-keep item. It has truly given a new definition to the world of photography. 
 
Many kinds of digital cameras with different features are hovering around the market today. And you need to decide on your choices and pick up the right one that fits your clicking needs. You must have already heard a lot about the top brands such as Kodak, Nikon, Canon, Minolta, Sony, Panasonic, Polaroid, Olympus, Fujifilm, HP, Samsung, etc. This article discusses features of famous brands and models of digital cameras to help you select the right one for yourself. 

To start your selection process, you must consider whether you are looking for small and compact pocket camera, an advanced camera, a high zoom capability camera, or an SLR camera. These can range from USD 100 to USD 2,000. You will need to take your pick based on your budget and requirements. 

What are the features that you should compare between brands while selecting a digital camera? The most important feature is its resolution in mega pixel. In simple language, this figure tells you how much you can expand your picture without parting with its quality. The higher the resolution, the better. But this doesn’t mean that you have to go for the highest available model in the market. Usually people print photos that are sized 4x6 or 5x7 inches. So for these photo sizes, any camera above 4 mega pixels will deliver great results.

Other feature that you should evaluate is zoom-in capability. Optical zoom and digital zoom are different terms. Optical zoom means actual zoom done by the lenses, while digital zoom simply increases the size of the picture display without increasing any details. In simple terms 3x optical zoom means you can get three times closer picture of the image you see with your eyes. For this reason, optical zoom is better.

The third important feature is compatibility with other devices. Find out if the camera you are going to buy is compatible with your computer, printer, memory card, USB drive, etc. Cameras have inbuilt flash memory but the space is limited, so you would have to buy external memory cards, popularly known as Secure Digital Card (SDC) and Multi Media Card (MMC). 

The next important feature is the size of the screen that provides digital display of the image instantly. These screens were the major reason that digital cameras replaced conventional cameras so fast. The screen gives you the ability to review the image and delete the ones you do not like. The LCD digital camera screens are up to 3 inches in width. 

The other features that make your camera more convenient include automatic light adjustment, automatic flash, red-eye reduction, file format (TIFF, RAW or JPEG), audio and video capability, image stabilizer, manual controls for aperture and exposure, camera speed, weight and size, body type, battery type (lithium of normal), battery life, picture modes for morning light, day light, cloudy day, etc.

The varieties and features of digital cameras are so many that it becomes really difficult for a first-timer to select one. This is worsened by everyday technological advancements. But all the features mentioned above impart a whole new dimension to photography and they make it easier for even an amateur to click great quality pictures.


