Title: 
How To Select The Best Gaming Laptops

Word Count:
373

Summary:
Most veteran PC gamers know exactly what they want in a gaming laptop, and those who have the time and money have probably already built their dream computer themselves, but if you are a little newer to the field, a little more fond of the smaller notebook footprint, or a little less comfortable with a do-it-yourself computer, you need to be armed with these basic facts before purchasing your gaming laptop.

The three most important components for any high-end laptop are th...


Keywords:
gaming laptops,best gaming laptops,laptop for gamers,laptops,laptop,notebooks,notebook computer


Article Body:
Most veteran PC gamers know exactly what they want in a gaming laptop, and those who have the time and money have probably already built their dream computer themselves, but if you are a little newer to the field, a little more fond of the smaller notebook footprint, or a little less comfortable with a do-it-yourself computer, you need to be armed with these basic facts before purchasing your gaming laptop.

The three most important components for any high-end laptop are the processor, RAM and graphics card. Since you are building a gaming rig, you will want to focus on your graphics card first and foremost. Make sure you load up the video memory with at least 256MB and remember to select a notebook that has a dedicated graphics card. Integrated graphics simply cannot handle any modern, 3D gaming.

The next most important component is your processor. Dual-core CPUs are the hottest thing out right now. Ideally, you want to stay within the top two or three fastest dual-core CPUs, in terms of processor speed, that are currently available at the time of your purchase. This will ensure that your notebook is fully optimized for all of today's latest 3D games.

The third most important factor in the speed of your laptop is RAM. You will need at least 1GB to safely play most 3D games without any memory bottlenecking, although most hardcore gamers opt for 2GB or more just for the added punch and/or bragging rights.

The fourth and final tip would be to go with 7200rpm hard drives, as these will definitely speed up load times by adding some extra horsepower to your gaming machine.

With recent advancements in mobile technologies, laptops are now becoming more and more popular in the gaming community, as the prospect of a portable gaming rig that can produce desktop-like performance on the go is something that appeals to all gamers. Just remember to follow these four simple guidelines to ensure that your laptop will be able to meet or exceed all of the hardware requirements for your gaming sessions.

This article may be republished freely as long as this copyright notice and box of resource links are included at the bottom.

Copyright © 2007 MALIBAL, lLc


