Title: 
How To Choose The Ideal Photo Shop Video Tutorial

Word Count:
581

Summary:
There’s no denying that Adobe Photo Shop is a great tool to learn using. Once you’ve mastered the basics, you can edit and change your photo in about a hundred amazing ways already. But there will come a time when you want to learn more, and that’s when the need for a Photo Shop video tutorial comes in.

How to the Ideal Photo Shop Video Tutorial
Time is precious, and you could end up wasting lots of it if you have to check Photo Shop video tutorials one by one until you f...


Keywords:
photo shop tutorial,adobe photo shop tutorial,free photo shop tutorial


Article Body:
There’s no denying that Adobe Photo Shop is a great tool to learn using. Once you’ve mastered the basics, you can edit and change your photo in about a hundred amazing ways already. But there will come a time when you want to learn more, and that’s when the need for a Photo Shop video tutorial comes in.

How to the Ideal Photo Shop Video Tutorial
Time is precious, and you could end up wasting lots of it if you have to check Photo Shop video tutorials one by one until you finally hit the jackpot. To make the search quicker and easier, ask the creator of the Photo Shop video tutorial the following options.

What is the Video All About?
Let’s say you’re interested in creating layers with Photo Shop, and the title of the Photo Shop video tutorial seems to match your needs. But don’t let that fool you. Ask for a brief but detailed summary of the video and you might be surprised to learn that they’re only teaching about one or two steps of creating layers. It doesn’t explain the whole process when that’s exactly what you need.

For What Level of User is the Video Designed?
Most video tutorials can be categorized according to the follow user types: first are the beginners, novices, and amateurs; second are the advanced or intermediate users, while the last are the experts and professionals. In which category do you belong to? Is the video intended for your group?

Are Step by Step Instructions Provided?
It’s very important that each step is explained in chronological order. No step must be skipped by assuming that the viewer already knows about it. If the Photo Shop video tutorial isn’t explained in this fashion, you could get a bit confused in the middle or latter part of the presentation.

Are There Subtitles Provided?
Even if the Photo Shop video tutorial is using English as its medium, subtitles are still needed not only for the sake of deaf people, but also so that viewers won’t miss out on anything important. Subtitles will allow them to simply read instructions in order to catch up with the presentation when they’re lagging behind.

Other Factors to Look for in a Photo Shop Video Tutorial

Speed – The speaker must make the presentation in normal speed so you won’t have to press the rewind or back button frequently. Ideally, it must be timed in such a way that you won’t have any problems following directions while watching the tutorial.

Props – What equipment and other presentation tools are used in the tutorial? Are screen captures the only things the video tutorial consists of? Do they include before and after images?

Teaching Methods and Miscellaneous Features – Is there a FAQ section provided to address the most common problems regarding the topic? Does the video tutorial use only one teaching method – show and tell – or does he try to make things more interesting by using other methods? Are there sound effects used in the video tutorial?

By basing your choice of video tutorials on these factors, you’ll be able to select one that not only meets your criteria but enables you to learn in amazing speed as well. But in case you don’t find what you’re looking for, most video tutorial makers accept requests and suggestions so don’t hesitate to send one if necessary!


