Title: 
HP Compatibility With Ink And Others

Word Count:
476

Summary:
One of the advantages of being a larger company in a specific industry is your ability to make specialized products. You see it all the time in any industry. In the sports industry, a number of larger companies can make fitted helmets because they have the financial resources to do so. In the computer industry, places like Dell have the ability to sell a wide range of products because of their financial infrastructure. This is also true in the printing industry with companies...


Keywords:



Article Body:
One of the advantages of being a larger company in a specific industry is your ability to make specialized products. You see it all the time in any industry. In the sports industry, a number of larger companies can make fitted helmets because they have the financial resources to do so. In the computer industry, places like Dell have the ability to sell a wide range of products because of their financial infrastructure. This is also true in the printing industry with companies like HP that have the financial ability to make a wide range of specialty products available. What is more interesting than that however is the fact that a lot of the specialty products that HP produces vis-à-vis HP ink and other printing accessories is actually compatible with the wide range of their other printer kit products.

The ink that is manufactured by HP is different depending specifically on what the chemical structure of the ink particle is. An ink particle is not just created from some natural substance anymore; there is a process that goes into manufacturing these particles artificially so that they have certain chemical characteristics that the manufacturing company wants them to have. In the case of inkjet, it might be one thing and in the case of remanufactured ink products, it might be another. The goal with ink cartridge products, regardless of what kind of ink they contain, is to make the products themselves compatible with things like high quality paper such as the photo paper put out by a number of different companies.

So we know already, based on what HP has said in their press releases as well as the results of a number of independent lab tests that have been done, that the chemical compatibility of HP ink and the other materials that exist in the HP printing system is there. What exactly does this mean? It ultimately means that the chemicals that are in the ink and the chemicals that are in the paper react well with one another. It also means that the particles in both are appropriately sized so that even if the two do not end up mixing, they can co-exist in the same space without one having a negative effect on the other with its presence.

A lot of the times, chemical compatibility is there when you don’t notice anything. If you are able to go ahead and print something out and notice that everything looks great, then that is a sign of chemical compatibility. Without that type of compatibility, there are a number of bad things that could happen with the printing that would make you want your money back. Printing is one of those areas where if everything is constructed properly, you don’t notice, but if something is constructed poorly, you tend to notice it right away.


