Title: 
Hp Printer Cartridge Buying Tips

Word Count:
421

Summary:
HP has been a leader in printer industry for a long time.  HP printers come in a wide selection, including the deskjet ink printers, laserjet printers, business inkjet printers, photo printers and designjet printers.  Despite keen competition from other printer manufacturers, HP printers remain the most popular choice for home and business users.

The popularity of HP printers means that there is a huge aftermarket for HP printers.  Indeed, consumers have many choices when ...


Keywords:
ink cartridges, printer cartridges, printer supplies, printer ink, laser toner


Article Body:
HP has been a leader in printer industry for a long time.  HP printers come in a wide selection, including the deskjet ink printers, laserjet printers, business inkjet printers, photo printers and designjet printers.  Despite keen competition from other printer manufacturers, HP printers remain the most popular choice for home and business users.

The popularity of HP printers means that there is a huge aftermarket for HP printers.  Indeed, consumers have many choices when they want to replace their HP printer cartridges.  Here are some useful tips that can help you maximize your savings.

1) Remanufactured and compatible cartridges – HP has recently made a deal with Staples to remove all compatible HP cartridges from Staples retail stores.  The move is considered as a victory for HP in the battle for printer aftermarket but this battle is far from over.  Remanufactured and compatible cartridges are still readily available from major computer stores, office supply stores and hundreds of online ink / toner cartridge stores.  These cartridges are in great demand because they offer a savings up to 30-50% compared to OEM cartridges.  

2) Ink refill kits and ink recycling programs are another alternative for bargain hunters.  Although it is a bit less convenient than buying a brand new cartridge, refilling ink cartridges is environmentally friendly and helps you save even more than compatible cartridges.

3) Combo pack – no matter whether you are purchasing compatible cartridges or OEM cartridges, you can usually get a discount buying the bulk pack or combo pack.  If you are shopping from online stores, you can also enjoy free shipping when you buy several packs at the same time.

4) Online shopping – HP online store sells their OEM cartridges with free shipping.  You can sign up for their MyPrint Rewards Club to get exclusive discount on ink and toner.  Other online vendors also have OEM, remanufactured or compatible HP cartridges available at discount prices.  

5) Coupon codes – many online vendors selling compatible cartridges provide coupon codes which give an additional 10-15% off on top of the original discount.

6) Warranty period – check the warranty period of your cartridges before purchase, especially if you are buying in bulk.  A long warranty period means that you don’t need to open the packages and use the cartridges immediately but can return them at a later date if you are not satisfied with the quality.

7) Compare price and service – compare the price at different vendors, their shipping policy, warranty period and shopper’s satisfaction rating.  Buying from reliable vendors can save you lot of money and hassles in the end.


