Title: 
Human Brain And Memory Process

Word Count:
656

Summary:
The memory process in the human brain is very complex. No computer has come close to the capacity of the human brain as of yet. However, it is only a matter of time before computers will have overcome the human brain's power with the fusion of nanotechnology and biotech resources, expected within the next 20-30 years. Scientists have been discovering and uncovering each part of the human memory system in order to help better understand how we encode our memories, and retrieve...


Keywords:
contract jobs, telecommute, nursing , IT , web, part time , work from home , project based, fixed pr


Article Body:
The memory process in the human brain is very complex. No computer has come close to the capacity of the human brain as of yet. However, it is only a matter of time before computers will have overcome the human brain's power with the fusion of nanotechnology and biotech resources, expected within the next 20-30 years. Scientists have been discovering and uncovering each part of the human memory system in order to help better understand how we encode our memories, and retrieve them as well. Understanding these memory processes can help parents to improve the prospect of a higher education for their children early in life, and help people improve the quality of their memory and recollection processes.

You can think of the process of storing memories in your mind to be similar to that of a computer that utilizes RAM (Random Access Memory) for the temporary storage of information before being placed in long-term storage on the hard drive. This temporary storage, or working memory, depends on a different network of brain structures than long term memories do. Psychologists refer to storing memories as an encoding process--a procedure for transforming something a person sees hears, thinks, or feels into a memory. Scientists have determined there are different methods in how we lay down our memories.

Memory functions in the brain in a very complicated fashion. To date, scientists are unable to design computers that can compete with the human brain. But, it is promising in the next two or three decades that scientists may be able to devise advanced computers with the help of nanotechnology, cybernetics and biotech resources. Scientists and researchers have put their wise efforts to discover and uncover all the elements of the human memory system in order to get a better understanding of its encoding and retrieving processes. These understandings are crucially important for improving the quality of an individual’s memory and recollection process.

Our thought, senses, memory and actions all influence distinct sets of nerve cells and chemicals within our brain. The hippocampus, the amygdale and close areas of temporal lobe are associated to the cortex with the help of complex nerve cells. This actually forms the fundamental structure of our memory system. When a nerve cell in the brain gets activated, a low-charged electrical potential is sent to the axon. This helps in releasing brain chemicals or neurotransmitters, which attain across the synaptic gaps between nerve cells and bolt onto the corresponding receptors. The nerve cells that obtain the brain chemicals then send the signal along to other relevant nerve cells. This happens like a relay race.

When the same signals are received repeatedly, the synaptic changes occur more efficiently contributing to the physical changes among synaptic connections. This is how the human brain stores memory on a long term basis. Scientists and researchers assume that the changes in particular synaptic patterns in folds and ridges of human brain contribute to memory encoding for lengthy time span. In fact, convoying electrochemical associations constituted between different cells in human brain help storing memory including thoughts, skills, knowledge and experiences.

There are debates on the distribution of memory over the human brain. While some scientists assume that human brain constitutes memory in a particular region within the brain structure, some others claim that human brain does not localize memory within a particular territory, that is, memory is all over distributed through out the brain structure. Scientists claim that the cell functions corresponding to learning and memory process are indistinguishable at the biological level. In fact, proof has been already established in the support of the strong correlation between learning process and memory system. It is also assumed that to execute the learning process, the human brain employs multiple memory systems, each of which is engaged to encode different sorts of memory functions.

For Information on Contract,Telecommuting and Part time Jobs in India Visit http://www.bharathcontractjobs.com/index.php


