Title: 
Identity Theft Is Not Science Fiction

Word Count:
490

Summary:
With the staggering proliferation of Personal Digital Assistants (PDAs) in recent years, a wide range of computer users have found themselves owning one or more of those "miracle" portable electronic systems that contain important files as well as personal information. Belonging to the same category, desktops and laptops -also known as notebooks- have been used extensively by people around the globe as mobility has recently become another major concern for computer users. Exi...


Keywords:
Identity theft, miracle, science fiction


Article Body:
With the staggering proliferation of Personal Digital Assistants (PDAs) in recent years, a wide range of computer users have found themselves owning one or more of those "miracle" portable electronic systems that contain important files as well as personal information. Belonging to the same category, desktops and laptops -also known as notebooks- have been used extensively by people around the globe as mobility has recently become another major concern for computer users. Existing in a wide product range and offering numerous applications to their end-users, contemporary computers have become important digital devices for a wide range of audiences, who usually stored in them a wide range of personal files or use them for their online navigations. From the busy housewife to the college computer geek, laptops have given everyone the opportunity and the ability to perform any necessary functions as well as to be able to decide physically where they wish to be at the time of their operation. But, today's computer users have to combat a great enemy called: identity theft.

Identity theft occurs when someone uses your personal information, usually without your knowledge and especially without your consent, to commit fraud or theft. Although this problems existed before the Internet or the extensive use of computers, these two have made it far more easier for skillful frauds to take advantage of others inability to detect such a criminal act and use people's names, addresses, bank accounts, personal identification numbers or credit card information to commit unlawful acts. In fact, the problem of someone invading one's privacy has greatly been examined over the years as extremely well-designed systems monitor others actions and report them to those interested in operating under another person's identity.

Since such evil schemes are not a matter of science fiction anymore, it is possible for people to be caught into these highly skilled individuals' nets and spend weeks of agonizing thoughts on where or how their personal information might have been used to harm others or themselves. For that reason, after a series of complaints from victims to financial institutions, banks have begun to check alleged frauds and claims that identity theft has taken place. With multiple incidents reported in the last five years of such malicious intent, users of computers and portable digital assistants have increased their demand to be offered the necessary security measures whenever they attempt to visit websites and need to report highly personal information online in order to purchase a product or service. But keeping yourself aware of such dangerous individuals is not enough. Due to the technologies evolving, one should frequently update the necessary security systems so as to minimize the stress associated with online navigation. Finally, avoiding publishing personal codes, passwords, credit card numbers and any other personal information, if not adequately reassured by trusted sources that possible threats can and will be detected, is considered a must in today's vulnerable online environment. Be aware and be prepared.


