Title: 
Identity Theft The Threat Of Our Times

Word Count:
415

Summary:
The numbers on identity theft demonstrate how many thousands of people are affected, and these statistics also show that large numbers of dollars are lost per annum.  The banks and  financial institutions lose huge amounts of money, and individual people lose vast sums of money and reputations.  Both lose time that cannot be recovered investigating the crime and trying to redress the damage done.  

The troubles and funds are so staggering that people must take every precau...


Keywords:
online security,security,identity theft


Article Body:
The numbers on identity theft demonstrate how many thousands of people are affected, and these statistics also show that large numbers of dollars are lost per annum.  The banks and  financial institutions lose huge amounts of money, and individual people lose vast sums of money and reputations.  Both lose time that cannot be recovered investigating the crime and trying to redress the damage done.  

The troubles and funds are so staggering that people must take every precaution to protect themselves from the consequences.  Identity theft prevention must be front and foremost on the priority list of individuals and institutions.

Identity theft prevention is of such high importance because the troubles caused by this hideous crime can drag on for many months and years after the occurrence of the crime.  The individual involved can cancel their credit cards immediately, and their sums of money can be restored to their accounts relatively fast, but the effects could last for years. 

Folks might not even be aware for years all of the effects after they become casualties of identity theft. Everyone should take positive steps toward identity theft prevention. The primary measure in favor of identity theft prevention must be to protect your personally identifiable information from the perpetrators of these crimes.  

Everyone should know which items of personal information they should protect to elude its revelation to the criminal mind looking for it.  Social security numbers and bank account numbers must be on the list of items to ensure identity theft prevention.  These numbers must never be disclosed to people except for official reasons.  

These numbers should never be said out loud where other people are around. In other words, don't give out your social security number at the bank where other people can hear.  Identity theft prevention requires that you do not give out your passwords to important accounts.

Other pieces of information must be protected, but these items are not completely as important as the account numbers, social security numbers and passwords. Everyone should protect the information that arrives through the post. Any mail item that contains account numbers, passwords and social security numbers must be fully destroyed before they are disposed of. 

Criminals go through the garbage to gather important information.  These criminals will put together pieces of mail that they get from the refuse.  Identity theft prevention demands that everyone circumspectly monitors the information they put out on the internet.  These thieves have the means to trick folks into revealing their private information.


