Title: 
Images on Killacodes

Word Count:
436

Summary:
Killacodes is an interesting website, it has the variety of dimensions to it and it has a range of different types of layouts as well.


Keywords:
Killacodes,Images,website


Article Body:
The image category for killacodes is vast, it starts with hundred types of different animations, arrows, banner, blinkies doll, blinkies text, bunny, button, cars, cartoon, celebrities female, divider, funny, icon, kao anis, miscellaneous, name, pixel blinkes, pixel image, Neopats, Pixel name, playboy, sport, tagboard, text and quotes, text signs pix, text welcome and word. 

The link to the images on Killacodes is http://killacodes.com/index.php/images. Images can also be created easily on Killacodes. 

Images of any kind that come in the category of entertainment, culture, design, art, web page templates, web design resource, image hosting, visual arts, virtual photo galleries, computers and internet and the layout pictures can be uploaded. 

Images are the integral part of the website and they provide a famous look to the website. They fill the website with colors of different kinds that add an exceptional look and give a very well observed site to the observer. 

Killacodes website is usually entertained with number of different images, image is an art and killacodes is dramatically overtaken by the different art images on it. There are glittery images which also are one of a kind and they look very different and appealing as well. 

You can also easily create an image scroll on your own, that would your scroll. If you wanted to own a icon you can choose your icon click on ‘get icon strip’ write your comment, choose color and generate HTML code to advertise it on any website. There are also many different kinds of smiley, there are two thousand and plus smiles you can choose from. 

The different sub categories under images are animations, romantic, icon, clip and decoration. There are over 10,800 animation images on killacodes. Some of the categories are alcohol, angels, animals, babies, bears, birds, body, books, bugs, bunnies, butterflies, cartoon, cats, Christian, colorful, communication, diddles, Disney, dividers, dogs, dragons, elephants, expression, faces, fantasy, fishes, flags, flowers, foods, funny, girl, holiday events and much more…

These images can be used on either your site or you can have their codes generated through the website. The interesting thing about this website is the variety of images that can bring color to your website. These images are mostly used on Myspace and other websites where people use these images all the time. These images can also be used on the email which can be interesting or something different. 
Nowadays people use images for different kind of purposes whether it is an email a normal message, but images of different kinds are just becoming popular, and the images on this website gain popularity for the site itself.


