Title: 
Improving Home Security With A Personal Computer

Word Count:
525

Summary:
In the computer era today, personal computer is more than just a tool to accomplish office tasks or to play games. There is actually a close relationship between information technology and home security, since you can use your PC to help you protect your home. With computer, many security tasks can be done automatically.

In the past few years, the traditional way to record an access violation is to use video security equipment by connecting video cameras to a TV and VCR. T...


Keywords:
pc security system, pc survaillance system, home remote monitoring, home remote surveillance, webcam


Article Body:
In the computer era today, personal computer is more than just a tool to accomplish office tasks or to play games. There is actually a close relationship between information technology and home security, since you can use your PC to help you protect your home. With computer, many security tasks can be done automatically.

In the past few years, the traditional way to record an access violation is to use video security equipment by connecting video cameras to a TV and VCR. The VCR will then record everything captured by the video cameras. As the price of a VCR is quite low today, you can use it for security purposes at a little cost. There are also magnetic media-based recording devices with a time-lapse recording feature. This is useful to extend the time in which the device can perform recording.

You can also perform the job by using your own PC easily. In this case, with the help of surveillance software, the computer can record any events digitally. It differs from VCR, you will be able to save captured videos in a digital format which is easier to archive and edit. Moreover, such system can also be set up to start recording when it detects any movement.

There are many other advantages of using a PC as a security system. Today's modern PCs are designed to be able to get connected to various devices. For instance you can connect spy cameras to your PC and perform covert surveillance. With a video capture card to convert analog to digital signals, this system can be set up very quickly. If you want you can even use the web camera that you usually use for chatting to perform remote monitoring and surveillance.

Using your PC as a surveillance system doesn't mean that you have to stay in front of a computer to get an immediate warning when there is something bad in your home to occur. Some types of webcam security software even provide SMS-alert facilities. This permits you to use your cellphone to get an instant warning if there is an access violation at your home.

Depending on the software you use, there are various types of security tasks that can be accomplished with the help of your PC. For example, you can make your PC sound an audible alarm whenever it detects a motion near the door or window of your house.

However, if you want to use your PC as a home security system you should spend enough time when selecting the software package. Although most brands of software provide similar features, there are some activities that can only performed by a particular brand. Some brands of software are more expensive than others, but they likely provide a higher degree of protection.

An affordable PC based security system like this is especially useful when you are not at home. For instance, when you are at work or are on a vacation. This system allows you to concentrate on your tasks or to enjoy your vacation away from home, because it will send you a notice instantly of something undesirable happen in or around your home.


