Title: 
In Step With New Technology: Cool Collaboration Tools And Snap Decisions

Word Count:
552

Summary:
Business or not, most decisions must be made in a snap. Now what if you're still using the old technology of distributing emails and waiting for responses from co-workers and clients, or even your friends and relatives? You’ll be missing some opportunities if you're not using collaboration tools that go with web conferencing.

Quick, Your Answer Please!

Working with a non-profit organization and seeking donors for special projects? Sometimes it can be a problem if you ju...


Keywords:
collaboration tools


Article Body:
Business or not, most decisions must be made in a snap. Now what if you're still using the old technology of distributing emails and waiting for responses from co-workers and clients, or even your friends and relatives? You’ll be missing some opportunities if you're not using collaboration tools that go with web conferencing.

Quick, Your Answer Please!

Working with a non-profit organization and seeking donors for special projects? Sometimes it can be a problem if you just can't be available when they are. Time and money is wasted if you are after fast decisions from donors who happen to be on the move all the time. With collaboration tools, you can reach them through their mobile phones.

When the donor wants to share a file, you can immediately upload different types of files. You can also share these files with those interested to review what you have to say before they send your organization the checks to fund meals for the homeless and children living on the ghettos. In this type of venture, every minute counts, that's why you need collaborative tools on the ready.

Not only can you reach your donors, but you can add more color to your social life. You can show off pictures and files because of voice and chat features afforded by conferencing tools for virtual conferencing or meetings. No need to hop on a plane or squeeze through traffic just to reach the meeting place.

The technology is indeed an amazing one. Whoever thought one would be able to talk to people scattered all over the globe at the same time without incurring stupefying telephone bills and sending files through snail mail or the expensive cargo forwarders? No more nail-biting and sleepless waiting for replies or decisions. You have the answers you need in real time.

File Sharing Can Command Instant Decisions

Collaboration tools make it convenient to share different types of files. All you have to do is prepare the files you want shared with prospective donors, clients, co-workers, or friends. During these virtual meetings, you have the luxury of threaded discussions and drag and drop file sharing. All these features provide the best environment for brainstorming and working out strategies or wrapping up deals.

Information can be disseminated quickly if you are using the more sophisticated conferencing tools, such as quick consensus building, online chat rooms, prioritizing and voting, discussing action plans, website maintenance, and administration of website content.

You'll be helping other workers meet deadlines via the web by sharing files too. So in shopping for collaboration tools, make sure you know the needs of your organization. Whether you handle big or small conferences online, a smart choice of collaboration tools will render you savings in both time and money because decisions need not hang in the balance.

The ultimate trick is up your alley. You've got to have the best presentations that are not tedious, difficult to follow, and outdated. Like other organizations vying for donation, you have to tap your reservoir of creativity in coming with ingenious presentations.

You have to be original and be able to present new ideas. The better presentation of old ideas always sell. When you've got the collaboration tools, better be armed to the teeth with all those strategies to cop the biggest donation ever.


