Title: 
Information On Nokia Cellular Phones

Word Count:
495

Summary:
You have made the decision to get a cellular phone.  All of your family and friends have joined the wireless revolution and they have been nagging at you to get one-if for no other reason than for safety.  So, now, it is time to start thinking about what type of instrument you want and which features it should have or that you want it to have.

You know that Nokia is currently the world's largest manufacturer of mobile telephones, and that they believe that design, brand, e...


Keywords:
cell phone, Nokia cell phone, nokia cellular phone


Article Body:
You have made the decision to get a cellular phone.  All of your family and friends have joined the wireless revolution and they have been nagging at you to get one-if for no other reason than for safety.  So, now, it is time to start thinking about what type of instrument you want and which features it should have or that you want it to have.

You know that Nokia is currently the world's largest manufacturer of mobile telephones, and that they believe that design, brand, ease of use and price are very important considerations to customers.  Their products include camera phones with features such as megapixel cameras and MP3 players which appeal to the younger consumers.   

In fact, they are currently the world's largest digital camera manufacturer in the form of camera-equipped mobile phones. There are more than 100 different styles and model phones available on the market today.  However, only a few of them are displayed in your local stores-they just do not have the space available to show you every model.  If you want to take the time to really do your research, the place to do this is on the internet.  You will be able to view each style of phone and to read about its features.

Nokia cellular phones come with many extra accessories.  These include an extra battery, home chargers, car chargers, travel chargers, faceplates, data cables, leather cases, carrying cases, hands free headsets (including Bluetooth) and many other accessories.  

Features on your cell phone may include a VGA camera with video capabilities, stereo FM radio, EDGE high speed data, speakerphone, and navigation systems.  You can even send and receive messages with image, sound and text; have mobile internet, high speed data transmission, and personalize your phone in numerous different colors.  Some phones even have features such as calendar, images and ringing tones in gallery, Java games and applications, phone books, multimedia and text messages, and to-do notes. 
   
Nokia even has a data cable that you can connect your phone to your personal computer to manage your phone book and your to-do list. You can make a colorful statement with Nokia phones by expressing your individuality and style with colored covers, wallpapers and themes.  You can even tune in to your favorite FM radio station by simply pressing a special short-cut key and you can share your music through the integrated hands free speaker.  This lets you always listen to your music.  You can also record audio messages and send updates to your friends or you can use their email feature.

No matter which Nokia cell phone you choose, you have a wide variety of options available to you.  Select the phone that meets your personal style and needs and enjoy the flexibility of being able to talk any time, any where!  You will be glad that you decided to finally get connected and to have a Nokia cell phone—you never know when you will need to use it.


