Title: 
Innovation Never Stops In The Mobile Industry

Word Count:
513

Summary:
Always remember that someone somewhere is making a product that will make your product obsolete - Georges Doriot

As the saying goes, from the Motorola Dyna-Tac of 1973 to the Nokia N-95 of 2007, mobile phone technology has evolved more in the past three decades than computer technology has in the past six decades. The number of mobile phones outnumbers the population in 30 countries (according to Informat Telecoms and Media), and 80% of the world’s population today can hav...


Keywords:
nokia, cell phone, mobile phone, pda, bluetooth


Article Body:
Always remember that someone somewhere is making a product that will make your product obsolete - Georges Doriot

As the saying goes, from the Motorola Dyna-Tac of 1973 to the Nokia N-95 of 2007, mobile phone technology has evolved more in the past three decades than computer technology has in the past six decades. The number of mobile phones outnumbers the population in 30 countries (according to Informat Telecoms and Media), and 80% of the world’s population today can have access to mobile phone or cellular phone services. 

There are only limited numbers of mobile phone technologies, However mobile phone manufacturers and cellular phone service providers on the other hand are increasing in number. Thus, today, mobile phones are the cheapest means of communication.

Mobile phones nowadays are so easy to acquire and most people all over the world have the thing on their pockets. Competition among mobile phone service providers to offer prepaid mobile phone services resulted to an even more increased mobile phone penetration in developing and more developed countries. 

Today mobile phones are not just a means of communication. In the mid 1980s Text messages came as a value added feature. Moreover, it was also noted that in Japan, people use mobile phones in paying their bills while elsewhere in the world, people use mobile phones to browse the internet to check on emails and even send instant messages. 

At present, mobile phones that can take photographs and capture video clips are the norms. In fact, mobile phones that can communicate with other electronic devices via Bluetooth technology are no longer news. Thus, mobile phones today are indeed all-in-one communication devices that can store contact numbers, has entertainment gadgets with built in digital cameras, internet access devices and personal computer as well.

Lately, the main mobile phone technologies are GSM and CDMA. GSM stands for Global System of Mobile Communications, which, with its standard compliance, ensures worldwide roaming for its users. Someone buying a mobile phone in the UK can use that same phone in Japan and can receive calls to the same number as the subscriber would in UK. EGPRS or EDGE is an extension of the GSM System that is used for high speed video conferencing and internet access.

CDMA technology on the other hand, offers voice clarity and faster data transfer. However, CDMA is not used in some regions of the world, such as the European Union, thus making it virtually useless if roaming internationally. CDMA and GSM technologies are both available in countries like India, while in most countries you can only have one choice. GSM is the only standard available across the EU, but people have to depend solely on CDMA while traveling to Japan or South Korea.

Mobile phones today run from 20USD up to 10000 USD. With features ranging from talking to messaging, recording music and videos, transferring files, checking your email, browsing your favorite sites and sending instant messages. Indeed, these phones do everything imaginable. It’s pretty much a set of computer inside your pocket! We’ll then see what the future mobile phones can offer.


