Title: 
Interesting Data About Super Computers

Word Count:
500

Summary:
Nowadays, everybody depend on computers in one form or another for reasons that include scheduling, processing and other mundane tasks that most people have very little interest in doing. There are things that cannot be performed by humans that need to be taken care of by the computers of the world.

For this there is now a high demand for computers that can perform tasks not within the range of humans and their capabilities. For years this has been a needed task and knowle...


Keywords:
super computers


Article Body:
Nowadays, everybody depend on computers in one form or another for reasons that include scheduling, processing and other mundane tasks that most people have very little interest in doing. There are things that cannot be performed by humans that need to be taken care of by the computers of the world.

For this there is now a high demand for computers that can perform tasks not within the range of humans and their capabilities. For years this has been a needed task and knowledge in this area is being formed everyday. There is also the matter of speed by which a task can be performed that is another focus of creating such computers.

Over the past years there have been a big run on the use of super computers in many applications. Many people are unaware that super computers even exist, but they have been a reality for more years than most would know about. The reason for this is the fact that super computers are not the kind of machine that a person would use everyday. They are designed to perform highly technical tasks with speed and accuracy. The basis of a super computer is the same as a normal personal computer but in a much larger scale.

The super computers of today are much like those computers of the past; they can take up entire rooms for just the processing space. This means that they are also highly expensive and create a massive power drain for the area where they are located. In most cases people go to school for many years to learn how to operate one of these massive machines and still have to take on many more years of standard training to learn about the overall structure and functions that the computer has. This is the reason for the low number of people that can operate one of these machines.

The main use today for the super computers is the many movies that are now relying on the CGI animation. Unlike the previous decades where the animated movies were created by the artists then animated through cameras, the new movies are now created solely by the super computer. During the process huge banks of data processing equipment work with the information that the operators put in. From this data the super computer will make the characters come alive and produce some of the highest quality graphics that the world has ever seen.

This was a revolution in technology when the likes of Toy Story came into being. No humans were used in the film except for the voices and the entire movie was created on a super computer. This has sped up the process by which the films of the day are made. There is still a long process as the computer needs time to make the animation come to life. However, instead of taking years as it once did, the movies can now be produced within a matter of months when the production begins.


