Title: 
Iphone Reviews And Credibility

Word Count:
408

Summary:
When it comes to the matter of reading iphone reviews, it becomes important to establish the credibility of the individual who is writing the review. That is to say, if the reviewer is not qualified to write the review then the review may be without merit. While this may seem like an overly serious assessment of requirements needed to read a review, there needs to be a clear understanding present as to why the potential customer is reading the review in the first place. The p...


Keywords:
apple, iphone, accessories,books,apparel,buy,on sale,cheap


Article Body:
When it comes to the matter of reading iphone reviews, it becomes important to establish the credibility of the individual who is writing the review. That is to say, if the reviewer is not qualified to write the review then the review may be without merit. While this may seem like an overly serious assessment of requirements needed to read a review, there needs to be a clear understanding present as to why the potential customer is reading the review in the first place. The primary reason people read a consumer review is to make the proper purchasing decision. Considering that there is a time and monetary commitment required for making the purchase of the iphone, the need to be forewarned and forearmed is vital to many people who are of limited time and resources. In short, they peruse the iphone reviews so as to make sure they are not making an inaccurate purchasing decision.

If the credibility of the review is in question, this will undermine the primary purpose and objective of reading the review in the first place. Of course, there are those who read consumer reviews for entertainment purposes only, but such trite casual reading is also deserved of accuracy in consumer review and reporting. Providing iphone reviews – or any reviews for that matter – should not be treated tritely by the reviewer and there should be a clear and definite attempt to provide a quality review. If not, the previously aforementioned undermining of the review’s purpose becomes present.

If there was a genre that movie critics disliked to review it would be the comedy genre. The reason for this is that no matter how much they may dislike a comedy they can not say it was not a funny film if the bulk of the audience is laughing. The purpose of a comedy is to make people laugh and if it does then it succeeds at its purpose.

Similarly, liking or disliking a particular iphone may provide entertaining reading as some iphone reviews may serve a purpose of being little more than a vehicle for humor, but whether a person likes or dislikes the phone is irrelevant unless the liking or disliking is expanded upon to include whether or not the phone delivers on its promised service. Ultimately, this is the most important aspect of the phone – does it work or not and does it provide a functional value in concert with its cost.


