Title: 
iPhone May Not Be Worth The Money

Word Count:
509

Summary:
Before release, everyone anticipated the iPhone with restlessness, and then with great reviews under its belt, the gadget became the center of attention in today's high-tech universe. What's funny to me is that everyone's pointing out only the upsides of the iPhone (probably because they want to sell it to you). I believe the iPhone is very neat, but is it worth the money or a rip-off? That's what I'm here to tell you.

One major downside and complaint of the Apple iPhone i...


Keywords:
iphone, apple, mac, pda, mobile, cell phones


Article Body:
Before release, everyone anticipated the iPhone with restlessness, and then with great reviews under its belt, the gadget became the center of attention in today's high-tech universe. What's funny to me is that everyone's pointing out only the upsides of the iPhone (probably because they want to sell it to you). I believe the iPhone is very neat, but is it worth the money or a rip-off? That's what I'm here to tell you.

One major downside and complaint of the Apple iPhone is its battery's life. Because of the high-tech features such as multi-touch technology, revolutionary sensors, and nearly the same operating system as in the Mac, the battery is drained easily. Truth is Apple released the iPhone before creating a top-tier battery.

iPhone exclusively using AT&T's Edge is yet another major complaint. The data network is sluggish compared to other more developed networks today. Apple has claimed this feature isn't a major drawback, well, because the gadget had been designed to be notorious about receiving broadband connection via Wi-Fi Hotspots. Simply, the network is slower than what you're used to with your computer.

The iPhone doesn't support the sophisticated 3G technology for no particular reason. It's a mystery. MMS functions aren't even provided in the iPhone. Nor are voice dialing or recording. This means that it's only a dual-band mobile phone.

Tackling messaging, there is no instant messaging. Therefore, you'll have to stick to plain and simple e-mails. This can be a drag in the business setting. And what makes matters worse, you can't copy and paste important data.

The iPhone doesn't have a memory slot at all. Apple claims there is sufficient built in memory, yet consumers today expect to have the feature of external memory. Therefore, Bluetooth capabilities are weak an do not support file transfers or A2DP. Again I ask, what use does the iPhone have for businesspeople?

Okay. I'm being a little harsh. The Apple iPhone is still the best handheld phone on the market, but that doesn't mean there's not room for improvement. It's possible Apple is saving the upgrades for the next addition of the iPhone.

The iPhone has revolutionary features as said previously. We've never seen anything like it, but is it in comparison worth the money? If you need the best there is then possibly. It's a nice toy but may not be as valuable as priced.

The gadget's value also depends on what you'll be using it for. If you're a businessman, you might want to stick to your current PDA until the Apple iPhone is upgraded. If you're looking for the most high-tech, hottest toy on the market that you can use to surf the internet anywhere (for entertainment purposes) it may be worth the investment for you.

Apple did quite well with the iPhone. Note that this article is only about the downsides. Of course, there are many perks you should know before deciding whether to get the iPhone.

Wait! Did I mention you're stuck with a two-year contract if you buy the iPhone?


