Title: 
iPhone - Where To Buy

Word Count:
439

Summary:
An iPhone is a multimedia and Internet-enabled quad-band GSM EDGE-supported cellular phone that is developed, manufactured and sold by Apple Inc. The functions of the iPhone include camera phone and a multimedia player. It enables text messaging and visual voicemail. You can also browse the net, send and receive e-mail, visit websites, search engines and many more. The iPhone offers Wi-Fi connectivity too.

The iPhone is a handheld smart device handled by using a large touc...


Keywords:
iphone, iphones, apple iphone, at&t iphone, buy iphone


Article Body:
An iPhone is a multimedia and Internet-enabled quad-band GSM EDGE-supported cellular phone that is developed, manufactured and sold by Apple Inc. The functions of the iPhone include camera phone and a multimedia player. It enables text messaging and visual voicemail. You can also browse the net, send and receive e-mail, visit websites, search engines and many more. The iPhone offers Wi-Fi connectivity too.

The iPhone is a handheld smart device handled by using a large touch screen with virtual keyboard and buttons.

IPhones have created huge interest worldwide and for a good reason: this is a communication and entertainment center in the palm of your hand. It is your personal computer and your mobile phone combined into one easy to use device.

For people interested in buying an iPhone there are hundreds of Apple stores a spread across the Us as well as Canada, Japan and the major countries of Europe. For a complete list of retail locations check out Apple's home site: www.apple.com

Apple offers its products through their apple online stores too. http://store.apple.com.

Apple being the proprietors of iPhone 4GB and 8GB offers buying direct from the source.

Another reliable source to buy an iPhone from are the AT&T Stores

AT&T stores are more widely spread than Apple stores. There are over 1,800 AT&T stores in the U.S. Not sure where is the closest AT&T store? Go to AT&T’s store finder to locate it http://www.wireless.att.com/home

IPhones are also available through AT&T’s online store http://www.store.att.com.

With all the buzz about iPhones one can easily find iPhones for sale through the net. A word of caution though – iPhones do not come cheap. It is a high tech device that you may need tech support for every now and then. Unless you consider yourself to be a real tech wiz, try not to buy from a non reliable source that offers no tech support.

Only exceptions to the above rule are EBay and Amazon, both being reliable secure purchase online shopping centers.

Another important issue to consider is that computers as well as other high tech devices tend to decrease in price and increase in capabilities, ease of use, variations and range of functionalities offered to the user. Therefore when you go out to buy an iPhone – get the latest most up to date version. It may cost a bit more but you would not end up with a new but outdated iPhone.

For more information regarding iPhones, iPhone uses, accessories and tips go to: www.advancediphone.com


