Title: 
iPods Are Everywhere Today

Word Count:
514

Summary:
What you need to do before looking into an mp3 player, first you need to know how you want to use it, and how much music you want to be able to have on it. There is no doubt that the Apple iPod has become a common item amongst today's youth as a great music player. In fact, the iPod is more than a music player.

If your digital music collection remains relatively small, you’re probably better off with an iPod mini. But if it takes 30 days to play your music collection from ...


Keywords:
ipod,apple ipod,nano,apple shuffle,mp3 players,apple nano


Article Body:
What you need to do before looking into an mp3 player, first you need to know how you want to use it, and how much music you want to be able to have on it. There is no doubt that the Apple iPod has become a common item amongst today's youth as a great music player. In fact, the iPod is more than a music player.

If your digital music collection remains relatively small, you’re probably better off with an iPod mini. But if it takes 30 days to play your music collection from end to end, if you’d like to use the iPod’s, with the iPods additional space for file storage and now the battery life has been extended the new iPods are incredible.

Everyone knows that Apple owns the mp3 business. The incredible look, sound, style, the navigation and features put this all together with the integration with software program iTunes and other mp3 services, this is an incredible revolutionary advancement in the mp3 player world. MP3 audio encoded at up to 320Kbps. Not only do they have the normal features of a mobile phone but they’re also adopting a higher standard of digital camera and a built in MP3 player.

The Apple Video Ipod. 5-inch screen on the iPod video is incredibly bright and sharp and and it great when you want to watch videos on it, the screen measures 320x240. Today’s devices are able to hold 20,000 – 25,000 photos and are able to play 50-100 hours of video and can hold up to 8,000 songs, this is an incredible achievement

This year, the Nano was introduced, to a huge customer buying frenzy. With its small compact design and packed with an incredible amount of flash memory storage than the any other mp3 out there, the Apple iPod Nano is slim, light weight and the convenience and portability is unmatched in with all other devices. Depending on the storage capacity of the device you are able to get them in different sizes, 1 GB, 2 GB or 4 GB.

If you want to buy second hand there is the earlier models like iPod Photo, iPod mini and 1st, 2nd 3rd and 4th generation iPods. It was designed to replace the iPod Mini and neatly fills the gap that the iPod Mini left. It was introduced to replace the iPod mini, which was discontinued. Many people could not believe when Apple discontinued its mini device, this took everyone by surprise, everyone wanted to know what flash system was replacing it, and there was no advanced notice for all of this.

The small iPod shuffle was designed to be light weight, super-mobile, you can wear the device around your neck this makes it possible to listen to music when in a gym, walking or running or riding a bike. The most notable feature of the iPod Shuffle is its physical dimensions.

One of the best things about the iPod is that it has a simple user interface, it can store many videos, songs and information, it is light weight and it looks great and very recognizable.


