Title: 
IPod Video Cases: Protecting Your Investment

Word Count:
429

Summary:
So, after considerable thought, you’ve plunked down $250 or $350 for your iPod video. But have you plunked down the few extra dollars that an iPod video case will cost? If you haven’t, the smartest thing you can do is to place you iPod video back in its carton, or in some other form of protection, and hustle on down to the nearest IPod accessories store.

It wasn’t much time at all after the first iPod videos saw the light of day that their excited owners were screaming in ...


Keywords:
Ipod Nano Case, Apple Ipod Nano, Apple Ipods


Article Body:
So, after considerable thought, you’ve plunked down $250 or $350 for your iPod video. But have you plunked down the few extra dollars that an iPod video case will cost? If you haven’t, the smartest thing you can do is to place you iPod video back in its carton, or in some other form of protection, and hustle on down to the nearest IPod accessories store.

It wasn’t much time at all after the first iPod videos saw the light of day that their excited owners were screaming in justifiable anguish at the ease with which the LCD screens were becoming marred with scratches. So Apple, in response, began to include a cloth iPod video case with each purchase. But because one of the big selling points of the iPod is its lack of bulk, these cloth covers were less than substantial, and even worse, they partially covered the iPod video’s screen.

So Apple tried again with iPod video cases which were dubbed “socks”, because of their stretchy yarn-like material in a variety of designer colors, and for their upscale customers, Italian leather iPod video cases The socks and leather cases, however, failed to address the issue of blocked screens and control wheels, and while both remain available, it did not take long for other iPod accessories manufacturers to see an opening and rush to fill it with more protective and user-friendly iPod video cases.

One of the most popular iPod video case options is the carbon fiber case which will protect the front and back of your iPod video with laser-cut form fitting sections of black carbon fiber material, joined with stainless steel screws. For more info see http://www.knowipods.com/Articles/Apple_Ipods.php on Apple Ipods.

Icons iPod video cases, on the other hand, let IPod users get a bit funkier with a front which can bear the likeness of many a pop culture favorite from Superman and Batman to Homer Simpson. The backs of the Iconz iPod video cases are clear plastic, so that the iPod still shines through.

Perhaps the most indestructible of all the iPod video cases is the water, dust, sand, and dirt-proof Otterbox. The Otterbox allows control wheel use through a very thin protective membrane, and the Otterbox package is available with waterproof headphones. It is ideal for beach and hiking use, but is not meant for scuba diving.

On the other hand, do you really need your iPod video to accompany you on scuba diving excursions? Otter box iPod video cases with waterproof headphones retail for around $100.


