Title: 
Is Free Voip Worth Having?

Word Count:
307

Summary:
In the end, free voiP can cause more problems than your landline. You might save a few dollars, but your ability to use the service may become difficult when your internet service is having problems. Since you can use the calling system from your computer, you need more security in order to keep your phone conversations from being hijacked. If this happens, your private conversations are available to others, who have no business knowing personal or company information. If thi...


Keywords:
free voip, voip, voice over ip, internet telephone


Article Body:
In the end, free voiP can cause more problems than your landline. You might save a few dollars, but your ability to use the service may become difficult when your internet service is having problems. Since you can use the calling system from your computer, you need more security in order to keep your phone conversations from being hijacked. If this happens, your private conversations are available to others, who have no business knowing personal or company information. If this were the only problem then the answer to the question of whether or not free voiP is worth having would be yes. You can always provide enough security. 

If you choose a provider that has dropped calls and is unavailable more than it is available, then it is not worth having free voiP service. You need to have the phone available at times if this becomes your primary source of communication. Is free voiP worth having also depends on the expense, the coverage area and if it is compatible to your life style. Your ability to forward calls to your cell phone intrigues most subscribers as well as the ability to talk from any computer as long as you have a microphone and speakers or a headset. 

When you are thinking about free voiP services, you need to find one that meets your needs, stands up in ratings and reviews as well as being affordable. If you need international calling, you need to know how much this service costs you if it is not included in the plan. There are many service providers available and choosing the right one will make free voiP worth having if it has everything you need for your personal or business needs. Careful thinking and comparison-shopping will be the final decision in determining if free voiP is worth having for your needs.


