Title: 
Is VMware The Best Way To Integrate PCs?

Word Count:
409

Summary:
Many IT specialists are looking for a software program like VMware for their home or office computers, which enable them to switch between two or three different operating systems like Windows Vista and Windows XP. The VM in VMware stands for virtual machine and that is exactly what this software offers: a virtual replica of one or more operating systems with a host and you will have no trouble switching between your home office and your actual office. Instead of phoning home...


Keywords:
vmware,virtual,machine


Article Body:
Many IT specialists are looking for a software program like VMware for their home or office computers, which enable them to switch between two or three different operating systems like Windows Vista and Windows XP. The VM in VMware stands for virtual machine and that is exactly what this software offers: a virtual replica of one or more operating systems with a host and you will have no trouble switching between your home office and your actual office. Instead of phoning home to ask for a file to be sent to your office pc, you can simply activate the VMware workstation and you can have everything you need at your fingertips.

The VMware workstation is compatible with x86 (or 32 bit) to x64 and the great advantage is that you can run various operating systems like Linux, Windows and other variants simultaneously. You will have the capability to fuse hard disk drives, CD ROMs and network adaptors as well as simulate certain hardware programs. VMware cuts out the need to have a separate IP address for every operating system through special configuration. It converts the CD ROM into an ISO file and the hard disk drive will be seen as a vmdk file. The VMware workstation is marvelous as it also allows you to test live CDs without you needing to burn them onto an actual CD.

In order to run your VMware workstation in an office setting or with many users, you can get the VMware server 1.0 or the upgraded ESX server, which allows you to edit, create and manage your various virtual machines. It makes it easier for employers to stay updated with their employees work as well as fusing the efforts of the team into one vision. It is very useful in many work environments for lowering overheads and managing certain projects whilst saving resources like bandwidth. All employees will be operating under an umbrella called VMware and this will also provide safety and increase productivity.

The reason that VMware is far superior to its predecessors like Microsoft’s Virtual PC and Mac OS X is because unlike those systems that simply used the same coding sequence for virtual additions to a host machine, the VMware automatically changes any coding (after storing the original safely) to make the system run 80 percent more effectively and efficiently. The workstation will require you to install certain drivers into the host machine so that VMware can switch dynamically between its machines.


