Title: 
Karaoke Machines – Features And Fun

Word Count:
405

Summary:
There are many different types of karaoke machines on the market today. Whether you are planning a party, or simply want to entertain a few friends, there is a karaoke machine out there to fit your needs. While many people are using computers for this purpose, there are still many advantages to owning an actual karaoke machine. Portability is, perhaps, one of the biggest advantages, as it allows you to transport the machine from one location to another both quickly and easily...


Keywords:
Karaoke machines


Article Body:
There are many different types of karaoke machines on the market today. Whether you are planning a party, or simply want to entertain a few friends, there is a karaoke machine out there to fit your needs. While many people are using computers for this purpose, there are still many advantages to owning an actual karaoke machine. Portability is, perhaps, one of the biggest advantages, as it allows you to transport the machine from one location to another both quickly and easily. It also allows you to set it up in different rooms of the house in order to accommodate the varying number of participating guests.

There are several features to look for when deciding to purchase a karaoke machine, many of which are now standard and, are therefore, found on many machines. Still, you should be aware of the features you want, and check to see that the machine you purchase has them.

A basic karaoke machine consists of audio input for connecting external electronic audio devices such as tape decks, CD players, and now, MP3 players, a means of altering the pitch of the actual music, (not the pitch of the singer's voice), and an audio output so that others can hear the music and singer.

Some lower end machines include a feature which allows you to play a standard song on the machine and suppress the singer's voice so that it isn't heard. This, however, is generally ineffective as it often decreases the quality of the music, and often times distorts the overall sound. This can be especially problematic if the singer is being recorded.

At least one microphone input is also included, and many machines come with a mic. Higher end karaoke machines also come equipped with a method for connecting it to another type of machine that will allow video encoding. This will enable the lyrics to be displayed on a screen so that the performer may read them while singing. This feature is typically found in bars and clubs that offer karaoke, but is now commonly done at home as well.

While many karaoke machines were equipped with two tape decks, thus allowing singers to record their performances while using karaoke backups already pre-recorded on another cassette, the machines of today typically include one tape deck and a CD player. Recording your performance still isn't a problem, since most backups are now available on CD, which has become standard.


