Title: 
Keep Your PC Safe From Unauthorized Eyes

Word Count:
509

Summary:
One System Locking Product can keep your pc system safe from unauthorized eyes, System Locking Software can help you quickly lock your PC, so that nobody can access your desktop without the proper password. These Software allow you to leave your computer unattended without having to worry that someone will access your private data, keep Your PC and Data safe from unauthorized eyes.

In this article, I recommend some useful softwares, help you create hidden files and folders...


Keywords:
software,reviews,downloads,safe


Article Body:
One System Locking Product can keep your pc system safe from unauthorized eyes, System Locking Software can help you quickly lock your PC, so that nobody can access your desktop without the proper password. These Software allow you to leave your computer unattended without having to worry that someone will access your private data, keep Your PC and Data safe from unauthorized eyes.

In this article, I recommend some useful softwares, help you create hidden files and folders or lock your system yourself.

Hide Folders XP is a System Locking product from fspro dot net, Hide Folders XP allows you to select up to 64 folders of your choice to hide and protect with a password. The selected folders will become invisible, and are impossible to find, or remove without the proper password. This allows you to leave your computer unattended without having to worry that someone will access your private data. In addition, the software clears Recent Documents and Recycle Bin items belonging to hidden folders and removes itself from the list of installed program, it works even if a computer has been started in safe mode.

MyIdnWebShield is a System Locking product from idnwebshield dot com, IdnWebShield isalready preconfigured for full protection mode, easy-to-install and easy to use (it works automatically in the background) for anybody without detailed computer-knowledge, or fully configurable for anybody who likes to play with IdnWebShield and its features.

DeviceLock is a System Locking product from protect-me dot com, DeviceLock gives network administrators control over which users can access what removable devices (floppies, Magneto-Optical disks, CD-ROMs, ZIPs, etc.) on a local computer. Once DeviceLock is installed, administrators can control access to floppies, CD-ROMs, WiFi (802.11) and Bluetooth adapters.

Lock My PC is an easy-to-use software that locks your computer when you click the tray icon. Lock My PC shows a locked screen (you can use a custom image) and disables Windows hot keys and mouse. In addition, the software can log any unauthorized password-entry attempts and there is also an option to keep your PC locked during a power failure or if a stranger switches it off and on.

Winlock is a System Locking product from crystaloffice dot com, get 5 Stars SoftSea Rating, This program is a systray-driven security and safeguarding tool. It is password protected to provide a high level of security. Set this to strictly lock your desktop, specify certain files or folders that you don't want to be accessed, or hide and disable specified features in Windows. Winlock have another Pro version.

All these software are easy to setup and does not require more. All these software are standalone software and does not need any extra software and hardware requirement. These software can use it safely and undisturbed, and can work with all versions of Windows, All these software provide one free trial for test. If you have used it in your life you will find it is worthy of your money. What are you waiting for? Download the free trial now and experience what powerful and effective it is at once.


