Title: 
Know Your Bluetooth Car Kit Basics

Word Count:
507

Summary:
When shopping around for a Bluetooth car kit, make sure to compare prices as well as Bluetooth capabilities and accessories. Many different brand names are now competing with the Bluetooth car kit accessories field, so it pays to be patient and take the time to find just the right car kit to suit your needs.

When considering a Bluetooth car kit, it's best to have a professional install the system, ensuring proper installation and guidelines. Most styles of Bluetooth car ki...


Keywords:
bluetooth car kit


Article Body:
When shopping around for a Bluetooth car kit, make sure to compare prices as well as Bluetooth capabilities and accessories. Many different brand names are now competing with the Bluetooth car kit accessories field, so it pays to be patient and take the time to find just the right car kit to suit your needs.

When considering a Bluetooth car kit, it's best to have a professional install the system, ensuring proper installation and guidelines. Most styles of Bluetooth car kit offers will include a major component that attach to your dashboard, either in front or behind. Hands free devices are the way to go these days, and reduce the number of people driving and talking on the phone at the same time, a key safety issue. Several different functions are available with most Bluetooth car kit offerings, as well as price ranges. When shopping, do consider the option of  'available call' controls on the control switch and whether or not the Bluetooth car kit will allow you to automatically mute the stereo system in your vehicle when receiving incoming calls. The ability to control speaker voices through an earpiece or your car's stereo speakers is also an option to consider.

A Bluetooth car kit can range between $150 and $350 for the most popular Motorola HR850 and Motorola IHF1000 Bluetooth car kit models. The Kyocera Koi KX2 is also a popular choice, as are the Parrot CK3100 and Parrot CK3300 GPS Bluetooth car kit models. Sony Ericsson offers the HCB-300 and HCB 700 Bluetooth car kit models, also highly rated.

A Bluetooth car kit comes with multiple functions and options that will suit just about any customer need. The most basic function controls within a Bluetooth car kit include but are not limited to volume, mute and voice activation capabilities as well as answer and end functions. Most models come with a stand-alone speaker, though many customers prefer to hook up the Bluetooth car kit to their vehicle speaker system. Many models automatically mute stereo systems, but check ahead of time to make sure this feature is available on the Bluetooth car kit model that you're thinking of purchasing. Other models offer noise cancellation as well.

A Bluetooth car kit is compatible with just about every major brand of cell phones, computer brands and models out there, in addition to PDAs. Such compatible models include Blackberry LG, Audiovox, HP, iPAQ, Motorola, Samsung, Nokia, Siemens and Sony Ericsson brands. The leading Bluetooth car kit on the market today is the Motorola IHF1000. This model goes beyond just simple voice activation and allows the owner to voice dial numbers one at a time. The voice menu on most major brand of Bluetooth car kit systems allow users true hands free options when it comes to answering calls, dialing by name or via storage of over a dozen contacts, and dial by number on mobile phone keypad options. Most Bluetooth car kit systems come with keypads, directional microphone, module, wiring connectors and mounting hardware, everything you need for true, hands free communication.


