Title: 
Laptops Are Getting Smaller And Smaller

Word Count:
573

Summary:
When you think of portability many people believed that you would not be able to get the power and functionality as compared to a desktop system, today is not true. Desktops are the preferred computer because of the ability to add peripherals and the power are much more than a laptop, but today laptops are able to add peripherals and have the computer power and have the ability to snap into a docking station which emulates a desktop. That has now changed and laptops are becom...


Keywords:
laptops,computers,desktops,notebooks,notebook computers,laptop computers,memory,processor,batteries


Article Body:
When you think of portability many people believed that you would not be able to get the power and functionality as compared to a desktop system, today is not true. Desktops are the preferred computer because of the ability to add peripherals and the power are much more than a laptop, but today laptops are able to add peripherals and have the computer power and have the ability to snap into a docking station which emulates a desktop. That has now changed and laptops are becoming affordable, light weight, faster and the ability to add many peripherals via USB.

Laptop computers are great portable offices, and as technology increases and speeds of computers increase, we are seeing battery life also increase and provide longer usage time with out the need to be plugged in. An extra battery is always a wise purchase when buying a used laptop. The batteries on many systems only last for about 2 years so if you get more life out of the battery you are one of the lucky ones. Battery life varies with the efficiency of the processor, so check out battery life in any reviews you read. When looking at the weight of the laptop don’t forget to add in the weight of the battery chargers and other accessories, this should be included in the weight of the laptop.

Manufactures are able to create tiny screens, even as small as 8 inches, this size screen is great for portability, but many people are finding that the fonts and images are to small and to use they need to start squinting. The size of the screen is also important. When looking at laptops look at the hinges of the screen and make sure they are strong and do not look like they would crack or separate from the laptop. Every so often you need to clean your screen and get the dust out of your keyboard, make sure you handle the screen carefully because the screen is fragile and can break easily.

Wireless is the wave of the future, so when looking to purchase a laptop make sure you get one with wireless built in. To use the wireless you will need a wireless router at home. This is always good to remember if you are using a wireless system make sure you make it secure so no one can steal your data or use your wireless system.

There is a variety of different types of memory, and it is important that you choose memory that is compatible with your notebook computer. Many computer owners don’t like to upgrade because of many reasons: they do not have the knowledge, fear of voiding the warranty or ruining their computers and some people don’t know what to order, or by opening the computer they might break the system and need to pay more to get it fixed. Like a lot of things in life, a computer memory upgrade seems more complicated than it actually is.

With today computers having the ability to add many peripherals be sure that the laptop comes with many USB ports to add devices like a mouse, printer, digital camera, etc.

If you are on tight budget, buying a refurbished laptop is a great idea. Many manufactures have refurbished laptops and will sell them at a reduced price which will save a lot of money. Many of the refurbished laptops even come with warranties.


