Title: 
Learning A Different Kind Of Visual Art

Word Count:
508

Summary:
Aside from paintings, photographs have been considered as one of the most interesting visual means of communication there is.

As times pass by, those who were not endowed with the natural knack for drawing or painting were able to shift their “eye for the beautiful” using not brushes and paints but a camera—an apparatus that records images on photographic negatives called “film”.

PHOTOGRAPHY CLASS BASICS

After discovering the beauty of photography, more and more peop...


Keywords:
photography


Article Body:
Aside from paintings, photographs have been considered as one of the most interesting visual means of communication there is.

As times pass by, those who were not endowed with the natural knack for drawing or painting were able to shift their “eye for the beautiful” using not brushes and paints but a camera—an apparatus that records images on photographic negatives called “film”.

PHOTOGRAPHY CLASS BASICS

After discovering the beauty of photography, more and more people became interested in the craft, devoted their time in discovering and rediscovering its major components, and became self-taught photographers.

Since not everyone does not have enough time and will to learn everything on their own, they often resort to attending photography classes to gain or improve their knowledge in the craft.

But before enrolling into any photography class, you must decide first what kind of photography you would want to explore and things you can expect from that class.

These are the usual things you can learn in a photography class:

- The Camera. Essentially, a camera is a light-tight box containing a piece of light-sensitive material—either film or digital sensor—inside it. The “box” has a hole (lens) to allow light to enter, a viewfinder and a shutter.

Usually, two types of cameras are being introduced to the students during a photography class: the SLR (Single-Lens Reflex) or manual and the Digital Camera. While SLR cameras require the use of rolls of film, manual loading and rewinding, and manual photo processing, digital cameras use a digital memory car, which allows larger image storing and can be processed/ manipulated through the use of computer.

- Photography terms and other equipment basics such as shutter speeds that define the length of time the film is exposed to light, aperture which refers to the opening of the lens, kinds of films and film speeds rated by ISO numbers, batteries either alkaline or lithium, tripod or monopods used for camera support, F-stops or depth of field which refers to the distance between the nearest and farthest points that appear in sharp focus, the significance of camera meters, and lenses which are used to gather and focus light rays to form an image and its various kinds with basic explanation and application of focal lengths, tele-extenders, filters, flash and etc.

- Photography theories and application.
- Outdoor and indoor activities are also expected.
- Styles and tips in shooting different photographs like framing and composing the subject, and what to photograph are taught.
- Camera health, protection, and caring tips.
- You can also learn how to publish your photos as well as your money and photo rights.

If you’re planning to enroll in a photography class, make sure that you peruse the syllabus or course outline so you can come up with a list of expectations. You may also ask people who have enrolled in photography classes before and ask about their experience so you’ll have an idea what goes on.

Online photography classes are available in the Internet if you opt not to attend a regular photography class.


