Title: 
Learning Photography - Basics For All

Word Count:
833

Summary:
Photography is defined as “The art or process of producing images by the action of light on surfaces sensitized by chemical processes.”

Of course, this is landscape photography on a big scale. Not many people are lucky enough to start off traveling the world.

The earlier model did not contain the film; instead, it had a small light-shield box with lens and translucent screen on either side. The image that traveled through the lens was stored on the screen. Known as 'cam...


Keywords:
Malaysia Photography, Singapore Photography,Malaysia Wedding Photography,Malaysia Photographer,


Article Body:
Photography is defined as “The art or process of producing images by the action of light on surfaces sensitized by chemical processes.”

Of course, this is landscape photography on a big scale. Not many people are lucky enough to start off traveling the world.

The earlier model did not contain the film; instead, it had a small light-shield box with lens and translucent screen on either side. The image that traveled through the lens was stored on the screen. Known as 'camera obscura,' it was no more than a sketching device for artists.

There are different ways of finding photography jobs, depending on the type of job you are looking for and your experience. You can begin by creating a resume and portfolio of your work.

Learning Photography


Are you interested in taking up photography? If you are relatively new to photography, then here are some tips that will help you learn about photography and its many different qualities.

The camera

When choosing a camera, you should keep in mind that whatever kind of camera you buy, it won't necessairily affect the final image. There are certain factors that will affect your final product regardless of camera brand. They are:

- the quality of the expected final image.
- will the image be magnified before being viewed?
- will the subject carry the whole focus of the shot?
- the time alloted to take the picture

It is also important to keep in mind that cameras work at varying speeds. This will prove to be crucial depending on the subject that you will be shooting. When taking a picture of your son or daughter while they are playing, you may opt to use an automatic camera to avoid all the fuss of making adjustments with regards to aperture, focus, lighting, etc. But if you are going to take a picture of a mountain view, then you have all the time to use a manual camera.

Lighting conditions

There are so many ways that photography crosses our lives each day. There are a lot of opportunities for someone looking for photography jobs.

Whatever your reasons, a photography contest can be a fun and rewarding experience for you. To find out all you need to know about entering a photography contest, read on.

There are some excellent photography contests out there, some even offer large cash prizes, scholarships to photography schools and really nice cameras and camera supplies.

Modern photography has given a totally new meaning to the entire perception of life and privacy. Photography has made it possible to capture and preserve special moments, in private and in public life.

Taking portraits under the sun may present some problems. Because of the sunlight's hardness, dark shadows will may appear in the shot. To solve this problem, you can move the subject to a position under the shade to be able to use skylight instead of sunlight. Skylight is less concentrated than sunlight. Another thing that can be done is for you to take the picture during the last few minutes during sunrise or sunset. Sunlight is mouch more mellow during these times. If you have the equipment such as diffusers as well as reflectors, they will do a good job to make the shot more vibrant. The use of artificial lighting or a flash is also ideal if you know the proper way and time to use them. Avoid using the flash during sunrise and sunset since the resulting picture will look rather clammy or cold.

Exposure

There are no such things as correct exposure. It is really up to you and your artistic preferences how your picture will turn out. The environment contains many tones which can't be fully represented using film. Some of the details might get lost depending on the picture as well as the film used.

These are some of the things that you should remember while taking pictures. As you take more and more pictures, your skills will become sharper and you will be able to use more of your creativity.

If you love taking pictures and the idea of a career in photography sounds good to you, just how do you begin finding photography jobs?

The world of photography is an amazing one. It’s been with us for quite a while now but it is constantly changing. Cameras are changing and improving. Methods of developing are changing and improving as well.

You may be amateur but if you are entering a photography contest, you are competing with the best of the best. You are going to need your photos to be excellent if you expect to win. More at http://www.snowcomet.com

This does not mean go out and shotgun blast everything you see. You still want to keep in mind the need to have a reason (theme) for taking a photography - think about how to focus attention on it, removing what distracts from your theme, and adding whatever attracts or highlights your theme, to make it a great photograph.


