Title: 
Learning Adobe Photoshop Is Easy With Tutorials

Word Count:
575

Summary:
So you want to learn Adobe Photoshop.  Whether you need it for business, pleasure or to make your photography hobby more tolerable, you'll find a lot of uses for Adobe Photoshop.  It is still the premier graphics editing software and has made its mark in print, TV, the internet and even in films.  There are plenty of resources you can use: books, magazines, CDs and even online tutorials.  It's up to you which one is the most convenient.

Using Adobe Photoshop tutorials
The...


Keywords:
photo shop tutorial,adobe photo shop tutorial,free photo shop tutorial


Article Body:
So you want to learn Adobe Photoshop.  Whether you need it for business, pleasure or to make your photography hobby more tolerable, you'll find a lot of uses for Adobe Photoshop.  It is still the premier graphics editing software and has made its mark in print, TV, the internet and even in films.  There are plenty of resources you can use: books, magazines, CDs and even online tutorials.  It's up to you which one is the most convenient.

Using Adobe Photoshop tutorials
There are two ways you can use Adobe Photoshop tutorials: through step-by-step lessons or leap-frog, buffet style sessions.  Which one you choose depends on your aptitude, patience and immediate needs.  Say for example, you need to learn how to watermark within 24 hours, you cannot realistically go through the introduction and basics just so you could get to the appropriate lesson.  There are Photoshop tutorials that can teach you exactly that, and only that.  

However, if you have the time, choose the step-by-step process.  It might take you some time to get to the more advanced part, but you'll thank yourself later for making the effort.  If you're a little impatient and want to learn tricks right now, no one's stopping you.  Here's how to get started:

Go to the main source.
Adobe.com has a page that's dedicated to Photoshop tutorials.  There are thousands of tutorials to choose from and for a beginner, it can get a little overwhelming so best head for the 'Basics' first.  The site lets you learn what Photoshop can do, walks you through the terms and the menus and then shows you which tools are used for what purpose.

Other sites
CBTcafe.com has a textual tutorial on Photoshop that makes understanding the tools and their functions a lot easier.  Check out that tutorial and learn how tools work exactly.

Another site is http://EyesOnDesign.net.  The homepage features a no-frills list of Photoshop tutorials with thumbnails of the results.  Learn warping, color tricks, texture and background manipulation and a lot more.  You'll love the fact that the site is arranged neatly and there are very few ads that clutter the corners.  Makes it easier for you to concentrate on the tutorials and nowhere else.

SoftwareTrainingTutorials.com is a site you'd want to check out if you're looking for Adobe Photoshop lessons in DVDs and CDs.  But there are plenty of free tutorials on this site, most of them on video.  Get started with the free lessons on the basic functions and operation of Photoshop and advance on tools, selection, masks.  Learn layers, vector tools and effects, all online.  Tutorials are graduated and you'll learn in increments.  If you absorb lessons fast, you should be able to use Adobe Photoshop with ease within one or two weeks' time.

Hidden features
With every Photoshop version released, expect to find more than what you get from the box.  Software contains many tweaks and tricks that are usually not found in the most comprehensive instruction manuals.  These hidden features can be subtle or plain obvious but you'll find them extremely helpful later when you're pressed for time or if there's a particular editing job that stumps you.

A site that lets you in on the little secrets is http://CreativeMac.com.  The hidden features on this site are for Photoshop 7.0 users but there are lots of tips you can use for higher versions.  You'll find the article a good reference later.


