Title: 
Learning About All The Different iPhone Features

Word Count:
414

Summary:
The iPhone is a truly revolutionary new phone, one that allows you to make and receive calls and perform various other tasks with a simple touch of a button. There are so many different and great iPhone features, and in order to take full advantage of this revolutionary device, you are going to want to understand as best about all these iPhone features as you possibly can.

Calls

Obviously the most common task that the iPhone is used for is making and receiving calls. Th...


Keywords:
iPhone Features


Article Body:
The iPhone is a truly revolutionary new phone, one that allows you to make and receive calls and perform various other tasks with a simple touch of a button. There are so many different and great iPhone features, and in order to take full advantage of this revolutionary device, you are going to want to understand as best about all these iPhone features as you possibly can.

Calls

Obviously the most common task that the iPhone is used for is making and receiving calls. The process involved in either case here is incredibly simple, and making a call is especially easy. All you have to do is tap an entry that you have listed in your contacts, favorites, or recent calls lists, and then this will begin the call to the particular contact that you have selected.

When it comes to answering calls you have a few more options, and when someone calls you, the phone will ring while simultaneously displaying the caller’s information. You can tap Answer, or if you have the phone locked you can drag the slider. If you are listening to music through a headset then you can just click the mic button to answer, and you will be connected to the call.

SMS

This is another of the most popular iPhone features, and SMS, or text messaging as it is more commonly referred to in the general public, is a really great feature on any device. The software design created here by Apple recognizes that most of us really get into text messaging with our friends and so they help you here by tracking your SMS exchanges in speech bubbles, so that you can easily scroll back and remind yourself of what was said previously in each conversation.

This is especially useful for those people who text message with a variety of different people at a time, so that they can keep track of each separate conversation and stay on top of what topics they were talking about.

Voicemail

Voicemail of course is another of the iPhone features, and the greatest thing about the voicemail feature on the iPhone is that it is visual. This means that you can pick and choose between the different voicemails that you want to listen to, delete, and so on, rather than having to go through them and decide this only by audio. This results in saving you a great deal of time and money in the end. http://www.the-iphone.biz


