Title: 
Nokia Camera Phones | Digital Photography With Nokia Camera Phones

Word Count:
358

Summary:
There's a hidden photographer in everyone. Most of us just need a camera and an opportunity. Camera phones give us the portable technology to make the most of any moment. Many cellular phones now come equipped with an advanced technology camera that can make you an instant digital photographer. Grabbing the hottest deal on the latest camera phone couldn't be easier with the many carriers and sales specials available these days.

For the latest digital technology in camera p...


Keywords:
nokia camera phones,camera phone,camera,phone,digital photography,digital,photographer,photo,video


Article Body:
There's a hidden photographer in everyone. Most of us just need a camera and an opportunity. Camera phones give us the portable technology to make the most of any moment. Many cellular phones now come equipped with an advanced technology camera that can make you an instant digital photographer. Grabbing the hottest deal on the latest camera phone couldn't be easier with the many carriers and sales specials available these days.

For the latest digital technology in camera phone photography, Nokia camera phones are simply unbeatable. The most current handsets from the Nokia's N-series cellular phones include a high quality camera in addition to superb video capture. The Nokia N95 camera phone is one of the most recent models in the Nokia N-series camera phones. The outstanding 5 megapixel camera also features Carl Zeiss optics. Equipped with a 20x digital zoom, an auto focus feature,and flash, the mechanical shutter completes the overall photographic outfit. This camera phone takes high quality still photos and shoots DVD quality video clips with a landscape mode. 

The 16M color resolution screen display of the Nokia N95 camera phone is standard. A huge storage device curtosey of the expandable microSD memory card slot makes Nokia camera phones sufficient for all your photo and video needs. Sharing pictures with friends just doesn't get any easier with wireless connections that include Bluetooth, EDGE and WLAN. Other fun features of this multimedia camera phone include a music player with excellent stereo sound technology, high-speed Web browsing, multimedia messaging service, and downloadable games with JAVA technology as well as MP3 compatible ringtones.

Another upcoming hi-tech gizmo is Nokia's N97 camera phone sporting a 5 megapixel digital camera. Although it is similar to the Nokia N95, this cell phone has unique slider features and a high quality camera. The three inch screen display is large enough to view photographs as well as video clips. The best feature of the Nokia N97 camera phone is that it incorporates a giant 20GB memory. That means storage space galore for photographs, music, games and video clips. Unleash the hidden digital photographer in you by grabbing one of the latest Nokia camera phones.


