Title: 
What You Need To Know When Purchasing A Laptop

Word Count:
568

Summary:
When people talk about laptops, everyone assumes that all laptops are wireless.  Traveling with a laptop is easier today than it once was, the laptops have gotten smaller and lighter. The new mobile laptops make computing easy for many people. When purchasing a laptop, make sure a wireless connection is built in so you can reach the internet if you are in a wireless area. 

The laptop is replacing the big desktop computer; but the mobile computer needs to provide the abilit...


Keywords:
laptop cases,laptop used,cheap laptop,discount laptop,used laptop,free laptop,laptop repair


Article Body:
When people talk about laptops, everyone assumes that all laptops are wireless.  Traveling with a laptop is easier today than it once was, the laptops have gotten smaller and lighter. The new mobile laptops make computing easy for many people. When purchasing a laptop, make sure a wireless connection is built in so you can reach the internet if you are in a wireless area. 

The laptop is replacing the big desktop computer; but the mobile computer needs to provide the ability to accept components for expandability. Many people today keep all of the information on their computer, so if the computer goes down many people will not have that data.  In today's modern world the laptop or sometimes called notebook is a must have.
 
If you do not have a laptop computer yet, you should know that one of the most important aspects of having a laptop computer is having a great power supply.  Every laptop computer needs to be equipped with some type of warranty; the laptop should have at least a one year manufacturer warranty. You may even be able to play movies on them with crystal clarity.  Purchasing a laptop computer is not an easy job to do because there are so many important things that should be considered before purchasing. 

The type of work you do can affect the screen size and type that is most suitable for you.  If you are not worried about graphics a screen size of 12-14" is acceptable.  If the work you are doing is graphically intensive than a 15-17" is better. Screen sizes range from 12 to 19 inches.  A laptop computer with smaller screen is great option if you do not plan to use laptop too much.  

Going from 256MB of RAM to 512MB of RAM will speed up your laptop.  If your needs are somewhat mundane - email, spreadsheets, word processing, etc. 512 MB of RAM should be plenty. RAM is to a computer what location is to real estate.

You also need to think about the hard drive in the laptop you are considering.  The hard drive is also a very important specification to consider in buying a laptop.  The speed of a hard drive is normally calculated in rotations per minute.  A hard drive of about 50 gb or over is a good rule of thumb.

In addition to the processor, you will probably want to upgrade your system with memory, monitor, a graphics card or video card, and pointing device and keyboard. Finding cheap components is easy today due to the internet, many sites have popped up and made all of these components accessible. The important thing to remember when shopping for components is that you need to make sure they are compatible with your system. 

Laptop cases are an important computer accessory you should make sure you acquire.    They have many sections that accommodate important office documents.  Another important type of carrying case is the wheeled roller case.    But, their safety and protection is equally important.  A laptop case is specially made for carrying a laptop but a backpack is just a bottomless pit.  Getting a quality bag is very important since you are carrying around an expensive piece of equipment. Your notebook is going to be at least 6 pounds, probably more.  The portability of laptop computers is both a boon to busy business people.  Your notebook should be sturdy and rugged. Expensive notebooks should be protected properly.


