Title: 
Your 'No' Could Mean 'Yes' To A Trojan

Word Count:
469

Summary:
Similar to viruses, Trojans copy, distribute and kill your data. Obviously since you would never permit these actions, Trojans do not bother to ask for your permission.

Trojans are deceptive programs which don't take no for an answer. Any keystroke means yes to them. They are mainly designed to steal your data from your pc. But if you have antispyware guarding your pc, you need not worry.

What Are Trojans?

Basically Trojans appear quite harmless. They quietly enter y...


Keywords:
free Adware Spyware removal ,free Spyware and Virus removal


Article Body:
Similar to viruses, Trojans copy, distribute and kill your data. Obviously since you would never permit these actions, Trojans do not bother to ask for your permission.

Trojans are deceptive programs which don't take no for an answer. Any keystroke means yes to them. They are mainly designed to steal your data from your pc. But if you have antispyware guarding your pc, you need not worry.

What Are Trojans?

Basically Trojans appear quite harmless. They quietly enter your computer, either as email attachments or bundled in with other software programs. They are a kind of spyware. Spyware works by keeping track of what you do when you browse the web without you being aware of it. It is quite irritating and can cause major problems if you don't use any antispyware program to keep your pc clean.

Trojans are one of the worst kinds of spyware that eventually destroy your data after stealing it. There are some Trojans called remote administration tools, which permit access to your computer every time you log in - and you won't even know it. Whoever accesses your pc can easily pick up files from your system, remove or add programs, and even control your keystrokes.

How Trojans Land Into Your PC

Similar to viruses, Trojans copy, distribute and kill your data. Obviously since you would never permit these actions, Trojans do not bother to ask for your permission. The spyware installer does not care about the means used to rob your data. It is well known that there are many Internet marketers who trick you into installing certain software bundled in with Trojan spyware into your computer. They use a pop up ad to attract you, and then as if you want to install it. Whether you say yes or no is irrelevant.  Even if you say no, they follow up with another pop up ad to ask if you are really sure. In spite of clicking no, your keystroke simply sets off a download into your computer without your being aware of it.

Drive by downloads are a common method for Trojan spyware to sneak in to your pc. Here is what happens - you browse a website and see a popup asking if you want to download something and the way it asks you, you sometimes end up saying yes, thinking that you need to download it to look at the web page. So when you say yes, it looks like you are allowing the download. If you say no, you are hounded by pop ups that wait for you to just click to start off the download, making it happen without your knowledge.

Everyday there are new ways being devised by spyware installers to get into your system. Get antispyware software to control this and keep your pc free of spies!


