Title: 
Your Warcraft Noob Gold Guide

Word Count:
858

Summary:
Did you just start playing WoW or do you have a brand new character and want to learn how to make gold very quickly? This article is just for you! I feel it will help a lot of noobs to get started and even some people that just started playing on the brand new servers and wants to make gold quickly at the lower levels in the game!

Start as Skinner and a Herbalist or Miner for a while to gather resources. You may have to travel to a main town to learn these skills early - b...


Keywords:
wow, world, warcraft, noob, gold, guide, free


Article Body:
Did you just start playing WoW or do you have a brand new character and want to learn how to make gold very quickly? This article is just for you! I feel it will help a lot of noobs to get started and even some people that just started playing on the brand new servers and wants to make gold quickly at the lower levels in the game!

Start as Skinner and a Herbalist or Miner for a while to gather resources. You may have to travel to a main town to learn these skills early - but its worth doing early.

Skinner as you will be killing many skinable mobs early on, and either Herbalist or Miner as the radar marker conflicts - you cant have both a Herbalist and Miner radar blip on. I have "toons" that are both Skinner, Herbalist and Skinner, Miner ... I think the coin generated is a little better as a Miner (esp as you get occ. gem drops in ore placements), but if you choose a dark-elf as a race go herbalist as the starting area has no mining resources - there may be an equivalent horde race !

Collect 6 slot bags as quickly as possible ... some will drop as loot, others can be bought from tailors ... you can do a /who and /tell and offer to buy COD (cash on delivery) via the mail system so you Dont have to buy from an NPC vendor or go to an Auction House before you are ready.

Have a "mule" sitting in your factions Auction House Town (eg. Ironforge for Alliance) - create a character that is closest to the Auction House Town .. best a dwarf or gnome for easy access to Ironforge - Humans need to travel via Stormwind and the Underground tram system, Dark-Elves have to travel via foot for about 20 minutes through dangerous territory to get anywhere near Ironforge for the first time ... place your character very near a mailbox that is not busy. There are two mailboxes near the Auction House in Ironforge - one is always crowded .. crowds = lag. Choose the one that is not busy for your log-in/log-out place. This mule you will post your stacks to for sale at the Auction House.

Keep notes of how much a stack of resources (light leather from skinning, copper ore from mining, silverleaf and peace blossom from herbalism) sell to an NPC vendor but Dont sell to the vendor.

Check the Auction House prices using the search facility and take note of the starting and buyout prices for the stacks of resources you are selling. Many items have a buy-out price upto 10-20 times the price an NPC vendor will buy from you. I personally set my prices as follows .... starting price 2x the NPC vendor buy value (around 1.5-2.5s per stack) and a buyout price 5-6 times the NPC buy value unless all the competitor sellers buyout prices are way above or below that, then I set my buyouts at just below theirs. A couple of hours work at toon level 6-8 will give you 3-4 stacks of light leather, 2-3 stacks of herbs, 1-2 stacks or metals bars (yep, smelt them for mining experience before selling them ... if you are "grey" on smelting copper (ie no mining XP form it), sell the stacks of raw ore) and if you are working in an area of humanoids 1-2 stacks of linen cloth. Dont waste your linen on bandages (FirstAid) .. at least not yet.

Don't waste bag storage space on grey usable items, ruined pelts, broken teeth etc. unless you are filling up an inventory for the run home. Keep green items for Auction House sale if your toon (or an alt) doesnt need them. Always set auctions for 24 hours and put a buyout price about 4-6x the value to an NPC vendor (again check the Auction House current prices so you Dont over or under value your items) ... the buyout price allows impatient bidders a way of getting their items quickly - and your money faster.

Mail your major items to your mule for Auction House Placement, dump the rest of the garbage ontot he NPC vendor. Each stack will sell at Auction House for 5-10s per stack easily and up to 20s per stack if the demand is right, low level "green" items 5-10s each. My first (and still main) toon never got anywhere near this cash return so early (mage, miner engineer) ... my current level 10 gatherer is getting 1g per 2 hours of game time (mixing it up with questing and general fun) .... a concentrated effort should nett close to 1g per hour - a huge return for a low level character . Dont choose your crafting profession too early ... you can always drop one of your gathering professions for a crafting profession once your cash flow is good.

Buying unneeded items early eats money.
Buying unneeded skills early eats money.
Enchanting eats money ! Engineering eats money!
Leatherworking, Blacksmithing and Tailoring can feed an enchanter, make reasonably good money from auctioned items later.

Alchemy can be fun and provide a good range of buff and regen. potions for your own use, then sell once you get to craft the higher demand potions


