Title: 
Your Resource For Free Adobe Photoshop Tutorials

Word Count:
603

Summary:
So you have a copy of the Adobe Photoshop software and still don’t know how to use it?  Don't worry.  There are plenty of resources you can use online that will turn you into an expert in a few weeks.  Here's your guide to the free Adobe Photoshop tutorials online:

Adobe 
We recommend you go to the guys who made this software possible.  If there are people who could teach you how to use Adobe Photoshop, it's the group who created it.  Click on the 'tutorials' page to acce...


Keywords:
photo shop tutorial,adobe photo shop tutorial,free photo shop tutorial


Article Body:
So you have a copy of the Adobe Photoshop software and still don’t know how to use it?  Don't worry.  There are plenty of resources you can use online that will turn you into an expert in a few weeks.  Here's your guide to the free Adobe Photoshop tutorials online:

Adobe 
We recommend you go to the guys who made this software possible.  If there are people who could teach you how to use Adobe Photoshop, it's the group who created it.  Click on the 'tutorials' page to access the lessons and simply pick which ones interest you best.

Absolute Cross
This site offers free Adobe Photoshop tutorials, all neatly categorized in 6 groups: tools & basics, text effects, interfaces/layout, special effects, photos and textures.  If there's one particular lesson you want to access, simply click on the category and find it there.  

N-Sane Art
Want to learn every Adobe Photoshop tutorial in under 20 steps?  Go to this site.  The free tutorials are extremely easy to follow and will prove helpful no matter what level of Photoshop experience you have.  

There are only 4 categories but everything you need is right here – from the basics to the layout to the texts to the all-important effects.  Learn to create standard fare like water drops, 3D spikey balls and solar surfaces then advance to making organic raw flesh, mutant amoeba and electric plasma gel.  The art is insane, as the name suggests and the tutorials are priceless.

Photoshop Tutorial
This site's database is filled with more than 600 Adobe Photoshop tutorials you can access for free.  Because of the number of lessons, the site offers the tutorials through 7 categories.  Simply click on which category you need to learn from and begin.  New to Photoshop?  We suggest going through the basics first and then learn digital art and special effects.  Want to learn some photoshopping secrets?  Click on the miscellaneous tutorials link and find your poison.

Good-Tutorials
More experienced Photoshop users know this site as Photoshop Design.  It became http://Good-Tutorials.com in 2003.  These days, it boasts the largest collection of Photoshop tutorials on the internet.  The vast resources will have you using Adobe Photoshop with ease and they're easy to access by category.  Click on 'Basics' if you're an absolute beginner or go directly to 'Effects' if you can't wait.

Photoshop Lab
This is one of the newer sites but it doesn’t lack in Photoshop offerings.  Pick out which free tutorial you like best, click on the link and find out how the experts do it.  Learn smart objects, layer comps, halftone, aging, using brushes and many more.

myJanee
This site features more than 70 original Adobe Photoshop tutorials, all free.  Get more inspiration from the wide selection of finished works in the gallery.  Got a project you're proud of?  Enter the Art Challenge where visitors vote for the best entries.  You can also get in touch with other Photoshop users through the site's forum.  Ask questions, post messages or if you've learned enough, answer inquiries.

Blue Sfear
Want effects?  Lots of effects?  This site will give it to you.  Basically an online community populated by Photoshop fans, this site has grown tremendously over a short period.  It has now about 200 Adobe Photoshop tutorials online, all for free.  You'll find a few basic tweaking stuff but most of the tutorials here are not for the weak of heart – abstract designs, fire effects, lightning, smoke, image alterations, interfacing, etc.  You'll like the fact that most of the lessons come with actual photos and screen captures, all of which you can use for reference later when it's your turn.


