Title: 
Choosing the Best News Media Type - TV, Radio or Newspapers

Word Count:
387

Summary:
The world is changing around us.  Don't let it pass you by.  Stay up to date with local, national & international current events.  How are you getting your news?  Why are newspapers still the media type of choice for most people?


Keywords:
newspapers, newspaper subscription, local newspaper, local newspaper subscription, local news, news


Article Body:
In the world today, we are constantly faced with new world events. We hear about how terrorist bombings are going on all over the world, about stocks going up and down, and about crime offenders being reprimanded. These kinds of issues are important to all of us…it affects our economy, our way of life, and mostly, our future. 

What goes on around us whether worldwide, nationally, or even just in our community, is the topic of many conversations. You can be in your elevator, at the office water cooler, or your maybe even in your grocery store line-up, people like to talk about who’s being voted for what, which football team to cheer on, and what the weather is going to be like on the weekend. Being informed on these topics makes us part of the community.

How can we stay up-to-date? There is always the radio.  There are several stations available on the radio that we can tune in to while commuting to work and running errands. Unfortunately, many of these radio programs do not give you a full coverage. You are probably not commuting long enough to listen to the whole program, and there are so many commercials!

Then there’s your 6 o’clock news on the television. Let’s face it…we are busy people. The children have after-school activities, we have social events, the dogs need to be walked, gym, dinner needs to be made, then there’s that thing called work. We no longer have the evenings free to ourselves to sit on the couch and watch the news. 

Your best option? Definitely a newspaper. With the newspaper, you can choose what sections you want to read. You can skip the ads that do not interest you, and it is very portable! You can take it with you to read at your leisure. You even get comics and puzzles to do in most newspapers! Subscribing to a newspaper offers the most convenience. 

With a newspaper subscription, you can be assured that your newspaper arrives at your door and is ready to be read at YOUR liberty. You have the benefit of not having to tune in at any certain time, you can put it down when you want if you are interrupted, you can even cut sections out for memorabilia!


