Free Asset Management Software

Can you get asset management software for free? The answer is yes but there only a handful of them around. Whether it is free or not, it is truly something that companies need in order to prevent duplication. While most vendors sell these to companies, those who are unsure whether the system will work for them can avail of free trials which can be used for a short period of time. 

If your company has an information technology department, then chances are they can probably make one on their own. However, not everybody can do that so you better read on to know which ones are giving this out for free.

One company that comes to mind which offers free asset management software is SysAid. You can download the freeware from their website and then use it. The only limitation is that their program can only work for organizations that have less than a hundred computers. If you are happy with their system, you can buy the full product by submitting your details then a company representative will get in touch with you. 

Another company is Footprints. You can download their asset management software program for a 30 day trial period. Afterwards, you have to pay in order to continue using their services. 

But asset management software can be used for others things than just monitor the inventory of a company. 

It can help guide management’s decision in dealing with non-profitable assets. If there are certain offices that are not making money, it is best to just close it even if it means cutting a few jobs from the workforce. If there is surplus, the company can convert this to cash by selling these off to potential buyers. Also, if the current equipment is already outdated, there is reason to upgrade this to something better. 

One other aspect of asset management software is its ability to catalog music, videos and pictures. Technically, such data are assets of the company and these are better known as digital asset management systems because everything is encrypted digitally. 

This will enable the user to get this based on the format of their choosing. Some sites that offer this users are YouTube and Multiply. But this could not be possible without the media, entertainment and advertising agencies that first used this as they needed to archive their vast video library. 

It is forecasted that more companies will utilize asset management programs in the future. But those who decide to invest in such a system should remember that it is merely a tool that is to help the company. Somebody has to be trained how to use it so this can be accessed by every department via the intranet. 

Are asset management software applications only for large companies? The answer is no because there are versions for personal users. These may be hard to find so it is best to just stick with web based applications. 

The chances of getting free asset management software are very slim. But aside from the two mentioned, there are others to choose from so if you are in the market, it is best to look for these online. It is best to read reviews and blogs that are written about them or see it for yourself by trying the free trial version first before buying the program. 
