Title: 
10 Tips To Shopping For The Perfect Athletic Shoes

Word Count:
536

Summary:
If you are active in exercising, hiking, sports or any other type of physical activity that requires you to be on your feet often, athletic shoes are a must.  These shoes are designed for comfort and support, durability and promise to withstand plenty of use.  With a few simple tips, you will be ready to shop for athletic shoes and will soon be stepping out with confidence.


Keywords:
Shoe, shoes, athletic, running, cycling, baseball, soccer, tennis, walking, ASICS, adidas


Article Body:
If you are active in exercising, hiking, sports or any other type of physical activity that requires you to be on your feet often, athletic shoes are a must.  These shoes are designed for comfort and support, durability and promise to withstand plenty of use.  With a few simple tips, you will be ready to shop for athletic shoes and will soon be stepping out with confidence.

Comfort.  The first thing to consider with any footwear, including athletic shoes, is comfort.  If a shoe isn’t comfortable, there is no use in wearing it.  Blisters, balance problems and overall discomfort are the result of poorly fitting shoes.
		
Affordability.  Just because you are looking for a new pair of athletic shoes, there’s no reason to empty the bank account in doing so.  Quality athletic shoes can be comfortable and affordable at the same time.  By shopping around and comparing prices, you will find the perfect athletic shoes at the perfect price.

Durability.  A good pair of shoes must be durable and able to withstand various weather conditions, including rain.  The worst thing to have in a rain storm is leaky shoes, which is why durability is part of a quality pair of athletic shoes.

Design.  Everyone wants a shoe that looks good, which is why design is very important.  In selecting a color scheme that suits your taste and lifestyle, you will not only feel good in your new athletic shoes, but you will look good too.

Versatility.  One of the most important factors of shoe selection is versatility.  Will the shoes work with your daily exercise regimen and look equally snazzy with your favorite pair of jeans?  Athletic shoes are a terrific compliment to blue jeans for a classic look.

Support.  Every good athletic shoe has support.  It should cradle the foot and make it feel as if every step is one of leisure.  Support is very important, especially if you are involved in a lot of walking or running.  In either of these instances, your feet really take a pounding on the pavement.  Athletic shoes that feature support are noticeable immediately during wear.

Know what you are buying.  Always purchase from a reputable, authorized athletic shoe retailer.  There are a lot of imitation products out there, including clothing and footwear.  Buying from an authorized retailer will eliminate the chances of buying fake merchandise.

Try before you buy.  If you are purchasing locally, go in and sample several pairs of athletic shoes.  Try them on, take a few steps and move your foot around inside the shoe.  In making sure that you have ease of movement and a proper fit, you will be much happier with your purchase.

Layaway.  Certain brands of athletic shoes can be expensive, which is why layaway is often a popular option for anyone who doesn’t have quite enough cash to pay upfront.  Even if it’s just to secure a purchase until payday, layaway programs offer customers with the opportunity to own the perfect pair of athletic shoes.

Make sure the shoe fits with your lifestyle.  Avoid purchasing anything that doesn’t really fit your schedule.  Athletic shoes are designed to work with you and your level of activity.


