Title: 
Beach Shoes are the New Summer Fashion Trend

Word Count:
333

Summary:
Beach shoes have evolved significantly over the last few years


Keywords:
beach,shoes,sea


Article Body:
Beach shoes have evolved significantly over the last few years. Gone are the days when flip-flops and Birkenstock’s (remember that not all Birkenstock’s are waterproof so choose the ones you’ll wear to the beach wisely) were your only option. Though who can really live without a nice comfy pair of Birkenstock’s or 12? Today there are all kinds of shoes made specifically to wear to the beach.

From netted athletic shoes made for running and walking just along the edge of the water to jelly shoes, flip-flops, and dozens of varieties in between it is now more than ever possible to not only have shoes that are practical to wear to the beach, but fashionable in this endeavor as well.

Shoes say a lot about the wearer, there is really no exception for beach shoes. Any old flip-flops say the wearer isn’t very concerned about their foot fashion. Of course there are flip-flops with embellishments that make them a little more fashionable than the dollar store variety. A nice pair of Birkenstock’s says the wearer is wisely more concerned with quality and comfort than following trends. Impractical beach shoes or those that are likely to need repairs after coming into contract with water and/or sand say the owner has more money than sense. And shoes that are funky and fashionable and made for the beach say the wearer is fashionably chic.

When choosing the right beach shoes for you it is important that you consider what your beachside activities are going to be. If you want to run along the shoreline, you might want to purchase a pair of the beach friendly athletic shoes that are relatively new. If you want to be fashionable go for some of the trendy beach shoes, if you want the ultimate in comfort go for a nice pair of Birkenstock’s, and flip-flops are always an old fall back that have been the shoe of choice of beach goers for ages.


