Title: 
Find Quality Boots that Fit Like a Glove

Word Count:
673

Summary:
Looking for that perfect pair of boots for hiking, riding horses or motorcycles, or work? Use this guide to find quality boots that fit like a glove...


Keywords:
logger boots, motorcycle boots, lacer boots, steel toe boots, rc toys, cowboy boots


Article Body:
Finding just the right fit for your boots is important if you want comfort and healthy feet. Whether buying motorcycle boots, logger boots, lacer boots, cowboy boots, or steel toe boots, you'll want the best fit possible so you can enjoy your activities without aches and blisters. Here are some "fitting" tips to remember when shopping for boots.

Choose Quality over Price

Invest only in boots of high quality. Price should only be a factor once you've carefully examined the quality of the boots. To put them to the test, check for solid bottoms. Try pressing your thumb into the bottom of the sole. If the sole can be pressed in with your thumb, the boots are probably too soft to give the protection you need. Also, try twisting the soles of the boots. If you can twist them, they're probably too soft. Solid bottoms are very important with steel toe boots, logger boots, lacer boots, or any other boots used for strenuous work or activities.

Another indicator of quality is the strength and protection provided by the sides of the boots. Good boots will provide extra padding to protect your feet from rocks, stones, metal objects, and so forth. Ankle support can be tested by grabbing the top of the boot and trying to bend it over sideways. If it can be bent easily, then ankle support is probably not a main feature. 

If working outdoors or doing outdoor activities such hiking or riding motorcycles, be sure the boots are waterproof. Motorcycle boots and cowboy boots will be exposed to all sorts of weather while riding, from the heat of the sun to possibly heavy rain downpours! Waterproof boots will last longer and protect your feet from moisture.

Pricing your boots should only come after quality has been considered. You can shop online to find great bargains once you know which type or brand name of boots you want.

Fitting Your Boots

Even if shopping online for boots, you should have them fitted in person by a professional if possible. Remember, all boots are not created equal; all feet are not created equal! Your boots should fit like a glove and be as comfortable as your running shoes. Even heavy boots should fit comfortably.

Before leaving the house, grab a pair of socks you would normally wear with boots. Try on the boots and wear them while walking around the store for at least 15 minutes.

Sizing Your Boots

Be sure the boots do not slip on the heel. Also, check for plenty of room at the toes. Many brand name boots offer a "wide-toe" size if needed. Check the sizing with your index finger. To do this, unlace the boots and move your foot forward as far as possible. Try slipping your index finger inside the boot behind the ankle. If your finger fits there comfortably, then you've got the right size. They're not too tight or too loose.

To check for tightness, try them on without socks once. Be sure your toes have plenty of "wiggling" space. Also, feel for tight spots around the sides of your feet. Then, test the boots again with socks.

Test Your Stride

While walking around the store, notice how the boots feel when walking forward, backward and side-ways. If planning to wear the boots while hiking or walking on inclined areas, ask the store clerk if there's an inclined area in the store or a slanted board to test your boots.

Shopping for Boots Online

Once you find the perfect fit and quality boots, you can go online to find great prices on the type of boots you need. There are boot outlets online that offer many brand names and styles to fit your needs. Also, many online malls offer other items for sale, from RC toys to diecast model cars, so you can do other shopping during your visit. Whether you need logging boots, lacer boots, cowboy boots, steel toe boots, or motorcycle boots, you'll want the very best. Your feet are worth it!


