Title: 
Five Pairs of Shoes That Every Woman Should Have

Word Count:
305

Summary:
We know that everyone loves shoes, buys shoes and has many pairs of shoes in their closets. While you might not need all the shoes that you have in your closets, here are five pairs of shoes that every woman should have:


Keywords:
shoes, pairs of shoes


Article Body:
We know that everyone loves shoes, buys shoes and has many pairs of shoes in their closets. While you might not need all the shoes that you have in your closets, here are five pairs of shoes that every woman should have:

- Great Looking Business Shoes. You need to have a special pair of smart shoes for work. These should look great, and match well with your suit. They will be perfect for interviews, as well as those important presentations and business trips. 

They would usually be black shoes with medium size heel, to make you look taller and in control, but still comfortable enough to wear all day.

- Great Looking Shoes to Wear With Jeans. Who wears jeans with sneakers anymore? As jeans are becoming cooler, and more embellished, you need something cuter then a basic sneaker to go with them.

We recommend cool high heel sandals in the summer, or great looking boots in the winter.

- Great Looking Sneakers. You still need to exercise and go to the gym. While you will not wear sneakers with your stylish jeans, you still need sneakers for exercising and walking outside. There are lots of different sneakers on the market now - pick the ones that fit you, and that fit your exercise routine.

- Cool Dressy Shoes. You have that gorgeous dress, and you need matching shoes to go with it. Get something fun and gorgeous to go with the dress. Splurge a little - here the right shoes will make all the difference.

- The Pink Shoes. You know, everyone has at least one pair of completely impractical, bright pink or bright red shoes. You found them at the store, they didn't really match any of your outfits, but you just had to have them.

Which ones of these types of shoes do you have in your closet?


