Title: 
Guides To Find A Good Pair Of Steel Toe Shoes

Word Count:
549

Summary:
These days steel capped shoes are big business both from a safety point of view and inverse snobbery as a fashion accessory for the “punks”. To decide how to find the best pair of steel toe shoes for your purpose I decided to review the “review sites”

Steel-Toe-Shoes.com claim to be the “largest source of safety shoes on the web”. What I liked about the site was its clear returns policy, how to send something back. It demonstrates that it does have a clear after sales poli...


Keywords:
sshoes, steel toe, steel toe shoes, boots, steel toe boots


Article Body:
These days steel capped shoes are big business both from a safety point of view and inverse snobbery as a fashion accessory for the “punks”. To decide how to find the best pair of steel toe shoes for your purpose I decided to review the “review sites”

Steel-Toe-Shoes.com claim to be the “largest source of safety shoes on the web”. What I liked about the site was its clear returns policy, how to send something back. It demonstrates that it does have a clear after sales policy and the quality matters. . It caters for special needs as in large sizes and wide shoes as well as splitting the sales into male and female. They have a good clearance section, which clearly shows there current offers. The price range is very wide and the selection is enormous. If you can’t find it here then you can’t find it on the Web.

Shoes for Crews deal in steel capped shoes for the industrial workplace. The emphasis of this site is slip resistant shoes, both for the dress occasion, walking and for industrial shoes. There are a wide range of styles and prices but all made by the Shoes for Crews.

Hunts Supplies actually cover more than steel toed shoes they cover work wear including protective hats and leisure wear as well. They have 163 entries for safety footwear covering 14 brands.

Nextag.u.k. have reviewed the steel toe shoes by brands and cover four categories, type material and by price. However this is purely a sales site, as there is a section for ratings, but they are empty. What is good about this site is that they have clear pictures and specifications as to exactly what you are buying. They are all under £50.00.

Northern Tool and Equipment have over boots and boots by Boss and Cat. They cover all price ranges from $15.00, but the majority of their goods fall into the higher price bracket of $50-$100.

Walkerland deal only in their own brand of walking/safety boot. The boots are clearly marked as to their level of safety standard an example is shown below.

“ Goodyear Welted soles that are oil and heat resistant to 300c and comply with CE & BS EN345 standards”.

There is not a huge choice here but it is an easy to navigate site.

One for the Ladies is the Surplus & Outdoors, has army, safety, and equestrian boots amongst others. They have a very clear sizing chart for boots and clothes, which compare the different ways of measuring a foot size in Europe, the States and the U.K. There is an enormous customer care section and it is obvious that their product’s and quality mean something. A beautiful site if you can survive the colour, which is a harsh green!

Rocky Shoes is a review site. It is split into stores, price reviews product reviews. Despite the size and the selection available you can refine your search very easily, which means you spend the minimum time finding your requirements.

Wild chicken online store specialise in “muck” boots the protective ware that you would use for gardening. They seem to specialise in U.K. delivery, but they do have a modern take on the old fashioned clog the steel boots so popular in the industrial revolution.


