Title: 
Popular And Cute Baby Shoes

Word Count:
340

Summary:
One of the greatest mysteries of life is the effort and money put into the purchase of baby clothing.

Infants are not bothered about the quality of their outfits. They will cry anyway, even if they are kitted in a Versace shirt!

Even this will not deter the average parent, they will still go out of their way to buy expensive baby items, chief among which are baby shoes.

Parents buy all kinds of baby shoes for their tots. From baby sneakers to little ballet shoes, nam...


Keywords:
baby, baby shoes, baby gifts, gifts


Article Body:
One of the greatest mysteries of life is the effort and money put into the purchase of baby clothing.

Infants are not bothered about the quality of their outfits. They will cry anyway, even if they are kitted in a Versace shirt!

Even this will not deter the average parent, they will still go out of their way to buy expensive baby items, chief among which are baby shoes.

Parents buy all kinds of baby shoes for their tots. From baby sneakers to little ballet shoes, name it and some babies have them.

The strange fact is these purchases were made with the perfect knowledge that the infants are not going to run on a track or attend dancing classes.

Though, the function of baby shoes is slightly different from those of adult shoes, they still share some basic similarities.

They need to protect the fragile feet, and hold up to crawling around, and possibly a bit of drool.

And while adult shoes go through much more than this, the fact still is, almost any baby shoe will hold up just fine when the baby is not yet walking.

Thus, the other reason parents buy baby shoes is just to show off their baby's cute shoes to friends and other people.

Things become more interesting from here.

It is generally believed that cuteness is accomplished in a baby shoe through the miniature size of its every feature.

A closer look at babies will reveal a startling fact: they are not really very attractive creatures. Not with their big heads and pudgy features.

The real thrill many get out of babies is just that they are tiny, and somewhat odd versions of us.

This is the same with baby shoes; they look like smaller, pudgier versions of our footwear.

Along with this cuteness, there are certain designs that are more popular among baby clothes, and baby shoes, than among adult clothing.

Things like butterflies, hearts, and especially little cute baby animals make a very popular design for decorations on baby shoes.


