Title: 
The Men and Women’s Clog in Review

Word Count:
714

Summary:
Clog shoes were extremely popular in the 70’s and they are making quite a comeback.  They are defined by their design in general.  Most clogs you will find have open backs and can be slipped on.  The traditional clog was one with a wooden sole and a leather top.  They have a toe that is rounded and a little upturned.  The shoes remind you of a more modern version of the “Little Dutch” shoes.  They are very trendy indeed.  Today you can find clogs with backs as well.  They look very much like the traditional clogs; however they have that extra backing to help you keep your shoe on your foot.  Clogs are also so popular because they are very comfortable to wear.  They are among the most comfortable shoe out there.


Keywords:
clog shoes


Article Body:
Clog shoes were extremely popular in the 70’s and they are making quite a comeback.  They are defined by their design in general.  Most clogs you will find have open backs and can be slipped on.  The traditional clog was one with a wooden sole and a leather top.  They have a toe that is rounded and a little upturned.  The shoes remind you of a more modern version of the “Little Dutch” shoes.  They are very trendy indeed.  Today you can find clogs with backs as well.  They look very much like the traditional clogs; however they have that extra backing to help you keep your shoe on your foot.  Clogs are also so popular because they are very comfortable to wear.  They are among the most comfortable shoe out there.  

Women’s Clogs

Women love their clogs.  Clogs offer women the ease of just slipping your foot into your shoe and being on your way.  Most women also love the fact that they can wear a breezy clog in the warmer weather without worrying about people seeing their toes.  Some women use them specifically in times when their toe nails need a little extra attention that they have not gotten around to yet.  Other women also love that they can still wear their clogs in cooler weather with socks.  They are simply shoes that can go from one season to the next effortlessly.  

You will find women wearing traditional clogs with wood and leather, suede covered clogs, or even garden clogs.  Many gardeners love to wear plastic clogs in their garden because they can be easily washed off and used over and over again.  You can find garden clogs in most home and garden stores.  Canvas clogs are becoming more popular as well.  The clog looks like a tennis shoe; only it is backless, making it a clog.  You can find very athletic versions or simple “Keds” versions of this type of clog.  

Men’s Clogs

Most men are afraid of wearing clogs.  Traditionally only women wore clogs, which can scare the manliest of men away altogether.  Those men who are brave enough to try them however end up loving them the most.  Clogs for men are very masculine.  They typically are a lot like sandals in many ways.  They are brown or black and made of leather.  Where women’s clogs often have a chunky heel, clogs for men don’t.  

Many men prefer to wear clogs with backs on them.  They think it makes the shoe look manlier, which could be true to some.  They can wear these interesting shoes to work, on the golf course, or even to church.  Overall, they are very versatile which appeals to men.

Medical Clogs

More and more we are seeing medical clogs being used in hospitals and other medical facilities.  Medical clogs are those with thick rubber soles.  The upper area of the clog is usually made of rubber as well.  These are perfect for nurses, doctors, and other medical staff.  They are so great because they protect the staff’s feet from germs and potentially hazardous materials on the floor.  Another benefit is that the medical clogs are slip resistant which helps the staff stay safe when their floor is wet.  They can also be cleaned and disinfected very quickly and easily, which makes them even more appealing to medical staff.  Their durability is attractive as well.  Some medical facilities will not allow their staff to wear backless clogs however, so they must purchase clogs with backs on them.  These rules are made to avoid any type of injury.  

Clog shoes are not only functional, but they are also very fashionable.  If you want to build a well-rounded shoe collection, you should certainly have a few pairs of clogs in the mix.  You can wear them with jeans, pants, or shorts.  While you might want to avoid wearing them with dresses or skirts, there is always that one exception.  So, try them out with every outfit you own to see when they work the best.  And, don’t forget to use them in the garden or around the house to protect your feet.  You can get your work done comfortably and be able to clean them easily after the job is complete.


