Title: 
Themed Wedding Shoes

Word Count:
493

Summary:
Tradition tells us that wedding shoes should be white, feminine, and simply beautiful. But times are changing, and with that, the trends on bridal shoes. A bride's wedding shoes are not limited to stilettos, mules, pumps, and kitten heels in ivory and satin. Today, the added flexibility of themed weddings allows brides to express themselves with the footwear of their choice.

The fairy tale theme is probably the most popular for brides who want to be different but remain on...


Keywords:
wedding shoes, wedding themes


Article Body:
Tradition tells us that wedding shoes should be white, feminine, and simply beautiful. But times are changing, and with that, the trends on bridal shoes. A bride's wedding shoes are not limited to stilettos, mules, pumps, and kitten heels in ivory and satin. Today, the added flexibility of themed weddings allows brides to express themselves with the footwear of their choice.

The fairy tale theme is probably the most popular for brides who want to be different but remain on the safe side. Since most brides are treated like royalties on their wedding days, the fairy tale theme is highly appropriate. Fairy tale brides can play with their dress and shoes more than the classic, traditional bride. Common choices of fairy tale brides include ball gowns and princess dresses with matching tiaras. Wedding shoes are, by far, trickier. Stilettos are not appropriate since they look too modern for princesses, and ditto with sandals. A shoe suggestion for this theme would be dainty lace-up boots in a complementary color to the wedding dress. These will look fabulous with full skirts and sleeved dresses.

Outdoor garden weddings are also popular. Gardens with summer themes allow for dresses with airy fabrics and materials. To complement the "airiness" of the bridal dress, shoes should be airy and lightweight like sandals. As too pointy heels can sink in the ground, flat or platform sandals are best. Jeweled slippers with beads and embellishments are also good choices. This way, the bride does not have to worry about sinking or balancing in uneven grounds. Wedding shoes for outdoor wedding should be comfortable and relaxed to complement the relaxed and summery setting.

More adventurous brides prefer beach weddings. Beaches are usually chosen as venues if there are sentimental moments between the couple that happened in the beach like the first kiss or engagement. These are moments of surprise and the whole bridal ensemble should echo the excitement of those moments. Since the usual dresses for beach weddings show a lot of skin (think tube, haltered, short dresses), the wedding shoes should follow. Strapped heels are out because of the sand and this makes for an opportunity to use funky flip-flops and flat thong sandals. Embellished flip-flops and thong sandals with sparkly rhinestone details complement the beach vibe.

Recently, travel-themed and ethnic weddings are getting popular with jetsetter couples. Popular inspirations are Japanese, Arabian, and African cultures. Wedding dresses and the decors of the venue evoke images from the theme. A geisha-inspired dress merits wooden platforms as wedding shoes as much as a Princess Jasmine-inspired outfit matches satin slippers.

The gradual flexibility of wedding traditions allows for more personal and intimate weddings. There is no reason why brides should restrain their individual styles. Wedding shoes provide opportunities for little surprises and brides are welcome to take them. A wedding is, first and foremost, the bride's day. She can proclaim her Keds as her wedding shoes and no one is allowed to object.


