Title: 
Why are People Buying Shoes Online? Let Me Count the Ways

Word Count:
621

Summary:
Why are people buying shoes online? It’s easy, for selection, price and convenience which includes free shipping, no sales tax, a wider selection, live customer service, daily sales, 110% gaurenteed satisfication, and free returns.


Keywords:
online shopping, buying shoes, buying shoes online, shopping online, shoebuy.com


Article Body:
These days, finding the perfect pair of shoes is only a click away. The enormous selection at Shoebuy.com is something that your local shoe store just can’t match. Whether you are looking for boots, dress shoes, casual shoes, athletic shoes or some comfy slippers you will find exactly what you need at the price you want and in the size that fits you. Why are people buying shoes online? It’s easy, for selection, price and convenience.

Shoebuy has the largest selection of shoes anywhere, online or offline. Shoebuy represents 250 top brands with the most styles per brand, the broadest range of materials, colors, sizes, and widths, and with the most up to date fashions. Find shoes in sizes ranging from a women’s size 2 to a size 17 or a men’s size 1 to a size 20, with width’s running from extra narrow to extra wide. 

The sale center provides savings of up to 65% off, so why would you want to shop anywhere else? Plus, you can see what other customers think by checking out customer’s reviews and ratings on the thousands of shoes and accessories; enjoy free shipping with live customer service and free returns, all available at Shoebuy.com.

There are great savings every day at Shoebuy and with these great savings, you won’t be hit with any additional sales charges or fees. Shoebuy offersfree shipping and free return shipping anywhere in the United States and you will receive your order within three to ten business days. First time customers receive an additional 10% off their purchase and the opportunity to save more on future purchases.  Whether you’re a first time buyer or not you can review other customer’s ratings from the thousands of products across the website. Find out if a shoe runs a little wide or narrow from others who have bought the same item.

Another advantage to online shopping is not worrying about the hassles of long lines and all of your returns are free and come with a 110% price guarantee. That’s right, if it doesn’t fit – return it. Not only is shopping online fast, easy, and hassle free, but Shoebuy.com offers advice on how to purchase shoes online for wide, narrow and all shoe sizes that most people have a difficult time finding. In fact, Shoebuy provides printable fitting charts and bandwidth for men, women, and children to help your shoe buying experience an absolute success.  All you need is a printer and you can use our printable fitting chart. Similar to the foot-shaped devices you find in a traditional shoe store, simply stand on the printable fitting chart to determine your shoe size. The printable fitting chart works for men, women and children. No printer? No problem, you can use our measurement table. Simply measure your foot with a ruler or tape measurer, then find the closest measurement on the measurement table that is equal to or greater than the length of your foot. 

After you’ve found your shoe, read the reviews, and are ready to make your purchase, you also enjoy the advantage of no sales tax on every order because Shoebuy pays all applicable sales tax for you. And whether you are making a return or an exchange, Shoebuy will provide you a pre-paid shipping label for your order to send your return. All you have to do is choose from the largest selection of shoes online.

The choice is simple, with the advantages of purchasing without any sales tax, and enjoying great sales and discounts from your own home, secure purchasing, live customer service, and free shipping, you can see why everyone is shopping online. Make your next purchase with Shoebuy.com.


