Title: 
Why Italian Shoes Really Are The Best Quality

Word Count:
427

Summary:
Most of us consider shoes made or styled in Italy as the ultimate in fashion. When we say Italian shoes it conjures a picture of good craftsmanship, style and quality. Italian designers are the most acclaimed footwear designers in the world. The Italian designers perfectly understand the anatomy of the leg and foot so they make shoes look their best.

Italian footwear is available in several varieties such as full length boots, slip-ons, mid-calf boots, sandals, loafers and...


Keywords:
italian footwear,gucci,prada,versace,italian shoes


Article Body:
Most of us consider shoes made or styled in Italy as the ultimate in fashion. When we say Italian shoes it conjures a picture of good craftsmanship, style and quality. Italian designers are the most acclaimed footwear designers in the world. The Italian designers perfectly understand the anatomy of the leg and foot so they make shoes look their best.

Italian footwear is available in several varieties such as full length boots, slip-ons, mid-calf boots, sandals, loafers and wedges. When selecting Italian shoes, care should be taken to avoid the tasteless, shiny and creaky shoes which many merchants try to pass on as finest Italian shoes.

The Italians are still using the traditional methods of shoemaking and tanning which indicates that good materials are used for the lining and uppers which are hand sewn. Even though such hand crafted shoes should cost higher than the shoes produced on a large scale using machinery, due to the severe competition from Far Eastern shoe makers who also offer hand crafted shoes, the Italians are forced to offer good quality shoes at cheaper prices without compromising on quality.

There are different styles of men’s Italian shoes such as handmade black leather Oxford shoes, black Italian Oxford dress shoes, men's dark brown leather Oxford shoes, men's dark brown lace-up shoes and brown calf leather Oxford shoes. The prices of these shoes range from the low $330 to the high $560.

Brunori men's black Italian ankle strap boots are classic boots with elastic gore insets. These black coloured shoes are made from genuine leather and boast style, quality and fine craftsmanship. When ordering these shoes, care must be taken to select the correct size since the sizes run large. Select a size smaller than your regular size for a good fitting. These shoes are priced around $480

For casual wear but without foregoing the daytime classic style, try the handmade Pakerson Today which are available in beige and tan

For exclusive hand made shoes you can try Forzieri brown cap toe dress shoes. These shoes combine the excellent traditional craftsmanship with some new original designs. They are most suitable for business meetings or for occasions which need a stylish appearance. They are priced around $500.

For women, there are soft Italian leather boots with a luxurious feel, side button and short zip available for only $150. These ladies Italian shoes are available in three colours namely, tobacco, brown and black.

The Quai D'Orsay pump shoes in black patent leather enhances its dramatic flair and are meant for sophisticated and chic women. The price range is around $160.


