Title: 
911 Faqs And More Questions

Word Count:
636

Summary:
Here are some pertinent questions that to this day still have not been answered:

Why did the FBI stop their investigation in Mid 1996 of two of Osama bin Laden's relatives in Washington and a Muslim organisation, the World Assembly of Muslim Youth?

Was it because they had orders from higher up to stop any investigations related to the Bin Laden Family?

Why did George W.Bush give the order to stop inquiries into the terrorist connections of the Bin Laden family based in the US and abroad in early 2001?

Why did the US Government allow all the Bin Laden Family members to fly out of the US while all other air-Traffic was grounded? Was it because the Bin Laden family has been funding the Bush family politically for a long time?


Keywords:
9/11, terrorism, WTC


Article Body:
The number 911 has been in the news quite frequently in the last couple of years.

911 is the emergency number dialed by people when they need fire, police or ambulance assistance in a hurry. In the year 911 the Lower Seine area was ceded to the Norse invaders under Hrolf Ranger as the Duchy of Normandy (treaty of St Claire sur Epte).

Anastasius III became Pope from 911-913.

The Danes started the towv of Drogheda in Ireland.

9 11 also stands for the horrendous attack by terrorists on New York City and the Pentagon in which thousands of people were murdered.

Here are some pertinent questions that to this day still have not been answered:

Why did the FBI stop their investigation in Mid 1996 of two of Osama bin Laden's relatives in Washington and a Muslim organisation, the World Assembly of Muslim Youth?

Was it because they had orders from higher up to stop any investigations related to the Bin Laden Family?

Why did George W.Bush give the order to stop inquiries into the terrorist connections of the Bin Laden family based in the US and abroad in early 2001?

Why did the US Government allow all the Bin Laden Family members to fly out of the US while all other air-Traffic was grounded? Was it because the Bin Laden family has been funding the Bush family politically for a long time?

Why did none of the 19 hijackers appear on the passenger lists involved in the 4 hijjacked planes? Can you explain, why none of the indestructible Black Boxes have been found at any of the crash centers? When was the last time George H.W. Bush travelled to the Middle East on behalf of the privately owned Carlyle Group, one of the largest defense contractors in the U.S. and what was the purpose of that meeting? If we knew that there was a terrorist attack going on, which we did, and we suddenly have two trade towers in New York being obviously hit by terrorist activity, and we also knew of commercial airliners changing course from Boston to Los Angeles, then where was the response of the defense establishment once we saw the diversion of the aircraft headed west from Dulles turning around 180 degrees and, likewise, in the aircraft taking off from Newark and, in flight, turning 180 degrees?

Answer:

Commenting from CNN on the timeline, 9:03 is the correct time that the United Airlines flight crashed into the south tower of the World Trade Center; 9:43 is the time that American Airlines flight 77 crashed into the Pentagon. And 10:10 a.m. is the time that United Airlines flight 93 crashed in Somerset County, Pennsylvania.

Discrepancies between Joint Chiefs of Staff investigations and findings of the 9/11 commission:

There was a highly classified United States Special Operations Command program under the command of the U.S. Special Operations Command .It was created as a result of a directive from the Joint Chiefs' of Staff in early October 1999 by the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Hugh Shelton ,to develop an Information Operations Campaign Plan against transnational terrorism, "specifically al-Qaida." According to statements by Lt. Col. Anthony Shaffer and confirmed by four others, Able Danger had identified the September 11, 2001 attack leader Mohamed Atta , and three of the 9/11 plot's 19 hijackers, as possible members of an al Qaeda cell linked to the '93 World Trade Center Attacks.

The group used all information legally collected under the rule of law. Primarily consisting of classified information, all publicly obtained information was approved after a legal review of SOCOM lawyers. The early identification of the four hijackers by Able Danger appears to contradict the official conclusion of the 9/11 Commission,that American intelligence agencies had not identified Atta as a terrorist prior to the attack. This has resulted in a political controversy that has begun to damage the credibility of the bipartisan 9/11 Commission.


