Title: 
Barack Obama Will Become U. S. President

Word Count:
455

Summary:
Notwithstanding the fact that so far neither Senator Hillary Clinton nor Senator Barack Obama could proclaim the victory of the presidential primaries after the Super Tuesday, Best-Relationship-Advice is, however, prepared to make a bold and definitive advice...


Keywords:
Obama,Barack H. Obama Jr.,Barack Obama,President Barack Obama,President Obama,Senator Barack Obama,Senator Barack H Obama Jr.,Senator Obama


Article Body:
<b>Definitive Best-Relationship-Advice on Barack Obama becoming U. S. President</b>

Today is Wednesday, February 6, 2008, the day after the Super Tuesday – the single biggest U. S. presidential primary day.

Notwithstanding the fact that so far neither Senator Hillary Clinton nor Senator Barack Obama could proclaim the victory of the presidential primaries after the Super Tuesday, Best-Relationship-Advice is, however, prepared to make a bold and definitive advice that the now Senator Obama will become President-elect at the end of 2008. 

Barack Obama will not only prevail the presidential primaries of the U. S. Democratic Party but also advance to enthrone to the White House becoming the forty-fourth President of the United States. He is making history in the presidency of the United States of America – the first non-white ethnic President of the World’s Super Power. What "An American Dream!" 

It has to make clear that Relationship Adviser is not American. He is not a member of or an affiliate to any political party – he does not have a slightest interest in politics. He is not a psychic either.

This piece of definitive advice is not fortune-telling based on horoscope or psychic power, as most fortune-telling always gives equivocal answers which are largely subject to interpretations after the event to its favor. The advice is like when a traveller books a plane flying from New York to Paris on a certain day with a certain flight time, he or she would be foretold the scheduled time of arrival in Paris on that particular day. When he or she actually takes the flight and onboard the plane, he or she would almost certain that the plane will get to Paris at about the ETA – estimated time of arrival – foretold by the Captain. At the end of the journey, the plane would actually get there at about that foretold ETA.

This seems exceedingly natural nowadays but not before May 21, 1927 when The Spirit of St. Louis was flown by Charles Lindbergh which made the first non-stop solo transatlantic flight from New York to Paris.

The above analogy is most apparent and easily undertood but not the advice on the outcome of a weighty presidential election campaign.

Most people would certainly be extremely skeptical about the credibility of Best-Relationship-Advice, but time will soon prove the stunning accuracy of Best-Relationship-Advice which relies on meticulous calculation and not on guesswork. Afterall, extraordinary claims require extraordinary proof.

Best-Relationship-Advice is intended for people who are very serious about making decisions of significant consequence, and today this piece of bold and definitive advice is monumental to demonstrate how credible it is.

Best-Relationship-Advice is unprecedented, definitive and invaluable for those seeking for right directions in order to make right decisions, not only in love and marriage relationships.


