Title: 
Foreclosure is running rampant in Northern California. What now for troubled residents?

Word Count:
606

Summary:
This article discuss the most overlook solution for residents and taxpayers caught in foreclosure. How to spend smart in these uncertain times.


Keywords:



Article Body:
In this country’s uncertain economy, with sub-prime real estate meltdowns and rising gas prices, it is no wonder that American consumers are looking for some financial refuge when it comes to either short term or long term security.  This especially rings true in our nation’s housing arena. 

The foreclosure ratio has increased dramatically in the San Francisco Bay and Sacramento areas.  This means good people and their real estate values are being negatively affected due to crippling market conditions. This in turn, floods the market with properties that don’t sell. Although, someone could say it is a buyer’s market, and that would be true. But what about the person that is in foreclosure?  They can’t mortgage a property. What are their options? 

I suppose they could rent an apartment. This could be a very pricey option in the San Francisco Bay (including the east bay) and Sacramento areas. For example, research shows that: as of 12/07 the rental markets in these large areas are down (Excluding San Francisco Proper). 

Learning this, I researched further and discovered that a good portion of Americans that are in foreclosure in these areas, are spending their money smart: buying an RV and living in a Luxury RV Resort. 

Surprisingly, there are many RV Resorts and Parks that cater to a growing rental market that no one else is utilizing. It is substantially cheaper to rent a site at an RV Park instead of renting a traditional apartment. Typically a one bedroom in Vacaville, CA (between San Francisco and Sacramento) for example, will go anywhere from $850.00 – $1400.00 plus utilities.  A monthly site at the Vineyard RV Park in Vacaville, CA will only set you back $500.00 - $750.00 per month plus electric. Keep in mind you are powering a smaller area although, most RV’s on the market today have comparable dimension sizes to your average small apartment which is a huge plus.

“Many people that are or were in foreclosure, that have bad credit can rent in our park for half of what they would spend in the Vacaville/Fairfield area. It is also very convenient for our tenants to commute to work in the San Francisco/Sacramento areas, because of the fantastic freeway access our location offers”, says Carl Bertram, one of the owners of the Vineyard RV Park. He goes on to say “Not only is this option popular for people in foreclosure that have credit issues, but we also cater to a huge traveling nurse and union worker’s community as well (welders, carpenters, and electricians). With all the new construction in the East Bay Area, we figured that we would use this to our advantage”.

Most people would feel a transition like this would be disorientating. Not if you go to the right park. If you do your research, you will find upscale RV Parks and Resorts will offer many guest and tenant services that you would not normally find in the traditional rental situation such as: Round the Clock Security, Guest Concierge Services, and in the case of the Vineyard RV Park – they will even assist you in locating the perfect dealer when you purchase your first RV.  It almost makes the transition effortless.  I would imagine the smart consumer would take this alternate solution into major consideration when attempting the rental hunting process. If you are moving to the San Francisco or Sacramento Areas or are thinking about visiting and want to learn more about this option, you may contact Carl or Meaghan Bertram toll free at the Vineyard RV Park: 866-447-8797. Or you can view this first class facility at: http://www.VineyardRVPark.com.


