Incisions and Scaring from Breast Surgery

With any surgery there will be scars, but keep in mind that most breast augmentations will heal well. You’ll find that there is only a six percent change that you may have some undesirable scaring. You’ll want to think about the chances that you are putting yourself in and then consider your options before you make any rash decisions. 

The extent of the scaring can be determined by many factors. Some of the factors include rather or not the patient is a smoker, the tissue quality, ethnicity, tissue quality, suture material, tension to wound, and tissue trauma. Also, you’ll find that your own likeliness of recovering quickly will also make a different in rather or not you have a favorable healing. 

The type of incision also affects the amount and visibility of scaring. The type of planned incision should be discussed with your surgeon prior to the procedure.

The inframammary incision is one of the most common incisions for the silicone gel implants. This affords maximum access for precise dissection and placement of an implant. The incision is placed below the breast in the infra-mammary fold. The fact is that it can leave a visible scar for those who have smaller breasts, because they do not drape over the IMF properly. 

Transaxillary incisions are placed in the armpit. This is what is needed in order for the implants to be placed inside the breast without any visible scars. It’s also more likely to consistently achieve symmetry of the inferior implant position.

The areolar border is where the periareolar incisions are placed. You will find that when it comes to placement, the incision is placed around the inferior half of the circumference pertaining to the areola. You will want to keep in mind that the length of the incision required for silicone implants, it can be hard to use this method of implanting. You will find that the scares are less visible when a woman has some lighter areolar pigment. Keep in mind that this incision will also increase the capsular contracture. 
