Title: 
Big Brother 7 - Sam is Evicted

Word Count:
426

Summary:
Sam became the third housemate to be evicted from the Big Brother house after receiving 53% of the public vote against perennial whinger Nikki Grahame.


Keywords:
free big brother bets, big brother 7, nikki grahame, pete bennett, daddy fantastic


Article Body:
Sam became the third housemate to be evicted from the Big Brother house after receiving 53% of the public vote against perennial whinger Nikki Grahame. 

Newcome Sam, who entered the house after a fortnight alongside Aisleyne Horgan-Wallace was available at 5/2 before nominations were announced as Grace Adams-Short was the early favourite to face the boot. 

Public opinion on the 20-year-old dance teacher has changed dramatically in the last week or so after viewers have seen her two-facedness on the highlights programes. 

On Monday 5 June, the day nominations took place, Grace was favourite to leave at even money due to the public likely to vote her out no matter who she was up against. Plus, her close ally Imogen Thomas was banned from nominating for the second week running. Lisa, who may also have supported her, was also banned after being caught discussing possible nominations.

The odds were as follows before the nominations were announced:

Grace - Evens
Sam - 5/2
Lisa  - 10/1
Lea - 10/1
Aisleyne - 12/1
Richard - 16/1

At this point the 5/2 available on a Sam eviction looked exceptional value for money as he / she should have been odds on. Many of the housemates had confided in each other or in the diary room that they had grown tired of the gender bending unemployed nail technician (seriously) for a variety of reasons.

Grace and Lea both complained that Sam stands nearby when they are about to use the bathroom and Nikki expressed her disgust at it’s practice of taking the concept of “girls” going to the toilet together to an extreme level.

Glyn said he didn’t like the way Sam followed him around, that he’s too clingy and is desperate to get on with people. Sam always needed reassurance that she was close friends with the other housemates when they were not that interested. 

The fluctuating odds on the betting exchanges while the housemates were going through the nomination process suggested Sam and Lea would be up for eviction as Grace’s price drifted further out.

The confirmed possible evictees were Sam who immediately plummeted to 1/4 while Nikki was available at 5/1.

There was no way that Nikki was going to leave and was shown in a positive light during the run up to Friday, being given the role as PA to Big Brother during a task while some unsavoury late-night footage of Sam was broadcast for viewers morbid curiosity.

Sam was favourite to leave from then on and was evicted with 53% of the vote, suggesting it was more closely contested than the bookmakers and weight of money against him / her suggested.


