Title: 
Big Brother 7 - Meet the Contestants - Part One

Word Count:
479

Summary:
The seventh series of reality TV show Big Brother opened to a record television audience of 8.1 million on 18 May and placed 14 contestants in the goldfish bowl environment for 13 weeks, the longest stint ever.


Keywords:
big brother 7, big brother uk, free big brother bets, nikki grahame, bonnie holt, lea walker


Article Body:
The seventh series of reality TV show Big Brother opened to a record television audience of 8.1 million on 18 May and placed 14 contestants in the goldfish bowl environment for 13 weeks, the longest stint ever.

Here are four of the seven women people brave enough, or stupid enough, to go under televised scrutiny and have their past dredged up in the gutter press for the next three and a half months.

Nikki GRAHAME
Age: 24. From: Middlesex. Occupation: Model / Dancer / Perfume Promo girl in Harrods.
Nikki is single and wants her experience on Big Brother to get her “noticed by rich and famous men”. Her dream and ambition in life is to marry a rich man, preferably a Premiership footballer, who would shower her with credit cards. She would like to marry him, but then have affairs “just like on Footballers' Wives”. She has a phobia of someone cutting her hair without her knowing and waking up covered in cellulite and also hates public transport, calling buses “peasant wagons”.

Bonnie HOLT
Age: 20. From: Leicestershire. Occupation: Part time care worker.
Bonnie is single and works with people who have Down’s Syndrome. She is currently banned from working in any factories within Loughborough. When asked why she wanted to go on Big Brother, she said it would be another adventure on her list and just to get in would be an achievement. She would also use her television stint as an excuse to stick her fingers up at her ex-friends as it would really wind them up. Amusingly, Bonnie has an older brother called Clyde.

Lisa HUO
Age: 27. From: Manchester. Occupation: Unemployed.
Lisa is single, was born in Shanghai and moved to the UK with her parents when she was two years old. She is an upholsterer by trade and her laddish occupation has given her the nickname “Boy Bod” by her friends. When asked why she wanted a stint in the Big Brother house she replied: “for the money and getting out of work for a good few weeks, and I know I’ll entertain everyone in there and maybe find a little love with someone”. Lisa admires Jennifer Lopez for her success and says if she could change one thing about herself she would like “a bigger arse”.

Lea WALKER
Age: 35. From: Nottingham. Occupation: Model & Pigmentation Artist
Lea is single and is the first “mum” to appear on Big Brother. She has spent over £35,000 on plastic surgery and has the largest breast implants in the UK – at a whopping 30M. She admits she has been celibate for a year because only the seedy guys are interested in her. When asked why she wanted to appear on Big Brother she answered: “for the money and fame – just like the others”. Lea describes her strangest and most frightening job as the time she was painted nude whilst standing in front of over 3,000 bikers.


