Title: 
Celebrity Social - Gossip and Scandal is Everywhere!

Word Count:
349

Summary:
Gossip and scandal are everywhere when it comes to stars and celebrities around the world.  Keeping your eye on the stars is one way to amuse yourself and keep smiling.


Keywords:
celebrity gossip scandal media hollywood


Article Body:
Gossip and scandal are everywhere when it comes to stars and celebrities around the world.  And no matter how much you deny that you don't pay attention to celebrity news, how often do you find yourself joining in a hot discussion at work or around the dinner table?  Keeping your eye on the stars is one way to amuse yourself and keep smiling.

Not many people can resist a bit of gossip about the celebrities that make the news.  Award ceremonies are a great way to see what everyone is wearing and how bad or good they look wearing it.  Watching a popular starlet stumble her way to the podium wearing an unflattering dress can lead to weeks of gossip about what not to wear when the cameras are hot and ready.  Magazines are filled with the latest fashion mistakes that the stars make when they venture out into public places. 

Celebrity relationships continue to baffle most of us.  What makes motion picture stars such as Brad Pitt leave one relationship for another?  Celebrity gossip has followed Mr. Pitt as he baffles the media with his behavior.  The scandal of celebrity relationships gone wrong is always at the forefront of the news, covering the pages of serious newspapers all the way to gossip magazines that line the shelves at the grocery store.  

Stars range from movie starlets such as Meg Ryan to music icons such as Madonna.  Society loves to follow their actions whether they are performing in front of a camera or on stage.  And when these stars are caught at their worst, even more gossip hits that media.  

Celebrity news and gossip can be found in magazines, on the radio, and on the television screen.  Gossip is a great way to take a break from the more serious news that is found both locally and around the world.  As a society we like to follow the actions of those people we see in the media light.  After all, do you really want to miss out seeing the next outrageous outfit that Paris Hilton is going to wear?


