Title: 
Flowers Can Make Your Parties Better Than Paris Hilton's

Word Count:
527

Summary:
You don't have to famous party girl Paris Hilton or have her money to make your parties a memorable event. Simple and creative use of flowers will keep your guests talking about your party and looking forward to the next one for weeks to come.

Flowers can be an integral part of the decorations and help set the mood for your party –from fun and frisky to elegant and sophisticated. And, you don't have to be a party planning expert to use flowers effectively; all you have to ...


Keywords:



Article Body:
You don't have to famous party girl Paris Hilton or have her money to make your parties a memorable event. Simple and creative use of flowers will keep your guests talking about your party and looking forward to the next one for weeks to come.

Flowers can be an integral part of the decorations and help set the mood for your party –from fun and frisky to elegant and sophisticated. And, you don't have to be a party planning expert to use flowers effectively; all you have to do is enlist the help of your favorite professional florist who will be able to help you create the look and feel you want with flowers in the right colors and styles. Your florist can even help you use flowers in some very surprising and unique ways no matter what type of party you're throwing.

Backyard Barbecue
Backyard barbecues are friendly, relaxed events with an informal setting and comfortable clothing. Of course, they're also held during the summer when it's hot! You'll want to ask your florist which flowers will last the best throughout the event and stay looking fresh for hours. Some suggestions are daisies, marigolds, lilies, asters, and sunflowers.

For simple, fun centerpieces, try placing big bunches of daisies in canning jars. They'll look great in the center of the traditional checkered tablecloth. Or, you could have your florist use bottles or baskets as containers for floral arrangements. For and even prettier table, tie raffia bows around your napkins and silverware and slip a flower through the bow.

Patio or Garden Party
Your patio or garden party might be a sophisticated affair, or it could be informal, but since it's an outdoor party, you'll want to focus on the beauty of the surroundings. Flowers can help you enhance that beauty. Try using clay pots filled with flowering plants or green plants strung with twinkling white lights. Or, fill clay pots with topiary designs. Set your tables with small vases containing several different types of flowers or crystal bowls with low arrangements surrounded by scattered petals. Place a flower on the napkin of each table setting.

Mexican Fiesta
A spicy Mexican Fiesta needs bright, feisty flowers. The bolder the colors the better! Gerbera daisies are an excellent choice since they're a casual flower available in a wide variety of bright colors. Try placing them in Mexican "bubble" glass or painted pottery. You can even float a few blossoms in your Sangria bowl or pierce small blossoms with a toothpick to decorate your Margaritas. For a festive floral arrangement, take empty piñatas with openings cut into the top to your florist. Ask them to create flower arrangements using the piñatas as containers. Hang the finished arrangements around your party space.

These are just a few ideas you can use to make your parties the talk of the neighborhood. Your florist can help you find creative ways to use flowers for any party theme or setting you can think of. Who knows, with the right mix of fun and flowers, you might start getting calls from Hollywood A-listers like Paris Hilton begging to be invited to your events!


