Title: 
Cisco CCNA Exam Tutorial:  The Best Time To Schedule Your Exam

Word Count:
322

Summary:
There’s one time and one time only to schedule your exam.  Learn when that is from Chris Bryant, CCIE #12933.


Keywords:
Ccna, exam, free, tutorial, pass, test, certification, ccnp, study, guide, chris, Bryant, advantage, 12933, ccie, study, plan


Article Body:
In preparing for CCNA exam success, one of the basic steps is to schedule your exam! And when should you do that?
				
Schedule your exam NOW.

I can hear you now -- " Why should I schedule my exam now? I haven’t started studying yet!"

From experience, I can tell you that this technique works. People complain about timetables and deadlines, but the truth is that people do their best work with a deadline. “Stress” is not the dirty word that we’ve made it out to be.  A diamond is only a lump of coal that was put under pressure.

I wish I had a nickel for every time I’ve heard this:

"I’ll schedule my exam when I’m ready."

You know when "ready" is? For many people, NEVER. I know someone who’s been preparing for his CCNA for years – literally! He’s going to schedule that exam when he’s ready. He’s been getting ready for years!

By scheduling your exam now, you give yourself a mental deadline. You’ll be surprised at how focused your mind becomes when you know the date of your exam before you start. I have used this technique for my CCNA, CCNP, and CCIE exams. It will work for you!

You can schedule your exam with Prometric or VUE right now!  Just search for either of those companies in your favorite search engine, and register online today.

Both sites have test center locators, so no matter where you are in the world, you can find the testing center nearest you.

We all have times of the day that we’re mentally sharper than others. I personally am a "morning person", so I always schedule my exams for first thing in the morning. If you’re stronger in the afternoon, schedule an afternoon exam. Regardless of the time of day you’re going to take the exam – schedule it now, right now!


