Title: 
Computer Training School Tutorial:  Know Your Instructor

Word Count:
335

Summary:
Getting to know your tech instructor is a great way to get ahead in the IT field.  Learn more from Chris Bryant, CCIE #12933.


Keywords:
Ccna, mcse, computer, training, school, tech, ecpi, student, teacher, instructor, contact, pc, router, switch, class, course


Article Body:
Making the decision to attend a computer tech school can be one of the best decisions of your life.  Another great decision is to tap a hidden wealth of knowledge that is right before every student at schools such as ECPI and ITT, but very few students take advantage of it.

When you're attending a computer training school, you must avoid the mentality that some other students will have - "I gotta go to school, I gotta be here, I can't wait to leave and go home".  When you're preparing for a career working with computers, you've got to take advantage of every learning experience you can get, and that includes getting to know the most valuable resource at your school - your teachers!

Your teachers have busy schedules, but it was my experience that every single time I asked for help or had questions outside of class, my teachers went the extra mile to help me.  I’m sure yours will do the same for you, but you have to let them know you want that help!

At your tech school, you must develop the skills and work ethic that you will use to succeed in the IT field.  By staying after class, working overtime in the computer labs, and getting to know your instructors,  you'll be astonished at the additional knowledge you can pick up.  Almost any good teacher is going to have real-world experience, and you need to draw on that knowledge.  Having lunch with an instructor is another great idea, as it allows you to get to know them away from the classroom.  

Part of success in any field is making contacts for the future.  You may not be in the IT field yet, but you should already be getting to know people with IT experience - and who better than your teachers?  Besides, they hear about job openings all the time from friends, and the more you stand out from the crowd, the more likely you are to be remembered for such opportunities!


