Title: 
Computer Training and IT Certifications

Word Count:
425

Summary:
Computer training is possible through formal education attending one of the many colleges or university offering both IT and computer science programs. There are many other institutes offering computer training online and computer based training products and courses for Web Development, Microsoft Office, and various Information Technology certifications among others.


Keywords:
computer training, IT certification


Article Body:
In the competitive world of the internet, computer training is necessary to gain skills and knowledge in order to get the validation you need to be recognized as an expert IT professional confronting all those opportunities and career challenges that have never been greater than today.

An IT certification is a common a prerequisite to get a job or a salary increase, hence professional certifications are a necessity and not just a marketing strategy to sell determined software or useless courses. Both computer training and IT certification are the best way to demonstrate your skills and expertise in any given technical field to present to prospective employers. 

Computer training is possible through formal education attending one of the many colleges or university offering both IT and computer science programs. There are many other institutes offering computer training online and computer based training products and courses for Web Development, Microsoft Office, and various Information Technology certifications among others.

Computer training online and computer based training products also offer online support from expert instructors, which make it easier to learn without even leaving the comfort of your home. From study guides, practice exams, to audio training, video training and online training. Computer training offers different requirements and levels of learning to focus on anyone's demands.

On the other hand, IT Certifications not only lets you demonstrate undeniable expertise on diverse IT areas but also a document that credits your qualifications enhancing your curriculum vitae whether if getting a new job or engaging in a new system-wide deployment. 

Furthermore, employers are more likely to hire job candidates with IT Certification credentials since it is a way to ensure that they are getting top qualified professionals with proven proficiency in their technology area.

For companies, this is as clear as water, certified professionals give them competitive advantage over other firms in the same field increasing customer satisfaction, reducing network downtime, and pushing their services to higher levels.  A person with computer training and IT certification translates into an excellent return on their investment.

In the United States, some of the colleges and universities offering both computer training and IT certification are Berkeley College, University of Phoenix Online, Kaplan University, AIU Online, Capella University, Strayer University Online, Kennedy-Western University, DeVry University, Westwood College Online, just to name a few.

Some companies specialize in online certification, training and employee testing offer free tools online to measure your skills and determine if you need to achieve certain computer training skill or if an IT certification is required to develop your professional career.


