Title: 
How To Succeed At A Computer Training School

Word Count:
402

Summary:
Deciding to attend a computer tech school is fantastic, but you need to take the extra steps in order to excel! Learn how to stand out from the crowd from Chris Bryant, CCIE #12933.


Keywords:
Computer, training, school, tech, ecpi, itt, tech, new, horizons, ccna, router, switch, cisco, ccnp, succeed, pass, exam, free


Article Body:
One of the best decisions you can ever make is to attend a computer training school. As I've written in several other articles, you have to ask the right questions before writing a check or taking out a student loan, but when you find the right school you are indeed on your way to a successful career.

There's a big difference between attending a tech school and excelling at the classes, though. Whether you just "float through" the school or really work hard is totally up to you. From my personal experience at such a school, I'd like to offer you one simple tip that will quadruple your chances of success at the school and in the job market.

Get there early and stay late. 

When I attended a tech school years ago, I admit I was surprised that most of my classmates had what I call the "junior high school" mentality - they would get there late and leave as soon as class is over. Guess what? You're no longer in junior high. You're attending this school to create a career for yourself. Get to class early, get some extra study and work in while you're waiting for class to start, and then stay after class!

The most important part of your computer school studies is getting hands-on experience with the technologies that you're learning. If you're taking a Cisco class, you need to work with a router or switch as often as you can. If you're learning a software program, you need to work with that program in the school's labs as much as possible. Reading books alone will not teach you everything you need to know. The best time to get extra work in is after class. You may not be able to work in the computer labs at night if the school offers night classes, but odds are there are very few people in there during the afternoon. You need to be one of those people.

Doing only what is required of you is not the path to excellence. You need to go beyond the requirements of the school and invest the extra time and effort into your career. I speak from experience - there is no field in the world that rewards individual effort more than the IT field. Develop the habit of going "above and beyond" today, and this will pay huge dividends for you in the future.


