Title: 
IT Certifications: Are They Important?

Word Count:
309

Summary:
IT Certifications are only minimally important to sweet spot clients. They want to know you and your staff are qualified, but customers don’t want to pay the rates for professionals with high-level IT certifications.


Keywords:
IT certifications, Computer Consulting


Article Body:
Most of your sweet spot small business clients are just starting to gain awareness of the value of certifications. But most sweet spot clients don't know enough about IT to appreciate and pay for the differences in different levels of certification.  In this article, you'll learn what your clients are looking for with your IT certifications.

What Do IT Certifications Mean to Your Clients?

If you present a staff member who's an MCP or CNA who has an entry-level certification and then next week you send someone in who's an MCSE or a more senior level certification or a Cisco certified SE (like a CCIE), it's not going to mean much to your clients.  Your clients are probably going to have an appreciation for what certification is because they know they want to have someone that passed the test. However, your clients won't want to pay sky-high hourly billing rates for the more senior levels of IT certification.

From a practical standpoint, with most sweet spot small businesses, senior-level IT certifications don't matter all that much since most of the time the projects and tasks you will be working on are not that technical. And the tasks and projects that are very technical can be subcontracted out.  

The Technology Curve in Small Businesses

Keep in mind with sweet spot small businesses that they're often years behind the technology curve. So you don't necessarily need to invest in keeping your skills and IT certifications up-to-the-minute.  

The Bottom Line About IT Certifications

Small businesses will be so many years behind the curve that just basic, advanced-beginner to intermediate-level technical skills will be adequate IT certifications to carry you through most of your sweet spot IT clients' needs. 

Copyright Notice:

Copyright MMI-MMVI, PC Support Tips .com. All Worldwide Rights Reserved. {Attention Publishers: Live hyperlink in author resource box required for copyright compliance}


