Title: 
The Zune MP3 Player Versus The Leading iPod

Word Count:
780

Summary:
Find out what makes the iPod and Zune so much different, and what their manufacturers do that make one successful and the other one not. Get deep inside the facts and find out what reals.


Keywords:
zune mp3 player, zune accesories, zune mp3 players


Article Body:
It is not a surprise that a lot of people in our society don't even know what a Zune is, and there is one answer. Advertisement, Microsoft has done a horrible job of advertising their product. Even commercials, they tried to make the Zune seem so mysterious, but in reality, it just turned people off.

I can understand wanting to hide such a movie like Hancock, or The Happening, something where giving away the plot or story might ruin the whole movie, but there is absolutely no point in not throwing the Zune right in peoples faces so that they aren't just looking at the iPod.

Thats one reason why the Apple is far ahead of Microsoft's game. This also applies to Windows and MAC, you never see any advertising on Windows, now do you? Next thing you know, the MAC will be the mainly used computer for all of the United States, something I thought never would happen.

But, lets get down to business. The Zune MP3 Player, is actually a very nice mp3 player when comparing it to the iPod. Of course, any arguments that you here are generally from someone with an iPod, doesn't know what the Zune is, or even looks like for that matter. Point in case, people believe what other people say way too easily.

Do your research, and if your reading this article, I've done it for you. The Zune often gets better ratings than the iPod when it comes to being an mp3 player, unforunately due to the marketing ability of Microsoft to show people the Zune, half of the world doesn't know what the thing is.

But thats okay, because you do. Now you can make a solid decision on whether you want an iPod or a Zune MP3 Player. One thing that I must point out is that the Zune has several features the the iPod does not have at all.

The downside to that is, when they decided to release these new features, they were not polished at all, thus resulting in failed features or ones that had little or no effect when put into works. So, that means it looks good on paper, but essentially if something doesn't work, it doesn't work.

On the other hand, iPod doesn't have as many features, but in the features that it does have, they are polished up quite well. You won't find any buggy systems or anything like that with the iPod, and the database, iTunes, where all of the music comes from is just massive.

iTunes is consistently being updated, and made more user-friendly for the computer-illiterate people who don't know how to drag and drop a song from one folder to another. But that's okay, you can't expect much from people nowadays.

There are also a few other points of competition as well. Accessories, that is one huge aspect. If there were absolutely not accessories for one of the two competitors, the Zune or the iPod, the opposing would win. Simply because what good does an iPod do on its own.

You need to be able to plug into your car, plug a charger in at home, on the go, have a dock where you can charge and listen to at the same time, along with your standard company-brand headphones and earphones.

Along with that, an fm transmitter kit, and the list goes on. Basically, all of these accessories make the iPod or Zune reusable and versatile in many situations. Having a travel charger while the other one doesn't, now allows for you to take your Zune anywhere you want, but the iPod will be dead before the day ends.

That would be a huge difference maker had one of the companies not created the travel charger. You see, the mp3 player itself is already out, and now to make it stand out more than the opposing, you have to make accessories, ones that look nice too. You can't have ugly accessories and expect people to buy.

This society is full of people who base things on looks, covers of books, people and how attractive they are, thats the first thing they notice. And with so many things to compare in this world, that seems like a viable and easy way to do it. That is where the iPod comes on top, looks. They have made their mp3 player, and their accessories look a little better.

But that's okay, because for anyone who has gone and done their research knows that the Zune produces better quality sound, and for the price, even though very similar, the Zune is a better deal in the long-run, unless your an Apple fanatic.


