Title: 
What Is The Best Baby Crib To Buy?

Word Count:
580

Summary:
Baby Crib Supply - Cheap baby cribs affordable, comfortable and safe baby cribs. Cheap baby cribs with the highest quality.


Keywords:
cheap baby cribs, round baby cribs, convertible baby cribs


Article Body:
What Is The Best Baby Crib To Buy?

Should it be cheap? Should it be elegant? Big? Small? Answer those questions by reading more.

Buying a baby crib can be an expensive purchase. What follows is guide to help you find the best baby crib as well as a review of some of the most popular, quality brands.

Safety is paramount when choosing a baby crib. The best baby cribs will have Juvenile Product Manufacturers Association (JPMA) certification. This certification ensures that it meets and surpasses many US safety regulations. So, only looking at brands with a JPMA certification is a good place to start. Brands like Munire, Bellini and Bassett cribs as well as others have JPMA certification.

A good baby crib will come with features to make using it easy. If you are looking for a conventional drop side model, you should first decide if you require double drop sides. Whilst this isn't really a determining factor on quality, there's no point in buying a baby crib that doesn't have the features you want. The Delta Luv 3-in-1 Jenny Lind is an excellent double drop side and it's cheap. Incidentally, the Pali crib was the first to have a "one-hand" drop side feature with no exposed hardware - this company makes some of best baby cribs.

A convertible crib can be a best buy. These are more expensive than their traditional counterparts but you child will get longer use out of them. There are two types: 3-in-1 and lifetime. A 3-in-1 converts from crib to toddler bed to day bed - many also have storage drawers. A lifetime does this but will also serve as a full size bed. When buying either type, make sure that converting them is easy. Look for brands that don't require you to use a 'special' tool - you're almost certainly going to lose it before you need to use it. Pali Forever cribs are lifetime types and are an excellent product - the Carmen being a popular design.

Look for quality of materials and construction when deciding on the best baby crib to buy. A good one is made from solid wood - usually pine, beech or birch. Some brands further employ veneers for certain finishes. Also, the best have hidden hardware - moving metal parts, nuts and bolts etc. Munire and Basset cribs are some of the most beautiful, using lovely veneers and finishes.

Any well made crib will carry some sort of warranty. The industry norm is a 1 year limited warranty with some companies offering a longer period. Before you buy, ask about spare parts. Does the manufacturer provide them in case they should break? If not, this is a sign of a lack of commitment to customer care, so don't buy their products.

Finally, we talk about design. This is a very subjective matter. Some parents will prefer simplistic designs from the past like the Jenny Lind crib, while other prefer modern simple designs like the Bellini Isabella crib. The current collection of Basset cribs draw heavily on traditional American styles like Shaker, New England etc. If it's old fashioned opulence you want then checkout Munire's collection of divine baby cribs.

There's no such thing as the best baby crib. There are very well made, well designed models, some of which have been mentioned above. The best baby crib is the one that best suits your needs; once you're sure of what these are, you'll be able to make the right decision on your purchase.


