Title: 
What Paper or Computer Files Should You Keep

Word Count:
253

Summary:
As business people we must deal with a great deal of paper and information from email and the net every day. You need to know however, that according to the "Pareto Time Management Rule," only 20% of all paper and information is important. That leaves 80% that is not important. It's just another decision to make as to whether this information makes your life better or not.


Keywords:
What Paper or Computer Files Should You Keep


Article Body:
Does this shock you? It did me at first, but now I subscribe to this motto and let go of all paper and information that doesn't serve me. It's my new mantra. If the information is important I make sure it gets filed--either in paper files or on my computer. More and more I don't use paper files and have learned how to make new folders of important people or specific information I need to keep track of.

If you are a stacker, slinger, or stuffer, you can now expand your power by keeping only what is important to you.

How to File these Important Pieces

If in a paper file organize them alphabetically and vertically and put a complete name at the top of the manila file folder. Categorize the kinds of files too: one for household information, another for the teleclasses and speaking engagements, another for coaching clients, and another for promotion Online and off.

In a computer word folder organize information alphabetically too. "My documents" includes these and many more, but with this technique you will always know where to find the important information because it's organized and categorized in folders Examples include: articles to submit, contacts influential, ClickBank, promotion campaigns by month and of course folders for books in word and PDF. These folders are the lifeblood of any business.

Make sure you keep only information that supports your best life. With that 20% make sure you file it so you can find it in less than two minutes!


