Chemical Peels Can Remove Wrinkles

Chemical peels can remove wrinkles. They are also effective in removing the outer layers of sun damaged, blemished, unevenly pigmented, blotchy skin and pre-cancerous growth. 

There are currently three strengths that are all designed to remove the outer layer of skin so there is fresh new skin growth with the absence of blemishes, blotches and wrinkles. Despite that, people should remember that chemical peels do not stop or retard the normal effects of aging. Let’s talk about the three types. 

The first is known as a light peel. Here, Alphahydroxy acids (AHA) and Betahydroxy acids (BHA) are used to treat wrinkles. The AHA solution can be mixed with a bleaching agent and at times can be used as a pre-treatment for those who play to undergo TCA peeling or resurfacing. 

The light peel is done without the need of anesthesia or sedation so the person will feel a slight sting. Treatment at the clinic could last from 10 to 15 minutes. During that time, it is normal to experience dryness, flaking, mild irritation or redness. You will be able to resume your daily routine within one to two days. 

Medium peels on the other hand use a solution known as Tricholoroacetic acid (TCA). Just like the light peel, this is only applied when you face has been thoroughly cleansed. You have the option to use a light sedative but this may already be unnecessary when the solution itself gives you a numbing effect. 

Despite that, some people will still feel a warm or burning sensation. This can also be used on other parts of the body and you may need to have more than 2 treatments between one to two month intervals to achieve its full effect. 

Deep peels: Phenol acid is the strongest chemical peel solution and accomplishes the deepest peel and most dramatic results. It smoothes coarse wrinkles and is often used to remove pre-cancerous growths. Blotchiness is also treated with Phenol peel.

The third is called deep “phenol” peel. Treatment usually takes one to two hours but if the area to be treated is small, then it can be done in 15 minutes. This is used on the face only and the patient will have to be sedated. 

This treatment can only be done on patients that are fair and thin skinned with superficial wrinkles. Your eyes will swell afterwards and you will  have to wear a dressing after the peel is completed. There will also be crusts or scabs afterwards that will last from 7 to 10 days and only then will you be able to go back to your daily routine. 

Chances are, you will also have a hard time talking so it is best to go on a liquid diet. Since you can’t do anything for the next week or so, make sure you have someone drive you around to your doctor’s appointment or stay with you during recovery. You are also encouraged to stay indoors the whole time. If you have to go out, make sure you apply sun block first.

Chemical peels can remove wrinkles. You don’t even have to go to a hospital since many of these specialists have their own private clinics. You just need to be examined first have to assess the condition of your skin so the right type of peel can be recommended. 
