Home Remedies for Wrinkles

Having wrinkles on your face or on your body is a normal fact of life. You can accept it for what it is or do something about it. Instead of buying expensive creams and moisturizers, perhaps you can try some home remedies that have proven to be effective against wrinkles. 

You can apply egg whites under the eyes.  For those that want to prevent wrinkles, you may also use odor free castor oil and put this to the skin, under the eyes or the throat. 

Those who want to make their own cleansers can do so by emptying the contents of 3 Vitamin E capsules into a small bowl and then mixing this with 2 tablespoons of plain yogurt, half a tablespoon of honey as well as half a tablespoon of lemon juice. When this is mixed together, you get a cotton ball and rub this on your face and leave it on for 10 minutes then rinse. 

Another mixture may come from a quarter cup of comfrey infusion, a quarter cup of witch hazel and 10 drops of patchouli essential oil. What is nice about it is that you can store the excess in a clean bottle so you can use it again later on. 

You may also mix 1 teaspoon of raspberry juice with one teaspoon of orange juice, a teaspoon of olive oil, whipped egg yolk and 2 tablespoons of grind oatmeal. After mixing everything, you wait 20 minutes and smear this on the face. Once it dries, you wash this off with warm water. 

If you happen to have coconut oil around, apply this in skin pore areas nightly before going to bed. For those that pineapple at home, you can cut this open and then rub the core of the fruit on your face for 10 to 15 minutes before rinsing. 

You can also use green Thompson seedless grapes. Once you cut this in half, you gently crush this on your face so the juice will be absorbed by the skin. Make sure to leave it there for 20 minutes, rinse with warm water and then let it dry with natural air. 

A paste of turmeric made with sugarcane juice can also be used as it has proven to be effective in getting rid of wrinkles and slow skin aging. 

No matter what you use, be sure to have regular facials as this is very effective in controlling wrinkles. You should also give yourself a facial massage as this helps increase blood circulation which results in the tightening of the muscles which reduces the fleshiness of the skin and restores your youthful look. 

When you do this, make sure you always start from the neck upwards and then end at the forehead. A faster way of doing this will require using all your fingers and massaging rapidly in a circular motion. If there are wrinkles on the jaw, pinch the skin between your thumb and fingers. 

Before you apply any of the home remedies for wrinkles on the face, make sure you clean the area first with wet cotton so you are able to remove make up and be able to open the pores on the skin. If you need to go outdoors, the only thing you can do to protect yourself from the sun is to use a pair of sunglasses and wear a hat which helps delay the onset of wrinkles on the sides of the eyes strangely referred to as crow’s feet. 
