List of Good Anti Wrinkle Creams

What are wrinkles and what are your choices for good anti wrinkle creams? Wrinkles may be a sign of aging. But not all people develop such at the same point of their lives. Some people start to show the unwanted lines while they are still young and even at their prime. While other people only show such signs long after they had their granddaughters and grandsons.

There are many factors that may affect the wrinkle development. One important thing is the genes. Some are lucky when it comes to this. They look young and wrinkle free even if they are already considered old. This may also be attributed to the lifestyle. If you have developed vices such as drinking and smoking, it is more likely that your skin will look older than the people who are leading the vices-free route of living. And also, the food you eat is another important consideration. If you are eating right and healthy, this will also be visible on your skin. 

There are actually a lot of factors to consider and to look under scrutiny when it comes to wrinkles. But first, let’s go deep into what causes such. Below your skin’s top layer, the collagen breakdown causes such unwanted lines. So what do you do in order to prevent or cure it? Solve the problem. You have to keep on producing collagen to avoid its breakdown. You have to do so while keeping away from harmful factors on your skin like the sun’s harmful rays, pollution and even stress caused by pressure and too much hard work. 

Here are some of the known creams to help you prevent wrinkles or ease the lines through time. 

1. Retinoid. This vitamin A is a must ingredient for an effective cream for wrinkles. It doesn’t only prevent, it will keep the already developed lines from deepening further. Examples of products that have this are Retin-A, Differin and Renova. This must be used before you sleep and if the problem is not yet at its worse, you can use this every other night. 

2. Sunscreen. Research about wrinkles and you will find out that its number one source is too much exposure in the sun. As long as it is daytime, you need to protect your skin with sunscreen. It doesn’t matter if it looks like it is going to rain or if it is cloudy, you still need the kind of protection that this cream can give you. It is recommended to use this product extensively over the face and the neck as well as at the top of your hands. You don’t want to have a young looking skin with old looking hands.

3. Antioxidants. By taking in products that claim to have such ingredients, you will be able to fight collagen breakdown. You can opt for drinks like the green tea. You can also take Vitamins C and E. You can also ask for coenzyme Q10. All these will work fine in protecting your skin from developing wrinkles due to problems with the collagen. One popular product now that is available in the market that contains antioxidants is the Prevage cream. The main factor about this is its ingredient known as the idebenone.

Ask around or research thoroughly about this topic. It is a vital need to find the suitable anti wrinkle creams that can work wonders depending on your skin type. So do not end the search until you find the right one.
