Short Term Wrinkle Solutions

Wrinkles happen as we age. If you can’t afford plastic surgery, there are short term wrinkle solutions you can use. The best part is that there are very few risks so you just have to consult with you dermatologist. Let’s talk about each one in alphabetical order. 

First is Botox which has been around for over 10 years. This is a protein toxin produced by the clostridium botulinum bacteria that is injected in small amounts into the body helping the muscles relax and make the lines disappear. It is effective in treating crow’s feet, forehead wrinkles, frown lines and laugh lines despite the fact that some studies show it causes new wrinkles to appear. It is good for 3 to 6 months and can be repeated. 

Similar to Botox is collagen which has been used for over 25 years. It is used primarily as a tissue filler to soften lines around the mouth, to help augment lips, correct early degrees of muscle loss and erase acne scars. The injection is good for only 3 to 4 months. Before you can be injected with this protein, doctors will have to do some skin tests first to make sure you are not allergic. 

There is a treatment called autologous fat transfer. Here, fat is removed from one part of the body and then it is used to fill the gaps caused by the wrinkles. Usually, fat is extracted from the buttocks, stomach or thighs. Since the patient’s fat is being used, there is no chance of allergic reactions taking place. 

Another soft tissue filler is Restylane that is considered to be an injectable cosmetic treatment. This comes from hyaluronic acid which has proven to be very successful in Canada and Europe. Basically, this is a gel that is a basic component of the human skin. Unlike other procedures that fill in the gaps caused by wrinkles, this lets the skin cells “float” making it very suitable for large folds of skin often seen in the mouth and cheeks. This is effective for about 6 to 9 months with low incidence of allergic reactions. 

Then there is also Hylaform which is an alternative to collagen and those who want to use it do not have to undergo an allergy test. Just like the rest, this has to be injected into the skin at regular intervals in order to treat wrinkles. 

The procedures mentioned are not covered by insurance and do not have any health benefits. The only thing it can do is hide away those wrinkles for a few months and when they start to appear again, you have to go back to your dermatologist for the next treatment. 

Apart from the short term wrinkle solutions, there are also home made treatments which you can use to treat and prevent pimples. Most of these use simple things you can buy at the grocery and you may have to mix some of them. You should clean your face first so the pores will open and it can be absorbed by the skin, left to dry before it is rinsed. 

So are short term wrinkle solutions the way to go? If you want to avoid the pain that is often endured with other costly treatments and the long recovery time, then the answer is yes. 
