The Different Antioxidants for Wrinkle Treatment

When you hear about wrinkle treatment, what comes first to your mind? If it is surgery, do not be drastic about it especially if it can still be diminished through the commercially available products for such cause.

The Antioxidants
Ever heard of the antioxidants? For sure, you have. It is all over the advertisements. Every product nowadays seems to be claiming antioxidants as their unique selling proposition or their USP. What is so special about this feature? Why is it that all of a sudden there is a swarm of products claiming that they have such? 

To give you an idea, antioxidants are the substances which act as scavengers of the radicals in our bodies that are oxygen-free. These radicals are the particles which are unstable and can do damage to your cells to the extent of sun damage and even skin cancers. The more often your skin gets exposed to the sun, your antioxidants are reduced and therefore must be replaced.

Where can you get these antioxidants? Here's a list that you can go over to note the products wherein you can get these important substances.

1. Vitamins and Supplements. There are actually antioxidant supplements that you can take orally that will help prevent or diminish your unwanted lines. Some researchers found out that taking in a combination of Vitamins C and E will help lessen the sunburn reactions. But you still must use sunscreens for more protection. 

2. Antioxidant topical products. These include creams, ointments and lotions that help protect the skin from the sun's damage. The more common antioxidants you can avail commercially include CoQ10 or the coenzyme Q10, Alpha lipoic acid, selenium and vitamins A, C and E. 

3. Vitamin A. This has proven to be effective in ailing the skin damage caused by the sun and aging. The more commonly used for this type include retinol, retinaldehyde and other derivatives like retinoids. 

4. Retin-A. This is also known as the Tretinoin. This is a topical product that has been approved to treat photoaging. You can only buy this if you have prescription form. The known brands are Avita, Differin and Renova. Such substance will create a rosy glow on your face and slowly reduce fine lines, liver spots and roughness of your skin. 

5. Retinol. This is a natural form of Vitamin A. This was not made popularly available until recently. The reason for this is that it used to be easily seeped through by the UV radiation. But now the formulation is much stable and can create positive effects to your skin.

There are other medicines and products that will be available in the market to counter the developing lines which many people do not like to have. Wrinkles are normal occurrences to people as we age. But if it can still be countered, then who wouldn't want to take the measures.

Just a caution for pregnant women, it is advisable that you stop the use of any Vitamin A derivative until you have given birth. Some substances may cause birth defects, a sample of this would be the oral tretinoin. Stay out of such products if you are pregnant or even when you are only trying to conceive. 

You can continue with your preferred wrinkle treatment after you have given birth. This way, you will not risk the life on your womb while you can still look younger after a period of time and you are already given a signal that you can proceed using the products.
