Various Exercises to Remove Wrinkles

Under eye wrinkles are caused by stressful activities. Fortunately, there are ways to deal with it.  The cheapest way of doing it is by engaging in various exercises. What you have to do now is find out what these are. 

But before we go there, we have to mention other ways to remove wrinkles. 

The first and perhaps most obvious is to avoid stressful situations and learning to stay calm. But if you have a very toxic job, that is very unless and the only thing to do will be to quit and shift to a new career. 

Many of us are not willing to do that which is why we have to resort to other means. You can also buy several makeup products to hide away those under eye wrinkles and eating right.  

But perhaps the best which will not cost you anything are various exercises which you can do at any time. Since people will often notice wrinkles on the face, let’s focus on what exercises can be done to remove it. 

To firm up your forehead, you place your index finger just above your eyes and pull it down while trying to raise your eyebrows. 

For your eyes and crows feet, raise your lower eyelids without moving your upper ones. This takes some practice so don’t feel bad if you don’t get it right the first time. 

You can also fix your cheeks by pushing the lips out and making a round shape then stretching forward. You then smile as wide as you can for a second and then let it return to its original round shape. 

As for the lips, suck your fingers as had as possible then slowly remove it. If you are a smoker, hide your teeth with your lips then make a small “O” shape while keeping the lips as tense and as wide as possible. 

The exercises for the forehead, eyes and crows feet, cheeks and lips should be repeated at least 10 times. 

The neck and chin has a number of exercises. You can start by looking straight ahead and placing the index finger and thumb on your neck and gently puling the skin down as you lift the head. 

At the same time, you should keep your mouth closed and your teeth together so you can press the tip of your tongue against the bottom of your lower teeth gradually increasing the pressure until you count to 10, then hold for 6 and then slowly releasing it. You may use two fingers at the hollow of your neck as resistance when you are gently pressing in. 

You can also lower your lip as far as possible, placing your fingers on your collar bone, pointing the chin as high as possible and then pulling the corners of your mouth down. 

Another exercise involves placing your thumb behind the bone just under your chin, pressing the tongue against your lower gums and then pretending to touch your tongue to the thumb. 

Working on the chin can be done by tightening the muscle there as firm as possible then pushing your lower lip up and as though you are pouting so it turns white and dimpled. 

Now that you know the various exercises to remove wrinkles, the only thing to do now is include this in your daily routine. This should be done twice a day once in the morning and the other in the evening. 
