Factors to Consider When Planning a Wine Country Trip

Would you like to take a trip to wine country?  If you are a wine drinker, if you would like to learn more about the history of wine, or if you are just looking to have a good time, a wine country trip may be perfect for you.

When looking to plan a wine country trip, you will see that you have a number of different options.  For that reason, there are a number of important factors that you will first want to take into consideration, before making your travel plans.  These factors, when taken into consideration, can help to ensure that your next wine country trip is perfect.

Perhaps, the biggest factor to take into consideration, when looking to plan a wine country trip, is your intended destination.  Did you know that there are a number of areas in the United States that are commonly referred to as wine country?  These areas include parts of Northern California, Woodinville Washington, and the Finger Lakes Region of New York.  Typically, when you examine wine country online, like when looking for lodging information or maps, you will find that wine country is used to describe the Napa Valley and Sonoma Valley regions of Northern California.

Your intended dates of travel should also be another factor to take into consideration.  Did you know that wine country tours are increasing in popularity all across the country?  They are.  For that reason, you may want to carefully choose your travel dates.  To see wine country in full swing, most recommend coming in late spring and summer; however, it is also important to remember that these months are peak seasons for wine country tourism.  One of the easiest ways to avoid the crowds is to avoid Saturday tours.

Weather is another factor that you should take into consideration, when looking to plan a trip to wine country.  As previously stated, wine country is often used to describe a number of locations that are known for their production of fine wine.  While most wineries are open for visitors all year round, California is the best for tours.  You may find limited activities during the wintertime when visiting the Finger Lakes Region of New York, Woodinville Washington, as well as other smaller wine country areas.

How you plan to get around is another one of the many factors that you will want to take into consideration.  Since most wineries have wines for visitors to sample, you may end up with quite a bit of wine in your system at the end of the day.  For that reason, you will want to seriously examine your method of travel.  In California, there are a number of guided wine tours that provide you with transportation and some other areas have these tours as well.  Another option is to have a member of your traveling party be the designated driver.  This may not be fun, but it is safe.

The above mentioned factors are just a few of the many that you will want to take into consideration, when looking to plan a trip to wine country.  Another one involves deciding which activities you would like to participate in, as well as which wineries you would like to visit.  In wine country, especially in California, there are so many wine activities, events, and festivals for you to choose from.

PPPPP

Word Count 557
