Why You Should Take a Wine Country Tour

Are you wine drinker?  If you are, have you ever thought about the history of wine, such as how it is made or why wine drinking and tasting is known as a popular activity?  If you have, you may want to plan a visit to wine country.  With that being said, a “traditional,” visit isn’t all that you should do, you should also take a wine country tour.

As nice as it is to hear that you should visit wine country and take a wine country tour, you may be wondering why.  After all, depending on where you live, you may need to travel quite far to visit an area that is referred to as wine country.  After a close exanimation, you will see that there are a number of reasons why you should not only visit wine country, but also take a wine country tour.

One of the many reasons why you should arrange to take a wine country tour is because of the options you have.  For starters, wine country is a phrase that is used to describe an area that is known for their production of wine. When many of us think of wine country, California, namely Northern California, is often what first comes to mind.  With that said, there are other areas in the United States that are commonly referred to as wine country as well, such as part of New York State and Washington State.  Many of these other areas and their wineries also offer tours for wine enthusiasts.

As previously stated, depending on where you live, you may have to travel quite a distance to arrive at California’s wine country or another state’s wine country.  Even so, you are still urged to examine your options.  This is because wine tours make for great vacations.  Depending on where you visit, you can spend a few hours touring local vineyards and wineries or you can spend a few days doing so.  Also, in terms of being a great purpose for being a vacation, many of the communities surrounding well known vineyards and wineries have an unlimited number of fun activities, such as hiking and dancing, as well as affordable overnight accommodations.

Returning back to the options that you have, it is important to know that wine tours come in a number of different formats. Guided wine tours are perfect for tourists who want to see the “best parts,” of wine country, as well as those who are unfamiliar with the area or may not have their own mode of transportation.  Although you will find some variations, many guided wine tours have tourists meet in a public place and then travel is provided, often by van or bus.

Although guided wine tours are popular with tourists, there are many more individuals, including both tourists and locals, who are interested in taking independent wine country tours.  Independent wine tours are ideal for wine enthusiasts who want to enjoy wine and its history without feeling rushed or pressured by other tourists and tour guides.  Most wineries and vineyards in California, as well as Washington and New York, have open doors.  If not, information on ideal times for visiting should be readily available online.  This information is typically posted to prevent conflict with planned events, such as weddings.

For the most part, tourists find that taking wine tours are affordable.  Many wineries and vineyards provide free access to visitors, but there are no guarantees.  For most part, the costs associated with wine tours comes from wine tasting, which is a must do.  However, you still shouldn’t have to be worried with the costs.  Most wine country wineries and vineyards have affordable wine tasting rates, which are typically between five and fifteen dollars per person.  As for taking a guided wine tour, you will likely be charged a fee, but your fee may include wine tasting at a number of wineries along the way.

Perhaps, the greatest reason why you should take a wine country tour is because it is an experience that you will never forget.  Not only are wine tours fun for wine drinkers, but they are also enlightening and educational in nature.

PPPPP

Word Count 694
