Wine Country Tours:  Your Travel Options

Are you interested in taking a wine country tour?  If you are, you will have a number of decisions to make.  Although some of these decisions may be difficult to make, they are important to ensure that your next wine country trip is just how you wanted it to be.

As previously stated, there are a number of decisions that you will have to make, when looking to plan a wine country trip.  One of those decisions is how you will get around.  When touring wineries in wine country, you will likely make a lot of stops along the way.  For example, should you choose to travel to California wine country, you will have hundreds of vineyards and wineries to choose from.

When looking to tour wine country, one of your options is to drive yourself.  When looking to do so, you will still have a number of options.  If you live nearby, you may be able to drive your own vehicle.  On the other hand, if you flew into wine country, like California’s wine country, you may have to make reservations for a car rental.  

For many, the thought of being able to drive themselves around wine country is nice, as you have the freedom to stop and visit whichever wineries you want.  Freedom is nice for many.  With that being said, there are a number of downsides to doing so as well.  One of those downsides is the risk.  If everyone in your traveling party plans to wine taste, you may unnecessarily be putting you and others at risk.  What you need to remember is that a few sips of wine can easily add up overtime.

Since there are some dangers associated with wine tours and driving, you may be interested in making reservations for a guided tour.  When you do so, you will still have a number of different options with how you can travel.  As wine tours continue to increase in popularity, so do the number of individuals and companies who offer guided wine tours.  With that said, many do so with different tools, such as vehicles.  Two popular modes of transportation with guided wine tours are that of bus and van.

Since most wine country tour guides will outline how they transport tourists on wine tours, you will want to examine your wants and your needs.  For example, are you interested in having room to move around or would you at least not like to be cramped into a small space?  If so, bus tours, even small bus tours, may be your best option.  If you are looking for a laidback environment, where you and the rest of your traveling party can carry on private conversations with tour guides and each other, a small tour with a van may be in your best interest.

As highlighted above, you have a number of different options, in terms of transportation, when looking to tour wine country. As a reminder, you will want to examine the pros and cons of each.  For example, driving your own car may increase your chances of driving while intoxicated and endangering others.  On the other hand, guided tours can enable you to drink wine freely, without having to worry about how you and the rest of your group will return back to your hotel, resort, or vacation rental.

PPPPP

Word Count 556
