Wine Country Tours:  The Importance of Examining All of Your Options

Are you in the process of planning a trip to wine country?  If you are, you will want to take a wine country tour or even a number of them.  Wine tasting and wine tours are, perhaps, the two activities most commonly associated with trips to wine country.

When looking to take a wine country tour, it is first important that you examine all of your options.  This is important, as you, literally, have so many to choose from.  Starting with location, Northern California, the Finger Lakes area of New York State, and parts of Washington State are known for their great wine production.  This results in multiple areas in the United States being known as wine country, especially by locals.  With that said, Northern California is the area most commonly talked about on both national and international levels.

Another one of the many reasons why you are encouraged to examine all of your options, when looking to take a wine country tour, is because wine tours come in a number of different formats.  For tourists who are unfamiliar with the area, guided wine country tours are a popular option.  Many guided wine tour companies have participants meet at a public location, where everyone is then boarded on to a bus or a traveling van.  The only downside to guided wine tours is that they often limited on the number of available spots they have.  Also, many tend to visit only a specific number of wineries and those wineries are often predetermined ahead of time without input from tourists, like you.

In keeping with wine country tour options, you also have the ability to take an independent tour.  This is where you will, essentially, be transporting yourself to wineries and vineyards in the area.  Independent wine tours are ideal for those who do not want to be rushed, those who have a way to get around, like with a car rental, as well as those who would like to visit specific wineries and vineyards that may not be visited by guided tours.  Many tourists like taking their own independent wine tours, as they have much more freedom to do, see, and taste what they want.

Speaking of the wineries and vineyards that you can visit, you have an unlimited number of options.  That is just another one of the many reasons why you are encouraged to examine all of your options before making any official arrangements concerning wine country tours.  For example, did you know that in California’s wine country, you have around four hundred locations to choose from?  You do.  If you would like to take a guided wine tour, examine some of the vineyards and wineries that will be examined.  Are they ones that you would like to visit?  If you are interested in independently taking your own wine tour, be sure to examine as many options as you possibly can.

Cost is another one of the many reasons why you should take the time to examine all of your options, when looking to take a wine country tour.  Cost is and should be important with both independent and guided wine country tours.  Does the cost of a guided wine tour include wine tasting?  If not, make sure that the rate you are charged is at least semi affordable.  For independent tours, examine the rates that each vineyard or winery charges.  Also, examine their method of collecting money.  Are you just charged for wine tasting or are you also charged an admission fee?

Perhaps, the greatest reason why you are urged to take the time to examine all of your options, when looking to plan a wine country tour is because of satisfaction.  By examining all of your options, you are more likely to choose guided wine tours or wineries to visit independently that you are actually interested in attending.  By handpicking your vacation activities, you are more likely to enjoy yourself.

PPPPP

Word Count 654
