Guide to Being Kicked Off American Idol

With so much going around about how to be truly successful on American Idol what happened to helping the little guy out who is just interested in some entertainment?  Not everybody sets out with the goal of actually winning the show though.  Those who are not really interested in winning find that there is very little advice offered to them.  If you want to win then obviously doing your very best is critical to getting to the final rounds.

For those looking to just have some fun on the show, not worried about whether they actually win or lose it is possible to have a lot more fun.  Stop and think about the contestants who had a ton of fun on the show.  You are likely to think of someone along the lines of Blake Lewis.  While he was an incredibly talented singer, he also took the time in each episode to inject some of himself into his performances so instead of just singing his way through each show.

If you are interested in trying to create your own special flair to the show, it is very important that you take some time to relax and actually enjoy yourself.  Without enjoying the process, you are going to find that you are struggling to actually go further.  The contestants who actually enjoy the process and procedures of the show will typically go very far, while those contestants who dislike the entire audition process.  Putting your best efforts into the show is not always easy, but enjoying the show does not mean that you have to give up all of the creativity that you have.

For many contestants the best way to actually get kicked off the show is to go against the grain.  While this is an old expression, it is extremely true.  Stop and consider what you like personally in music.  You probably have interests that are not that much different from many other people.  This interest that you have in music means that you are apt to purchase music that is similar.  If you are to go against the grain and instead pick a style of music that is not as popular, you might enjoy it yourself, but you are quite likely to find that there is very little interest from the viewers of the show.

Other sure ways to be kicked off are by disrespecting the judges.  Most of the time you will notice that contestants on the show that last are extremely respectful to the judges.  This might just seem like a coincidence, but do you really think that Simon Cowell would allow people to remain on the show who are completely disrespectful?  It would be extremely unlikely for a contestant to remain that continuously talks down to the judges.  It might make for some very entertaining television for a while, but the serious issue of disrespectful behavior would never be tolerated even if it did generate an incredible number of viewers.

The one area where you can really determine if you are going to stay or go home is in song selection though.  Anyone who wants to go home badly, rather than actually win American Idol simply needs to pick out a bad song.  This does not even mean picking out a song that is terrible in nature.  If you select a song that is great, but it is incorrect for your voice style, and your actual singing style you could quickly turn a fabulous song into something terrible.  It is very important that contestants choose their songs carefully and this means looking at all of the options available in terms of songs before actually picking something.  It also means that it is essential that you select a song that will fit your personality.  If you are just interested in getting the boot, you are much more free to select a song you truly enjoy, rather than something that sounds good for your voice.
