How to Audition for American Idol

Knowing that you are trying to be a total superstar is not always easy.  Trying to pull yourself from absolute oblivion and making it big as a singer is one of the hardest parts of the music business, and American Idol has provided hundreds of thousands people with a way to try to achieve their ultimate goals.  Knowing that it is difficult to break into the music business leads a lot of would-be singers to try auditioning.  The problem is it is extremely important to learn how to properly audition for the series, without looking like you are a complete amateur.

Your first step should always be selecting an appropriate song.  This does not mean you should run out and learn a completely new style of singing.  You need something that is comfortable for you, a musician that you enjoy and appreciate and a style that you can actually sing well.  For example, some singers are not capable of doing low tones as well; you should ensure the song fits your vocal range properly before committing to sing it during the audition.

Another key tip is ensuring you dress properly.  While you certainly do not want to show up looking completely boring and plain you also do not want to look like the freak that was let out at night for Halloween either.  If you have ever watched American Idol, you have no doubt noticed that those who dress incredibly strange are very seldom going to Hollywood.  The mere appearance of their outfit is often enough to distract the judges from their actual singing abilities and will ensure that you have a short-lived singing career as well.

Picking out the amount of makeup and jewelry to wear as well is also important.  While most men are not going to wear makeup there is a rather large number of people who start looking towards some type of facial makeup for the sheer purpose of helping them stick out during their audition.  This will rarely be accepted by the judges.  Most of the time you will actually end up crossed out of the audition with the judges before you ever open your mouth.  Again this is due to you are making a rather resounding impression before ever singing and typically this is not a good impression.

In picking the sound and preparing yourself for the audition, you should frequently look for a good vocal coach to help you.  The money you spend on a vocal coach will be well worth the expense since a professional will be assisting you to get ready.  Many people auditioning for American Idol falsely believe that they are star quality just the way they are.  While this may be true for a small number of those who audition the majority of those who audition at the very least need a bit of preparation to get ready to audition.  Using a good vocal coach will ensure you get the best preparation possible and ensure a professional approach.

A final suggestion is to really listen to the opinion of others around you before actually going to audition.  American Idol is really looking for the top singers in the country; they do not want someone who sounds just like everyone else.  You need to find out where your strengths lie in singing, and what your weakness is.  Minimizing your weakness and maximizing your potential is critical to the success that you need.  If you are completely unsure about how you sound without music singing, it is time to find out before you go to audition.  

The time you spend getting ready for your audition will be vital and combined with a professional appearance, attitude and fun personality you will make the powerful great impression on the judges that is needed to actually win American Idol, rather than end up the laughing stock of the auditions.  Putting the time in for a proper game plan will pay off in the end, and you are sure to reap the benefit in terms of creative feedback from the judges.
PPPPP 
Word Count 676
