How to Be Removed from Backstage

As the final season of American Idol drew to a close, there were several great highlights to the season.  Not only had another contestant been successfully awarded the title of American Idol but there was plenty of backstage drama that goes to show things are not always boring between episodes for the contestants.  If you are looking for a surefire plan to get kicked out of backstage then let me assist you with a few suggestions, on the other hand, if you want to stay backstage then look at this as a list of things not to do in order to maintain your welcome.

With Jeff Archuleta and the horrible stage dad routine that followed him we learned a few things. First, contestants are not thrilled with others messing with them while they are rehearsing.  For some strange reason the other contestants had a huge problem with him giving them advice.  I suppose following this mindset they would not really care who was dispensing advice, but rather still tune everything out if it was not what they wanted to hear from someone connected to them.  If you are determined to have your opinion heard and you are lucky enough to get backstage you might want to avoid giving advice that seems to be damaging, such as advising contestants to drink milk before performing.

Other ways to wear out your welcome backstage is to meddle into the song lyrics.  This was certainly proved by many of the songs that contestants have been talked out of singing.  It is also extremely important to ensure that you select just the right song.  This means it is very important to look only for songs that sound good.  If you are looking to get rid of someone, or get yourself kicked out from backstage then it is a very good idea to start pushing a song that is inappropriate for the actual contestant.

If you are looking for something a bit more advanced, you could always result to meddling with costumes, this is a great way to start finding yourself thrown out of backstage areas.  However, most contestants are careful to watch their clothing to ensure that it is not damaged in any way.  If you are absolutely sure that you want to get rid of somebody then messing with their clothes can be extremely effective.  However, you should also keep in mind this could be a great way to find yourself completely throw out of the contest if you happen to be competing as well.

While getting kick out of backstage might seem like a lot of fun.  Most people do not set out to get kicked out of the backstage area of American Idol.  If you are absolutely certain that it is what you want to do, there are plenty of opportunities to create trouble backstage.  It is just extremely important that you be positive that you do want to be kicked out before you start any crazy antics.  If you are still not positive that you want to be kicked off the show then it is very important that you instead wait to make any decisions.  While it can be a lot of fun to cause chaos, it could find you in a terrible disaster that you cannot get yourself out of.  Always think through your decisions, because after all, getting backstage at American Idol is not easy to do.
PPPPP
Word Count 568
