Making a Fabulous Impression on the Judges

Learning the best way to make a good impression on the judges is not as hard and complicated as it might sound.  While many people mistakenly believe that it is impossible to succeed at auditioning for American Idol it really is possible to win.  After all, with the 7th season of the show currently in the ending stages you will find that it is an increasingly popular show.  This means that not only have there already been six winners, but there will likely be several additional winners as well.

Ensuring that you make the best impression on the judges possible means you need to realize that they have seen just about everything and heard just about everything.  You need to figure out a way to make yourself unique and creative, without seeming over the top.  This can be the tricky part.  After all, many people make the mistake of showing up for auditions determined that they are the best and are crushed when they quickly discover that they did not plan their audition properly to actually show off their ability to win.

If your idea of auditioning simply means showing up and auditioning then you will find that you are unprepared to show the judges exactly what you can do.  You are going to need to prepare yourself for the audition and this means not only song choice, but also practice, clothing, makeup and nerves.  If you are completely calm and know your song well then you are going to create a powerful impression.  While being nervous is entirely normal, the judges like to see someone who is actually capable of rising above the nerves and still perform beautifully.

The best way to fully prepare yourself for American Idol typically involves deciding to audition a year in advance.  This will provide you with ample time to prepare yourself both vocally but also maturity level.  This would also provide you the perfect opportunity to see about locating a good vocal coach to work with.  However, you should never just rely on taking some time to provide you with the best results possible; after all, it will take some hard work and determination to actually make the impression on the judges that you really do know what you are doing.

If you are certain that you would like to audition and you are truly serious about it you should also see about getting as much experience in singing competitions or even on stage as possible.  The more you can get experience the calmer you will be.  This type of experience is invaluable for most singers since it will enable you to rise above the nerves that cause so many contestants to forget the lyrics and stumble badly in front of the judges.  While other competitions may not be as rewarding as American Idol, it can certainly be helpful to ensure that you are actually as talented as you believe you are.

While the idea of going into the audition with some confidence might seem absolutely absurd, it really is possible.  If you are unsure about exactly how to pull yourself together you should look into learning some breathing techniques for stress management that can help you to fully cope with the audition.  You will really come to appreciate the time that you spend learning the techniques on the day of the actual audition itself.  Rather than stressing out about not being able to calm down and remember the words, a few deep breaths will put you back into a calm state.

Putting your best foot forward will allow you to get the biggest impact from the audition.  Getting started preparing yourself for the audition will really not be as complicated as it might seem, but as long as you are willing to take some effort you will see that after a brief period of time you have your confidence back, and you are fully prepared to give the audition your best effort ever.
