Moving From Idol to the Big Stage – Daughtry and Carrie Underwood

The two American Idol contestants who have gone onto the greatest commercial success so far are Chris Daughtry and also Carrie Underwood.  With Carrie emerging in season four and Chris appearing in season five they came at separate times and have left a huge impression on the music industry.  The entertainment that these two artists have provided on the music industry goes far beyond American Idol and has broken out into the mainstream.  Watching the success of Chris and Carrie goes to show that American Idol really is capable of finding great stars, however it does still require a great amount of hard work.

While the spotlight is typically on the winners such as Carrie Underwood and the other six American Idol winners there are other who are cast off from the show quickly that find themselves in the middle of a very successful career.  Chris Daughtry is certainly not the first contestant to find himself losing the competition but still given a recording contract, but he is certainly one of the most successful.  His fourth place finish in the show found many of his fans believing that he would never go anywhere.  However, after he was cast off from the show, he found himself with a recording contract from 19 Entertainment.

Carrie Underwood has taken the start that she received from American Idol and turned it into an enormous success.  While many people might not be able to list off all of the American Idol contestants they are usually quite aware of exactly who Carrie Underwood is.  While she received her start on the show and demonstrated a capacity for several different musical styles, she has proven time and time again that she is much better at country music and that is her comfort zone as well.

Upon finishing the show her first album took her to astronomical success and has been followed up by several additional albums that have all performed well on the charts and in sales.  The draw of Carrie Underwood has been the fact that she is extremely likeable to a wide variety of fans, while her primary draw is the country music world, which provides her with some very strong support.

Pulling herself to the incredible success that she has found Carrie has sold more than 12 million records so far.  After being predicted as the winner of the competition, judge Simon Cowell also went so far as to predict that she would outsell any other contestants as well.  To this day, Simon has been correct in his assessment of her talents and she has in fact outsold all other contestants.  

As you can just imagine, there is great amounts of success awaiting contestants if they are determined to prove themselves.  Carrie Underwood and Chris Daughtry have both proven that using American Idol as a start to a musical career really is possible if you have the determination to make it work.  There is nothing that the idol contestants cannot do if they really put themselves to it.  Those that dream big are usually rewarded if they pursue their dreams.  The contestants who are not determined to make it big will generally slip back into the darkness while the few stars of the show continue to rise above everything and make an incredible name for themselves.
PPPPP
Word Count 552
