The Mythical Gold Ticket

With so many people looking to create a truly fabulous career for themselves in Hollywood there is a fresh batch of people each year auditioning.  This creates plenty of opportunity to really find the best talent, but what exactly does the magical gold ticket really give someone?  The majority of people who audition for the show will never see a ticket, but for those who do it is a perfect opportunity to try to prove themselves to the judges.  This can enable almost everyone the opportunity to show what they can really do.

Getting a gold ticket on television generally just means that you simply go in, sing well and do not make a fool out of yourself.  Obviously, for television purposes the entire audition process is typically pumped up a bit to make it much more dramatic.  Do you really think the judges sit around and listen to the entire crowd that shows up to audition?  The reality is that everyone who shows up to try out is broken down into groups and required to sing for someone else first.  A few of the contestants that are not as talented are always allowed through, after all this makes the perfect clip to add to the Worst Auditions show.  Just imagine who would be in trouble if someone has actually allowed William Hung to see the judges based simply on his singing skills alone.

The absolute best way to get involved in the entire process is to look towards the audition as a series of steps.  Most people understand and realize that it is very important to do their best.  However, for those occasions when the best simply is not good enough it can be entirely crushing.  For those who do manage to secure a gold ticket, the feeling of pure excitement is quite hard to contain.  Picking out a ticket and getting the chance to go to  Hollywood and prove actual singing ability means a lot of people are looking for new and exciting ways to get started auditioning.

For those who do get a gold ticket, the journey is far from over.  As you can imagine from watching the episodes on the show, Hollywood week is full of stress, excitement and anticipation.  Those who have what it takes to prove their singing ability usually find that Hollywood week is extremely exciting and thrilling.  Not having the ability to enjoy Hollywood week is typically those who received a ticket that are not as skilled and mature as the others.

Finding the perfect comfort zone and using all of the experience that you have gained as the perfect place to start leaves most singers looking eagerly towards proving themselves.  Taking advantage of the experience that American Idol can give you and putting all of that to work as effectively as possible is typically a huge help.  While most will only see Hollywood week once, there are still others who are capable of finding themselves attending Hollywood week more than a single time and loving every moment of it.

Enjoying the experience, taking the advice that is handed out and being willing to accept all of the experience as positive helps to typically set apart those who will truly be successful from those who are just buying their time until they are allowed to go home.  In the scheme of things, Hollywood week typically works to help set those that are amateurs apart from those who really have the potential to make it as the next American Idol.  The experiences that are gained can be a valuable asset for those looking to really be successful musicians.  Pulling upon the entire experience will allow most of the contestants to grow in a way that would not normally be possible during the same amount of time if it were not for the stage presence as well as other experiences that the contestants are exposed to.
PPPPP
Word Count 652
