When Not to Audition for American Idol

With so many people dashing out to audition for American Idol it is important to realize that there are just some times when it is not appropriate to audition.  This is a heartbreaking lesson for many people, but still something that has to be said at times.  If you are interested in winning, rather than just losing you need to know the best time to audition and that means making absolutely certain that the timing is right before auditioning.

You might think that it is a waste of time waiting to audition for American Idol.  After all, someone has to win, why can’t it be you?  The fact is, American Idol bars certain people from auditioning again.  This means that if you are able to proceed to a specific point in the contest, you will not be allowed to audition again.  This ultimately could cost you the chance to really become the next American Idol if you are not quite ready for the challenge yet.  In previous years it has been determined that anyone in the Top 50 contestants was barred from auditioning again.  This means you could be so close, yet so far from reaching your dream.

If you are working with a vocal coach or a music teacher, it would be extremely advisable to talk to them about your goals and plans for American Idol.  Letting the teacher know your plans might be a bit scary, but they can generally help you to ensure that your voice is ready for the challenges that lie ahead.  Auditioning for American Idol is certainly not an easy task, making it into the Top 12 is even harder and obviously winning the show is even more difficult.  Taking the advice of those whom you are working with will allow you to be absolutely certain that you get the very best experience possible.

If you are outright determined that you want to get a good bit of practice in auditions before you actually audition for the show you should look to alternative talent competitions, or even audition for musicals to allow you experience on a stage and with judging.  Never use American Idol as practice because you could find yourself hurting yourself in the long run.  You should always save your audition until you are absolutely certain that you are ready.  If you waste your audition before you are truly prepared you will find that you are left with no options to become the American Idol later on.

It is extremely important that you wait until the right time to audition.  Additionally, taking the advice of those professionals that you are working with will help you to be absolutely certain that you audition at the right moment and are fully prepared.  Choosing the right clothes, the right song, the right pitch, and even the right time to audition will go a very long way to helping you achieve your dream of being the next American Idol rather than finding yourself on the show where everyone is making fun of you.  A bit of effort put into preparing will certainly pay off and you will discover that the entire experience, while still exciting will not be as scary if you are truly prepared.  Finding ultimate success in Hollywood is difficult, but getting yourself pulled together will help you to make a fabulous impression.
PPPPP
Word Count 559
