Who Really Wins at American Idol?

If you have ever stopped and watched the show, you have no doubt noticed that there are several people who manage to be extremely successful without actually winning the show.  With this in mind, how is it possible for people to ultimately be successful if they do not win?  Yet at the same time, there are several people who are capable of winning the show but yet never manage to find ultimate success.  The horrible reality is most people are not capable of finding true success on the show.

With so many people trying out for American Idol each year it is extremely important to locate the best talent in the country.  At times, this can be really easy to do, however on other occasions it can be much more complicated as people struggle to determine which contestants are really best.  With a large number of contestants, there are plenty of opportunities to learn exactly what it is that you are looking for in a musician.  Nevertheless, while we as viewers are afforded the ability to truly select what we want for the American Idol, it is much harder for the contestants to determine what they need to do to be truly successful.

For many idols, the dream of being truly successful is extremely hard to actually fulfill.  For other contestants it is something that is extremely easy to accomplish.  For example, contestants such as Chris Daughtry are capable of pulling the audience into their performances, which can make it extremely easy to go on to a truly successful recording contract.  As you have no doubt noticed, there are several former American Idol contestants who have been faced with extremely bad commercial success after winning the show.

One of the best examples of this is the small size of the careers of winners like Fantasia, Taylor Hicks and even Ruben Studdard.  While artists like Carrie Underwood, Jordin Sparks and even Kelly Clarkson have gone onto astronomical success.  The newest winner, David Cook is just getting started after winning and it is unclear just how successful he will really be.  With a truly great appeal it is possible that he can go onto become the next Carrie Underwood, but he could turn out to be the next Taylor Hicks instead.

Regardless of which end of the spectrum each contestant falls, there is nothing at all that guarantees success. Of course, the show itself always takes pride on ensuring that at least the winner is offered a recording contract, however much beyond this is left to the actual contestant and the type of music that they select to pick out.  Many people might think that each of the winners will go onto huge success, but as prior indications have shown, this is sometimes far from the actual truth.

For the contestants who are lucky enough to find total success it is a great accomplishment.  However, it is very important that the other contestants not be ruled out as well.  There are often times when the contestants who do not actually win the show go on to be much better commercial success than the actual winners.  Just take a look at Season 5; while Taylor Hicks was the actual winner, Chris Daughtry has been much more successful.  This could even lead you to question whom ultimate won the show, while Taylor walked away with the number one position, Chris has walked away with awards, more money and much more commercial success.

Watching each contestant develop into someone that you are actually interested in watching grow professionally can be a lot of fun.  There are several times when it is lots of fun to watch the underdeveloped contestants grow into actual artists.  With plenty of opportunities to prove themselves, American Idol does allow plenty of great artists a perfect springboard for their musical career, how they choose to use their springboard varies, but after being sent home as a 4th place contestant I’m sure Chris Daughtry would agree that winning the actual contest is not all that matters.
PPPPP
Word Count 674
