Title: 
A coffee lover's best friend - The Cuisinart Coffee Maker

Word Count:
516

Summary:
Cuisinart Corporation prides themselves in making innovative culinary tools.  They were brought into the limelight through world renowned chefs like Julia Childs and James Beard and who used the Cuisinart food processor and hailed it to be the future of cooking.  This started a worldwide interest in food processors and Cuisinart was there from the beginning.


Keywords:
cuisinart coffee maker, coffee, cuisinart grind and brew, cuisinart coffee maker parts


Article Body:
Cuisinart Corporation prides themselves in making innovative culinary tools.  They were brought into the limelight through world renowned chefs like Julia Childs and James Beard and who used the Cuisinart food processor and hailed it to be the future of cooking.  This started a worldwide interest in food processors and Cuisinart was there from the beginning.  They make a repertoire of cooking gadgets like Citrus Juicers, cutlery, food processors, Toasters, Waffle makers and the Cuisinart Coffee Makers.  Cuisinart collections are available in four basically different styles.  There is the brushed stainless steel collection for the sleeker contemporary décor.  The Matte Black Metals collection can blend into almost any interior décor style.  The Red Collection is reminiscent of the 50s and can be used as the focal point in your Retro décor style.  Finally the White and Stainless steel collection is perfect for your Country style kitchen.  No matter what your décor style there is a Cuisinart collection to suit your need.  

The Cuisinart coffee bar collection is an impressive collection of more than 15 different types and styles of coffee makers.  They range from four cup to twelve cup Cuisinart coffee brewing machine, cuisinart thermal coffee makers and the popular cuisinart grind and brew thermal coffee maker. The Cuisinart coffee maker has a stylish design making it attractive; it is also very durable and most importantly brews an excellent cup of coffee. With a stainless steel exterior the Cuisinart coffee makers are a welcome addition to any kitchen décor.    

Cuisinart’s latest product is a twelve cup coffee percolator.  This coffee maker is very versatile and mobile allowing it to be moved around the kitchen and plugged into different outlets.  The attractive stainless steel percolator has a detachable chord which allows it to be used as a coffee decanter as well. The Coffee Percolator has a no drip sprout with a transparent knob that allows you to monitor the progress of the coffee percolation.  The stay-cool bottom of the Cuisinart percolator allows it to stand on any surface without causing any damage.  Although the suggested retail price tag of $90 may be more than you are willing to spend, Cuisinart products come with a three year warranty and their quality and reliability justify the price.

Cuisinart coffee maker parts are easy to procure.  Simple visit the company’s website and find the Cuisinart retailer closest to you and contact them to find your replacement parts. Cuisinart Corporation prides itself in producing proven superior quality products and offering superior customer service.  On the company website you will find links to retailers that sell their products.  They also have an online catalogue that allows you to shop easily.

Cuisinart products can be found in fine and upmarket department stores and specialty stores all over the world.  If you are in the market for a Cuisinart Coffee Maker visit the Cuisinart website and find the closest retailer.  There are also many different retailers online offering a variety of Cuisinart Coffee Makers.  Online auctions sites also have a collection of the Coffee makers at deeply discounted prices.


