Title: 
Coffee Mugs - Uses For Fun & Profit

Word Count:
478

Summary:
The most common use for coffee mugs is to house hot beverages, including coffee and hot chocolate. These are usually found in casual settings and are most often made of ceramic. Coffee mugs are available in a large variety of colors and designs, but they all feature the standard handle that is found on every mug.

Found at virtually any retailer, coffee mugs are very affordable and are even customizable. Even going on step further than ‘World’s Greatest Mom’ or ‘World’s Gre...


Keywords:
coffee mugs


Article Body:
The most common use for coffee mugs is to house hot beverages, including coffee and hot chocolate. These are usually found in casual settings and are most often made of ceramic. Coffee mugs are available in a large variety of colors and designs, but they all feature the standard handle that is found on every mug.

Found at virtually any retailer, coffee mugs are very affordable and are even customizable. Even going on step further than ‘World’s Greatest Mom’ or ‘World’s Greatest Dad,’ coffee mugs can now feature personalized photos and/or writing. Perhaps it’s a special occasion, photo of a loved one or just a sentiment that stays close to your heart but, whatever the purpose, a personalized coffee mug adds a special touch to each sip.

With continued advancements in technology, many photo studios allow customers to bring in their favorite photo on paper or disc and order coffee mugs featuring color photos. Many studios allow the customer to crop the photo, add borders and/or perform touch-ups when placing the order. A number of online photo studios offer the same convenience as local studios, but both will ask the customer to allow for additional delivery time on personalized orders.

In addition to commemorating special events or people, personalized coffee mugs and other products are a terrific way to earn some extra money. In many cases, especially with personalized coffee mugs, these products are used as knick knacks that are more for visual purposes than actual use. Customized coffee mugs are just as effective for drinking hot beverages as any other, but many people do not want to spoil their beauty.

So, just what are some other uses for coffee mugs? Perhaps a bit unconventional, but many people actually use coffee mugs for indoor growing of flowers and smaller fruits and vegetables. During the harsh winter months, it is impossible to enjoy the beauty of flowers or the convenience of a garden unless you have a greenhouse. That’s why many resourceful individuals grow plants inside their home. Plenty of sunlight and just the right amount of water will turn any coffee mug into a miniature garden.

Coffee mugs are also used quite often in Valentine’s Day and Christmas gift giving. A mug featuring miniature candies can be prepared by anyone and given as thoughtful gifts. Using a themed coffee mug and loose miniature candies, a beautiful gift can be prepared by placing the candy inside the mug, placing a very small piece of saran wrap over the top and a matching bow to complete the look. Then, the mug can be place inside of a small gift bag and presented to the recipient.

Coffee mugs are versatile in their uses and eye-catching in their design. From coffee to plants and even chocolate, these little beauties are lots of fun to own.


