Title: 
Coffee break small daily timeless pleasure

Word Count:
480

Summary:
Drinking a cup of coffee is a small daily pleasure which is part of each one of us, synonymous with relaxation is the best excuse to take a moment to pause.


Keywords:
automatic vending machine, coffee vending machine, snack vending machine


Article Body:
Rarely, however, there dwells to think of the origins of this gesture and this drink become synonymous of behavior.

Around this drink have created many legends and folk traditions there who says that already the time of Homer, in the city of Troy, used coffee. The first coffee in Europe seems to be come even around 900 - 1000 AD thanks to the many ships that brought unknown goods from all parts.

One thing certain is what he sees sip this dark drink, become, in what is today Yemen, a real custom, even supported by the government that praised its energy quality. 

For Europe is somewhat 'say that certainly the first coffee came through the Venetian traders, in 1615, especially remembers Prospero Alpini, botanist, physician of Venice’s console, who studied the drink and brought to the knowledge of the Venice’s city. At first the coffee was also used for its digestive and medical properties and also for this its price was immediately quite high. 

Today we find yet Caffè Florian, one of the oldest coffee’s shop, under the arcades of St Mark’s Square, Venice, which even then to disseminate this drink, did distribute a text that praised properties. 

In today's hectic life can not miss the time for coffee break and is in the workplace as in our homes and in bars has become increasingly demanding, for this reason, coffee machines and drink machines are now becoming increasingly technological equipment and we don’t count more versions and variations, all designed to enhance quality in its various aroma of coffee. 

We find so espresso professional machines, but also those semi-or for private consumption; are available automatic drink espresso machines that allow enjoy anytime of the day, both in workspace and along a corridor, each variant of espresso coffee, barley, decaffeinated. In the new models of coffee machines for domestic use are lines of innovative and elegant design because the machine also expressed become an object of furniture and enriches every environment, joining an increasingly sophisticated technology in making coffee to a design increasingly minimalist. 

For use in the workplace, very comfortable and versatile are the drink machines, machines that allow fully automated, simply by inserting coins of small denomination, to have ready in a few seconds a hot or cold drink, depending on the request. In these machines the hot drink sugared already exits, with the amount preset and there is a small stick to turn sugar. Now all distributors have the use of key for those who normally use the machine or give the rest to those who are just passing through. 

In every place, at home or at work, the coffee break is around the corner, the hot drink that hides traditions and ancient stories is a daily pleasure that today, thanks to technological development in machinery and in drink machines, you can consume comfortably in any environment.


