Title: 
Espresso Cups

Word Count:
601

Summary:
Serve your java in style with beautiful, elegant espresso cups. You can find a great selection of espresso cups that are cute, elegant, trendy or classic. The best espresso cups available are double-layered to hold in the heat and to keep your espresso hotter longer. You can find double-layered cups in glass as well as ceramic, and there are a great variety of designs to choose from. You can match your espresso cups with your coffee cups, or let them stand on their own to mak...


Keywords:
Cappucino mugs,classic design,ceramic design


Article Body:
Serve your java in style with beautiful, elegant espresso cups. You can find a great selection of espresso cups that are cute, elegant, trendy or classic. The best espresso cups available are double-layered to hold in the heat and to keep your espresso hotter longer. You can find double-layered cups in glass as well as ceramic, and there are a great variety of designs to choose from. You can match your espresso cups with your coffee cups, or let them stand on their own to make a unique statement. 

Espresso cups are also referred to as “demitasse” cups and hold about 2 or 3 ounces of fluid. Cappucino mugs, are larger, and contain 6 to 8 ounces. Cappucino is actually espresso mixed with hot milk, which explains the larger size of cappucino mugs. Both Cappucino and espresso cups are available in glass, and there are many types of glass mugs and cups available. The classic glass espresso cup is a small glass cup with chrome handles and trimming. These often have little “feet” at the bottom, or the cups can be placed flat on a table. A very trendy design is a glass, egg-shaped espresso cup without handles. Or you can purchase little mug-shaped espresso cups with matching plates. You can find clear glass, tinted glass or blue glass espresso cups. 

Ceramic espresso cups are widely available, and can be purchased in classic white with gold trim, or in more bold designs. Italian style espresso cups have solid colors on the outside and egg white interior, or you can purchase espresso cups with Italian scenes painted on the outside. Many ceramic espresso cups have art prints on the outside, and there are also novelty espresso cups designed by well-known artists. Perhaps you prefer a more classic design. While Victorian designs might seem more appropriate for teacups, delicate petals and leaf designs give your espresso set a springtime, feminine look. Classic Dutch blue and white ceramic design looks smart and crisp, and is an excellent accent to your kitchen set. Whatever type of ceramic espresso cups you choose, make sure that your ceramic espresso cups are dishwasher safe so the design won’t fade. 

For something different, try stainless steel espresso cups with chrome handles and matching saucers. Blue stoneware espresso cups have a natural look and are a good accompaniment to organic espresso and a whole wheat biscotti. You can find espresso cups made out of unique materials that transcend the common choices of ceramic and glass. You might have to look a bit harder, but if originality is important to you, it is not hard to find what you are looking for. 

An attractive way to store and display your espresso cups is on a stylish espresso cup “tree” that can usually store up to six cups with the matching saucers stacked in the middle. You can find these trees in chrome or silver; make sure that they are rust resistant, since they will most likely be placed close to a kitchen sink or a place where there will be a lot of moisture. You can choose revolving or stationary espresso cup trees in various colors, styles and designs. 

Once you have found attractive espresso cups to complete the look of your dining ware, invite some guest over to enjoy espresso in your new cups. You will be amazed at how much more special espresso and dessert will be when served on special plates and cups, and make sure you keep the details of where you ordered your espresso cups and the name of the brand and the style so you can order more.


