Title: 
How To Choose A Coffee Maker

Word Count:
371

Summary:
Have you seen the choices in coffee makers today? Have you seen what they can do? I don't think it will be long before they are able to bring you your cup of coffee in bed!

There are the very popular filter machines, French press and stovetop espresso coffee makers. There are glass carafe coffee makers, thermal carafe coffee makers, some industrial sizes with two pots that brew at the same time. If you are into espresso did you know that there are three different types of ...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Have you seen the choices in coffee makers today? Have you seen what they can do? I don't think it will be long before they are able to bring you your cup of coffee in bed!

There are the very popular filter machines, French press and stovetop espresso coffee makers. There are glass carafe coffee makers, thermal carafe coffee makers, some industrial sizes with two pots that brew at the same time. If you are into espresso did you know that there are three different types of espresso makers to choose from? Steam, pump or piston. How about the coffee maker that makes you one individual cup of coffee?

Then, to complicate it even more there is the decision of what you want the coffee maker to do other than brew coffee!!! Do you want your coffee maker to have a pause so that you can pull the pot out for your first cup before it is finished brewing? Or, do you want your coffee maker to have the coffee ready for you when you get up? Do you want to be able to grind your own beans? If yes, do you want a separate coffee bean grinder or do you want one that is built right into the coffee maker? If you say yes, do you want your coffee maker to figure out just the right amount of ground coffee for the amount of water you choose? How about the strength of coffee? There are machines that let you choose how strong they brew your coffee. Some have built in water filters. Some have auto turn offs. Some allow you to use a permanent filter rather than deal with messy paper filters.

If you head isn't spinning enough now comes the toughest decision of all... what type of coffee do you want? Do you prefer a light roast or a medium roast or a dark roast? How about an Italian or Espresso roast - the heaviest of all roasts. Have you thought about roasting your own beans? There are many sources of green beans available and home coffee roasters can easily be purchased and you can be well on your way to not only brewing your coffee, but roasting your beans.


