Title: 
Some of the Valuable Reasons to Drink Oolong Tea

Word Count:
370

Summary:
Oolong tea has been expressed as "Yu Xiang Hui Wei " as it goes through so many diversified manufacturing steps in order to produce a good flavor and fragrance.


Keywords:
Green Tea, Oolong Tea, White Tea, Tea Maker


Article Body:
Oolong tea has been expressed as "Yu Xiang Hui Wei " as it goes through so many diversified manufacturing steps in order to produce a good flavor and fragrance. The tea consists of more than a few dozens of leaves that have special flavors and aromas due to differences in the leaves, the production area, and the harvest time. Among them, Tie Guan Yin, Shui Xian, and Oolong are well known, and many renowned oolong teas are produced in Fujian Province. Oolong tea produced in the Province is sold overseas throughout the world as the tea that is delegate of China, the home of tea.
Oolong tea from Taiwan is also known as Imperial Formosa Oolong. The first Europeans to visit Taiwan were Portuguese sailors, who were so impressed by the beauty of Taiwan that they called it Isla Formosa. This translates as "Beautiful Island" and although Taiwan is now a bustling modern country, the tea growing areas of the island are prime examples of its natural beauty. Most of the oolong tea produced in Taiwan is for local consumption. The Taiwanese are discriminating tea drinkers who demand the best.
There are many valuable reasons to drink oolong tea. First and chief one is the wonderful taste. Tea specialist the world over value Taiwan tea for its sweetness and density. The preparation and serving of Oolong tea is also a pleasant pastime that can be shared with friends and family. In Taiwan and elsewhere, drinking oolong tea is a social affair that solidifies relationships.
The best oolong tea from Taiwan is grown in the sky-scraping mountains. All the oolong tea sold here is high-mountain oolong that is handpicked and hand processed. These are artisan teas that have been produced with high concern. They are highly deserving of the name 'Imperial Formosa Oolong'.
Producing Taiwan oolong tea is an exacting and time-consuming process. The quality of the final product depends as much on the finishing as on the raw tealeaves. But make no mistake about the tealeaves - they are the heart and soul of oolong tea and the reason it is so valued. Taiwan tea farmers are increasingly adopting organic growing practices because of the higher quality tea these methods produce.


