Title: 
Today’s Coffee Makers

Word Count:
488

Summary:
Coffee, the most popular beverage the world over, has been in use from time immemorial. The making of coffee has always been a matter of interest and innovation and has undergone drastic changes over time. The evolution of coffee making from the early boiling of ground beans, and then the conventional filter over a small pot of boiled water, has finally reached modern standards.

The wide variety of coffee that is available in the markets and coffee shops induced the modern...


Keywords:
coffee, espresso, beans, coffee makers


Article Body:
Coffee, the most popular beverage the world over, has been in use from time immemorial. The making of coffee has always been a matter of interest and innovation and has undergone drastic changes over time. The evolution of coffee making from the early boiling of ground beans, and then the conventional filter over a small pot of boiled water, has finally reached modern standards.

The wide variety of coffee that is available in the markets and coffee shops induced the modern home maker to go for a coffee maker to enjoy the luxury of a satisfying cup of coffee of choice at any given point of time. Today the espresso coffee and cappuccino coffee that were once available only in restaurant or a modern coffee shop can be easily made and enjoyed at the comfort of home with the help of a coffee making machine.

The coffee maker is an innovation of the advanced technology and rich experience. The machine has a built in grinder to have a fresh ground beans that saves the job of grinding outside giving each cup of coffee with freshly ground beans. The proper mix the machine makes make available strong coffee with proper flavor and rich aroma. The espresso coffee maker on the other hand also adds proper quantity of milk at the most appropriate temperature and time, challenging even the most gifted human coffee maker in the world.

The utility of this home product has made this kitchen marvel, a common item in the modern kitchen at par with the micro wave oven or the electric kitchen mixer. Coffee makers are plentiful in the market in various sizes and capacities. However, the smaller machines are the one most in demand. The single cup coffee maker has flooded the market since many of the families have either few coffee drinkers or they prefer to reduce the intake of caffeine. 

The quality of coffee comes from its flavor, aroma and taste in that order resulting from the proper mix of milk, water and the best ground beans in the market. It is said that the best beans make the best coffee. The best coffee beans of the world are obtained from the Central America, and some parts of Africa and Asia having identical climate. The beans grown in this area has the perfect flavor and quality. The best ground beans also need a perfect blend of milk and water to produce the best coffee.

The roasting of the beans is an art though the method differs. The objective is to get the beans roasted up to the point when the beans give the best flavor and Aroma. Many a drink has come and gone but this beverage still remains the most liked and favored. It is not the beans not even the process of roasting and grinding but the skillful art of coffee making that made this drink irresistible through out the ages.


