Title: 
White Tea – Considered as One of the Most Expensive Tea in China

Word Count:
392

Summary:
Earlier studies have shown that green tea motivates the immune system to fight disease. Research shows White Tea extract can really demolish in vitro the organisms that cause disease.


Keywords:
Green Tea, Oolong Tea, White Tea, Tea Maker


Article Body:
Earlier studies have shown that green tea motivates the immune system to fight disease. Research shows White Tea extract can really demolish in vitro the organisms that cause disease. Study after study with tea extract proves that it has many healing properties. This is not an old wives tale rather it's a fact!

White tea was more helpful than green tea at inactivating bacterial viruses. Results obtained with the bacterial virus, a model system; suggest that WTE may have an anti-viral effect on human pathogenic viruses. The addition of White Tea Extract to various toothpastes enhanced the anti-microbial effect of these oral agents.

White tea is tea made from leaves of the tea plant Camellia sinensis. The leaves are harvested while very young, and the buds are still covered in very fine, white hairs. These hairs are what give white tea its name. White tea is cultivated primarily in China, mainly in the mountainous and fertile Fujian province, where white tea has a long history. The bushes on which the white tealeaves are to be grown are the ones that are best placed with respect to sunshine and rain. The finest qualities of white tea, often called “Silver Needle”, consist exclusively of the buds of tealeaves. These buds are hand picked during certain days in the spring, usually between March 15th and April 10th. By that time, the buds have reached the perfect balance between youth and maturity that gives the best-tasting tea. The leaves and buds are withered over a few hours, and then air-dried. The temperature and even the air moisture are taken into consideration during the production, and the art is to get a perfect balance between solar withering and indoor withering.

We can drink tea every day and every season, hot tea in winter and ice-tea in summer. Nowadays tea is the part of life of each person. And sipping the tea makes this process ceremonial. Conversations over a cup of tea makes your mood better, clear your thoughts. In many countries tea even has its cultural events such as afternoon tea in London, tea ceremony in China or tea party almost in each country. If you like exotic way of drinking tea then prepare a cup of white tea that will help you to prepare it a good mood so that you can enjoy with your friends.


