Baby Shower Games

Spice up your baby shower festivities with some baby game fun! A few games can make sure the baby shower celebration you throw for your baby is fun and exciting. It could add a little zip to any gathering and helps the people attending get acquainted and feel at ease amongst each other. 

The Name Game 
Have your guests choose two names for the baby. Now, ask them to write these names on a piece of paper. Ask them to find words that can be made from those names. The object of the game is to make as many words from these names as possible. Give the guests a certain amount of time, as much as may be needed.

Tell the guests that the minimum number of letters for each constructed word should be three. Words that are made of two or less words will not be counted.

Also, ask the guests not to tell the names they have chosen outright, as a twist to the game can be made by having the guests try to guess the original names the players have chosen using the constructed words used.

Example: Michael - Anthony
Ant – hint – mint – minty - lint
 
Feeding Time! 
Put a number of cotton balls in a big bowl, and place another empty bowl in front of it. Players will try to transfer the cotton balls from one bowl to the other while blindfolded. Players will go at this game one at a time. Have them use spoons to do so. Since cotton balls are so light, it will actually be really hard to gauge how many ball you are scooping with the spoons. The winner of the game is the player that able to transfer the most number of cotton balls per thirty seconds.

Rice Bowl 
Fill a bowl half-way with plain, uncooked rice. Then mix in some safety pins (the safety pins have to be closed first). Have the guests take turns one at a time at this game. Blindfold the players and set them right in front of the bowls. The object of the game is to transfer as many safety pins to a different bowl in 30 seconds. This is a bit hard too, since the safety pins feel a lot like the rice too. 

Baby Guests 
Have guests bring along baby pictures of themselves to the baby shower celebrations. As the guests enter the celebration area, have them give these photos to a secretary who will label them with removable tape at the back and note on a different sheet of paper the identity of the photo. Be very careful with these photos as they are very important keepsakes. 

Then furnish the guests with a piece of paper and a pen and show the baby pictures to everyone one by one. Have the guests try to guess the identity of the photo and write it down on their answer sheets. Afterwards, reveal the answers to the quiz. The person to get the most number of correct guesses wins the game. 

Baby Shower Games
These games are only a few of the dozens of games you could play during the baby shower celebrations. Make sure these games foster friendships and, of course, put your baby in the spotlight. This will surely make your baby shower a lot more interesting and memorable.

