Ideas and Theme for Your Baby Shower 

It is always a great joy to have someone added to your family, especially if it is a cute little baby. And how else would you celebrate the joy of having one? Plan the most fun and unique baby shower you’ll ever have. Preparing for a baby shower should be fun and exciting. You can be as creative as you want. Go simple or go real extravagant. As long as you will make your party special and unforgettable, you can go ahead and experiment on the different themes you can have. 

You can go traditional or get a little creative and make your baby shower a lot more unique. You can spice up the party with different themes that can either be serious, adorable or humorous.

Below are some popular themes ideas that would surely be a hit in any baby showers. 

Color themes 
The usual color themes for girls are pink and blue for the boys. These are simple themes that can be just as fun as other themes. Decorate your venue with your chosen color theme. In putting up colored ribbons, intertwine them with a white ribbon too. This would give the room an elegant look. If you are unsure whether your baby would be a boy or a girl, settle for neutral colors like green or yellow. 

Baby bottles theme 
You can have a baby bottle as your centerpiece in this particular theme. Use them as cute containers for game prizes. You can make fun of them too by using baby bottles as cups or mugs. 

Teddy bear theme
Everyone loves these cuddly teddies. They are perfect for decorations. You don’t have to buy teddy bears though to fill up the room. Old but presentable ones will do. It would be memorable to have the guest of honor’s favorite teddy as a centerpiece.

Diaper theme 
Begin with sending cute diaper cut- out invitation. Guests should bring their own diaper gifts with a particular size. This way, you can save on diapers even up to three months! 

Nursery rhyme theme
It’s a good idea to make nursery rhymes as theme for your party. You can make use of famous character like Humpty Dumpty, Little Bo Peep, or the famous Mother Goose. Pictures could be nice as decorations but it would really look nice if you have some kind of a replica. You can also add on some of the line to your invitations. 

Themes for twins
Remember the famous Noah’s ark story? All animals are paired in two’s when lodging the ark. It’s the perfect theme for expectant mothers of twins. Don’t forget to note in your invitation that you will be having twins, this way; guests will have to bring two gifts of either the same kind or two different ones. 

Fairytale Themes
There are thousand of fairytale characters that have been a tradition throughout baby shower parties. Cinderella and Snow White are the most common ones for girl. Peter Pan is the most suitable character for boys. This kind of theme can be made interesting with colorful decorations and creates a fantasy- like atmosphere. 

Having a theme in your baby shower can add a little more coordination in the things you need to prepare. A theme would dictate which kind of food you need to prepare, the look of the invitations and how you would decorate your chosen venue. With a theme, you would have to be groping in the dark on how you would create that perfect baby shower. 
