Ideas for Baby Shower Centerpieces 

There are many things you can use for a baby shower centerpiece. The more traditional centerpieces that are usually used for baby showers are floral arrangements. You can place a selection of your favorite flowers and arrange them in a beautiful basket. If you have a theme color, or motif, you can incorporate it to the décor of your flower arrangement.

There are many different sizes and shapes of basket that you can use for your flower arrangements. The best thing about flower arrangements is that they add an element of the outdoors in your home. The freshness and beauty of these flowers would add a delicate touch to your baby shower.

If you want to make your centerpiece fun, and more delightful, you can add baby things in your floral basket such as: washcloth, soft toys, baby bottles, bears and bunnies, teething toys, small colorful socks, etc. This would fit right into the theme of the baby shower.

But if you don't want to make your own baby shower centerpiece, you can always buy these floral centerpieces ready made. The price varies depending on what's included in the pack. The average price of the baby shower basket is around $60. It includes an arrangement of flowers, and baby items such as: rubber ducks, soft toys, blankets, washcloth, rattles and comb & brush sets.

Another centerpiece that is popular in baby showers is a diaper cake. Now, understand that a diaper cake is actually not an edible cake. It is a set of diapers that is arrange in such a way as to resemble a real cake! The great thing about this is that the diapers can then be used by the baby after the baby shower. This a very practical baby shower centerpiece.

But if what you are after is a more festive mood, you can always use balloons!
After all, what is a celebration without balloons? Tie a stack of colorful balloons
to a weight, then place them on your table. Balloons are very cheap. If you are working on a limited budget, then balloons are a great idea. Plus, they are so easy to find. Just run down to any party store, and voila! Balloons!

Hey! did you know that plants can be centerpieces too? Just add a toy along with a plant, like a tiny bear or a rubber ducky, and place it in a colorful pot. Instantly you have a unique baby shower centerpiece. 

Fishbowls work as a great centerpiece too! Decorate your fishbowl with beads, add some water and floating candles. This would make a lovely centerpiece.

A baby shower gift basket also works as a centerpiece too. If you have received such a present in advanced, why not put it out on display. The great thing about this, is that it already follows the theme of a baby shower. 

The secret is to get creative. There are no rules when it comes to baby shower centerpieces. You can even use stuffed toys, and tie them to balloons. 

Maybe you want to create a beach theme, you can place a small baby blanket, a toy boat, a beach ball, and even a small treasure chest!

The occasion of a baby shower is a happy occasion for a new mother, and
the baby on board. Baby shower centerpieces add to the atmosphere of the occasion. So just get creative and have fun with it!


