Essentials Checklist For Baby Shower Supplies 

To help you plan yours or a friend’s baby shower, use this checklist to ensure you have all the supplies you need for a wonderful baby shower.

Printed cards

The invitation card is the primary element in the baby shower.  It should carry the theme of the party to let the guests know what to expect.  It will also guide them in buying the baby shower gift.  Send the invitations at least a month in advance.  Make sure to RSVP so you can plan against the right number of guests.  

Depending on your budget, you may choose from a variety of invitations.  The Internet offers such a variety, from the free and already printable to the online-purchased customized invitations.  If you are computer savvy, you may use your home printer and a desktop publishing software to create-your-own themed baby shower invitation.  

While on the subject of invitation cards, prepare the thank you cards at the same time.  Ensure that your theme emanates in the layout of the thank you card.  Sending out thank you cards provides proper closure to the party and gives your guests a lasting memory of the fun they had.  

Games and Activities

While your invitations are being produced, plan for the party activities.  Games will enliven each activity and entice participation from the guests.  Depending on your theme, choose the games that are suitable to the theme, or customize them to suit.  For example, the traditional bring me game can be customized by asking to “bring me” pink colored items, for a baby girl shower theme.

Prizes are as important in making the occasion memorable, so be prepared to give prizes to all game winners and sometimes, even participants.  

Prepare or add on to this list as required by the activities that you have planned.  Make sure that you have listed all the things needed to make the activity successful and to avoid last-minute paraphernalia substitutes.  

Party Venue Set-up

As dictated by the theme, set-up the party place accordingly.  If it is a layette party, hang a clothesline all around the room and clip colored paper cutouts of baby clothes and stuffs.  For the Hollywood theme, copy the set-up by having a red carpet where guests will walk-in.  

Food and Drinks

The other half of a lively party is overflowing food and drinks.  Make sure that as you finalize the number of guests, you are able to buy enough food and drink supplies for the headcount.  Buy an extra 10% more to make sure that hungry guests get their fill.  Like the games and activities list, expand this section to include details on the supplies needed for your specific menu.  

Baby Shower Souvenirs

Aside from the game prizes, give your guests a thank you token for attending and participating in the baby shower.  Note that this is different from a thank you card, which will be sent to individual guests as a thank you for their gift.  Thus, guest who may not have brought gifts can still receive this baby shower souvenir.  It does not need to be expensive, especially if there are game prizes given out. Just be sure to have it in-line with your theme to complete the effect.  

Celebrate the coming of a newborn in an organized fashion.  Use this checklist of baby shower supplies to plan for a successful baby shower.
