Baby Shower Poems Add Vibrance to Life

Poetry is such vibrant means of communicating.  It is one’s creative way of expressing emotion, intellect and aspirations.  It is filled with sentiment and mirrors the individual’s true inner being.  Such channel of expression is befitting an equally elating occasion: the anticipated arrival of a newborn.  Here are ways of incorporating poems into the momentous event, the baby shower.

Invitation Poems

Poetry about babies can give the baby shower invitation added charm.  Think of what it feels like to have a baby, the hope of anticipation and the fulfillment of birth.  Include in the poem how you’d like those wonderful feelings to be shared with the guest being invited.  Finally, to give the invitation a customized appeal, include the invitation details in the poem, carefully spreading the details, all throughout the verse, if possible.

Thank You Poems

Thank you poems are creative ways of expressing love and happiness for the future newborn.  With the upcoming occasion, there are many things to thank for: having God’s blessing in such a feeble form or having the support of family and friends while playing the waiting game.  Mom-to-be can deliver the thank you poem.  If it is a co-ed baby shower, the Dad-to-be can do the honors.  

Another way of saying thank you is through the baby shower thank you card.  This is sent to all guests who gave gifts for the occasion.  Include a short rhyme on how blessed the baby is for having guardians as loving as the guest who sent the gift.  Then end by thanking them for it.

Poems for Baby Shower Activities

It is unusual to have a baby shower and poetry reading in one, but it is an idea that can work among a very strong lyrical society.  Most poets are very comfortable in expressing and conversing in verses, and if the future parents are poets themselves, then a poetry reading baby shower is not a bad idea.  Who knows… they maybe anticipating a future rhymester!

However, if you are like the rest of the world, incorporating poems is not impossible in the conventional baby shower.  It actually adds an enriching dimension to the event that everyone can gain knowledge from. Use rhymes to open and close the event, or when praising the Mom-to-be or future newborn.  Riddles are also poems so use them in a game of treasure hunt or guessing game.  

Cake Poetic Inscriptions

Since Verses and Rhymes is a good theme for a baby shower, why not include a line on the cake? Express how your future newborn is as sweet as the cake, or how much everyone is lovingly waiting for the baby.  Mom-to-be does the honor of articulating the cake inscription before cutting it.

Baby Shower Favors

A fundamental part of any baby shower is the party favors, both as prizes and memorabilia.  This is a wonderful opportunity to incorporate poems!

For winning games, contests or solving riddles, prizes can be awarded together with a poem about how remarkable the win was.  The poetic party host can pronounce, in verses, how amazing the game was played and how miraculous winner won.  Lastly, prize recipients can give their own “thank you” verse or two.

As the guests leave, give them an inexpensive memento of the occasion, and as in the whole baby shower theme, include a poem about how it was made special because of the guest’s presence.  

Poems indeed, add more life to such a warmhearted occasion about giving life: the baby shower. 
