Baby Shower Etiquette

Baby showers have been very popular and are one tradition that almost all mothers-to-be from almost all countries practice. Since baby shower is not only gift giving but also a social event. It is for this reason that some etiquette should be observed. These etiquettes may vary depending on your country but the following is the most common ones.

1. The best time to hold a baby shower is sometime before the birth. Usually, baby showers are held a month or two before the birth of the baby. Recently, some people practice holding the baby shower a month or two after the birth. Holding the party before the birth of the bay will give time for the mother to buy the items that were not given as gifts during the baby shower.

2. Traditionally, a close friend of the new mom hosts the baby party. Relatives and co-workers can also host the event.

3. Baby showers are not only for first-born babies but also for subsequent babies. Every pregnancy is a reason to celebrate, so there is nothing wrong to throw a baby shower to subsequent babies.

4. It is just proper to give gifts that are related to babies. Neutral colors can be picked for gifts so that it will relate to either a boy or girl. It is best to choose gifts that can be useful and something that a baby may need everyday like diapers, feeding bottles, bibs and baby blankets.

5. For the host, it is okay to have games to break the ice but it is not that required. Conversations, food and drinks are the thing that should be considered. It would also be a nice idea to have a book where the guests can write on their notes and messages to the new mom.

6. Usually, twenty people or more are invited but this will also depend on the number of people that can be accommodated in the venue. Sometimes, they hold a small number before the birth and larger group after the baby is born.

7. A baby shower is usually held during weekend since that is the most convenient day for the visitors and would normally last two to three hours. The time may be extended especially if everything is doing well.

8. The person hosting should shoulder the expenses on food and other things.

9. Ideally, the baby shower is held at the home of the person hosting the party. The new mom would be informed since a pregnant woman is not fit for surprises.

10. It is not necessary to have a special invitation printed. The host can buy stationeries or greeting cards with baby themes in bookstores. It will also be a good idea to have the invitations sent at least three weeks before the party. This will give enough time for guests to RSVP. Do not forget to include the directions.

11. A theme for the party is not that necessary but this adds life to a party. Wearing costumes and decorating the venue gives a happy and celebrating atmosphere.

12. It is only proper to welcome guests when they come and thank them when they leave. The host should always be present during the party and should be the one attending at the guests.

