Choosing Baby Shower Cakes

Preparing for a baby shower party can be a tedious task.  You need to define the guest list.  You need to conceptualize the theme, print and send the invitations, and then prepare for the special date itself.

For the party, you will think about what decorations to use on the place, what will be the program, what games to have, what baby shower favors to give, and, what to serve.

During the baby shower party, the table centerpiece is most likely to be a baby shower cake.  The baby shower cake cannot be similar to the cake that can just be bought from the local bakeshop.

It is better if you or one of the guests baked the baby shower cake.  Doing so will also assure you that the cake that will be served as a table centerpiece is in accordance with the theme that you have conceptualized.

Of course, preordering the cake will also be fine as long as you give enough time for the cake to be prepared and that you have discussed with the person who will prepare the cake the concept of the baby shower party and how you would like the cake to look.

However, if you have some baking skills, or if you can follow instructions from cookbooks well, it is advantageous to prepare the cake yourself.  You can use your creativity for the design and you can always ask for help from friends.  Needless to mention, it is also less costly.

To prepare the baby shower cake, check online for tried and tested recipes and designs.   You can also choose the flavor of the baby shower cake.

Usually, the designs and shapes of baby shower cakes are nursery items.  These are flowers, birds, butterflies, baby-shaped, toys and other kid stuff.  The most common icing colors are yellow, pink, blue, green and white.

In addition, if you have scheduled the baby shower after the baby was born, you can also ask for the baby’s picture and have professional cake decorators create and edible cake design using the baby’s picture.

Another idea for the baby shower cake is to use diapers.  That’s right – diapers.  Of course, this cake is not for the guests to enjoy.  However, the mom will definitely appreciate it if there is already a stack of diapers prepared for the baby.

To prepare a diaper cake, all you need to do is carefully stack rolled diapers into several levels (having three levels is suggested).  You may use laces and ribbons to keep the diapers in place.  However, make sure that you did not tie the diapers too tightly together to prevent them from being deformed.  Deformed diapers will be useless and will just end up in the garbage bin.

The diaper cake can also be placed as a table centerpiece.  If you still prefer to have a real cake for the baby shower, you can bake or order a simple cake from the bakeshop.

After preparing the table centerpiece, you need to combine it with good baby shower food.  Most of the time, snacks, tea, desserts and punches are served.  You can also have some barbecues and grilled foods, in case you have invited some male guests.  The dads can bond and have some conversation while attending to the grills.  This way, everyone can participate in welcoming the new member of the family.




