Ideas on wordings for your baby shower invitation 

Your baby shower is on the way. You have all things prepared: food, fun, games, and the program. But wait, you forgot something critical. The party invitation! You basically forgot something really important when holding a party. What good is a party if there are no guests?

Creating party invitations may take some time if are choosy with words. Selecting the best wordings for the invitation is imperative as this sets the tone of the party. If the party’s theme is casual, you definitely can relay that in the invitation. Knowing which theme party you want can be used as guidelines in picking out the right words for your invitation. Fun themes like teddy bear and balloon party requires humorous and informal wordings. 

You can make use of poems, famous quotes, or you can create your own too. There are several websites that offer sample wordings you can adapt for your invitation. Make a quick search and pick the catchiest wordings that you can emulate in your invitations. It can either be a general one or gender specific. Just be sure that you know ahead of time what gender the baby has. 

Using baby rhymes would be a superb idea in your baby invitation. Placing the names of the expecting parents will give the invitation a personal touch. You can also put in song lyrics that are popular with kids and even nursery rhymes. Famous kiddie rhymes like Humpty Dumpty, Baa Baa Black sheep and Hickory, Dickory, Dock can add spice to your invitation too. 

The main things that your baby shower invitation should include are the name of the guest of honor, the date, time, and where it will be held. If the venue for the party is quite unfamiliar to the guests, make a simple sketch to guide them to the right place. These key information are needed, and make sure that they are printed big and clear. 
 
Don’t forget to place in the invitation whether the event will be a surprise or not. If the party is going to be a surprise, your guest should be informed to keep it secret. You would not want any guest sending in advanced gifts for the party and spoil the plan.

Another important thing to place on the invitation is the RSVP or Regrets only note. Don’t forget to place your phone number in there too of course, as guests likely will contact you their response as you requested them to. 

You might want to add a registry list or the gifts you wanted your guests to bring. This is very practical if you don’t want to end up having three or four strollers which you may not use. Guests would love it if their gifts would be appreciated and would not end up just being set aside.


As important as the wordings, the presentation of the invitation speaks too. Follow the theme if you have one. If you select angels, place cute pictures of these on the invitation cover for the desired effect. If you don’t necessarily have a theme, then just select pictures that relates to a baby. Colors are important too. Use blue for boys and pink for girls. Invitations are there to create impression and entice your guests to come in this very special day. So unleash your creativity, get that pen and have fun writing. 

 

