Selecting Baby Shower Party Favors

After you have conceptualized and prepared for the party, never forget to prepare a small token to thank your guests for coming.

These baby shower party favors need not be expensive.  These may be simple things that can be ordered in bulk, and then personalized for the celebration.

When you are choosing baby shower party favors, make sure that you have also considered the theme of the baby shower.  As much as possible, have the party favor coordinate with the baby shower theme.

If your theme has something to do about fairy tales, cartoon characters, animals or toys, your baby shower favors may be a miniature version of these toys.

If you haven't selected a theme or would like to have a baby shower favor that is not very much related to the theme, here are some ideas.

* Chocolates and Cookies

If you have some baking skills, this is the recommended baby shower party favor.  These do not cost much if you bake them yourself.  Placing an order for these is also an option, however, that may take a considerable part of your budget.

You can have chocolates and cookies personalized by shaping them into baby item shapes.  You can have rattle-, baby shoes-, book-, or teddy bear-shaped pastries.

You can wraps these in fancy papers of foils and tie these in blue or pink ribbons.

* Soaps

These are becoming popular baby shower party favors.  You can choose fragrant soaps and wrap them in decorative papers, or place them in decorative gift boxes or bags.

You can also make homemade soaps and shape them into baby-related items.  Or you can also purchase regular soap bars and carve them into baby shapes.  Just make sure the soaps are hard enough that these won't crack when you start carving them.

* Picture frames

This are one of the most popular baby shower party favors.  If the baby shower party is done are the baby is delivered, you can also include your baby's picture in the frame.  The picture frames can be in small sizes that can be purchased at low prices.

* Figurines

Instead of picture frames, figurines are also good options.  You can choose figurines that represent your theme.  Angel, teddy bear and baby figurines are also popular.

* Candles

Candles as baby shower party favors are usually colored blue or pink.  You may also opt to have fragrant candles.  Candles can be purchased in bulk or you can also make your own candles.  This even allows you to personalize the color, size, shape and fragrance.

Some candles can also come in reusable glass candleholders that also serve as decorative items.

These are just some of the options for baby shower party favors.  Surely, you can think of more option or personalize these to fit your chosen theme.

Nevertheless, whatever baby shower party favor you have chosen, make sure that you have included thank you note on the baby shower party favor.  The thank you note should include the date, the name of the baby (or the parent's names), and a message of thanks.

It is better if a special poem was composed to be included in the thank you note.  Also, you can just choose free poems online and have these printed together with the thank you note.

With these, you can let your guests know how much you have appreciated their presence in celebrating your baby's birth.
