Baby Shower Gift Ideas

Baby showers are thrown for the main purpose of bestowing well wishes and gifts upon a couple that is having their first child.  Usually, gifts come in the form of baby items that the baby will need on its arrival.

With the popularity of baby gift registries today, looking for that perfect gift that the baby will need and the couple will truly appreciate has become easy.  But for those will-be parents who did not sign up for a gift registry, or if you want to choose a baby gift on your own, this list of baby shower gift ideas may truly be helpful.

1. Disposable Diapers

Diapers may not be the most fancy gift to give for a baby shower.  But this would definitely be the most thoughtful and most appreciated.

Diapers are expensive and babies will use them up very quickly.  The new parents will appreciate them.  Even those parents who opt to use cloth diapers may also find disposable diapers useful when traveling.

A tip when buying diapers, pick the larger size ones instead of newborn diapers.  After all, babies nowadays grow very fast and the newborn-size diapers may not be useful for very long.  And while you are at it, why not thrown in some baby wipes as well.

2. Bottles and Pacifiers 

Babies may sometimes be picky on bottles and pacifiers.  Some babies prefer to use only a particular brand or shape for these items.

If the parents-to-be have specified in the baby registry a brand or shape of bottles, nipples, and pacifiers, these items may be a safe choice for a baby shower gift.  Otherwise, just steer clear from these baby items.

3. Baby Clothes

Choose larger sized baby clothes instead of the newborn sizes. Babies grow quickly.

If you could figure out, know the baby's gender and the season when the baby is due so you can pick clothes for the baby's gender, and just right for the season.

4. Toys for Baby

Give the gift of fun baby toys.  You may buy toys for older babies that the baby can use when it grows a bit older.  But just to be safe, stick to the toys for kids aged 3 and under.

5. Knowledge for Baby

Boost baby's brainpower with educational baby items.  Choose a classic baby book, educational videos, music CDs.

For educational videos, Brainy Baby and Baby Einstein DVDs are highly recommended.

As for books, a selection of your own favorite books from childhood would be a great gift idea.  Choose books with bright and bold pictures, and those new interactive boys that feature counting or touching.

6. Bath time Goodies

The baby will need to be always squeaky clean.  A nice selection of baby bathroom essentials would be very thoughtful.  

Pick up some cute baby puppets that may also double as scrubbing tools.  Bubble bath with a soothing lavender scent will make bath time an entertaining experience for both the baby and parents.

A hooded towel and some sweet smelling baby cologne or lotion is also suitable bath time goodies gifts.

Baby shower gifts need not only be for the baby.  It is also thoughtful to get the parents to be something.  

Those are just some nice baby shower gift ideas of baby items to welcome the cute little bundle of joy into the family.  But if all else fails, you may also consider getting the new parents gift checques so they can just purchase the items that they need but were not received at the baby shower.

