BABY SHOWER RECIPES: SOME SAMPLES TO CHOOSE FROM

A baby shower is a kind of party that celebrates and welcomes a new member to the family. In this tradition, expectant parents usually receive gifts or money for their expected child, which, in a way, supports the parents by helping them get the things that they need for their baby (or the things that they may not be able to afford).

Baby showers are generally held in the later stages of pregnancy (in the last 2 months, for instance). There are, however, certain cultural beliefs that make people purposefully wait for the baby to arrive before having a baby shower. Adoptive parents, at times, wait until after the adoption is final and the baby has arrived in their home.

Baby showers are generally organized by close friends, relatives, or co-workers of the expectant parents (because baby showers center on gift-giving, it is considered inappropriate for a family member to host such events).

In its early form, baby showers were held exclusively for mothers-to-be, and only women were invited to attend the party. In addition, baby showers were traditionally held only for the first child. Today, however, many people arrange baby showers for both parents, and they can now be also arranged for every succeeding children (even children who have been adopted).

Activities in a baby shower typically include games, special activies, presents, and, most especially, food.

Below are some of the most common baby shower recipes:

·	Pizza Sandwiches

Pizza sauce (can be store-bought or homemade)
Cottage cheese (lowfat)
English muffins
Parmesan cheese

1. Mix 2-3 tbsp of pizza sauce with 2-3 tbsp of cottage cheese.

2. Spread the mixture onto one half of the English muffin.

3. Sprinkle with parmesan cheese.

4. Broil for 5 minutes or until cheese is melted. Serve.

·	Creamy Tomato Soup

1 tsp vegetable oil
1 can tomato soup (condensed)
Milk
1 tbsp basil
Mozarella or croutons (for toppings)

1. Heat vegetable oil in a medium saucepan.

2. Add the tomato soup.

3. Add milk (approximately the same amount as that of the tomato soup).

4. Add basil and cook slowly on low heat (do not boil).

5. Top with a sprinkling of shredded mozzarella and croutons. Serve.

·	Cheese Balls

½ lb cheese (cheddar or grated)
1 tsp Worcestershire sauce
1 pack cream cheese
4 oz Tabasco sauce
2 tsp onion
Chopped nuts
2 tsp catsup or chili sauce

1. Mix all ingredients together using a mixer or a food processor (the cheese should be at room temperature).

2. Empty mixed ingredients on small bowls lined with plastic wrap.

3. Refrigerate overnight.

4. To serve, remove wrap and sprinkle with nuts. Serve with assorted crackers.

·	Chicken Puffs

4 tbsp butter
½ cup boiling water
½ cup flour
2 eggs
½ cup shredded cheese
2 cups cooked chicken
2 tbsp olives
2 tbsp wine
¼ cup mayonnaise

1. Melt butter in boiling water.

2. Add flour.

3. Stir vigorously until mixture forms a ball.

4. Remove from heat and cool slightly.

5. Add egg and beat briskly until smooth.

6. Stir in cheese.

7. Scoop 1 tsp dough into a greased baking sheet.

8. Preheat oven to 400°F.

9. Bake the puffs for 20 minutes. Remove from oven, cool, and split.

10. Combine the remaining ingredients with the finely chopped cooked chicken, pimiento, and olives.

11. Fill each puff with 2 tsp of the mixture. Serve.

There are just some of the baby shower recipes, there are numerous others to choose from - from sandwiches & finger foods, to snacks and dips and sweets - appetizing, yet simple and very easy to prepare.

