Homemade baby shower party favor ideas


When throwing a baby shower you are not obliged to give party favors to your guests. But still, it would be nice to hand out a memento of the special occasion. Worried that you might spend a fortune buying ready made baby shower party favors? Then why don’t you just make the party favors yourself. 

Below are some creative ideas for baby shower party favors. 

1.	Buy baby bottles, baby socks or even cloth diapers (if you can still find one) then fill it up with assorted goodies like candies and chocolates. After filling the items, you could tie cute little ribbons around them. The items would prove to be useful. Some of the guests may even give them back after a few weeks. 

2.	If you bake then you can prepare cookies (choco chip, butter, sugar, oatmeal, etc.) in the form of baby bottles, baby rattles. Babies and other baby related shapes. You can package the cookies in colorful plastic or paper wrappers. 

3.	As you probably already know, candles are a big bit among women. That why they probably would be a big hit for the guests on your baby shower party. Buy scented votive candles. These candles are usually sold in sets to make them cheaper. Then decorate the candles with ribbons. Colors of course will depend on your personal taste or to the theme of your baby shower. Of course it would usually be blue if the baby is a boy and pink if the baby is a girl. The candles smell great and they would even look great when they are wrapped. Candles are an ideal party favor for any occasion since they mix very well with any theme. 

4.	If you have a green thumb and likes plants in general then maybe you can give away some of plants in your garden. All you have to do is buy some small seedling pot. Graft a stem on some plant and plant them into the pot. This type of party favor is symbolic since your gusts would be obliged to take care of the plant just as if they have their own babies. You could also buy coffee mugs or wine glasses and a bunch of flowers. Then put a flower in the mug or glass as if they are flower pots. This baby shower party favor would definitely be a big hit.  

5.	Baby bath items like baby soap, baby shampoo, baby oil, baby lotion, etc. can also be a big hit among your guests because they can be either used for their very own babies or for themselves if they are single. You can also include other bath accessories like sponges, loofahs, scrubbers, small towels, etc. You can arrange the items in mini baskets or hampers. Then tie a ribbon in front of it for it to look cute. 

6.	You could baby stuff made of fabrics like cloth diapers and bibs then paint them using craft paint. Make colorful designs such flowers, animals, insects, cartoon characters, cars, clowns, candies, etc. The end product can be use as a decoration or as a hanky. 

There you are, six creative homemade baby shower party favor ideas that your guests will surely love. Who knows, you might end up making a business out of your masterpieces. Remember, all you need is some creativity and crazy ideas to make these baby shower party favors. 


