Planning a baby shower

Who doesn’t get excited when a baby is on its way? Aside from their caring mothers, everyone in the family gets that certain thrill. Welcoming yet another being in this beautiful world comes with a certain joy. So how else can you celebrate a soon-to-be-child arrival? Have a blast with a baby shower party. 

Planning a baby shower can be really fun. You can create your own party as you wish. You can either go traditional or put a little humor to your event. You can choose whatever theme you want. Unleash your creativity. The main goal is simply to have your baby shower unforgettable and fun for everyone. 

To get you started, the tips below can absolutely help you with the steps of creating that perfect baby shower party for you. 

Be prepared
Plan ahead of time. It is best to hold baby showers either on the seventh or eighth month of pregnancy. 

Look for a perfect location.
You can opt to have your house or the backyard as your event area.  If you have an extravagant budget you can scout for convenient party places which can hold your guests. 

Set the right date and time
Be sure to check out your guests’ availability, from there schedule where most of your expected guests can be free. Set a date that could easily fit to their other engagements. 

Think of the perfect theme 
There are hundreds of baby shower themes that you can choose from. Popular choices are teddies, cartoon themes, or balloons. The possibilities are endless. 
 
Surprise her
To make the party more momentous, you can make a surprise baby shower for the guest of honor. Consult her close and relatives when preparing your guest list.

Impress with invitations 
Send out invitations at least three weeks before the event. Match your invitations with the theme of the party itself with the theme of the party itself. Be sure that the invitations contain all vital information like date, time and sketched- up location. Be creative in designing your invitations.

Have fun with games 
Games can give amusement to any party. Your baby shower would definitely be a hit if you have enthusiastic participation from the guests. Remember to buy prices for the winners. 

Feast on good food 
You can either decide to cook food for your guests, order from a nearby fast food or restaurant or hire professional caterers. Take note of the expected number of guests that you will have. You don’t want to end up with one or two guest without a meal.

Jazz up and decorate 
Make your venues appealing by adding items that go with your baby shower theme like balloons or toys. Just don’t over do it. It is important to have at least one centerpiece at the site. Flowers will make good centerpiece or cute baby accessories that you can purchase on specialty stores. 

Coordinate gifts 
During baby showers, it is a common thing to have cribs or strollers in doubles or in three’s. To avoid this, you can make us of a registry list which a rundown of specified gifts you might use. Don’t you worry; your guests would appreciate it if their gifts would come unique and more usable for you and your baby. 

Planning your baby shower should be a lot of fun. The excitement of doing the preparation step by step builds up as the big day comes. And even more fulfillment is yet to come, when your little baby arrives soon! 

