Binoculars for Bird Watching

Bird watching is a very popular hobby next to gardening. Given that these creatures come in all sorts of colors, shapes and sizes, how can we not watch and enjoy them? All you need is a book and a good pair of binoculars for bird watching. 

The challenging part about bird watching is the fact that this requires a lot of patience and practice. But once you get the idea, you are able to improve your style and in no time be addicted to this hobby. 

But why do you need a pair of binoculars? Simply because you cannot get too close to the birds on your own. Otherwise, you will just scare them and they will fly away. 

A good pair will allow you to see them up close while those that are of poor quality will not really make you enjoy what you are looking at. When you are looking for a good pair to buy, go for something branded and although this may seem expensive, just consider it as a long term investment. 

One thing you have to be sure of this that the magnification of the binoculars should at least have 7x power. What this means in simple English is that you can see it 7 times closer than they actually are. There are other brands that can do 8x and 10x but some find it difficult to hold it steady. 

You will notice that there is a second number after the x that could be 35 or 40. This describes the diameter in millimeters how large the lens is when it is faced with the object of interest. 

The rule of thumb here is that the higher the figure is, the greater the amount of light will enter through the binoculars making the image clear and not blurred. 

You must never ever buy compact or pocket sizes binoculars even if they say it is 8 x 21 or 10 x 21. This is because they only have a narrow field of view so it is hard to keep track of the bird when they take flight. 

Once you have found the right binoculars for bird watching, it is time to get a book that shows a description and information about the bird. You have to remember that not all birds are found in the same area and when you have an idea of what you are looking for it will be very easy for you to narrow your search. 

With the two things in hand, you can already go off bird watching. Some people start by looking out the windows of their homes and then going to the zoo before venturing off into the park. 

It will also be a good idea to join a bird watching club as they organize field trips out of town and go into the forests which allows you to get up close and personal with these creatures in their own natural habitat. 

If only humans could zoom in on an image like the eagle, we wouldn’t need to bring a pair of binoculars for bird watching around. But since we don’t, we need something to help us out. Remember, you don’t always have to buy the most expensive one around because patience and skill are essential when you are out there trying to spot them amongst the trees.   
