Bird Watching Scopes 

Bird watching is a popular hobby in the US with already more than 50 million members and this figure is expected to grow. Of course, you have to get close to them in order to see it which is why the hobbyist needs to have a bird watching scope. 

While some people use binoculars, hunting optics seem to be much better and if you want to know which of these are the best to buy, they are namely ATN, Bushnell, Leupold, Nikon and Swarovski.

So you know what species you’ve seen in your scope, you will have to refer to a bird watching book that is readily available at the store.   

But what if you want to see and take pictures of them at the same time? For that, you will need the digital camera binoculars. 

This type of bird watching scope allows you take high quality images.  These happen to be the latest innovation in technology that allows you to take shots even at night and then download it into your desktop or laptop. 

Very lightweight and compact, you can easily carry it no matter where you go. If you don’t like the picture you took, you can review it by displaying this on the LCD screen then deleting this image and taking a better shot. 

Another great feature of the digital camera binoculars is that you can record live video for up to 20 seconds or more. It is very affordable and a great addition to those who want to take bird watching to the next level. 

Some of the brands that sell this bird watching digital camera include Barka, Bushnell, Celestron and Meade. These companies are the best in the business and if you want to take more shots, you just have to change the flash card from a 64MB to one that can accommodate 1 GB.

There are two features you have to look for when comparing these brands. These are namely the objective lens size and the magnification power. Objective lens size will determine the field of view while the magnification power may be from 7x to 10x. 

Of course, don’t forget to check if the bird watching scope has a clear LCD display, good resolution and as mentioned earlier, the video capture option. Since it is hard to stay in one position for a long time, you should also check if your new toy can be mounted on a tripod.   

As much as we want to buy the best digital camera binoculars around, one thing that we have to consider is our budget. If some brands are beyond your price range, you can either wait until you have more money or settle for those that are within your reach. Once you have narrowed that, it is time for you to try them out. 

It should be durable, light weight and water resistant because it has to withstand the elements. Speed is also another factor so you are able to capture the bird should it fly away suddenly and you are able to add this to your collection at home. 

Aside from checking out the merchandise, do some research and see what reviews have been written about the product. These bird watching scopes area also great for other activities like boating, hiking and hunting so get something that can be used all around in the outdoors. 
