Bird Watching in Rome, Georgia

Another place where you can do some bird watching is in Rome, Georgia. With a total land area of 59,000 square miles, you will get to encounter one of perhaps 300 plus bird species that have made this place their home. 

Just to give you an idea of this state, Georgia is divided into 6 natural regions namely the Atlantic Coastal Plain, the Gulf Coastal Plain, the Piedmont, the Blue Ridge province, the Ridge and Valley province, and the Appalachian Plateaus. Given that each is different from the other, it is no wonder that it can house a varied number of species. 

Of the more than 300 species, 160 of them are permanent residents of this vast land. The others migrate here and these can often be seen during the winter. 

Along the coast, you will to see the Anhinga, Black Crowned Night Herons, Clapper Rails, Egrets, Least Bitterns and Wood Storks. Along the shore, you will see Dunlins, Common Snipes, Spotted Sandpipers, Sanderlings and Semipalmated Sandpipers. 

In other parts of Georgia, you will encounter Black Vultures, Catbirds, Mourning Doves, Northern Mockingbirds, Northern Bobwhites and Turkey Vultures.   

The state bird of Georgia is the Brown Thrasher. You won’t miss it because this usually sings while you might see Ruby Throated Hummingbirds in the garden as they enjoy being around flowers and feeders. 

Other birds that you can see here are the Acadian Flycatchers, Barred Owls, Belted Kingfishers, Blue Gray Gnatcatchers, Horned Larks and Sedge Wrens. Don’t forget that there are numerous species of vireos, sparrows and warblers that have been reported as well as American Robins, Blue Jays, Eastern Meadowlarks, Fish Crows and Northern Cardinals. 

Founded as a non-profit nature preserve and education center in 1986, Birdsong is dedicated to preserving and maintaining its lands in a manner that is most beneficial to wildlife, and to fostering in the public a greater understanding and appreciation of nature. 

Not far from Rome, Georgia is the 565 acre center called the Birdsong Nature Center that is also host to a lot of bird species. This is mid way between Thomasville, GA and Tallahassee, Fl so don’t confine yourself to just one area and go out and explore the nearby areas. 

If you go to greater Atlanta, you can visit the Cochran Shoals unit of the Chattahoochee River. There are over 60 species of birds here especially during the spring and fall migration. 

Those who want to go hiking can travel to the Kennesaw Mountains. There are over 20 species of birds up there mostly warblers. While you are there, you can go the visitor’s center and get a bird checklist as well as ask if there have been any rare bird sightings. 

Along Georgia’s southern coastal region is the Colonial Coast Birding Trail. There are over 300 species of birds that have been seen here so it is really a treat to see so many all in one place. 

You can also call Georgia’s Ornithological Society to be informed of rare birds. This is updated on a weekly basis given that Georgia is host to many migratory species. 

Hobbyists will surely have a lot of fun doing some bird watching in Rome, Georgia. Try to spend two days or more here so you don’t have to rush seeing the various sites. 
