Bird Watching in Maine

Bird watching is now a very popular hobby. There are several clubs and organizations that you can join and one place where you can go to see some species is in Maine. 

One of your first stops could be by the great North Woods region where you will be able to see the Boreal Chickadees, Gray Jays, Olive-sided Flycatchers and the Spruce Grouse.

If you happen to travel by Maine’s Atlantic coast, you can see hundreds of puffins gathered around Machias Seal Island. With a tour guide, you can disembark from your boat and get within 4 feet of these birds. If you happen to visit this place during the migration season, you will be able to see migrating Arctic Terns. 

Another great place is in Bangor that is considered to be the best bird watching spot in Maine. An example of this is the Sunkhaze Meadows National Wildlife Refuge. Here, you will be able to see the Eastern Phoebes, the Pine and Palm Warblers as well as the Yellow bellied Sapsuckers. These can be found in other parks along this area and along the riversides. 

There is also the Scarborough Marsh that happens to be a 3100 acre estuary and used by many birds as a breeding, feeding and resting ground. You will surely get to see a lot of shorebirds here nourishing the marsh. 

Other birds that you will see in Maine include the Bald Eagle, Barn Swallows, Black Ducks, the Canadian geese, common loons, Flickers, Golden eye Ducks, Grosbeaks, Hummingbirds, Kingfishers, Mergansers, Ornomants, Seagulls and Woodpeckers. 

Before you go off bird watching in Maine, make sure you all your equipment with you including a map so you know how to find your way back If you get lost. If possible, take a few pictures so you can share this with others when you get back home. 

You can even report what birds you have seen and submit these photos online because although some species are common in these parts, there are some rare finds that will surely be enjoyed by fellow hobbyists. 

Acadia National Park is another place to go bird watching. According to the National Park Service, there have been 338 bird species that have been recorded. Through the years, this number has grown and you might just encounter one of 23 species of warblers that breed in this park. 

Because of their seclude location, other birds have also used this as their nesting habitat namely the herons, harlequin ducks and purple sandpipers.

If you have a chance, don’t forget to visit the Thorncrag Nature Sanctuary in Lewiston. This is a 357 acre wildlife preserve that overlooks the city surrounded on three sides by both suburban and urban development. This place is used for schools and professionals for research which makes this open to anyone who wants to be close to nature.  

For those that would like more information about bird watching in Maine, you can get in touch with the Audubon Chapters in Maine, the Mid Coast Audubon Society, the York County Audubon Society, the Nature Conservancy or the Stanton Bird Club. They are always on the lookout for new members that share the same fascination with our feathered friends and will also do whatever it takes to protect those that are endangered. 
