Article Marketing Must Always End With a Resource Box

When we look at books in the store, we always see the cover with the title and the name of author printed on both the front and the side. In article marketing, details of who wrote it the article and other important details about the individual must always be placed at the bottom which is known as the resource box.  

The resource box is the “author’s bio.” It is also called “sig” which is short for signature. There are certain things that should be placed here which you must never forget to include so people will know who you are. 

First, is your name. Some people use their real names while others use a pen name. If you are a doctor, mention your title as well because this adds credibility to your article. 

If the article that you wrote is promoting  a business and you want others to see your previous work, don’t forget to indicate your website address. 

To create a teaser, you need an elevator pitch which is usually composed of 1 to 3 sentences that gives a brief summary of what you are offering. 

You will also need what is known as a call to action which is much shorter than the elevator pitch. It could be something like.

"If you want to know more about my product... visit http://www.mysite.com." 

Other items which you can include in your resource box could be the ezine subscription address. This will allow you to send them fresh articles and information about new products which you are selling. If you decide to do this, make sure there is a separate ezine subscription address. 

Your contact information can also be included in the resource box. This will allow people to contact you by phone if they want to avail of your services since you won’t be in front of the computer 24/7. 

There is also the free report which will strengthen or justify your call to action. 

Some things which should not be added to your resource box include a list of previous websites which you have worked on in the past because this information may not be relevant to the article you have written.  Given that the resource box is not a resume but merely a short summary of who you are, you should not mention every accomplishment you have ever done because no one cares. 

If you post your article, make sure the ads are applicable or related to your topic otherwise don’t post any at all. 

Don’t make the resource box too big because what you want the readers to focus on is what you painstakingly wrote. As much as possible, this should only occupy 10% to 20% of the webpage. 

Article marketing is a give and take sort of agreement because you contribute articles which reach out to a specific audience in the hopes that people will be able to visit the site without any cost to you. The resource box which is found at the bottom of the article is the key to making this happen so it is important to put your name, website address, elevator pitch and call to action.

So in order for you to reach a larger audience, it is best to post your articles in different sites. 
