Article Writers:  The Pros and Cons of Outsourcing

Are you an article writer?  If you are, you may prefer writing your own articles; however, there may come a point in time when outsourcing crosses your mind.  When you outsource your article writing projects, you allow another writer to do the job for you.  In turn, you will pay that writer.

As great as outsourcing is, is it the best decision for you?  This is a choice that you will have to make on your own.  Before making that decision, you should examine the many pros and cons of outsourcing.

The biggest pro or plus side to outsourcing is that it can help you when you are in pinch.  Are you working on a project with a strict deadline that you just cannot meet?  Were you denied a deadline extension or are you afraid to ask for one?  Are you sick or did a family emergency come up?  If you cannot complete an assigned project on time, outsourcing can save you time, money, and embarrassment.

Outsourcing can also allow you to pursue other article moneymaking opportunities.  Are you in the process of generating passive income through your own content filled websites and blogs?  Do you have so many ideas that you just can’t seem to find the time to set them all in motion?  If so, you may want to outsource your work.  Outsourcing is easier when the articles written are for your own personal use.

Although getting help in an emergency situation and having time to focus on other moneymaking opportunities is nice, outsourcing also has its downsides.  If you are working with a client, do they have strict rules on outsourcing?  Is it prohibited?  If you do not know, ask first.  Yes, your client may never know that you outsourced their project to another writer, but are you willing to take the risk?

Finding a quality outsourcer can be hard because it is a decision that should not be made on a whim.  Never just take someone’s word that they are a good article writer.  Ask to see samples of their work, preferably samples with their name attached.  As a writer, you may know that many writers work as ghostwriters.  For that reason, you may have to accept samples without an author’s name attached to the work, but use these articles as a last resort.

And, there is always that worst case scenario where you aren’t provided with unique articles.  This can be embarrassing and harmful to your career if you outsourced articles that you were paid to write.  Most website owners will perform a copyright check.  There is nothing worse than learning the articles you turned into your client, which you actually paid someone else to write, were copied from the internet.  For that reason, always check yourself first.  

In addition to verifying that the articles your outsourcer provided you with are unique, proofread all articles.  Even the best writers can make mistakes from time to time, but an extra proofreading can reduce or completely eliminate those mistakes.  Remember, if you are turning the outsourced articles into a client of yours, your name and reputation will be on the line.

As outlined above, outsourcing has its pros and cons.  Many writers only use outsourcing as a last resort, but you can use it and possibly profit from it anyway that you see fit.

PPPPP

Word Count 557
