Article Writers:  When to Outsource

Are you an article writer?  If so, you may prefer writing your own articles.  Many writers find doing so much easier and more rewarding, but there may come a point in time when you need to outsource.  So, how do you know when outsourcing is recommended?

When you can’t meet your client’s deadline.  Are you a writer who receives upfront payment for writing articles for someone else?  Regardless of who this individual or company is and what they will do with your articles, do you have a deadline to meet?  If that deadline cannot be extended, outsourcing is recommended.  In this type of instance, outsourcing can prevent you from losing a client.

When you are in over your head.  Are you writing on a topic that you don’t know about?  Did you mistakenly believe you could research the topic in question, but is that research too difficult or taking too long?  When writing articles for pay, you need to make money, not lose it.  If you suspect that a difficult topic may be causing you to lose money, consider outsourcing.  Use the internet to find talented writers who specialize in the topic or subject you are struggling with.

When you are sick.  There is nothing worse than trying to write articles, especially articles with a deadline, when you are ill.  First, if you are working with a paying client, talk to them.  Most know that everyone develops colds and illnesses from time to time.  As long as you don’t come down with a cold every week, your clients should be willing to work with you.  If not, outsourcing can get your articles completed, while allowing you to rest and recuperate.

When you are faced with a family emergency.  Yes, writing articles online for pay and meeting your deadlines is important, but so is your family.  There are some instances when you may need to shut off the computer and place your attention elsewhere.  Did a close family member pass away?  Are you a parent with sick children at home?  If so, now is the time to examine outsourcing.  Outsourcing allows you to still get all article writing assignments completed, while being able to focus on your family.

And, then of course there is the need to make money.  If you play your cards right, you can make money outsourcing articles without doing any work yourself.  As for how you do so, you may acquire a paying client online.  Instead of writing the articles they are paying you to write, you turn around and outsource that work, but for a lower rate.  Although you must pay your outsourcer, hiring them at a lower rate enables you to make money.  Your profits may be small for each article writing project, but they can add up overtime.

Before deciding to outsource your next project, know that it does have its pros and cons.  Usually, it depends on how you use outsourcing.  If you can write articles yourself and if you are doing so for a client, outsourcing usually isn’t recommended.  You are putting your name and reputation on the line.  Does the client in question allow outsourcing?  Is the work that you are attaching your name to plagiarized or poor in quality?  Many writers find it too risky to outsource unless they have a legitimate reason for doing so.

PPPPP

Word Count 556
