Articles You Write:  What to Do With Them

Do enjoy writing articles for your website or blog?  If so, did you know that you can use those articles as a way to make money?  You can.  In fact, you may be surprised just how many options you have.

So, what can you do with articles you wrote?  Honestly, you can do whatever you want with them.  Why?  Because you authored the articles yourself, making you the legal owner.  If you opt for outsourcing, make sure you get exclusive rights.  Despite the fact that you have freedom in deciding how you want to use your articles, continue reading on for a few helpful tips.

If you are a website owner and have a published website, add these articles to that site.  This is recommended if you ordered or wrote articles that are similar to your website’s main themes.  Although any type of article will do, keyword articles are recommended.  They get picked up by the search engines.  This means that you may find your website appearing on the front page of Google with applicable internet searches.

Articles that you wrote can also be used on a blog.  What is nice about this approach is that blog postings aren’t always expected to be long.  In fact, some readers prefer blog posts that are around 200 to 300 words each.  Many like to read blogs that get right to the point.  This means that you can divide a longer article into two separate blog postings.

Articles can also be submitted to article directories.  Unfortunately, this option is often bypassed, as some do not see it as a way to make money.  Don’t make the same mistake.  When you submit an article to a directory, you get to include a link to your website or blog.  Other internet users can post your article on their website, provided your links are still attached.  This is an easy way to spread the word and increase your website or blog traffic.  Remember the more traffic you receive, the more you are likely to make money.

Articles can also be added to revenue sharing websites.  These are websites where you are paid for displaying your article online.  You may receive a percentage of sales generated through advertisement clicks or affiliate purchases, but you may also receive a set page view bonus.  This approach isn’t always the first that comes to mind, but you can utilize it.  Remember, you wrote the article, so you can do whatever you want with it.

Finally, you also have the option of reselling your articles.  You can create your own website where the articles are listed for sale.  This is a great option if you can devote time to writing keyword articles on a wide range of topics or if you can hire an outsourced writer to help.  There are also online marketplaces where you can post your articles for sale.  This approach is easy and convenient, but watch for high fees, as they can cut into your profits.

So, which approach is best for you?  It depends.

Do you already have a website or blog published online?  If so, add your articles to your website.  Reader love fresh content and it helps to keep them coming back.

Submitting articles you wrote to online directories is a nice way to generate traffic for your website or blog.  While you don’t get paid for using them, the traffic generated can create income for you.  As for how you make money, it depends on whether you are selling a product or relying on advisements.

Revenue sharing websites are okay, but only if you wrote the articles yourself.  Many people in your shoes would rely on outsourcing.  If so, double check all outsourced articles.  In fact, you should do this regardless of your intended use.  Make sure the articles are truly unique.  In terms of revenue sharing websites, some will ban you if you display plagiarized content, even if you didn’t know it was obtained illegally.  In fact, that leads to an important point.

If you are given the opportunity to choose between writing your own articles and outsourcing them, doing the work yourself is best.  Outsourced articles are nice, but your name and reputation is put on the line.  Make sure all articles are written with quality and uniqueness.

PPPPP

Word Count 716