Article Outsourcing Dos and Don’ts

Are you looking for web content?  Whether you want to resell that content, add it to your website, or submit it to article directories, you may find the job to be more than you can handle.  In that case, you should outsource your work to a professional freelance writer.

As great as outsourcing sounds, it is important to know what you are doing.  There are multiple ways for you to profit from the use of outsourced articles, but you can also lose money with them.

If you are looking to outsource your article writing:

DO take the time to find a quality writer.  There are hundreds of writers looking for work online, many actively.  Remember, however, not all writers produce the same quality content.  To improve your chances of making money with outsourced articles, make sure you hire a good writer, who will get the job done.

DON’T hire a writer without first asking to see samples.  As previously stated, you should hire a professional writer who is known for producing quality content.  How do you know they are a good writer?  You can tell by reviewing samples of their work.

DON’T pay a lot of money for content you know is or will be poor in quality.  That is why it is important to request samples of work.  If you want to hire a writer based solely on rates, know that you may have to improve their articles or make multiple corrections.

DO tell your outsourced writer what you want and expect from them.  If you have a specific purpose for the articles, like if you want to display them on your website, tell your writer exactly what you want and need from them.  This is the best way to get quality content that you can profit from.

DON’T assume your writer automatically knows what you want.  Also, do not assume that everyone will ask questions.  Some writers view asking too many questions as a bother or a sign they don’t know what they are doing.  Don’t give your outsourced writer a chance to make a mistake; provide them with all needed information ahead of time.

DO try to hire a native speaker.  This may cause some controversy.  Yes, many writers can speak and write in multiple languages, but the quality may not be as high.  However, due to different living wages, a writer from another country may be willing to work for a lower rate.

DON’T assume you are provided with original articles.  Yes, you may have asked for 100 percent unique articles, but that does not always mean you will receive them.  Truly professional writers will never copy work from another writer, but is always best to verify this ahead of time.

DO check for plagiarized work before processing a payment.  There is nothing worse than realizing you were scammed.  That is why you need to examine the originality of articles before you reach the point of no return.  Once you have verified that your outsourced articles are original, through CopyScape, release payment.

DO tell your writer that you want exclusive rights to the articles.  Although this falls into the category of telling your writer what you want and expect from them, it is very important.  If you intend to profit from outsourced articles, they need to be original.  If your writer sells your articles again or uses them for his or her own personal use, you may fall victim to duplicate content.

PPPPP

Word Count 576
