Basic Guideline about Article Directories

The Internet has given birth to a new way and purpose to article writing. It used to be solely for the love of the craft and the glee that a writer feels when their work gets published. But the cyber world has created concepts like article directories that prompted business people to think about articles in a different way.

Marketing Your Biz
Have you ever tried writing articles for directory sites? The first thing that you have to do is to establish yourself as an expert in your chosen field of interest. This doesn't actually mean your personal choice but rather the one related to whatever your line of business is.

You see, this is all about spreading the word out about your business and promoting your products and services. But you will not do such task in a bold manner. Creating articles is a subtle way to let people know about you, get interested with the information that you are giving or writing about, then click on the link that you provide them with. 

Why is it important to write good contents? Not because you can submit to these directories for free means that you will no longer care about the quality of your work. You need to get readers' attention. And the only way to do that is by giving them what they want. You must give them useful information that they would definitely like to know.

You must have them hooked on what you wrote for them to take interest to click the link that you will provide on your author's bio space. That link will lead your probable clients to your own web site. And there you can sing a different tune. That is the time you have to aim for the sale.

Basic Guide
You will actually find a lot of free submission sites once you delve on the task of looking for such. There are certain guidelines to each site. But here are some of the basic ones that can help you prepare and start on your articles.

1. Word count
Be very careful with this aspect. Some submission sites will reject your articles for the mere fact that you lacked some words in your piece. While others allow 300 word count for the articles, most sites prefer a minimum of 500. 

2. Avoid spamming
Choose a category where you think your articles will best fit in. Do not post your material on multiple categories for each site. This will result to spamming and the site can ban you for such act.

3. URL
Read carefully what the site's guideline is about placing your URLs. Some may allow this to be included on the body. And other sites would only accept URLs if these are included on the author's bio box. 

4. Language
Basically, the language of your articles must be in English. You can use other languages and look for submission sites catering to such market. This can be done if you really want to broaden the reach of your materials.

You must remain professional sounding when it comes to your work. Do not use any obscene language as this may be taken as a negative thing against you.

Choose the right article directories that you will be submitting your materials to. You can check the web page rankings on Google and Alexa to gain more knowledge if such sites have high traffic or not.
