Buying PLR Articles:  What You Need to Know

Are you looking for an affordable way to purchase web content?  If so, you may come across PLR articles available for sale online.  PLR articles are increasing in popularity, but are they right choice for you?

One reason why PLR articles are increasing in popularity is because they are affordable.  In fact, they are downright cheap.  Depending on where you make your purchase from, you can pay $1 or less for each article.  With that said, many PLR articles are sold in packages.  This means that you may have to spend $10 to make a purchase, but you should get 10 articles.

PLR articles are also popular because they have a wide range of uses.  When buying them, examine the writer’s preferences.  There are some who will enforce strict rules.  Since you are only paying to use these articles, you should have to follow their rules.  On that same note, some PLR articles can be used as web content, blog postings, newsletters, eBooks, and for internet marketing.

As previously stated, PLR articles are increasing in popularity.  That leads to another benefit, ease of finding.  Perform a standard internet search with the phrase “PLR articles,” and you may be surprised how many websites turn up.  Each website should have their own PLR articles listed for sale.  This gives you many articles to choose from, as well as a wide range of topics.

Have you ever wondered how those who write and sell PLR articles make their money?  With such a low selling price, this is a common question asked.  As for how sellers make money with PLR articles, they are sold multiple times.  Many PLR websites will tell you how many times an article packages has been sold or how many times they intend to sell it.  Unfortunately, this can work as a disadvantage to you.

Since PLR articles are sold many times, they do not result in unique content.  This means that you should be careful how you use them.  As stated above, these articles can be used for website content, but you may run into some trouble.  Search engines do not like duplicate content.  In fact, some will remove your website or downgrade your search engine ranking, resulting in a loss of organic traffic.  So, what should you do?

PLR articles should be rewritten to produce unique content.  This is considered a must if you want to use those articles to post on your website, blog, or submit them to article directories.  If you are looking to combine a number of PLR articles into an eBook or use the articles as newsletter content, rewriting isn’t necessary.  Although rewriting PLR articles sounds like a lot of work, it is very easy.  All you need to do is reword a few sentences or change a couple of words in each sentence.

Since PLR articles are easy to rewrite, you may opt to do this yourself.  If you do not have time, outsource the rewriting.  Hire an article rewriter.  This person is different than an article writer, although some will perform double duty.  Article rewriters charge less.  In fact, you may find a person who is willing to rewrite each article for as little as $1 or $2.  On the other hand, article writers tend to start with rates of no less than $5 for each article.

PPPPP

Word Count 555
