Buying Articles:  What to Look For

Are you looking for a way to make money with articles?  If you are, you may be pleased with all of your options.  If you have a website that sells either a product or a service or a content filled website that makes money through advertisements, written articles can help you generate income.

On that same note, if you are a website owner, you may have very little time to market, promote, and write your own articles.  This is where outsourcing comes in.  You can hire a writer to produce quality and unique content for you.  In addition to hiring an article writer, there are websites online where you can purchase existing content.  This is nice, but what type of articles should you look for?

First and most importantly, purchase quality articles.  Do not waste your money buying articles that look like they were quickly thrown together or articles that are plagued with spelling errors.  When you buy an article, you should be able to turn around and use it right away, not spend hours making it meet your expectations.

Next, affordability is important.  The less you pay for articles, the larger your profits will be.  Before you develop a set of expectations, in terms of payment, know how much articles usually sell for.  PLR article packages are popular and they tend to amount to $1 or less for each article.  However, these articles are sold multiple times.  This means that you must rewrite them or pay an outsourcer to make them unique by rewriting.

When you buy articles with exclusive rights, you become the sole owner of those articles.  This approach is best if you want to have your website or blog filled with quality content or if you plan to resell the articles yourself, but for a larger profit.  Since you are walking away as the sole owner of the articles, which cannot be used by the writer again, they often command a higher asking price.

The right tone is important when looking for articles to buy.  What is nice about hiring an article writer to work for you is that you can tell them what you need upfront.  They write based on your wants and needs.  Speaking of your wants and needs, they are important when purchasing prewritten articles.  Do you have a content filled website that makes money through advertisements?  If so, readers likely come to your site looking for advice.  A conversational tone that is easy for them to understand is best.

In keeping the tone of articles, do you run a website that sells a product or a service?  If yes, you still want articles that are easy to read, but professionalism is important.  Look for articles that are informative.  Your readers need legitimate reasons why they should buy your product or service.

Keyword articles are important when looking to recoup the money you spend on an article writer.  Keyword articles are nice, as the search engines find them automatically.  This means that you get traffic without having to do any marketing.  Look for articles that have popular keyword phrases placed throughout each article.  On that same note, avoid articles that are overstuffed with keywords.

Speaking of keyword stuffed articles, this is where you will find the tricky part.  You want to buy articles that are designed for both readers and the search engines.  That is why you should not only look for keyword articles, but content articles as well.  Many professional article writers should know how to combine the two to make amazing content.

Finally, look for articles that have a long shelf life.  This often means that you get your money’s worth.  The articles can help you out for days or months to come, not just for a one-week period.  Yes, you can pay for articles on topics that are popular or in demand at the moment, but you may want to pay a slightly lower price.

PPPPP

Word Count 655
