How article marketing changed the face of the Internet  

With the Internet the new venue for business, article marketing has become the new trend for advertising and marketing products to consumers. These articles do not only provide information on a variety of topics, it also allows visitors to see the sites. It is because of this wide range of content why it is so easy now to research over the Internet.

Article marketing, to those who are not yet familiar with the field, is the use of articles to help introduce the products that the sites are selling. These articles will often contain a bio box and a byline that will include the name of the business and the contact information. Article marketing is also used in increasing the rank of a site in search engines like Yahoo and Google.

You see, the more articles you put into the directory, the better will your site's search results will be. Of course, websites that are on top of the sites will have more visitors and in turn better sales from the increased consumer viewing. 

A site that has reliable and good content will not only expect the support of the online viewers but also advertisers who feel that they will be viewed more in the website. These companies are called online advertisers.

Some online advertisers can post their advertisement for free in exchange for a percentage of the income generated by the ads or the number of views of the ad. Some sites however sell their space to online advertisers. The pop up advertisements that you see in yahoo every time you open the search engine is an example of this paid advertisement. 

But this usage of articles in article marketing has also led to the decrease in content and structure quality of the write-ups. Because many sites are putting in more articles than they can finish, the articles are often haphazardly done and unfinished. Many will contain grammar mistakes and even wrong spelling. Some sites will even have unfinished articles with the paragraph all about the topic you searched on but the body of the article about an entirely different topics. It will take you a while before you can sort out everything. 

The trend of article marketing has also led to a lot of copied content or rephrased content. When you try keyword search and click on the websites that come out in the results, you will notice that a lot of them will have the same content. Some will have the same exact content while others will just be a re-written version of the original that was posted. 

From being used as a way to increase the credibility of the product and giving information to the consumers and researchers, article marketing has become a business that has squeezed out the quality from the articles that are posted.

Because of this, researchers on the internet have been cautioned to only check the websites that are being kept by reliable sources such as universities, government agencies, foreign organizations and research facilities. Some sources of information over the internet are not actually to be trusted when it comes to content and originality. 

Article marketing have definitely changed the face of the Internet. The question is: Is it for the better or for the worse? We will have to wait and see in the future.
