How to come up with a good site through article marketing

Article marketing has become one of the tools that sites used to increase their page rank  in search engines like Yahoo and Google; increase their site views and of course also increase their site advertisements.

To those who are not familiar with the term, article marketing is the use of articles to promote a product or create an awareness about a topic that is closely related to the product. For instance, if you are selling a product that treats hypertension, you will have to come up with articles that will make people with hypertension take notice. And what would interest them more than an article on their illness! These articles will frequently have bio box at the end, which will detail the name of the company and their contact information. Some who are writing savvy will even be able to incorporate the product's name into the article. 

Article marketing used to only exist in flyers and mailings. But now with the world wide web, articles have proliferated sites. Not only are articles now used to market products, it is also now primarily used to promote the site and increase its page rank in search engines. With a good page rank, site views are better and therefore revenues from site advertisers will also be good. 

The use of articles for this has however led to problems in article quality and reliability. Articles now have become lousy in terms of the information that it gives as well as in the way it is written. All are haphazardly done, perhaps because site owners sacrifice quality for quantity. 

But it is not yet too late. Here are some ways to make sure that you get quality articles for your site: 

1. Hire professional writers
A lot of people can write but few can write a well-written piece that is grammar mistake  free and cohesive to the topic. If you create good content for your site, not only will you have presence in the search engines, you will also be considered as a site where good information can be gotten. Just look at what happened with the wikipedia. It may be more expensive though to hire professional writers but your site will however be known for quality articles. 

2. Hire professionals on the field or experts on the topic
It is good to quote resource persons in your articles. Being experts in the field that you are writing about, they will lend credibility to your piece. But of course, if you can, you should also look into hiring these experts to write the articles themselves. This will be great for the site and also a great exposure for them. They will not even ask for a fee! 

3. Get editors to clean up the articles 
If you cannot pay good writers to do the job, at least hire an editor who can look at the articles and clean them up for you. Depending on the kind of editing involved, editors may be expensive but having clean and well-written articles will help your site get the credibility that it needs. 

4. Photos. 
Article marketing is not just about the articles. You also need to make sure that you have a visual representation to accompany the articles. This will make the article visually appealing to the site viewers.
