How Things Work in Article Marketing

Article marketing is a very cost efficient way of getting people to visit your site in the hopes that they will your product or service. In fact, there are many sites these days where you can post your articles and this is how things work.  

Keep in mind that most websites have already posted what topics they are looking for. So before you submit your article, check if your work is relevant to what is being asked for. 

Most websites set guidelines as to the kind of articles that can be submitted. This may include a maximum number of words, that the article is original and not copied from someone else’s work, must have proper English grammar and so forth. Again, read the fine print before you submit your articles. 

Some sites that you submit may reserve the right to edit your content while others don’t. If this is their prerogative, there may be some changes to what you wrote and there is nothing you can do about it. 

You don’t get paid for any of the articles you post on the website because article marketing in essence is a free form of advertising and exposure. The best thing you can get from submitting articles is that people will know about you and the product you are selling as you have a resource box at the bottom of the page which people can click after reading the article. The resource box includes your name, website address, contact number and email. 

If the article you wrote is no longer relevant, this may be pulled out so there is space for other writers to post their own articles. This is the reason why you should review your articles regularly so you can add new information to keep up with the times. 

So how do you publish an article? Most websites will require you to sign up and become a member. Don’t worry because this is free and you are simply filling up the form to create an account with them. 

For writers who are just starting out, you will probably be allowed to submit 10 articles first. Your article will then be reviewed by their panel of writers to check if the articles’ authenticity. This may take  a day or two but not longer than a week. 

If this was original, then you will be notified by email that your article has been accepted. Should the allotted time pass and you haven’t received any word from there whether the article was approved or not, send them an email to follow up the status of your pending article. 

If you are able to submit 10 articles and want to submit more, you have to express your intent to do and once approved, you will be able to send as many as you want as long as you continue to follow the guidelines that were set. 

How things work in article marketing is very simple. You write an article based on a topic of your interest and then post it in a site that wants information pertaining to it. You may not be compensated for the hard work you put into writing the article but you can be rewarded in other ways especially if this creates more traffic to your site. 
