How to Write Articles Quickly

Are you looking to make money by writing articles?  If you are, you may be curious how you make the most money.  Of course, you can find well-paying content writing jobs, but there is another approach you can take.  That approach is writing articles quickly, as you are able to make more money.  On that same note, you must still be able to provide quality content.

So, how can you write quality articles, but at a relatively fast pace?  For starters, give it time.  If you are just getting started with freelance web content writing, it may take you a few weeks or even a couple of months to get into the “grove,” of things.  After time, you will learn numerous tips and techniques that can improve your speed, while still allowing you to maintain the same quality.

Another way that you can write quality articles quickly is to opt for projects that are on subjects that you already know about.  This can significantly cut down on your research time.  Do you enjoy exercising or do you have a passion for pets?  Try finding writing jobs or write your own articles on these topics.

Next, it is important to reduce distractions.  For example, do you find the internet to be a distraction?  If so, temporarily disable it from your computer.  This will prevent you from surfing the internet when you should be writing instead.  Eliminating distractions will help to keep you working at a steady pace, which should allow you to write articles at a quicker rate of speed.

One problem that plagues writers is that of writer’s block.  As previously stated, reducing or eliminating distractions is advised, but an outline can also help.  Before you start writing, open up a blank copy of Microsoft Word or grab a notebook.  Write down the main points that you want to cover in each article.  Creating an outline is nice, as it allows you to spend more time writing and less time thinking about what you want to write.

As it was previously stated, Microsoft Words is a great tool for writers.  Although your clients may provide you with a form to submit your articles through or you may have another writing program on your computer, Microsoft Word is recommended.  They have a nice spell check program, which you should rely on.  Instead of going back and fixing your errors right away, let Microsoft do the work for you.  Once your article is completed, you can simply go back and change the errors, which should be underlined in red for you.  On that same note, be sure to proofread your article still.

Speaking of proofreading, if you are writing a series of articles, like 3 or more, you may want to write as many articles as possible and then proofread when you are finished.  This may help to reduce writer’s blocks.  If you get “in the zone,” with writing, you may not want to stop.  You may find yourself writing a number of articles at a very fast rate of speed.  However, if you stop to proofread each article, your flow may be disrupted.

As an important note, many new writers assume that the quickest way to write articles is to rewrite articles they find online.  This is a gray area.  If you are writing articles for someone else, your client may ask for unique articles.  If so, it is okay to use the internet to research, but not to copy an article.  However, some clients will ask for article rewrites.  Most times, you are rewriting PLR articles, which the clients in question own themselves.

As highlighted above, there are a number of ways that you can learn to write articles at a quicker rate of speed.  Although this will allow you to make more money, as you can write more articles, never underestimate the power of quality content.  In fact, most clients will prefer quality content over content that can be produced in a rush.

PPPPP

Word Count 664
