How to Find Article Writing Jobs

Are you looking for ways to make money writing articles online?  If you are, you will find that there are two main approaches that you can take.  These approaches include writing for yourself or obtaining clients to write for.  If you are looking for quick payments, you will want to find clients who pay you to write articles for them.  So, how you can do so?

Online, you will find a number of job boards.  These boards are often similar in style to online message boards, but job postings are listed and discussed.  There are job boards that can be found online, with a standard internet search, that focus on freelance web content writing.  

In addition to online job boards, you will also find online job websites.  Some of the popular websites, like CareerBuilder.com, may have article writing jobs listed, but your best bet is to find those that specialize in freelance writing projects.  These websites and blogs can also be found with a standard internet search.  They are nice, as someone else does the research for you!

Online classified advertisements are another one of the many ways that you can find freelance article writing jobs online.  The most popular being Craiglist.org.  The only downside to taking this approach is that you are more likely to run into scams.  The good news is that it is usually easy to see the warning signs for these scams ahead of time.  

Online bidding websites are not new, but they are increasing in popularity.  Online bidding websites work by allowing those who need projects, like articles written, to post their project online.  Bidders, who are freelance writers, will place a bid on the project.  This bid outlines how much they are willing to do the project for.  These online bidding websites can be found with a standard internet search.  Look for those that offer you protection from scammers.  This protection may involve having buyers escrow the funds so that you will get paid no matter what, as long as you complete the project.

Search Engine Optimization (SEO) companies also hire article writers.  These companies specialize in internet marketing.  They are hired by webmaster to improve the views and search engine rankings of their websites.  Since article writing plays an important role in this, many companies are on the lookout for new article writers.  These companies may advertise on the above mentioned job boards, but many also have an employment section on their website.  You can perform a standard internet search with the phrase “search engine optimization,” or “SEO,” to find these companies and their websites.

If you are serious about making money writing articles, like if you want to use it to work from home or to replace your current job, you will want to create your own website.  This website does not have to big, fancy or elaborate, but there are some points you will want include.  You will want to list or link to sample articles that you have written online, outline your rates, and post summaries of some of the topics you specialize in.  This approach is often considered a unique way to find article writing jobs and projects, as the clients come to you.

Another easy way to find article writing projects is to offer to work with clients again.  After you finish a project with a client, regardless of how you found them, offer to work with them again.  Include a note saying “if you were satisfied with my work, I would like the opportunity to work with you again.”  When clients know you are looking for long-term work, they are likely to offer it to you.  And, repeat clients are the best to have, as you already know their expectations and that they pay on time.

One of the easiest ways to write articles for money is to do so online.  With that said, it isn’t the only market that needs articles.  If you would like to write magazine articles, you can find information on magazines that accept submissions by purchasing a copy of the Writer’s Market books.  These books are available for sale in most bookstores and online.

PPPPP

Word Count 692
