How to Use Articles as Blog Postings

Do you write your own articles?  If so, you may add these articles to your website as content.  Did you know there is more that you can do with them?  There is.  You can use these articles as blog postings as well.

In addition to writing your own articles, you can also outsource the writing.  Outsourced articles are articles that you paid another writer to compose for you.  Since you want to get the most value for your money, you may be wondering what you can do with those outsourced articles.  You do have a number of different options, but you should closely examine blog postings.

As nice as it is to hear that you can use articles you wrote or outsourced on a blog, you may be looking for more information.  Why should you do so?  How is the best way to get started?  

In terms of why, blogs are increasing in popularity.  More people are starting to write them and more people are starting to read them.  Are you a webmaster who sells a product or relies on income generated from advertisements and affiliate programs?  Do you currently have a blog that accompanies your website?  If not, you should.  Blogs can be used as an internet marketing tool.  

In addition to accompanying a niche website, blogs can make money on their own.  There a numerous pay for post companies online.  This is where you write a blog post around the product or company that you are assigned to.  You can also make money through with the use of advertisements and affiliate programs.  Typically, it is recommended that you sell a product through a website, but you can list your product or service available for sale through a blog as well.

Now that you know why you should have a blog or how you can make money through one, you may be curious how articles come into play.  Some of the most popular blogs on the internet get updated multiple times a day.  On that same note, these are often professional bloggers.  If you want to make money blogging, but don’t have the time to write each of your blog posts or update on a daily basis, you can outsource the writing.  However, if you have the time to write your own blog posts, do so.

When outsourcing writing for a blog, many wonder what approach they should take.  Should you inform writers of the blog or should you request traditional articles?  The decision is yours to make, but you may have better luck with ordering articles.  Articles are longer than blog postings.  This means that you can divide an article into two, three, or even four different blog posts.  For your blog titles, simply just label them as being Part 1, Part 2, and so forth. This approach gets you a better value for your money.

As previously stated, you can create a blog that accompanies an existing website.  If that is the case, make sure the two themes match up.  For example, if your website sells computer software, have your blog focus on the same subject.  Blog postings can outline tips to shop for computer software, the importance of comparing prices, and popular software programs can be reviewed.  After each blog posting, you will want to create a link to your website.  If readers like what you have to say, they may visit your website to see what you have available for sale.

On the other hand, if you are looking to make money through blogging, by way of advertisements and affiliate programs, you can use any articles that you want.  With that said, blogs that have one specific theme tend the work the best.  Your income potential increases when you have targeted advertisements on your website.  Targeted ads are difficult to come by if you cover a wide range of topics.  So, stick with a theme, but remember that you can create as many blogs as you want.

One question that many have is hosting.  There are a number of free blogging companies online.  Blogger and Wordpress are the two most popular.  Wordpress is nice, but you are not allowed to display advertisements when using a free blog.  This means that you must purchase a web hosting plan and host your blog elsewhere.  If you want to use blogging as a way to generate traffic to your website, a free blog from Blogger may be okay.

PPPPP

Word Count 740