How to Make Money Writing Articles

Are you looking for ways to make money online or from home?  If so, you may come across article writing online.  There are a number of different ways for you to make money writing articles.

Although writing articles can help you make money from home, it is not necessarily something that you should do on a whim.  First, create a small business plan.  After all, if you want to write articles for money, you are essentially creating a business.  That business needs to be well thought-out to be profitable.

It is also a good idea to decide what type of articles you want to write, ahead of time.  Are you knowledgeable on the subject of computers, cell phones, and software?  If so, did you know that you can specialize in technical writing, which tends to pay more?  Do you want to stick with writing traditional web content or would you like to branch out to sales letters and press releases?  To make the most money, you may want to consider trying all of these avenues of making money writing articles.

Next, you will want to decide who you want to write for.  Do you want to write for yourself or for others?  Know that each has its own advantages and disadvantages.  For example, if you use your articles to create a website that will make money through advertisements, it can take up to a year or more for you to start seeing a profit.  On the other hand, if you obtain clients, you should be paid within 14 days, on average.

You should also stop and think about how much money you want to make writing articles.  Since you are able to write articles and work from home, you may be seeing huge dollar signs.  With that said, like any other legitimate work-at-home opportunity, you will not get rich right away.  Web content articles vary greatly.  Some writers charge $5 per page, while others can charge as much as $50 for a page.

Determining your rate ahead of time is not required, but it will help to ensure that you are paid what you are worth.  Yes, you can raise or increase your rates, depending on the projects in question, but do not undersell yourself just to find a client who will pay you to write articles.  After all, you want to make money, not lose it right?  At the very least, make sure you are making your state’s minimum wage.

If you opt to write articles for others, you will want to target either webmasters or SEO companies.  Webmasters often look for article writers for content for their websites.  SEO companies are hired by webmasters to market their sites and increase their search engine rankings.  Article writing is an important component of search engine ranking.  Aside from outright targeting these individuals and companies, you can look for freelance job boards, visit freelance bidding websites, or create your own website.  

If you opt to write your own articles, it is important to know that you have a number of different moneymaking options.  One of the easiest ways is to sell your content online.  There are websites that allow you to do so, but these websites tend to take a percentage of the sale.  There are also websites that either pay you outright or with a page view bonus for displaying your article on their website.

Another approach that you can take is to create your own website.  You can use your articles to create a content filled website.  For example, if you wrote articles on dog grooming, your website could have a generalized dog care theme.  Later on, you can add additional content, such as articles that outline tips for choosing a vet and so forth.  With this approach, you can make money through advertisements.

As you can see, there are a number of different ways that you can make money writing articles.  In fact, that is what is so nice about doing so.  You have the freedom to decide how you want to make money.  

PPPPP

Word Count 676
