How to Make Money Writing Magazine Articles

Are you looking to make money writing articles?  If you are, many might assume that you want to write articles that can be viewed online.  You may, however, have other ideas.  One of those ideas may involve writing magazine articles.  

If you are new to writing magazine articles, you may be looking for helpful tips.  First, it is important to research before you write.  This research can easily be done online, with a standard internet search, or by purchasing a copy of the Writer’s Market books.  These books outline paying publications, including magazines, and their expectations.  

As for the importance of research, it can save you time and money.  Magazines specialize in a number of different genres; determine what these genres are ahead of time.  You need to find the magazines that would be the perfect fit for your article.  Research can also increase your chances of getting published, as many publishing companies specifically outline what they are looking for and what they are not.

Once you have decided which magazines you would like to write an article for submission, buy copies of that magazine.  At the very least, see if magazine articles are available on the company’s website for viewing.  It is not uncommon for a particular magazine to have a specific style of writing that it follows.  Make sure your article is unique, but follows the same the writing style.

Another way to improve your chances of getting a magazine article published is to choose the topic of your article wisely.  Write on a topic that you have a great interest in or one that you are passionate about.  When a topic “tugs at your heart,” your article is likely to be more involved and of better quality.  Also, write on a topic that you are educated on.  Are you an individual with a teaching background?  If so, use your background to write informative pieces on education, and so forth.  Many professional publishing companies not only want quality articles, but articles that are backed with facts, figures, and knowledge.

Setting realistic goals for yourself is important.  If you are new to freelance writing, don’t expect to see your article accepted and published the first time around.  Yes, you want to aim high, but do not let a rejection letter bring you down.  Instead, use it to improve your article writing quality.  

Another easy way to improve your chances of getting a magazine article published is to get published online first.  Many publishing companies ask to see samples of your previous work, want a summary of your work experience, or ask for references.  Having content published online, even if it is only on a personal website or blog, can help to make you appear as an “experienced,” writer.  Namely, one that can bring something to the magazine.  For the best success, target websites that are known as eZines, as they are online magazines.

When submitting an article for submission, it is important to follow all directions given you.  As stated above, most publishing companies will tell you what they want or don’t want.  Can you submit the full article or are proposals requested?  Should you double space or single space your article?  Are samples of prior work published needed?  Always submit articles for submission as they are requested.  This alone significantly improves your chances of getting published.

PPPPP

Word Count 558
