How to Make the Most Money with Outsourced Articles

Are you looking for an easy way to make money online?  If so, examine outsourced articles.  When properly used, they can be a great moneymaking tool.

The first step in making money with outsourced articles is to know what your options are.  For starters, they can be posted on third party revenue sharing websites.  This is possible, but only if you walk away from the deal with exclusive rights to the articles in question.

Outsourced articles can be submitted to article directories.  These are a great way to generate traffic, but do you have a website or a blog that you can send traffic to?  If not, article directories are considered a waste of time, as you have no way to make money with them.

Reselling outsourced articles for a profit is another moneymaking opportunity.  Typically, you create your own website and list these articles for sale.  By selling them for a higher price than what you paid for them, you can make a profit.

Outsourced articles can also be transformed into a profitable eBook.  To do so, you need a series of outsourced articles on one topic.  To reduce repetitive information, let the writer know you need a set series of articles and that each article must be unique.

Outsourced articles also make great content for newsletters.  They can also help to generate both organic and referred traffic to a website or blog.  As previously stated, there are so many ways for you to make money with the use of outsourced articles.

Now that you know how you can make money with outsourced articles, you may be wondering how you can make the most money.  Honestly, it depends on your needs.  For example, do you sell a product or do you make money through affiliate programs?  If so, you can post the articles on your website.  Keyword articles generate organic traffic through the search engines.  The more visitors your site receives, the better your chances are for making a sale.

As for newsletters, they can also help to increase your sales.  Send out monthly or quarterly newsletters to subscribers or post the newsletter on your website for all to read.  In addition to adding outsourced articles, include a moneysaving discount code for the products or services you are selling.  If you participate in an affiliate program, you should have coupon codes provided to you automatically.

If you are looking to make the largest amount of money overtime, but don’t have an already existing website, examine revenue sharing websites.  You post the outsourced articles that you own.  This type of arrangement is nice, as you generate passive incoming, meaning you earn it overtime and for years to come.  Depending on the website in question, you should get a percentage of the revenue generated by your articles or a page view bonus.

If you have internet marketing experience and knowledge, why not resell the articles?  This works best if you can create an online marketplace.  The more articles you have listed available for resale, the more money you can make.  Once again, decide if you want to make money upfront or overtime.  PLR article packages are nice because they are sold multiple times, but they have low selling prices.  On the other hand, you can sell your articles for a higher price when you offer exclusive rights.

PPPPP

Word Count 556
