How to Avoid and Overcome Writer’s Block

Are you interested in writing articles for money?  If you are, you should know that there will likely come a point in time when you experience writer’s block.  Many new writers make the mistake of believe that only book writers experience this problem, but web content writers can face it as well. So, what should you do?

One of the best ways to prevent and overcome writer’s block is to reduce or completely eliminate your distractions.  Unfortunately, for some this may be easier said than done.  If you are a parent who is looking to use article writing as a way to generate extra income, you may find yourself writing with the kids screaming in the background.  When possible, try to reduce your distractions.  This may involve turning off the television or moving to a different room in the house.

In keeping with eliminating distractions, one problem that many web content writers face is the internet.  It is ironic in that the internet helps to generate income for article writers, but it can also serve as a huge distraction.  If you do not need to do research, but still find yourself surfing the internet, temporarily disable it from working on your computer.  This can help to keep you focused and on task.  

Another great way to avoid writer’s block is to create a work environment that is comfortable for you.  As previously stated, some may find working with background noise, like the television or radio, to be a distraction, but you may find it comforting and inspirational.  You need to create a work environment that is ideal for you to work in.

If you do experience writer’s block, frustration will set in right away.  In the back of your mind, you may know what you want to write, but the words just don’t come out.  You may also have a deadline to meet, but just can’t seem to write.  This is the time when you need to step back and take a break.  The more you focus on your inability to write articles, the more difficulty you will have overcoming writer’s block.

Try something fun.  Are you a parent?  Take your children to the park for an hour or two.  Or, you can put in your favorite movie or listen to music on your headphones.  Even if you only write articles part-time or for extra money, we all need a break from work.  After having a little bit of fun, you may feel refreshed, recharged, and ready to start writing again.

In addition to doing something fun during a small break, try doing something inspirational.  One of the best ways to do this is to go for a walk.  This can help to clear your mind or even give you new ideas.  Remember one of the best ways to overcome writer’s block is to step back and take a short break.

As previously stated, you need to create a work environment that works for you.  Are you tired of being stuck inside or do you want a change of scenery?  If you own a laptop, have you ever thought about working outside?  If the weather is nice, you may find the change of environment to be inspirational and calming, which may reduce or completely eliminate your chances of experiencing writer’s block.

Brainstorming and creating an outline can also reduce your chances of writer’s block.  Whether you are writing articles for your own website and blog or for a client of yours, start with a short brainstorming session. Write down the article titles you need to write and then state a few points that you want to cover.  When you have a general outline to follow, you are less likely to experience writer’s block in the middle of your writing.

Finally, it is important to know when to ask for help.  The above mentioned tips can help you avoid or overcome writer’s block, but they may not work for everyone.  Since it can hinder your ability to write articles and make money, you may need to ask for help.  That help can come from outsourcing your work to another freelance writer.

PPPPP

Word Count 690
