Make Money Writing Articles:  Upfront or Passive Pay?

Have you recently decided that you want to make money writing articles from home?  If you have, do you know that you have an unlimited number of choices?  One of those choices is what type of payment you want to receive.  Two of your main options include upfront payment or passive income.

Upfront payment is nice, as it pays the bills.  To receive upfront payment you often acquire clients who need content.  This content is either used for a website or for marketing purposes.  Usually, the clients that freelance writers work with are either search engine optimization specialists or website owners.  Since you write the articles and then hand them over, you are often paid right away.  

Upfront payments are also nice in emergency situations.  Do you need to make money fast to pay for car repairs?  If you do, search for article writing projects that involve payment right away.  On average, most paying clients pay their writers within two weeks, if not much sooner.  You can find these projects by searching job posting boards, online classified advertisements, and online bidding websites.  Just be cautious of scams, as they do exists.  Article writing is a legitimate way to make money online, so don’t expect to earn $1,000 in 24 hours, as it likely will not happen.

As great as receiving payment upfront for writing articles is, it also has its downsides.  One being the competition.  As more people are start looking for ways to save money on gas, be their own boss, or stay home with the kids, the competition for upfront paying projects increases.  There are ways that you can overcome this.  Polish your resume or portfolio so that you can stand apart from the rest.  Apply for as many projects or jobs as possible, as this increases your chances of landing one.

When you have an individual or company who pays you upfront for your articles, they usually retain the rights.  This means that you cannot reuse or resell the articles in question.  You are also usually operating a ghostwriter, meaning that your name will not be attached to the content.  

As for passive income, the greatest benefit of relying on it to make money through article writing is the number of options that you have.  To get started, look for revenue sharing websites.  You upload your article to the website in question.  In exchange for having your content posted and making money through the use of advertisements, you are paid a page view bonus.  This bonus will increase with the more articles you write, but it is generated overtime.   So, you are essentially earning money for an article that you may have written six months ago.

In addition to third party revenue sharing websites, you can also write articles and post them on your website or blog.  In terms of passive income, which keeps generating overtime, a website is best.  Blog readers tend to expect new posts to read on a daily basis.  To make money this way, you need to have advertisements on your website.  There are affiliate programs you can signup for.  You can post a small message outlining your site’s advertising rates.  In fact, you should try both approaches.

The only true downside to relying on passive income to make money with your articles is that you aren’t paid right away.  Most third party revenue sharing websites and affiliate programs require that you hit a specific dollar amount before you are paid.  Although not always high, it may take a month or two before you start receiving payments.  

Since writing articles for upfront payment and passive income both have their pros and cons, you may be wondering which approach is right for you.  Why not give them both a try?  If you are in need of money, focus on upfront paying projects, but set a small amount of time aside each week to start generating passive income.   
 
PPPPP

Word Count 653
