Make Money Writing Articles: Your Options Reviewed

Do you enjoy writing?  If so, did you know that you can make money writing articles?  You can.  As for how you can do so, please continue reading on.

One of the easiest ways to make money writing articles is to write for someone else.  This individual or company is referred to as a client.  As for how you can find these clients, you can turn to freelance job boards or online bidding websites.  These two websites can be found with a standard internet search.  Search Engine Optimization (SEO) companies also hire freelance web content writers and many list their job openings in an employment section on their website.

When writing articles for a client that you acquire online, there are a number of different articles that you may end up writing.  The topic or niche will depend your client’s wants and needs.  A wide range of topics are written on a daily basis, including parenting, computers, and pets.

The biggest advantage to writing for a client is that you are paid almost immediately.  Most clients will pay their writers within 14 days, on average.  If you are interested in writing for yourself, it can take you a few months or even a year before you start seeing profits.  The good news is that you have a number of different money making opportunities.

As previously stated, you can write articles for a client that you acquire online.  When doing so, you write what your client requests.  On the other hand, you can write your own articles on topics that interest you or topics that are currently in demand.  You can then sell these articles on your own website.  By grouping your articles to create PLR article packages, you sell the articles at a cheap rate, but you can sell them more than once.  You also have the option of selling just usage rights or giving away full rights, which is known as exclusive rights.

In keeping with selling your own articles, there are websites online that will assist you in doing so.  These websites allow you to post and list your articles for sale on their own websites.  This approach is nice, but you may be charged a fee or a set percentage of each sale.  This percentage can be up to 20 percent or more!

A unique way to make money writing articles is to turn your articles into an eBook.  You can either sell your eBook to readers or offer it for sale with exclusive rights, which essentially means that someone else will pay a large fee for your eBook and then resell it themselves.  You can either sell your eBook on your own website or use an already established selling site.  Once again, they do charge you a fee.  With that said, remember that you don’t have to pay for web hosting or do your own marketing, as this is already done for you.  In this event, the fee charged may be well worth the costs.

The articles that you write, for yourself, can also be used for web content.  Have you ever wondered how websites that don’t sell products make money?  They do so through advertisements and you can too.  The only downside to this approach is that you must market your websites.  The good news is that articles can be used to help you do so.  You can submit your articles to online article directories and attach a link to your website.  While you will not make money directly through these articles, they can help to increase your website profits.

With that said, there are a select number of websites where you can make money from your articles and promote websites and blogs at the same time. These websites pay you to list your articles on their websites.  You may be paid an upfront fee, a page view bonus, or a combination of them both.  These are nice, as you can make money and you can often link back to your own website or blog.

PPPPP

Word Count 670
