Make Money Writing Articles:  Stand Apart From The Competition

Are you looking to make money writing articles online?  If you are, you will be specializing in web content writing.  Unfortunately, over the past couple of years, web content writing has increased in popularity as a way to make money from home.  This means that you are likely to face more competition.  So, what should you do?

You need to make yourself and your articles stand apart from the competition.

Article writers generate income by way of articles by taking two different approaches.  These ways include writing articles for personal use or writing articles for a paying client.  

If you are writing articles for your own personal use, you will likely display these articles on either a website or a blog.  If your website has pet care theme, you will find that it is one of hundreds online.  So, how do you make sure that your website is viewed the most?  The easiest approach to take is to produce quality content.  Write your articles with great interest and passion.  Be sure to proofread and proofread again.

Another way that you can make money writing articles for yourself is by posting your articles on already established content filled websites.  Some websites pay you for your work.  This payment can come in the form of a page view bonus, upfront payment, or a combination of the two.  To make sure that your articles receive more views and more money than others, write articles on popular topics or those currently in demand.

You can and should make use of keywords.  Online, there are keyword research tools that can tell you exactly what internet users are searching for.  For example, if you want to write articles on selling on eBay, you will see that many internet users ask search engines how they can find things to sell.  Incorporate the phrase “things to sell on eBay,” into your article and the search engines will automatically find your article.  This is nice, as it requires little or no marketing on your part, although marketing is recommended to make the most money.

If you want to write articles for upfront payment for someone else, you need to target website owners.  They are always on the lookout for fresh and unique content for their websites.  Since many individuals are now trying to make money writing online, you may face some competition.  To make yourself stand apart from the competition, create a great pitch.  Summarize why you should be hired and why you are the perfect fit for the project in question.

When looking to acquire paid writing projects and clients online, a simple resume will not do.  Just because you say you are a good article writer, it doesn’t mean that you are.  For that reason, compile a list of sample articles you have written and have published online.  If you are just getting started, make sure that you have samples. As previously stated, you can use articles to make money with your own content filled website or blog through the use of advertisements.  Not only that, but they can be provided as samples too.

Since you will face a lot of competition writing articles online for pay, it is important to set realistic goals.  Not every article you post on a revenue sharing website will generate loads of income and you will not be hired for every article writing project you apply for.  Of course, it is great to have goals, just make sure yours are realistic and within your reach.

PPPPP

Word Count 584
