Make Money Writing Articles:  How to Reduce Distractions

If you are new to writing articles for pay, you may find the whole process easier said than done.  Many writers experience what is referred to as writer’s block.  If you find yourself easily distracted from the task at hand, which would be writing articles, you may be looking for help.

First, it is important to know what distractions can or will cost you.  Surfing the internet for an extra ten minutes may not seem like a long time, but what if you did so every day of the week for the whole year?  The end result could be less money.  Typically speaking, the more articles you write, the more money you are able to make.  That is why it is important to article writers to learn how to properly reduce or completely eliminate distractions.  For this to happen, you must determine what your biggest distractions are.

You cannot successfully eliminate or reduce the distractions that are keeping you from writing if you don’t know what they are.  It may be a good idea to perform a test.  Keep a notebook handy and record what you are doing and the time whenever you find yourself or your mind wandering away from the articles that you are supposed to be writing.

One common distraction that many article writers face is with the internet.  After all, most do a small amount of research online.  Do you find yourself checking your emails, playing games online, or visiting your favorite message boards?  If so, you may want to take what some would call a drastic step.  That step is disconnecting the internet from your computer.  This only needs to be temporary and it may involve disabling a feature on your computer or disconnecting the internet cord.

Television is another common distraction that prevents many writers from making the most money.  Many find the best luck when having the television turned off.  On that same note, some writers actually write better and quicker with a small amount of background noise.  If you are one of these individuals, opt for the radio as opposed to the television.  Or, turn the television on a program that you don’t want to watch.  Avoid your reruns of your favorite television shows or your favorite movies.

Interruptions from others is another distraction that many article writers face. Unfortunately, this is something that can’t always be avoided.  Working from home is increasing in popularity and writing articles for pay is a great way to make money online and from home.  The only problem is that some parents are working with their children by their side.  Alter your hours so that you are working when the kids are asleep or otherwise occupied.  If you don’t have children, but are faced with interruptions from a roommate, consider working elsewhere.  This is nice if you have a laptop computer, as you can visit the library.

As you can see, there are a number of ways for you to reduce or completely eliminate distractions.  If you are new to writing articles for pay, it is important to know the negative effect these distractions can have on your income.  Learning how to write for money isn’t just learning how to find clients or how to sell your articles, it also involves perfecting your writing technique so that you can write quality articles.

PPPPP

Word Count 556
