Make Money Writing Articles:  How to Avoid Scams

If you want to make money writing articles online, there is a good chance that you will turn to the internet in search of paying clients.  Unfortunately, you are likely to come across a number of scams along the way.  Writing articles for money is a great work-at-home opportunity, but, work-at-home opportunities are often common fronts for scammers.  So, how can you avoid these scams?  You may be surprised just how easy it is.

First, it is important to know what types of scams are out there.  You may find what appears to be a great client who wants you to write 15 articles on fashion jewelry.  However, after submitting your articles, your client is nowhere to be found.  They took your articles without paying for them.  For a writer who takes great pride in their work, this is one of the worst types of scams to fall victim to.  There are also scams where companies, claiming to provide you with article writing jobs charge you a fee and then just take your money and run.  Some scammers will also create fake article writing jobs in hopes of getting your personal information.
 
As for acquiring your personal information and using it illegally, a legitimate business owner may need your social security number, as they need to report this information on their taxes.  Unfortunately, this is how many scammers get personal information out of hopeful writers.  To prevent this from happening from you, know the difference between a well-established website and company versus someone who is only asking you to write four articles.  Work with a new client a few times before providing them with any personal information.  If you are paid and without problems, the individual or company in question really may need your personal information.

As for someone taking your articles and running, without paying you, there are a number of ways to avoid this scam.  Be cautious of new clients.  For projects that are large in size, request a small amount of the payment upfront or at the halfway point.  If you aren’t paid, don’t write more articles.  For smaller projects, where you may feel uncomfortable asking for payment upfront, use you best judgment.  If your articles are not paid for, you retain the rights to them, meaning you can resell them.

As for “companies,” who request you pay a fee, you will also want to use your best judgment.  There are legitimate companies online that will charge you $5 or $10 a month to participate in their article writing programs.  A small fee doesn’t mean that the site is legitimate, but run away from fees that are high, like $20 or more.  Also, never pay a company that claims you can make thousands of dollars a day.  Article writing can be a well-paying gig, but since it is a legitimate job, so you should have reasonable expectations.

As previously stated, be sure to use your best judgment.  Although some online scams can be easy to fall for, most are easy to spot and from a mile away.  As long as you know that article writing scams do exist and what to look for, you can better protect yourself.  By steering clear of the above mentioned scams, you can enjoy a long and profitable career as an article writer.

PPPPP

Word Count 551
