Make Money Writing Articles:  Which Topics Are The Best?

If you are new to writing articles for money, you may be unsure as to what you should write about.  Many new article writers ask “what topics are the best to write about?”  It depends on a number of different factors.

First, you will want to ask yourself what you consider to be “the best.”  Do you want to make the most money or do you want to write articles that are easy and quick for you to compose?  Next, who are you writing for?  Are you writing articles for a client or for your own personal use?  The answers to these questions can help you determine what topics are the best for you to write about.

One of the best topics for you to write articles on are topics that interest you.  For example, do you always look for ways to save money and have tips to share with others?  Are you an animal lover?  When you write on a topic that interests you, writing may actually seem like fun, as opposed to work.  There is nothing better than making money doing something that you enjoy.

On that same note, it is important to know that not all articles generate money or the same amount.  If you have the freedom to choose your own article topics or points, write on a topic that is popular or in demand.  For this, you will want to examine the seasons and the popular products for sale.  Is there a new video game that is highly anticipated?  Why not capitalize on that anticipation and write articles that focus on gaming?  You will also want to examine the seasons.  Is Thanksgiving and Christmas quickly approaching?  Why not write a few articles that share holiday shopping tips?

As previously stated, you can benefit from writing on subjects that you know about.  If you are familiar with computers, cell phones, video gaming consoles, and software, you can work as a technical writer.  This is one of the best paying web content writing markets.  Website owners who need technical content for their websites tend to pay more for quality content that is accurate.

Speaking of writing articles for paying clients, you will want to keep your options open.  Whether you visit an online bidding website or an online job board, you will see that there a lot projects open and on a wide range of topics.  When writing articles for money, you do not necessarily have to decide on a theme or niche and stick with it.  By expanding your horizons and by being willing to write on a wide range of topics, you increase your chances for making money.

If you are looking to write articles for yourself to post on a website or blog, it may be best to have one set topic.  This makes it easier for you to make money, as you can choose advertisements that are in line with your website’s main theme.  For example, a website that focuses on pet care is likely to make more money than a website that focuses on thirty different topics.  Spend your time focusing on and perfecting one subject and then consider moving onto another, creating a new website or blog for each topic.

As a recap, if you are a paid writer working for others, you will want to write articles on the topics that you are provided with.  If you have freedom to write your own articles, consider what issues that are popular or controversial at the time.

PPPPP

Word Count 585
