Making Money with Articles:  How to Choose the Best

Are you looking to use articles written by a professional writer as a way to make money?  If so, you may be wondering which type of articles are the best.  It depends on a number of different factors.  A few of the factors you should take into consideration, whether you buy prewritten articles or hire an outsourcer, are outlined below for your convenience.

Your Theme

If you are looking to buy articles to place on your website, blog, or articles to submit to article directories, the theme of your website or blog needs to be examined.  Articles generate traffic for your website, but you want that traffic to be targeted.  Reaching your targeted market increases your moneymaking opportunities, whether you rely on a sale or the clicking of advertisements.  Don’t buy or order prom themed articles if you run a pet care website.

As previously stated, try to order or buy articles that are line with your theme.  You can, however, stretch this a bit when trying to find quality articles.  Do you run a website that has free games?  Are one of those games a fashion game that lets internet users experiment with different hairstyles on an animated character?  If so, the above mentioned prom theme articles can work to your advantage, as some teens may think of it as a neat way to plan or experiment for the upcoming prom.

Popularity

One of the best ways to use articles to make money, by way of increasing your website traffic, is to choose articles that are on popular and in demand subjects.  Right now, the economy is struggling and people are looking for ways to save money.  Articles that focus on ways to save money on purchases may be perfect for your free game website.  Add a small message at the end of each article about the free games available on your website, or so forth.
 
Intended Use

Before ordering or buying prewritten articles, know how you plan to use them.  Choose or order articles that are easy to rewrite.  Any article can be rewritten, but those with a casual tone, as opposed to a statistically tone, are easier to rewrite.  Search engines do not like duplicate content, but you can rewrite your articles.  If you can turn one outsourced article into five articles, you can get the best value for your money.  These rewritten articles can not only be used for website content, but they can be submitted to article directories.

If you don’t want to do the rewrites yourself, hire an outsourcer to do them for you.  Hiring a rewriter is cheaper than hiring a writer who only produces original content.

Quality

Regardless of how you intend to use outsourced articles to generate income, it is important that you choose quality articles.  You tend to have better control over the quality of articles when outright hiring an article writer, as you can request samples of their work first.  These articles will be associated with you, your website, your blog, or your product.  Proofread all articles before publishing them online to ensure the quality meets or exceeds your expectations.

Affordability

If you will be using outsourced articles to resell or to generate income on your website or blog, you need to keep your eye on the main prize. That is to make money.  The cheaper you can find prewritten articles for, the biggest profit you stand to make.  With that said, remember the importance of quality.  Do not compromise quality for costs, as many are later disappointed when they do so.

As a recap, if you are looking to profit from outsourced articles, choose articles that are written with a certain amount of quality, are affordable to purchase, and easy to rewrite.  If you have specific wants and needs, it may be best to hire an outsourcer to work with, as opposed to finding prewritten content that may not be the perfect fit.

PPPPP

Word Count 655
