Proof that Article Marketing Works


Advertising is one of the vital factors in order for your website to gain huge web traffic. From the colorful and blinking commercial banners posted in well-known sites up to the different freebies, advertising is considered to be a must to attract potential clients.

One of the popular advertising schemes around the web is the article marketing. The expertise in promoting a certain site is translated into a written article and distributed it to sites that offer free article posting to highly endorse a certain product or service.

It is also achieved by using blogs and direct agreements with webmasters and editors of these free article sites to publish your article. In return, they will provide you a direct link back to your website.

What makes it very popular among online businessmen is that it is free. All you have to do is write your articles then submit it to free articles posting sites and the rest is history.

If you have posted it in content directories, other webmasters can get it and post it to their sites. Once read by your potential clients and finds it interesting, then they will be likely visiting your site in quest for additional information.

How true that article marketing is working in favor of the individuals who availed it as part of their advertising strategies? Are they really getting enough web traffic from this form of advertising, or they are just wasting their time and financial resources hiring article writers?

One real estate agent once posted in his site that before, he prefers advertisements to inform his buyers of the properties that he is selling. However all he can add to that ads space in a particular search engine is the general description of each property and his contact web address and phone number.

His clients, especially those of neophytes in real estate acquisition, always inquire how to avail such property by means of mortgages or other payment plans. 

When he heard of article marketing, he once tried it by writing an article about acquiring real estate properties by mortgages. Then after he have posted it in free article sites, the web traffic inside his site started to grow, until he decided to write more articles with regards to the different aspects of real estate.
The potential of attracting customers is there. Not only a single person can view your articles—it can be thousands or even millions of viewers.

Another is that most of the buyers are tired of looking into the sites that just showing the appearance of their product, a brief description, and its retail or wholesale price. They wants complete description of it—a blow-by-blow account, if possible.

Looking for another proof? If you will be visiting a free article site, check how many categories that they have. Under these categories, there exist thousands of articles. For instance, in a certain free article site, they are offering 40 categories, and in each category, they are having around 10,000 articles. Imagine having 400,000 articles in that site. It will not expand unless article marketing is just a bluff, right?

Try to visit a popular search engine and type in the search box the word “article”. What will you notice? All the related searches in the first page will be pertaining to different article sites.

If you are still unconvinced, try another diversion. Think of a service that you want to search, for instance, you want to know anything about credit cards. Again type in the search box the words “credit card articles”. What will happen?

It will give you the list of sites that offers articles about credit cards. Take note that you are not directed to companies that are offering such service. Once you have accessed for that articles, there is a link box that will lead you to these companies. Now you will not be empty-handed of the basic information about credit cards.

There are other proofs of the effectiveness of article marketing. Remember that each of us have one thing in common—information. Even we are looking for details regarding a certain product or just a student looking for vital information about his lesson, articles are important. Now, who says that article marketing is just a bluff? No one at all.
