Article Marketing: What to do and What NOT to do

Today, businesses are now turning to the internet to conduct their businesses. If you are planning to create your own online business, it is important that you be more competitive than you have been before.

Many online businesses have failed because they did not have the competitive edge as some successful online businesses have.

What do all kinds of businesses need to promote their products?

Advertising

Advertising is considered as one of the life-blood of businesses. Building a business website alone cannot give you success. You need to market your website to enable potential customers to visit your website and consider buying your product or services.

If you thought of an online business, there are probably many other websites that offer the same products or services you sell. So it is important that you should make your business stand out from the rest. People having a chance to visit your website would probably like finding a needle on a haystack.

The point is marketing your business the right way to make it stand out from other businesses that is similar to yours.

Many new online businessmen make a mistake on spending so much money on advertising. These businesses often are doomed to fail. They spend so much money on advertising than what they earn.

This is where article marketing comes in.

Article marketing is one of the most effective ways or probably IS the effective way to generate traffic to your website and promote your product. The great thing about article marketing is that it’s free. You don’t need to spend anything but your time and effort.

What more can you ask for in advertising?

It’s free and it’s effective.

As you all know, traditional marketing will say to people: “I want you to buy this product or service.” while article marketing will say: “Here’s a product or service I want to tell you about. And hey, if you’re interested, I sell these too, you can learn more about it in my website, and you can visit me at www…” It does not tell people to buy directly, but explains it first and offer people the option to buy. 

Article marketing is easy to do. However there are some dos and don’ts that you should be aware of.

Dos

•	Write a short article. Write an article that is easy to digest and easy to understand. The shorter your article the better, although, don’t make it too short that it doesn’t deliver any information the reader needs. Write at least 500 to 700 word article. The point is that you have to summarize. Make an article that is to the point and you should also know what you’re talking about.

•	Present an article like a TV talk show. You might have watched talk shows, it’s entertaining and informative. Write your article this way. Present a problem and present a solution for every problem you make. Readers will have a lot of questions about a product; it is important that you research what are their questions and find a solution for it. The questions that you should include are the frequently asked questions, burning questions that is interesting to read about.

•	Include some tips on your articles. There are two types of tips you should include, the command tip, which tells people what to do and the mistake tip, which tells people what not to do or what to avoid. People like to be warned, it makes an article to have a more personal relationship with the reader.

Don’ts

•	Too many grammatical, spelling and punctuation errors. This makes you look unprofessional and can damage your reputation severely. To avoid these mistakes, read and reread your articles after finishing.

•	 Too much self promotion. Hype and bragging can be good for a little while, but too much of it can destroy your reputation. Remember that people doesn’t like too much bragging. Avoid using “I”, “I’ve”, “I’m” too much. try to replace it by “we” or “research found”. It’s not as if you discovered fire.

•	Too long. Articles that are too long can mean boredom; boredom means no readers; and no readers means failed article. An article should be easy to read and informative, if you researched about it you have to digest all the important facts and place it in your article.

•	Bad Headline. Most readers often base the quality of the article by reading the headline. Bad headline means little or no reader. Think of a title that would catch the attention of a reader.

Writing an article is easy as long as you know the basics, follow these guidelines and you can be sure you’ll get the targeted traffic you want in your website.
