Article marketing is all about titles


For the many authors who do not yet know how to make article marketing work for their business, they are actually wasting all their time and efforts. A total waste.

Why? Because even though you are producing quality articles, they are not really getting near enough your targeted market. 

For those who have been taught about copywriting outside the online world, they would know that the title or headline is one thing that will determine if the content will be successful or not. 

In books, for example, the first thing that people see is the title. And people, being critical, have the tendency to judge the whole book just from the title. They will even get to the point where the headline alone will make them buy or not buy that book. This is the same thing with online print ads. 

But it is a different case with article marketing. In article marketing, your articles are targeted to audiences that have an interest in them. This is the basic idea behind distributing one online. You have to make sure that your article marketing will be seen consumers and potential consumers alike.

One of the most common misconceptions about articles online is that people will just read them at random just like they do with books or any printed materials they see offline. 
So with article marketing, you are assuming that people will just randomly check out your article once they see it posted. 

This is wrong. Visitors online do not just chance upon anything on the Internet. They are there in the first place to look for or they need something. When looking for the things they need, they do not just get into the first website they see.

Most of them will probably use the search engines to achieve what they are looking for.  Chances are, they will choose one of the more popular search engines and type in the keywords related to the topic they need there. Then the search engines will display the results found.
Your goal now in article marketing is for your articles to be prominent in the search engines. 

How do you make this possible? 

By using the right title. 

The success of your article will be based on the first 3-4 words of your title. It will determine how much traffic your article will get back to your website. This can only be attained when you have created keyword-rich titles that will match the most common keywords related to your content.

To know what are the rich keywords and the right ones that you should use for your articles, it would be best to use a keyword research tool. Some of this software is free but some are not. Try to look for the sites that are offering this software. It will prove to be a valuable tool needed for successful article marketing. 

It is vital that you learn and understand how to go about keyword research whether or not you are using a web-based research tool or not. 

When choosing a headline or title for your article, try not to include rubbish characters. These are quotes, asterisks or anything that search engines will find difficult to understand. You would not want them to discard your articles totally just because they cannot make any sense out of your title.

Also, do not get into some of the search engine spam technique of giving out keyword-rich titles that are in no way related to your articles. You will just get into big trouble once the search engines have filtered out people doing these things. 

If you want to get the most out of your article marketing strategy, you must master keyword research so that you can make keyword rich and clever article titles or headlines. 
Your pay off will be huge amounts of traffic to your articles and website thanks to the search engines who love reading titles.

There is really no great secret to having a successful marketing strategy. Once you know some of the important factors that are needed to make it work, there will be no stopping you from getting the customers you want and the search engine position you sought. 
