Common Mistakes in Article Marketing 


Marketing that is based on information is one of the oldest and most effective methods for bringing targeted prospects to your site and converting then into buyers. This is part of the reason that software and distribution services that make the process of article promotion easier are so popular lately.

There are two things that makes article marketing works. First, the article you are submitting and second, the preparation you do before you write the content of the article. 

There are lots of mistakes on article marketing. Mostly are not known. The following are some of the mistakes that should be known and some advices to overcome them.

•	Publishing articles with contents that is not helpful to the readers.

This is one of the mistakes that is very common but not known to many writers. A writer should not think that all he wants is links back to his site and any visitors the article generate.

Not all article bank and directories are accepting articles and contents automatically.  If you want your articles be admitted, write articles that the directories want to share with readers. 

If you want article marketing to work for you, write articles that the publishers want in their publications. This also means obeying the standard guidelines, researching a good topic to write about, running a spell check or even hiring a writer to produce articles on your behalf. 

•	Article writers usually confuse the reason to promote the reason of writing an article.

There is only one reason to write an article. It is to inform the readers. If your article is not geared towards this as its primary purpose, you will fail to see the benefits of promotion because no one will want to read your article. 

The key primary benefits of promoting an article are lead generation, branding, as corollary, online promotion, particularly as part of your optimization efforts.

The number of links you are able to generate by submitting your article to hundreds of sites will matter little if you are unable to get them picked up by publications or read by people who search for information.

Sure, if you know what you are doing, all those links pointing back to your site will count for something in your search engine result, but remember that generating links to your site is only part of optimizing your site for different search engines. 

In order to overcome this issue, you will need to figure out how people will read what is in your article, and then click through to your site from your resource box. The best start to a solution is to produce better content. 

It is a matter of choice, you can get little exposure from increased link backs on a very basic level, or you enjoy massive exposure from a little extra work. 

•	Failure to maximize the promotional opportunities of article marketing.

It is a fact that articles marketing can help you generate additional links back to your site.  But there is fact that only few writers know: you can get more visitors and better search engine results from articles in a variety of ways.

You can mention the desired keyword in strategic places. But you should remember that you should take care not to overdo it. There are also some people that want you to use anchor text which is also effective method. But it should be known that majority of directories and publications are not able to support this.

It is not just about the links back to your sites. Part of doing well with article marketing is picked up by publishers with large audiences or gaining the ability to leverage other brands due to the quality of your work. Better search results are great.  

•	Starting the article promotion even without a concrete plan.

Not all articles can fulfill the purposes of promotion. Some will work better for branding and other can generate leads and increase sales. But if you do not start out with a concrete plan for what the function of your site should be, you will end up not satisfied with the result. 

Before writing, decide first if what the purpose of the article is. An article meant to brand you as an expert should display your knowledge. One for generating leads may need to be geared towards solving very specific problems.

Knowing the mistakes in article marketing is necessary. It helps you solve problems and challenge you to do better and improve your work. 




 




