Do you know what article marketing can do for your business?


One of the most incredible strategies ever to be incorporated with online advertising is article marketing. It has proven to be the most cost-efficient and most effective of them. 

By the term itself, you probably would know what this kind of marketing is about. By writing articles that are content-rich, you will be able to reach more people online. Not only that, you will be able to project a credible image to those who may have chanced upon your articles.

With the internet now reaching world-wide market, there is a higher possibility of you getting the attention and interest of potential customers. This is what article marketing can do. If you have not been using this in your business, you are missing more than you know.

How does article marketing work? 

Here is a guided tour on the step-by-step process of article marketing that will guide you on your way to achieving the kind of articles needed for your kind of business.

To start with, you need to premium a quality, informative and 300 minimum word article about a certain topic related to your business. 

For example, if your business is about family living, you can write an article that delves on how to spend more quality time with families. Never write about something that is not even closely related to your niche.

After you have the content written, you can now include a resource box at the end of the article. The resource box is basically a brief summary about you, your business and with a link that goes right to your website.

Putting a link to your site in the resource box would is making it possible for many people who would get to read your article. This could essentially result to a large amount of new traffic to your site.

Then it is time to submit your articles to as many article directories you can find. Over the Internet, you can find various article directory sites. There are paid and free sites. 

If you are on a budget, you may opt for the free submissions being offered. But if you have money set aside for your article marketing, paying for the submission sites is also a wise move.  

Whenever somebody reads your article displayed on directories, the link that leads to your site is prominent enough for the readers to be able to check them out once they find your article interesting. This way, there is a big probability of you gaining more customers whenever find what they are looking for in your site. 

There is also a chance that your article would get picked up by a printed publication, and the readership of the same would get to know the products or services which your business offers.

You should know that article directories are being displayed on various websites. They are seen by millions of people all over the world. This apparent visibility also makes it easier for search engines to index them.
 
The technique behind article marketing is back linking. Back links are links to your websites that you have somehow displayed on sites with higher page ranks. To put it simply, your site is basically sharing instant success with the sites you are linking to. 

Getting indeed by search engines can be a long and trying process. Oftentimes, the result takes days or months before being acknowledged. There are even cases where, after waiting for a long time, the result you will be getting is not the one you expected. This is the main reason why Internet marketers have resorted to back linking. You cannot get this instant online recognition in the shortest of time and without too much effort anywhere else.

You can always hire a ghostwriter to write your articles for you if you cannot write your own articles or do not have the time for them. The price rate for writing articles is from 3 to 10 dollars. 

With all the advantages being presented by article writing, there is no doubt why this has become one of the most often used Internet marketing strategy.  

Try to do some article marketing for your site and see the positive results it will bring to your site. 



