Article Marketing: Effective Advertising


What is Article Marketing?

Article marketing is a form of advertisement to your website. This type of marketing is an effective tool to promote your products or companies and increase targeted web traffic of your. Article marketing can help your website become popular and produce more hits in search engines.


Many people choose to advertise by this method simply because it is free. There are numbers of website that offers free article publishing. All you have to do is write an article about the product you are selling or advertising and post it to these kinds of websites. Do not forget to include the URL link of your website after each article.

When you post an article, you are posting an advertisement for access twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week. It is free of charge.

Just one article can go a long way. The reason other website publishers might look at your article and may republish it to another website. From there, your article can be published and republished to numerous websites still promoting your own website and the product you are advertising or selling.

To write an effective article, one that will glue your readers until they end up in your website URL, is to make it informative, and fun and easy to read.

Here are some basic tips to have effective article marketing:

1. Your articles should be informative. The main reason people reads article is for the information. Try to add as much information about the product you are selling.

2. Although your article should be informative, it should also be short and simple. Be precise about what point you are driving at and as much as possible keep the terms simple and easy to understand. 

Technical terms can be difficult to understand for some people and may lose interest in finishing reading your article.

3. Give the readers a reason why to read your article. You headline or title should be attractive enough to draw in readers to start reading your article in the first place. Moreover, your first three sentences should be attention grabbing.

4. Aside from posting your articles in article publishing websites, post one too in your own website. This creates targeted traffic when users type in your article keywords.

5. Article marketing is effective if you do not include sales pitch in them. Sales pitch can discourage readers. Many potential customers tend to think you are just selling a product you do not even know about. 

It can make you look like you are just in it for the money and customers do not like that. Show your knowledge about the product you are promoting first. Remember that your sales pitch can be displayed in your website.

6. Digest your articles and post them to discussion boards related to your product. Put some lines like “to read more about this visit www.mywebsite.com. Keep in mind that readers can get interested and will most likely click on the website link.

7. Put your best article in an e-book and distribute them by email or by download links. This is a great way to circulate your article to people.

8. Write more than one articles. Keep in mind that the more articles you write, the more people can choose between what they want to read. Put in different titles to attract different kinds of people.

9. Always update your articles to continue promoting your products effectively. Some article publishing websites displays articles by the date. The more updated your article is, the more it has a chance to get to the first page result of a search.

10. Test your articles by first letting your friends or family read it. Get their opinions about your article and make some improvements if you need to. Look at their expressions while reading your article. Do they look interested? Do they look bored? Ask yourself this kind of questions.

11. Make use of bullets and numbers; Lots of it. Bullets and numbers tend to make articles easier to read and make sure that for every bullet leave at least one space after the other. Readers like to see a lot of white space.

Article marketing is easy and a convenient way to advertise your products. It is free and very effective. To make it a success, always remember to keep it informative, easy to read, and keep it simple. In short, make it reader-friendly.

