Article Marketing: Promoting your Website

You have created your online business website. Your product inventory is in place, every button and link is working the way they should be, everything is perfect. Except that no one’s visiting your site, therefore no one buys your products. Why?

It’s simply because there is no targeted internet traffic to your website or no one knows your website even exists.

Targeted internet traffic means that there should be specific people entering your website. You should generate targeted internet traffic to boost your ranking in your search engine so more people can find your website.

To generate targeted internet traffic to your website you should advertise your website. You may have seen products being introduced on TV or the newspaper. It works the same in the internet; you have to grab people’s attention that they would actually visit your website. You may ask how do you this?

The answer is simple. Write articles.

Writing articles is one of the best forms of advertising in the internet. Firstly, it’s free, and everyone wants something for free, so this is good. Secondly it’s effective, with the right article writing strategy, you can get your article readers to get hooked on reading your articles and may visit your website and buy your products.

To write an article you must first think of a subject or topic that would be related to your product. If you’re selling pet products, you might want to write about pets. After you thought of a topic to discuss, research about it, make sure you’re research are all facts about your topic. You can also base your research on other articles.

After you have compiled your research, read it, digest it and write about it. Try to make your article short, simple and easy to read.

You have to write quality articles and submit them to good article publishing websites, by doing this, you can be sure that you’ll get targeted internet traffic to your website. It is also the easiest type of advertising, not only that it’s free but also that it can generate a sufficient amount of targeted traffic.

By writing quality articles you also achieve things that will improve your sales:

•	Writing quality articles can improve the targeted internet traffic to your website.
•	If targeted internet traffic keeps coming in your website, it improves your search engine rankings, therefore when someone searches for a website that sells the same products as you are, the search result will often include your website on the first two pages.
•	Writing quality articles also shows that you are knowledgeable about the topic, therefore builds your credibility, if you have good reputation, the people who bought your product will recommend your website to friends and their friends will recommend your website to their friends and so on. It creates a network of customers.

As you can observe, writing high quality articles can bring you targeted internet traffic, improve your search engine rating and also builds your reputation. It’s good that you are viewed by people as an expert in the topic, it will bring in customers.

Writing articles is easy, before writing an article here are some guidelines that you can consider:

•	Research about your topic.
•	Read, digest and write.
•	Submit at least two articles every week to keep your readers updated.

If you do not have the talent for writing quality articles, you can always pay someone to do it for you, what you do is put up an ad that says that you are hiring people to write 20 articles for a specific topic. After you receive their article, pay them the agreed upon amount. There are many people in the internet looking for article writing job, so you’ll have no difficulty finding one that can write for you.

Now, you have your website, your links and buttons are working as they should be, your products are ready for selling, and you posted your quality articles in an article publishing websites. The most challenging part now is keeping up with your customer’s order for your product. Maybe you need a bigger inventory or better delivery system.

It’s that easy and simple. Just remember to include your website URL on every article you post.
