The Pros and Cons of Article Spinning Software

Are you a webmaster who uses articles as a way to generate traffic to your website?  If so, you may write articles with important keyword phrases to add to it.  Adding this content to your website is not the only approach you can take.  Articles with keyword phrases can also be used for internet marketing that generates referrals, as opposed to organic traffic.

So, how can articles help you generate traffic through referrals?  There are a number of different ways.  Do you have a blog that accompanies your website?  Use that blog to direct traffic to your website.  Your articles can double as blog postings.  You can also use article directories.  At the end of each article, include a link to your website.  Since website traffic is an important part of increasing your income, you should try these two options.

But, wait!  Yes, it is nice to know that there are multiple ways that you can use articles; can you really use the same articles multiple times?  Of course you can, but you may not want to.  Duplicate content can actually hurt your website and your sales.  For that reason, you will want to rewrite or spin each article so that the original meaning is left intact, but the words are unique.

If this seems like a lot of work, you may be looking for help.  If so, do not hire an article writer.  Doing so can get very costly.  Many writers charge $10 or more for a 500-word article.  Although this is an affordable rate, the cost can add up.  That is why rewriting or spinning is recommended, particularly if you are looking to create 10 or more rewrites from one original article.

Speaking of spinning, if you look for more information on how to do so online, you will come across article spinning software available for sale.  At first glance, it looks neat, but is it worth the money?  It depends on a number of different factors.

Most importantly, know that not all article spinning software programs are created equal. Some just rearrange your words.  This can result in unreadable articles.  Avoid these programs.  To make sure that your money is well spent, look for reviews online.  Many webmasters review article spinning programs they use.  See what they have to say.  Even if you find software that comes highly rated and recommend, proofread each article.  Make sure, for yourself, that is easy to read and understand.

Next, it is important to examine costs.  Article spinning programs are available for sale for a wide range prices.  How are you charged?  Are you charged a onetime fee or must you pay a high monthly fee?  Yes, article spinning programs can be worth the money, but would it be cheaper for you to hire an article rewriter or do the rewrites yourself?  Whether you rewrite the articles yourself or hire a rewriter, you get a “real,” person, as opposed to a software program.  There are no guarantees, but you are usually provided with better quality rewrites when dealing with an actual person.

Since your own personal preferences will be the deciding factor in whether or not you use article spinning software, why not at least give it a try?  Look for programs with free trail periods, as you have nothing to lose.  See if all the hype is really worth it.  Remember, if you don’t like what you see, you can do the rewriters yourself for free.


PPPPP

Word Count 576