Tips for Using Your Articles for Newsletters

Articles are used by webmasters for a number of purposes.  Most commonly, articles are used as website content or they are submitted to article directories.  If you are using articles you wrote yourself or outsourced for these purposes, you might want to consider expanding your horizons.  You can do so with newsletters.

Newsletters come in a number of different formats.  Do you run a content filled website that makes money through advertisements?  Or, do you have a product or service that you sell?  Either way, if you aren’t sending out newsletters, you need to start doing so.  Newsletters are a great way to increase traffic, as well as your earnings.

If you make money on your website with advertisements, you likely participate in at least one affiliate program.  Did you know that many retailers provide their affiliates with discount codes, also known as coupon codes?  These moneysaving codes can and should be added to your newsletter.  Not only does it allow your readers to save money on their next purchase, but it helps you generate a sale.  By doing so, you are paid.

If your website makes money with the selling of a product or a service, you can still benefit from creating and distributing newsletters.  Offer your own discounts.  Even if that discount is only $5 off a $50 product, you may see an increase in sales.  Internet users love moneysaving discounts.  Since you may not want to offer everyone this discount, as it can impact your profits, give the discount codes to your newsletter subscribers only.

If you have never created a newsletter before, you may be unsure how to get started.  As previously stated, newsletters come in a number of different formats.  This is good for you, as it gives you options.  In terms of ease, text based newsletters are best.  If emailed, the newsletter content can just be copied and pasted into the provided text box.  If displayed online, it is recommended that you covert the document into a PDF file.  HTLM newsletters are nice, but many readers have high expectations when reading them, including top-of-the-line graphics.

As for the length of your newsletter and its content, you will find some disputes online.  Be sure your newsletter is related to your website or the product or service you are selling.  If your website shares internet marketing techniques or if you offer it as a service, share a few sample techniques in your newsletter.  On average, you should have three different sections.  Each section should include an article.  This article can be an article that you wrote for your newsletter or one that is already published online.  Since newsletters are not considered website content, duplicate content is okay.

As for the variations, some newsletter specialists recommend packing as much information into a newsletter as possible.  On the other hand, others recommend keeping it brief.  This is good if you can write your own articles.  Since they do not need to be long, you can quickly write and proofread them.  Still, if you are pressed for time, hire an outsourced writer.  

As previously stated, you can and should include moneysaving coupon or discount codes in a newsletter.  In fact, this is the main reason why some interest users subscribe to them.  Many hope they will receive something for free or for a discounted price.  Offering discounts or at least moneysaving tips can give internet users an incentive for subscribing to your newsletter.

For the first few months, you will want to offer your newsletter for viewing on your website.  This is where all internet users can see it.  Also, include a submission form that readers can fill out to have your article delivered to their email inbox.  Let readers know that they may receive helpful tips and moneysaving discounts for subscribing to your free newsletter.  As for distribution, you can do so on a weekly, monthly, or quarterly basis.

Despite the fact that your newsletter will not generate upfront income for you, it can help to increase your earnings overtime.

PPPPP

Word Count 672