Using Outsourced Articles to Create a Product to Sell

Are you a website owner who uses outsourced articles as a way to generate traffic for your website?  If so, do you sell a product?  Yes, you can generate income online without having a product to sell, but your earnings may increase if you have something physical to sell, as opposed to just relying on income generated from affiliate programs.  

As nice as it is to hear that you can increase your online earning by having a product to sell, you may be wondering what.  That is the beauty of the internet; you can sell just about anything.  Of course, know that some products do sell better than others do.  

If you are interested in increasing your earnings, you may want to start sewing homemade handbags or start designing your own line of t-shirts right away.  Yes, you can take this approach, but there is a much easier way.  If you currently rely on outsourced articles to help generate traffic and income for your website, you may know that they do work.  Since articles that are written with a certain level of quality are popular and in demand, why not profit from them?

As for how you can profit from outsourced articles, you have a number of different options.  Do you have a quality article writer that you work with?  Do you know that he or she can produce great articles on a steady basis?  If so, hire that writer to assist you.  You may not, however, want to disclose your intent to profit from these articles.  Yes, many writers expect that you will take their content and profit from it, but don’t give away your moneymaking secrets.  If you do, you may find your quality writer disappear and you may find an additional competitor at the same time.

One of the easiest ways to profit from the sale of outsourced articles it outright resell them, but for a profit.  This will work.  After all, you hired an outsourced writer didn’t you?  Other webmasters need content for their websites.  This content can help to generate organic traffic, through popular search engines.  Webmasters also purchase articles to distribute to article directories, as it helps to generate referred traffic.

When looking outright resell outsourced articles, your targeted market will be webmasters and search engine optimization companies.  To increase your earnings, instruct your writer to compose keyword articles.  This involves a small amount of research.  Determine what keywords internet users are searching with.  Instruct your writer to insert those phrases in your article.  Buyers will love this, as it results in traffic with little or no marketing on their part.  That is why search engines are referred to as organic.

As for how you can offer these articles for sale, create your own website.  This is ideal if you have a writer who can provide you with steady content.  Marketplaces that have a large amount of content for sale and on a wide range of topics are the most popular.  Market this website by creating press releases, using article directories, or by actively participating in internet marketing forums.  These forums are where many new webmasters hangout to familiarize themselves with the latest tips.

In addition to reselling outsourced articles for a profit, you can also transform a series of articles into an eBook.  When taking this approach, do not pay a writer to compose an eBook for you.  Instead, give them a series of articles to write.  Compile those articles into an eBook yourself.  This simply just involves organizing the articles in order of applicable information.  If you run a content website filled with advertisements and affiliate programs, add that for sale eBook to your website.  Having a product to sell and advertisements on your website can double your earnings.

As a recap, outsourced articles are a great way to generate traffic for a website or blog, but they can also be used to give you a product to sell.

PPPPP

Word Count 657
