Webmasters:  Tips for Rewriting Your Articles

Are you a webmaster who writes your own articles?  If so, what do you do with those articles?  Chances are you list them on your website as content.  This is nice, but have you ever considered rewriting those articles to extend their use?  

As for what rewriting articles can do for you, it can get you a better value for your money and make better use of your time.  If you can rewrite your own articles multiple times, you get an amazing deal.  For example, you can rewrite an article five different times to walk away with a total of six articles, only one of which you had to put your full effort into.

Although rewriting articles may seem hard, it is an easy process.  In fact, it is one that you should be able to do yourself.

As for how much rewriting is required, it depends on your intended use.  Do you want your website to share helpful information with readers?  If so, rewriting an article that basically states the same points isn’t recommend for website content.  Your readers may think your website is too repetitive.  Instead, use those rewrites for marketing purposes.

Since many writers put most of their time and effort into the original article, the one that rewrites will be based on, that article should be posted on your website.  The rewritten articles can be submitted to article directories.  Although you aren’t paid for posting your articles, do you indirectly help to increase your profits.  

Blogging is also increasing in popularity and many website owners now have blogs that accompany their niche websites.  You can use your blog to promote your website and visa versa.  Rewritten articles can be posted on your blog as well.  When doing so, consider shortening the articles or dividing them into multiple posts.  Readers do not expect to see long articles on blogs, as they do with traditional websites.  

The main goal of rewriting outsourced articles is to eliminate duplicate content.  You could be penalized by the search engines for having duplicate content on your website.  Your website may disappear from the search engine or drop in ranking.  For that reason, don’t distribute the same articles to article directories that you have posted on your website.  That is why rewriting is advised.

The good news is that you don’t have to write a whole new article.  You basically want to trick the search engines into believing that you did.  As for how you can do so, rearrange a few sentences, change the context of a few sentences in each paragraph, and reorder your paragraphs when possible.  

As an example:

“If you are looking for ways to save money on groceries, try using online coupon websites to your advantage.”  

This can become “You can use online coupon websites to help you save money on groceries.”

By rearranging the wording of the sentence, you have new content, but the sentence retains its original meaning.  Not all sentences need to be reworded as such.  While your goal is to basically trick the search engines, make sure your articles are easy for readers to understand.

Although it is easier to rewrite your own articles, you may not want to or have the time to do so.  If that is the case, outsource your rewrites.  When doing so, choose an article rewriter.  This is different from an article writer.  They specialize in rewriting content and often charge lower rates.

PPPPP

Word Count 573