Webmasters:  Writing Articles versus Outsourcing

Are you a webmaster?  If you are, you need content for your website.  This is regardless of whether you sell a product, a service, or make money through affiliate programs.  Internet traffic is needed for you to make a sale.  

One of the best ways to generate traffic to your website is with articles, namely keyword articles.  Keyword articles, when properly written, are picked up by the search engines.  This increases your traffic organically, meaning that little or no work was required on your part.  In addition to adding keyword articles to your website, you can also submit them to article directories.  When you attach a link to each article, readers are likely to follow that link to your website, generating even more traffic.

Now that you know how keyword articles can help to improve your website traffic, possibly increasing your sales, you may be curious as to how you can get started.  First, there is one important decision you will have to make.  That decision is to write your own articles or outsource the work.

Writing your own web content is nice, as it ensures you get exactly what you need.  Do you have a vision that is hard to describe in words?  If so, even the best writer may not be able to give you the article of your dreams.  It may be best to write it yourself.

Writing your own articles is free, in terms of cash.  With that said, your time may be worth money.  What would you be doing if you weren’t writing articles?  This leads to a benefit of outsourcing, free time.

If you are always on the computer, looking for ways to make money, you may not want to stop and write your own articles.  Remember, your time is worth money.  If you find yourself missing out on other great opportunities, because you are stuck writing your own web content, outsourcing may be best.

As for outsourcing your articles, it is possible to find quality article writers that charge affordable rates.  So, you can still pay someone to write for you, while limiting your business expenses.  This may give you peace of mind is knowing that you won’t be losing all of your profits by opting to outsource.

It is important to limit your business expenses, but you also want to pay for a certain level of quality.  That leads to another problem with outsourcing, quality.  When you buy outsourced articles from a ghostwriter, those articles become yours.  They will have your name attached.  For that reason, make sure the work is of good quality.  To reduce the chance of receiving poor quality articles, ask for samples first.

Most alarming, is the risk of plagiarized content.  This serves as a reminder for checking quality.  Not only should you proofread an outsourced article looking for errors, but also check its uniqueness.  Use a program like CopyScape.  Never, under any circumstances, pay a writer for sending you plagiarized work.  Why?  Because this is work that you cannot use without possibly suffering some legal consequences.

Since there are a number of pros and cons to outsourcing your article writing, you may be unsure as to which option is best.  You may want to experiment.  See if you can find quality article writers with reasonable rates.  Or, start writing your own articles.  How long does it take you to write them?  Are you losing money or wasting your time? 

PPPPP

Word Count 572
