What Lies Beneath an Article on Marketing

Are you thinking of ways to promote an online business or simply your web site? Are you an expert with regards to your line of business or profession? You need not know everything about it at all. All you've got to do is start doing article on marketing or simply put, the articles that you are going to send out to submission sites and article directories.

Article Directories

If you are new in this venture, you don't have to get too intimidated. There are many article directories where you can submit your materials to. The first thing that you have to take note is how your chosen sites rank on Google and Alexa. This way, you will gauge what sites get the most traffic. And so you can start from that idea and choose the sites where your target market can be found.

You just have to be very careful in following the specified guideline for each site. While some will accept articles even with the minimum word count of 300, most sites will only publish articles with a 500 minimum word count.

Second, look at the rules about URLs. There are some web sites that will allow you to embed URLs on the content itself. Others will only allow such to be embedded on the author's bio box. In any way, this is your chance to link the article to your own web site so be careful that you follow the specified guide of the submission site of your choice.

Watch out on how you write you articles. You must not sound like you are hard selling your web site, your products and services. Remember that the idea here is to sound like an expert giving an advice or a general knowledge about a specific topic to your target audience. 

You will have a space to do the promotions. And that is on your author's bio field. You must fill this little space with valuable details. You can start with your name, your business, why they should try out your services and a call to action from the readers. You are going to place your links on this part. That will be the readers guide to follow where you are leading them to.

Writing for the Internet

Writing for the net and for the article submission sites is far from writing features for the dailies or magazines. First, it should be light to read and easy on the eyes. Most people who browse the web for articles will only scan through your pieces. So you have to get your points across even if they do not read the entire material.

You can achieve that by having shorter paragraphs. You should use the word you often as to address the reader in a personal manner. The tone must be casual and friendly, but the article itself should be informative.

Blogging about your products and services is good. But to be able to reach to a larger market, you should try your hand at submitting articles to directories. You can even link your articles to your blogs and web sites.

An article on marketing can do wonders for your business. Just make sure to follow the guidelines, create good and quality contents, establish yourself as an expert in the category of your choice and submit on the right article submission sites. 
