Writing Articles for Yourself versus Someone Else

Would you like to write articles as a way to generate income for yourself?  If so, you may be curious as to what your options are.  One of the biggest decisions you will have to make involves deciding who you want to write for.  Do you want to write for yourself or for others?  To ensure your choice is the right one, you will want to examine the pros and cons of each.

The biggest pro or plus side to writing articles for yourself is the freedom to choose your own topics.  This means that you could write about a topic you already know about or a topic that you are passionate about.  For example, do you homeschool your children?  If you do, you may enjoy and prefer writing articles on the subject of homeschooling, and so forth.

Next, is the fact that you can do what you want with your own articles.  When you write for someone else, you normally give up rights to your work.  This means that you cannot use those articles again.  This isn’t the case when you right for yourself.  You can do what you want with your articles and use them as many times as you want, and just about anyway that you see fit.

Another pro or plus side to writing articles for money for yourself versus a client is the ways you can make money.  In fact, you may be surprised how many moneymaking opportunities there are for articles.  For starters, you can use your articles for newsletters, you can start your own content filled website that displays moneymaking advertisements, you can submit them to article directories, or you can even sell your articles outright (after you have already written them).

The only true con or downside to writing for yourself is that you may not get paid right away.  If you want to use your articles to create a website, which can make money through advertisements, you need to make sure that others see your website.  This involves article marketing.  However, as stated above you can submit your articles to article directories, which are considered important website and blog marketing tools.  

In keeping with internet marketing, it isn’t hard.  You need to do a little bit of research to learn a few helpful tips and tricks, but it is more than possible for you to market your own website.  After a close examination, you will see that not only can you submit articles to article directories with a link back to your website or blog, but you can also write keyword optimized articles.  When you do so, the search engines will find your website on their own.

As for writing for someone else, it too has its pros and cons.  Perhaps, the biggest pro or plus side to working with clients is that you are paid and often right away.  Most professional webmasters will pay their clients within 14 days.  There is no having to wait until your website or blog generates traffic to start making money.

One of the downsides to writing articles for clients, as opposed to for yourself, is that you are told what to write.  For some this is actually a benefit, as your client should describe in detail what they want and expect from you.  For many, this makes writing articles for money easier.

Finding clients to write for can be tricky, but you have numerous avenues to try.  Start with creating your own website.  List a few of your sample articles, outline the niches you specialize in, as well as your rates.  You can also actively search online bidding websites and job boards.  

So which approach should you take?  It all depends on your personal preferences.  With that said, you may want to give both options a try.  Divide your time between writing for your clients and for yourself.  Overtime, you may find yourself earning the most money with articles. 

PPPPP

Word Count 655
