Title: 
Emergency File Recovery with Undelete Wizard

Word Count:
497

Summary:
Restore deleted files and recover deleted Word documents, Excel spreadsheets, PowerPoint presentations, email messages, ZIP and RAR archives, digital pictures and all other types of files with Undelete Wizard! Empty Recycle  Bin or no Recycle Bin are not an issue for Undelete Wizard to recover deleted files.


Keywords:
file recovery


Article Body:
Recovering deleted files has to be easy, and it is when you use Windows Recycle Bin. But what if you've emptied the Recycle Bin? Or even worse, what if the Recycle Bin has never been enabled on your system?

Undelete Wizard is the ultimate answer! Undelete Wizard by http://wizardrecovery.com recovers erased files, pictures and documents.

Wait a second. Aren't pictures and documents just different kinds of files? They definitely are, but here goes the best part: Undelete Wizard recognizes your values and priorities, and implements a set of special algorithms to locate the deleted Office documents, digital pictures and ZIP and RAR archives on the surface of your hard disk even if all traces of them are gone long ago!

Restore deleted files and recover deleted Word documents, Excel spreadsheets, PowerPoint presentations, email messages, ZIP and RAR archives, digital pictures and all other types of files with Undelete Wizard! Empty Recycle Bin or no Recycle Bin are not an issue for Undelete Wizard to recover deleted files. The deleted file recovery wizard thoroughly investigates the file system in order to locate the recently deleted files, and scans the entire surface of a disk that contains the deleted files. The unique pattern-matching technology identifies the beginning and end of documents, images and archives by performing the same type of signature analysis as implemented in anti-virus products.

The pattern-matching technology for file recovery can often recover files, pictures, archives and documents that were erased ages ago. But what would you do if the recovered file is corrupted? The deleted files on a hard disk are essentially free space that can be claimed by any program to write a new file over it. Quite often only a few blocks of original data are overwritten, and the rest remains intact on the disk. You wouldn't be able to view a picture with a missing block or two. Microsoft Word would not open a corrupted document. But even then you are not left without options! Undelete Wizard recovers corrupted documents and digital pictures so that you can still open them with no problem.

Undelete Wizard implements a number of advanced file recovery algorithms, yet using them is extremely simple. What you get is a straightforward step-by-step file recovery wizard that guides you through the file recovery process by asking simple questions like "What disk were your files on?" or "Do you remember the exact location of the deleted file?"

By integrating sophisticated technology with ease of use, Undelete Wizard is a sure bet on the crowded deleted file recovery market. To convince you to try this product, rest assured that it stands to its promises: thanks to the built-in live preview feature, Undelete Wizard displays you the contents of the deleted document, archive or digital image before you pay for a license. If you can see a preview, you'll be able to recover that file for sure! Don't wait! Get your evaluation copy for absolutely free from http://wizardrecovery.com/


