Title: 
HDD Recovery Pro - Partition Recovery Software v.2.4.8 New Version Release

Word Count:
414

Summary:
Completely recover files and data from damaged hard drives with HDD Recovery Pro


Keywords:
undelete,data recovery,windows,flash,deleted,photo,disk,files,


Article Body:
HDD Recovery Pro - Partition Recovery Software v.2.4.8 New Version Release

Recent Changes:
1) Preview deleted files BEFORE BUY
2) Support NTFS, NTFS5, NTFS+EFS, FAT16, FAT32, VFAT file systems.
3) Supports Windows 95 / 98 / ME / NT / 2000 / XP / Server 2003/ Vista Operating Systems
4) Easy NTFS and FAT Partitions Recovery Wizard

Info Page:http://the-undelete.com/windows_partition_recovery.php
Download Url:http://the-undelete.com/hdd_recovery_pro_setup.exeOrder Page:http://the-undelete.com/purchase.php

Completely recover files and data from damaged hard drives with HDD Recovery Pro.If you have lost information due to a hard drive failure, you may still be able to recover all your files and documents without knowing anything about file systems, partitions, FAT or NTFS volumes.

There are services out there that will take your hard drive and guarantee data recovery. But did you consider the drawbacks? If you have sensitive information on the corrupted hard drive, such information will fall in hands of a third party. It takes time to mail the hard disk and get your data mailed back to you.

 Finally, these services may cost you an arm and a leg depending on the complexity of the data recovery job.You can do yourself exactly what these services do to recover lost data from your damaged hard drive. HDD Recovery Pro automates entire process of data recovery after your hard drive fails, or if you accidentally format it, or even if you simply delete a file or a folder.

Accidentally formatted a hard drive? No problem! HDD Recovery Pro will look for formatted partitions, scan and re-create their file structure, and let you choose files you want to salvage.Even if your disk is completely inaccessible after a crash, HDD Recovery Pro scans your hard drive for damaged partitions to find and correct corrupted or damaged partition tables.

 You don’t have to be a computer technician or know anything at all about FAT or NTFS structures. HDD Recovery Pro does its job completely automatically, re-creating all necessary file system and directory structures. All you have to do is select files and folder you want to restore from a simple dialog box, and HDD Recovery Pro will do the rest.

HDD Recovery Pro recovers lost data in most common hard drive failures, including damaged or corrupted drives, inaccessible disks, damaged or corrupted partition tables and file systems. It restores deleted files and recovers data from formatted hdd, flash cards and cameras.

HDD Recovery is available at www.the-undelete.com for free evaluation.


