Title: 
Modern Data Recovery: a New Solution to the Old Problem

Word Count:
429

Summary:
Don’t risk your valuable data! Get familiar with modern data recovery tools and download The Undelete now


Keywords:
data recovery, undelete, file recovery, fix corrupted data, data corruption, corrupt partition


Article Body:
The interest to <a href="http://the-undelete.com">data recovery software</a> grows steadily during the recent years. Important documents are used and stored electronically by home users and for commercial purposes thanks to the latest paperless workflow legislations. Electronic office documents have become an essential part of everyday life.

Files and documents may be lost because of various reasons. Formatted hard drives, crashed partitions, accidental deletions and even Windows failures can cause immediate data loss. Without a proper recovery tool for your documents and files, this insecurity can become a pain for a home user and a huge money loss for corporations. 

However, there are no reasons to panic. The Undelete Company offers a full line of data recovery products that implement powerful algorithms and methods to recover your lost, deleted and corrupted files and documents quickly and effectively. Organizations and end users can continue using information they thought was lost forever! 

<a href="http://the-undelete.com">The Undelete</a> recovers deleted and lost files, as well as files deleted from Windows Recycle Bin completely automatically. It also recovers files lost due to virus attacks, power supply failures, or software failures. The Undelete supports the recovery of all types of files and documents, including advanced search and recovery options for email and office documents such as DOC, RTF, PDF, XLS, PPT, MDB, Visio, HTML, CSV, TXT, PAS, CPP, EML, INI. Audio and video files are also supported, including MP3, AVI, WAV, WMA, MOV, MPG, ASF. Your digital pictures and image files can be previewed before undelete, including JPEG, JPG, BMP, GIF, TIF, PNG, TGA, EML, and camera RAW files. 

Accidentally formatted a flash card from your digital camera? No problem! The Undelete recovers data from many types of removable data storage devices, including Secure Digital SD cards, Compact Flash, SmartMedia, SONY Memory Stick, ZIP drives, as well as USB flash sticks and external hard drives.

The Undelete recovers data from hard drives formatted with following file systems: FAT12, FAT16, FAT32, NTFS, NTFS5, and NTFS+EFS. 

The product is compatible with all 32-bit Windows, including Windows 95, Windows 98, Windows ME, Windows NT, Windows 2000, Windows 2003 Server, Windows XP and Windows Vista.

A unique data recovery technology targeted specifically to FAT32 used in Windows NT, 2000, XP, and 2003 Server systems allows The Undelete to significantly increase the efficiency and speed of recovery. The Undelete supports huge modern hard drives that are over 200 GB in size.

Don’t risk your valuable data! Get familiar with modern data recovery tools and download <a href="http://the-undelete.com/undelete.php">The Undelete</a>The Undelete now


