Title: 
Retrieve irreplaceable DVD video off 8cm discs

Word Count:
396

Summary:
CDRoller retrieves the lost videos taken by dvd camcorders on 8cm discs. Burns a new discs with recovered video.


Keywords:
retrieve,dvd-video,video recovery,dvd camcorder,recover,missing video,8cm disc,dvd player,mini dvd,missing footage,mpeg file,dvd-r,dvd+r,dvd-rw,dvd+rw,dvd-ram


Article Body:
Did you just put a perfectly fine looking 8cm disc into your DVD camcorder, only to find that your camera does not see any video on it? Did your DVD camcorder inexplicably generate a "disc is unrecordable" error message one day? 

CDRoller by Digital Atlantic Corp. ( http://www.cdroller.com ) will read the unreadable mini dvd, and gain access to inaccessible video data.

You accidently dropped your camera and had lost a precious footage of your child's birthday. The mini dvd looked like a blank in any computer or dvd player that you tried it in.

CDRoller does not use standard methods to access the troubled dvd media. Instead, it accesses discs directly, searching for the lost video data. Even if your DVD looks like a blank one, CDRoller may still be able to find the missing footages and convert them into standard MPEG files that are ready to play back with Windows Media Player.

Sometimes, you can not complete a disc finalization due to a low charge of battery in your camcorder. You attempt to replay unfinalized disc in DVD player, but mini DVD would not be recognized let alone, play. If you try to read such disc in your computer, you most likely won't get anything. Your PC may even freeze for a moment trying to access the disc data. You face the prospect of losing a whole DVD of priceless family video, including the last Christmas, a wedding or a trip to another country.

Fortunately, CDRoller retrieves a video files on the DVDs that were not properly finalized by Hitachi, Panasonic, Sony, Samsung, Canon and other DVD camcorders. The program supports a wide set of 8cm discs, including DVD-R, DVD+R, DVD-RW, DVD+RW and DVD-RAM media types.

But what if you still want to make a new disc with recovered movies?

CDRoller not only finds and recovers the lost video on the mini DVDs, but it also makes a new discs that can be played back in the most DVD players. The program comes with built-in DVD-video burner, allowing you to watch the recovered movies on standalone DVD players.

CDRoller is available as a free evaluation download. Get your copy now at http://www.cdroller.com/htm/download.html, or read what others have to say on how it saved their important data by visiting http://www.cdroller.com/htm/success.html


