Why Make Your Own Skateboarding Video?

Skateboard pro shops around the world are replete with skateboarding videos of famous skateboard champions. These videos are the best means of passing the knowledge about techniques and tricks in the sport. Oftentimes in the form of a series and sometimes collaboration between two or more skateboarding masters, a skateboarding video is a fountain of hope for new skateboard hobbyists to become skillful thrashers themselves.

As a compilation or a team-up between respected skateboard artists, a skateboarding video provides lessons and advice that can not be drawn from reading ordinary how-to books.  Skateboarding videos work far more effective than books as instructional materials because the former can be easily comprehended by showing the moves and tricks as they are being played over and over again. Anyone who is interested in skateboarding can quickly learn tricks, from basic to daredevil moves, by simply watching the videos. 

Through the convenience of skateboarding videos, fundamental and advanced tricks can be broken up and analyzed into easier sub-steps and sub-techniques. Truly, a skateboarding video is indispensable for your dream of becoming an ace skateboarder; without you going thru years of learning by trial and error!

But skateboarding videos are not just for masters and professionals. Anybody who has a fresh and extraordinary skateboard move can share to the world such ability by making a personal skateboarding video. If you have your very own skateboarding video, the chances that skateboarding enthusiasts will recognize you will be higher; and when this happens, it might not be long for skateboarding companies to bankroll and promote your feats. A quality skateboarding video will be your stepping stone as you go up the world of skateboarding.

If you want other people and big companies sponsoring skateboarding as a sport to notice your talents as a thrasher, you can try making skateboarding videos for yourself. Making skateboarding videos can be easy, especially if you have the determination and the right equipment. Always keep in mind that your video must be satisfactorily or excellently made. Who knows, the video you make may be your ticket to skateboarding stardom! 

To create your very own skateboarding video, you have to ask help from a friend to work the video camera and do the filming. It is plain impossible for you to handle the video camera as you do your stuff. A fellow thrasher, if possible, would be great as cameraman as he will know all the important moves and angles that needed to be included in the video.

Now that you have your cameraman, you need to consider the location for your skateboarding video. A good skateboarding video is shot in a variety of locations. From sidewalks to skateboarding ramps, an assortment of settings for different scenes in your skateboarding video will surely keep viewers hooked on it.

Above all, do not forget to perform amazing tricks for your video. Potential sponsors and ordinary viewers of skateboarding videos want attention–grabbing and uniquely amusing stunts on the deck of your skateboard. Therefore, your video should showcase your skateboarding skills. 

Remember to keep your skateboarding video concise. Summarize it in such a way that only the greatest parts are shown. Edit out the scenes where you fell to the ground face first or the part where you broke your ankles; unless you are trying to be the world's most daring skateboarding clown. Even so, make sure that your video is still full of cool and dazzling skateboard moves to keep your viewers interested.

