Choosing the Right Skateboarding Shoes for a Great and Safe Skateboard Experience

Skateboarding is one of the most popular pastimes in America. Several decades have already passed and it seems that this activity, which was just once a fad, will never lose its popularity. While skateboarding is indeed fun and exciting, it is not devoid of hazards as any pursuit that involves wheels. Special precautions must be made when riding the skateboard and one of the most important things to do is to wear an appropriate pair of skateboarding shoes. 

Skateboarding seems to be a very uncomplicated pastime because practically one just needs a skateboard and a paved surface to go about it. For safety, skateboarders are required to wear helmets, knee pads, and elbow pads. But that is not actually enough because one also has to protect a very important part of the body used in skateboarding – the feet. This is where skateboarding shoes come into the picture. 

Usually, people would think that any sport shoes would do for skateboarding. However, this is not true. While regular sneakers may seem to work, they might not be able to provide the right protection and maneuverability that skateboarding shoes can offer. And it is not enough to just get the next pair of skateboarding shoes you see off the rack. You have to be careful about buying new skateboarding shoes. 

When buying skateboarding shoes you have to look at four important things: the ability of the shoes to give protection, the shoelaces, comfort, and grip. 

Protection Features - The most essential role of skateboarding shoes is protecting the skateboarder. Being protective, the shoes simply have to be durable and flexible enough to withstand the rigors of skateboarding. Good skateboarding shoes should have Ollie protection to allow the rider to do those backbreaking tricks. Moreover an excellent pair of skateboarding shoes should have great coverage of Ollie protection, preferably the a large bulk of the toe area, if not the whole area entirely and nothing less. 

Shoelaces – skateboarding shoes need special laces that do not easily fall apart especially when subjected to pressure. Normal shoelaces would easily rip off after just a few hours of skateboarding, especially for advanced skateboarders. Thus skateboarding shoes should have laces made of more durable materials than other kinds of shoes. Also, it is also better if the skateboarding shoes have laces that are arranged inside to avoid any accidental tripping due to lose laces. 

Comfort – just like any kind of shoes, skateboarding shoes should be comfortable for the wearer, otherwise, it will be difficult to be wearing them for long periods. Uncomfortable shoes may cause sores or blisters when worn during skateboarding for over two hours. Uncomfortable shoes may also make it difficult, if not impossible to do certain tricks during skateboarding. 

Grip – last, but not the last, skateboarding shoes should be able to have strong grip on the surface of the skateboard. Shoes that do not have enough gripping power might cause the rider to slip off the board accidentally. The soles should be made of materials with good gripping capacity. Experts recommend skateboarding shoes with soles that are made of gum. 

Skateboarding shoes are indispensable in skateboarding. They provide protection, security, comfort and grip during the most difficult rides. It is important to pay much attention when buying skateboarding shoes in order to get the right one. 
 

