Do You Know Your Skateboarding Trick?

Skateboarding is one of the many sports that involve displays of skill and expertise. It is essential to know a skateboarding trick or another to be considered a real skateboarder. Many skateboarding tricks have been developed through all the time people have been skateboarding. Here are just some of the most popular tricks:

1. Aerials – also known as airs, these general kinds of tricks are typically done on quarter pipes, pools or half pipes where vertical walls with transitions are available. Aerials are usually combined with other tricks such as grabs and rotations. Among the most popular subtypes of aerials would be the 540, 720, 900, Benihana, Body Jar, Caballerial, Christ Air, Finger Flip air, Gay Twist, Gnar Jar, Judo Air, Lien Air, Madonna, McTwist, Samba Flip, Sean Penn, Sloth Air, Stalefish, Rocket Air, and Method Air. 

2. Ollie – this is known as the father of skateboarding tricks because most tricks are derived from this. Invented by and named after Alan “Ollie” Gelfand, this trick involves getting on air without grabbing the skateboard but instead by stomping or popping the posterior end of the board. Variations of the Ollie involve the Nollie, switch Ollie, Fakie Ollie, Power Ollie, Boned Ollie, Ollie North, and Pressure. 

3. The Flip – as its name suggests, the flip is a skateboarding trick that involves the flipping or spinning of the board in the air. This trick was originally developed by Rodney Mullen, who then called it the Magic Flip. Among the most popular variations of the flip are the heelflip, kickflip, Casper Flip, Anti-Casper Flip, Backside Flip, Big Spin, Cab Flip, Disco Kickflip, Ghetto Bird, Hardflip, Hospital Flip, Impossible, Late Flip, Mother Flip, Pop Shove-it, Sal Flip, Salabanzi, Sex Change and the Scissor Flip. 

4. The Grab – as these tricks are named, grabs involve holding the skateboard, usually during aerials. Grabs are quite useful in keeping the skateboarder on the board during in mid-flight. Examples of grabs are the Airwalk grab, Backside grab, cannonball grab, Crail grab, Christ Air, Early grab, Frontside grab, Gorilla grab, Indy grab, Japan grab, Melon grab, Mosquito grab, Nose grab, Roast Beef, Seatbelt grab, Tail grab and the Tucknee. 

5. The Grind – this is a kind of trick where a skateboarder would hide on hangers of the skateboard truck. This trick can be done on any smooth object where the truck can slide. Some of the variations of the grind are the Barley grind, Crooked grind, Darkslide, Fandangle, Freeble grind, Gurl grind, Hurricane, Losi grind, Nosegrind, Novacaine, Overcrook grind, Pole Jam, Salad grind, Smith grind, Sugarcane, Suski grind, Willy Grind, and Csmit grind. 

6. The Slide – sliding is somewhat like the grind, but instead of gliding through the trick, this involves gliding using the board itself. Some important slides are the Bertlemann slide, Bluntslide, Boardslide, Booger slide, Crail slide, Ces slide, Darkslide, Lipslide, Noselide, Powerslide, and the Tailslide. 

7. Lip Tricks – this skateboarding trick is done on mini ramps, quarterpipes, and half pipes. They are called so because they need to balance on ramp lips. Notable lip tricks are the Andrecht Invert, Axle stall, Blunt, Disaster, Egg Plant, Fakie-Bonk-off, Frontside Invert, Good Buddy, Ho-Ho, New Deal, Nose pick, Nose stall, Pivot, Pogo, Rock and Roll, Smithvert, Tail Stall, Staple Gun, Stelmasky Plant, Sweeper, Tail Block, Tucknee Invert, and the Woolly Mammoth. 

There are many other skateboarding tricks out there, and many others are still being developed. To now more about skateboarding tricks, you can read the leading skateboarding magazines or ask a skateboarding expert. 

