The Time-Efficient Guide to Buying Snowboarding Gear

If you’re eager to hit the slopes as soon as possible and finally learn how to snowboard like a pro but still lack the essential snowboarding gear and equipment to get started on your hobby, here’s a quick shopping list so you can purchase everything you need from the shop in the shortest time possible!

A List of Snowboarding Gear and Equipment for Beginners

Snowboard – Let’s start with the most obvious requirement in snowboard gear. Your choice of snowboard will determine the quality of performance you’ll expect from yourself and from the snowboard itself. Your choice will also determine the level of agility and speed you’ll enjoy when you’re snowboarding.

There are three primary types of snowboards. Freestyle snowboards are short and most suitable for novice snowboarders such as yourself not only because of their size but for its flexibility as well. You’ll be able to control freestyle snowboards more easily than other types of boards.

The second type is known as freeride snowboards. These are best for snowboarders who are one or a few levels beyond the novice stage but can in no way refer to themselves as experts…for the time being. Freeride snowboards, incidentally, are arguably the most popular type of snowboard as it allows people to gauge their snowboarding skills and explore their talents without putting themselves in too much danger.

The last type is called alpine snowboards. Whereas freestyle snowboards are known for its flexibility, alpine snowboards are known for its rigid build. They are great for players with highly advanced snowboarding skills and enjoy the thrills of going downhill in incredible speed. This is also the right type of board to use if you wish to make perfect turns and curves.

Snowboard Bindings – Although they may appear flimsy and useless, snowboard bindings in fact play a significant role in keeping snowboarders safe while practicing their favorite sport. There are several types of snowboard bindings for you to choose from: strapped, flow-ins, plated, step-ins, and those without base (baseless).

Snowboarding Boots – Another equally overlooked factor when it comes to increasing the level of safety and protection that a snowboarder enjoys while he’s making all sorts of turns and jumps in the slopes are snowboarding boots. Besides offering comfort and warmth to your feet, they also prevent this area – which includes the ankles – from physical injury, or at least reduce the risk of encountering it. Again, there are several types of snowboarding boots that you can choose from – hard boots, soft boots, and those that mix the features of both. When purchasing snowboarding boots, make sure that you purchase those which are durable and you feel comfortable wearing for long periods of time.

Snowboarding Outfit – Just like boots, the right snowboarding outfit will keep you safe and secure from physical harm. It will also keep you warm and lessen the risks of getting affected by hypothermia or frostbite. When shopping for snowboarding apparel, important factors to consider are comfort, quality, and durability or protection against all the natural elements that it will be sure to be exposed to!

Snowboarding Goggles – Lastly, contrary to popular belief, snowboarding goggles are not used for aesthetic purposes only. Rather, they are worn by snowboarders to improve their sense of sight. It’s important to see very clearly where you’re going because there are a lot of dangers that you’ll encounter when you’re snowboarding.
