Capture the Perfect Snowboarding Moment Using These Tips 	

Another growing aspect of snowboarding is photography. Yes! Snowboarding pictures are part of the sport’s culture. Taking snowboard riders at their best form has created a great interest for photographers. Now if you are newly venturing into this quest, there are three things that you should consider.

Extreme Weather Condition

You should know how to handle your camera in cold conditions. The primary problem that you will encounter with your camera is cold temperature. Batteries most often do not work in very cold conditions. It may also affect the camera's shutter and your film. 

To keep your camera and batteries warm when dealing with cold weather, keep them inside the parka and close to your body. Take them out only when you are prepared to shoot. However, it will be a problem if you have a huge camera. But if you are only taking pictures for souvenir, then a smaller camera will do. Meanwhile, if you are taking professional pictures, then get the best camera you can afford and try to keep it as warm as you can.   

Timing and Sharp Focus

When taking a snowboarding picture, you want to capture the agility of the rider and the illusion of speed. To capture that moment, you need great timing and very sharp focus. You have to get yourself in the right position and be in the right location to have a clear visual of the subject and to have a good chance of photographing the moment. However, it will still be very difficult to take a shot without coordinating with the snowboarder. So instead of waiting for the right time, plan the right time.

Have an agreement with the snowboarder about simple signals, location, and the time you will need to set up for the winning shot. Once you have this arranged, agree on what kind of poses you are looking for. It is important to communicate to the subject what you want to capture on film. Before choosing a location, try to survey whether there is enough room for you to move and cover. Meanwhile, when giving signals, it is better to use verbal signs but if that is not possible try to have clear non-verbal signals that both you and the snowboarder will understand.    

Pay also special attention on your camera. You have to be adept in using your camera to avoid losing a split second chance of shooting a great snowboarding photo. Run a few shots to check if everything is working. Most importantly check the film. You don't want to put all your efforts in vain when you find out that your film has been exposed or you simply forgot to bring enough of them.    

Film Exposure

Another terrible problem that you might encounter when taking pictures is film exposure. Most often than not, your camera is dealing with too much light. The snow is bright. The sky is bright. Both these elements appear nicely on your film but when you take a picture of your subject, he becomes a dark silhouette. To remedy this problem, you can use a light filter to control the light of the background as well as the subject. This will place light on where you want it to be. You should also you fill flash, this way you will avoid having dark silhouettes on your subject. 

You may also encounter having bluish colored pictures especially when you are in a high altitude and surrounded with snow. A good solution to these problems is using a UV filter. It will lessen the blue light. This is very useful when you are taking snowboarding pictures at higher altitudes.

Considering these factors will help you come up with great snowboarding photos. Treat your camera as an extension of yourself by protecting it from cold, so that like your body it can function well. Plan the things that you need to do to capture the moment that you want. Lastly, invest on your camera. Add devices that will help you immortalize the perfect moment on your film. 
