How To Express Your Creativity Through Cake Decorating

Cake decorating cam be a wonderful hobby and is a great way to express your creativity. Cake decorating is a lot of fun and very rewarding, if you feel you like it well enough you can turn it into a full time profession. 

Cake decorating does take a measure of artistic skill. Anyone can master cake making with guidance and tutoring, along with fresh, new ideas and decorating tips. Cake decorating as an art form, will help you expand your imagination and your skills. This will make you proud and the recipient of your work ecstatic.

The are of cake decorating is rewarding to both the client and the decorator of the cake. There may be a level of stress when you are on a deadline but the end result is worth the trouble. When you are able to take your time and decorate cakes in peace, you will find the entire process very enjoyable. One way to cut stress in any situation, is to keep your mind on the design itself, and not let negative thoughts get in the way of your creativity.

When you begin Cake decorating, start off with simple designs and decorations. You can even start with cupcakes and cookies. You can also use stencils and edible marker kits. A stencil will allow you to dust your cupcakes with cocoa powder or powdered sugar over the top and make a wonderful, yet simple design. 

You can use buttercream, royal icing, or fondant to create your cake decorating project. You can start by topping your cakes with icing and adding icing flowers, fruit or candy. You can also make cakes that look like other foods. Hotdogs, hamburgers, pizza, and even cakes that look like fruit. You can do this by using a molded cake pan, or cutting the cake and piecing it together. You can also create character cake decorations. Make sure your cake is moist and not crumbly so it will stay together better when cut.

You need to eliminate crumbs in your cake icing, and create a smooth finish to create a beautiful cake decorating project. Icing the cake to a smooth, fine finish is considered to be one of the most important parts of cake decorating and should be fine tuned as your skills develop.

The use of fondant icing will add an air of elegance to your cake decorating. Fondant can be rolled out and draped over a cake with care. It can also be modeled into shapes and characters. It is available in vanilla (white) and chocolate and the white can be colored. Fondant may be a bit more difficult to work with, but it is most beautiful when the finished product is unveiled.

When cake decorating, learn the basics and pick up other cake decorating tips as you go along. Use the internet and cake decorating books to learn all of the tips and tricks you can. You can turn any topic or desire into a cake decoration, just use your imagination.
