The Cake Decorating Business

Most people don't think of going into business when they start cake decorating. Usually it is a hobby or because they want to make wonderful cakes for family events. Most people start a home cake decorating business because when they made these great cakes for family occasions, and those who saw the cake wanted them to make cakes for their special occasions.

There is also the appeal of working at home, you have the freedom to work when you want, as long as you get the cake to the customer on time. Many of these artistic cake decorators have children at home and want to stay at home with them, and be able to make a living too.

Maybe you have been thinking of starting a cake decorating business in your home. Think about why you would like to start a cake decorating business. If you have a good business plan and are good at time management, this can be a lucrative business. Even though your main reason to start a home business is to stay at home with the kids, or to save cash on a daily commute. Your main reason for wanting to start a cake decorating business at home should be that you are getting so many cake orders that it is taking a lot of your time and you feel you can go into business and make a go of it.

The cake decorating business can be fun, but it is also a lot of work, and you will need to have enough money to get your business off the ground. There are certain items you will need to start. You will need a few icing tips (the ones you use most often), a heavy duty mixer, mixing bowls, food coloring, spatulas, the right cake pans, enough room to work without being cramped, and an oven. The cake decorating business is time consuming, but it is very rewarding and enjoyable. 

You will need to remember that family and friends are customers, and you will need to charge them for the cakes they want you to make. You have expenses and it will cost you to make a cake and you are in the business to make money. You may want to give them a discount, but you will definitely need to charge them for your time and the money you put into making the cake. You will need to check nearby bakeries and stores to find out what they charge for cake decorating.

Don't put your prices lower than the bakeries, try to charge around the same price and let your talent show the quality of your cakes. You will never be able to charge for your time, after all is said and done, you will probably be making about $1.00 an hour. That is why you charge by the cake. Although, the more cakes you make, the faster you will become, and you will be making a bit more for your time.

While bakeries make good cakes, you can make cakes that taste as good or better. You can also offer different options such as, a variety of cake flavors, a willingness to offer unique decorating options, and discounts or specials from time to time. At first, it is a good idea to charge around the same as the bakeries, when you become more experienced you can evaluate your prices. Once you become more popular and have made a name for yourself, you can charge more.

The advantages of operating a legal cake decorating business from your home are:

1. You can work when you want and take a break when you need one.

2. You won't have the overhead expenses that you would if you opened a shop.

3. You can be home to care for your family.

4. You will be able to make appointments to see customers. They would not be able to drop in unannounced. 

5. You can set your own hours and even work in the middle of the night if you choose.

You need to be an organized, disciplined person, and have a bit of business sense. 

While it would be great if the business was all fun, it does require a commitment. The question is, will your family go along with the long hours you will need to put in? You will need the support of your family if you are going to make the cake decorating business succeed. Some areas to consider are:

1. Weekends are usually tied up with baking cakes, as most events are held on the weekend. Will your family be understanding when you need to work every weekend? You will need to plan your cake decorating in advance and keep good records.

2. You are going to need extra storage for all of the equipment you need for your business.

3. You may find expenses for special equipment and classes to improve your art, can run a bit high.

4. You may need a separate kitchen to use for your business because of health requirements for the state.
