A Different Kind of Worm Farm

Worm farms are in effect in different states all over the United States.  Because of the interest in recycling and the eco-system, these farms make sense.  Landfills get less bagged waste, crops are improved, other animals are fed a natural food, and the worms provide natural bait for fishing.  

Worm farms can provide many things besides worms.  Worm gifts, worm candy, worm flour, worm breads, worm cookies, books, dvds, cute worm songs on cds, worm-related toys, fertilizer teas, compost, potting soil, cupped fishing bait, and hands-on activities for youngsters are some ideas.

Worm farming is technically known as vermiculture.  It can be a lucrative business, but it is not a way to make a lot of money quickly.  It takes patience, education, money, space, and marketing skills. You can't just toss a handful of worms in your yard and expect them to go to work and make you rich!

If you want a different kind of worm farm, you first would want to research the other worm farms that are in the market.  If you make your worm farm unique and fun, you'll draw families.  Families spend money on souvenir type items and knick knacks as memoirs of their adventures.  Kids like games.  Maybe you could create some playground equipment for your little visitors with designs that are based on worms.  Demonstrations can make your worm farm different.  

You can make your worm bins decorative as well to help maintain public interest.  People like "eye candy".  Things that are brightly colored and designed catch the eye.  A person dressed in a worm suit to chat with the children would be a fun addition to make your worm farm different.  A small worm farm museum would be interesting for school groups to visit, which would increase public interest and make your worm farm different.

You might want to figure out how to have a worm festival on your worm farm.  Provided you have enough room for parking and someone to direct traffic, this could provide advertisement and fun for you and for your visitors.  Worm contests such as who can eat the most worm cookies or design the best worm poster, the most creative worm art made with playdoh, or races in worm shaped cars are some ideas.

Educational benefits exist as well.  Your worm farm can be used as a way to enlighten the public on how important the worm is to our natural environment.  It can teach people about other worms besides the earthworm and the worms that cause harm.

If you want a different kind of worm farm, it takes a good imagination and some ingenuity.  Creating interest and a public need is a good way to succeed.  It also means you'll have to stay "on-your-toes" to maintain that interest.  Of course, it means more of an investment, too.  But in the business world, it takes money to make money. You just have to "worm" your way into the public eye and get noticed!
