Advertising Your Worm Farm

Advertising can be the most expensive part of many small businesses.  But without the proper advertisement, your business will struggle.  Although word of mouth is and will continue to be one of the best sources of advertising for a worm farm or any business or service, you must consider other options as well.

Air time for radio stations can be expensive, as can newspaper or magazine advertisements.  You may be limited in how often you can invest in either one.  Start-up costs can be demanding in any business.

The sign for your worm farm business should be colorful, easy to read, informative, large enough to readily notice, and in the right place to be seen easily.  Although a plain, small sign can still work, it is the bigger and more attractive one that will draw more interest.  Think about it from the consumer viewpoint.  If you saw a small, plain, black and white sign on one side of the street, and a big, colorful, sign on the other side of the street.......which one would be more likely to snag your interest?  You want to be welcoming to the public with your advertisement.

Another means of advertising your worm farm is flyers or bulletins.  Many people will make up a huge stack of them and place them on every car they see until they run out.  But you want to get the most out of every cent you invest in your advertising.  So, before you run out and start shoving those flyers under windshield wipers, consider placement.  Is the mom shopping with her two year old child in the toy store as likely to buy your fishing worms or your fertilizer as the person shopping in the hardware store or sports store?  Grocery stores, Laundromats, your local Wal Mart, convenience stores, and even large construction businesses may be better places to distribute your flyers.  You could ask store owners about posting your flyers in their windows.  Try the local video stores, flower shops, and so on.  

You could consider holding a demonstration about the benefits of your worm farm at the local library.  They have story times and guests visit during the summer months to entertain the children.  These children have parents and grandparents who garden and fish and own reptiles or birds who might need worms.  Be sure to hand out color pages or bookmarks or something similar with a small bit of information for your business, including your phone number.

Magnetic signs that attach to the sides of vehicles have become more popular in advertising.  There are thrift newspapers that have lower cost advertising.  A booth at your local farmer's market or in the local flea market may help get your worm farm noticeable with the public.

Make sure you check out your tax laws and your business license requirements for your area.  Even if you have your worm farm at your house, you may be required to get a permit to sell your worms or the things you are able to produce because of your worms (like the tea, compost, fertilizers, etc.). 
