Tips for the New Worm Farming Adventure

There are many different types of worms that are both good for you and bad for you.  You must first know the difference before you choose which you invest in for your worm farming adventure.  Worms such as tapeworms, ringworms, and pin worms are not good investments for worm farming.  The types people raise to sell and use are those they can sell for fishing bait, food for birds and reptiles, or those used to help benefit the soil and their by-products.

Worms have no exoskeletons and are not created the same inside as humans and other animals.  A worm has one brain and five hearts.  Earthworms breathe in oxygen and breathe out carbon dioxide.  They can't control their own body temperatures and can't maintain a body temperature.  When they're in captivity, they must depend on you to help them survive in the right temperature.

Some people grow worm farms for their own personal adventure.  Kids use them for pets.  Gardeners encourage their growth to gain healthy crops or flower gardens.  They create excellent natural compost and fertilizers! Some people eat worms, although it isn't something that is a big hit in the United States.

Composting is encouraged to help the environment and to keep the waste down that is hauled to landfills daily.  Worm farming is one small way to help.  Small ways add up to big benefits when enough people join together in their efforts.  If you have complaints about the environment, if you've thrown away food scraps, newspapers, sticks and grass clippings or leaves, if you want to be involved in a positive way to help then worm farming may be just the right adventure for you to take!

Earthworms, red worms, catalpa worms, and grub worms all make good fishing worms.  If you want a variety of worms, though, you need to know that not all worms are raised the same.  Not all worms make good bin partners because of the different temperature requirements.

Not all vegetables or food scraps make good food for your worms either.  Strong foods like onion, garlic, and hot peppers are not as readily welcomed.  If the worms don't want to eat them, they'll eat everything else first.  That leaves a smell to your worm bin, which can ruin your new adventure really fast!  It's not like your own mom making you eat all your vegetables when you were little.  These are not children and shouldn't be tortured to endure foods they don't want.  If you feed an animal something that isn't good for it or that it doesn't like the taste of, it can starve itself to death and will just end up resenting you or trying to escape to get to the better food source.  Meat products are not a good idea for your worms either since they can contain diseases, poisons from the animal's system created by the medicines you must give your pet, and also a bad smell when decomposing.

Check out what the other worm farmers are doing.  Their prices, shipping methods, growing bins, advertisements may all come in handy for helping you plan your own adventure in worm farming.
