Worm Farming is Safe, Natural, and Healthy in Many Ways

Are you tired of seeing all that trash along the riverbanks and ponds because of the plastic lures the fishermen use?  Are you tired of the cost of potting soil, fertilizers, and compost?  Are you tired of the expensive pet foods that contain ingredients of uncertainty?  Are you tired of not knowing how to help our eco-system, our environment, our future?  It doesn't happen all at once; it takes the efforts of many people doing the right things and making the right lifestyle choices.  Then maybe you should give worm farming a try.  It's safe, natural, and healthy in many ways.

Worm farming can be done with earthworms, catalpa worms, meal worms, red worms, or grub worms.  You can try having more than one kind, but there are benefits to keeping them in separate containers.  One such benefit is being able to track the progress of each type.  One benefit is having them separated for the different reasons you would want to use them.  One reason for keeping them separated is to make sure you have the correct temperatures and the correct conditions for each type to thrive.

Earthworms, meal worms, and grub worms are edible.  Maybe you don't want to partake of this sort of exotic delicacy yourself.  It may just be a little too safe, natural, and healthy for your tastes!  But what if you could extend the life of your furry pets by adding the cooked worms to their dry food that you've made yourself?  Even animals that don't naturally eat worms can benefit from eating them in another form.

Worm farming is one of the less dangerous types of farming.  You don't have to have a big farm that takes lots of employees and expensive equipment to have a worm farm.  You can have your own little worm farm for your own personal benefits.  Encourage your kids to join in and use it in class for show-and-tell time.  It's a way of getting up close and personal with natural science.  Little gardeners can enjoy the benefits of this safe farming.  And if you are raising the edible worms, you won't have to worry if your tot does experiment by popping one in his or her mouth!

Although the catalpa worms are not one of the edible worms, they are still safe and natural to use as fish bait.  The catalpa trees are well-known along the rivers and swamps of the southern states in the United States.  Texas, Louisiana, and Florida residents enjoy the bait from these trees.  They can be established outside of their natural habitats with the proper knowledge and conditions.  They tolerate heat well, but need well-drained, moist, rich soil to do well.  They can grow to 90 feet and can provide shade and other benefits trees add to the natural balance of life.

If you live in east Texas, you are well-acquainted with the pest called the June bug.  You may not have known, however, that this pest comes from the grub worm.  Not the gardener's friend, but useful in other ways, this worm is one of the delicacies in other countries.  You just have to know your creepy-crawlers so you can help others learn more about what's safe, natural and healthy:  worm farms----spread the word!  
