Title: 
Celebrate The Season With A Great-Tasting Cup of Coffee

Word Count:
321

Summary:
Nothing complements breakfast or a homemade holiday treat like a freshly-brewed cup of coffee.


Keywords:
Celebrate The Season With A Great-Tasting Cup of Coffee


Article Body:
Nothing complements breakfast or a homemade holiday treat like a freshly-brewed cup of coffee. Thanks to single-serve brewers, a popular kitchen appliance, it's easier than ever to enjoy a quality cup of coffee in a minute without leaving the comfort of your home.

So what do coffee lovers like best about this latest in-home coffee brewing trend? A recent survey commissioned by Maxwell House Café Collection coffee pods revealed:

&#8226; Eighty-eight percent of single-serve brewer owners like that these machines make one cup of coffee in about 60 seconds. If friends and family are staying with you this holiday season, you may want to consider using a single-serve brewer to satisfy your household's coffee needs. The speed of these coffee brewers means that you can satisfy coffee cravings quickly. And with an assortment of coffee pods in the pantry, all of your houseguests can enjoy the coffee variety or flavor of their choice each morning.

&#8226; Over 90 percent of coffee drinkers appreciate that single-serve brewers don't require measuring coffee grinds or cleaning them up afterward. Ease of use and speed mean more time to tackle the tasks on your holiday to-do list-whether it's staying up late to make a meal or wrapping gifts in the pre-dawn hours.

&#8226; Sixty-five percent of single-serve brewer owners say that quality is a consideration when buying coffee pods. Found in the coffee aisle of your grocery store, Maxwell House Café Collection coffee pods are made with premium 100 percent Arabica beans that have been carefully selected, custom roasted and finely ground to deliver peak flavor and aroma. And because these pods fit into most single-serve brewers, there's no hassle with online or mail-in orders. Simply pick up a few bags of your favorite variety while doing your holiday grocery shopping.

So whether you want to streamline your morning routine or take a break from the holiday hustle and bustle, single-serve brewers and coffee pods make an ideal pairing this season.


