Title: 
Espresso or Cappucino - How to add some "oomph" into your cuppa!

Word Count:
536

Summary:
Adding that extra "ingredient" into your espresso or cuppucino provides that special punch to make your cuppa tastes heavenly. Peter Lim reveals two ingredients that you can add to your espresso or cuppucino to give it that wonderful extra called "oomph!", and to make every cuppa the most desirable beverage that makes you beg for more.


Keywords:
espresso cappucino maker, saeco coffee machine, add-on ingredient, chinese ginseng, latte, tongkat ali, power root, coffee lover


Article Body:
" Oomph is the intricate inner feeling of that touch of power, unexplained yet real, that comes with the drinking of coffee"

I had been a long term tea drinker, preferring tea to any other beverage for years, until one day, I had a new assistant. I was working as a dealer representative for stocks and shares at that time, and that means in a really stressful environment, being in the trading room all the time. So taking some time off to catch a cuppa and to be back to trading and watching the trading screens for the best prices was the perfect break anyone could hope for.

My new assistant was a young lady in her mid twenties, and it was interesting to see her prepare her drink.

No, she wasn't a tea drinker like me. Instead, she was a coffee fan, perhaps even an addict to coffee, you may say. On  her first day at work, she took out of her handbag three packs of instant coffee 3 in 1 - namely instant coffee, sugar and non-dairy creamer, and then proceeded to empty the three packs into one cup,adding hot water, making a strong coffee.  She wasn't through yet, because she also opened another pack of chocolate powder and sprinkled the chocolate powder on to her hot coffee, creating a tremendous aromatic smell that pervaded the trading room.

That was some "oomph" in her coffee.

After a period of three months, I found I was suddenly drinking coffee myself and wasn't a pure tea drinker anymore. It was a subtle conversion process, and soon I found I really need that coffee in the afternoon trading session. 

Now, looking back, I have learnt a lot of techniques to add more "oomph" to  my cup of coffee.

One way is to enhance the taste with some special add-on ingredients.

My most popular add-on ingredient is powdered ginseng. Ginseng is the traditional chinese herb which is a root, and american ginseng is preferred to korean or chinese ginseng. This herb makes one alert when taken, and is normally taken to strengthen one's immune system or body. You can get the ginseng powder from the Natural Herb Store or in the form of capsules that you can empty into a cuppa when you need the "oomph".

Be reminded that the ginseng root powder carries a somewhat bitter taste. So don't equate quantity with more "oomph". You just add sufficient to give you the enhanced aroma and the "oomph" you need.

Another way is to add the "tongkat ali" root powder, which may be slightly harder to obtain. This root is from an original plant in Malaysia and is a well researched herbal root with aphrodiasic features. The aborigines of the tropical jungles of Malaysia use this to enhance their "maniless" and this they prove by having big families. Commercially, you can get a bottle of this Tongkat Ali powder under the brand name "Power Root" throughout the world. Just add a small pinch and you will find the difference in your taste and feel the subsequent well-being.

Now you can have that extra edge and "oomph" when you next take your coffee, irregardless whether it is an espresso or a latte.


