Title: 
Guide To Bunn Coffee Makers

Word Count:
553

Summary:
Are you one of those people who can’t get moving in the morning without that morning cup of coffee? If you are, you aren’t alone. Homes across the country are home to Bunn coffee makers, espresso or cappuccino makers to get people up and ready to face the day. Bunn is one of the best known names in home coffee machines and has a solid reputation for quality.
 
Features of Coffee Makers
 
The company makes seven different machines, with features for every need. Models come...


Keywords:
espresso maker, bunn coffee makers, cappuccino, kitchen, cleaning,


Article Body:
Are you one of those people who can’t get moving in the morning without that morning cup of coffee? If you are, you aren’t alone. Homes across the country are home to Bunn coffee makers, espresso or cappuccino makers to get people up and ready to face the day. Bunn is one of the best known names in home coffee machines and has a solid reputation for quality.
 
Features of Coffee Makers
 
The company makes seven different machines, with features for every need. Models come in single servings all the way up to a ten-cup machine. The number of coffee drinkers in your house and the number of cups each drinks will help determine the size of the machine you need. You can choose other features for convenience.

Timers are a great feature to have in a coffee maker. You can get everything ready before you go to bed and wake to a deliciously brewed pot. Fill the machine with water and coffee grounds and set the timer for just a few minutes before your alarm clock will go off. The machine will do the rest.

The machines made by this company have a smaller footprint than other machines of the same size. This helps save space in your kitchen. They will fit either under your cabinets or in the corner of your kitchen counter, without taking up too much space in your cooking area. A variety of colors and styles are available to match your décor.
 
The History of Coffee Makers
 
Bunn has a long history as a pioneer in home coffee making. The company developed the first paper coffee filter. These were initially created for use in commercial machines and later for home use. They also developed the first pour over machine and the first automatic drip machine.

The cost of these machines is slightly higher than those made by other companies. You are paying for quality in this price difference. They are better quality and more durable than any other machine. The Bunn o Matic is the machine chosen most by restaurants and coffee houses. In the home market, this company also has the best reputation. 
 
NHB Bunn Coffee Makers
 
The company continues to improve their products with the new NHB machine. The NHB has a pour over system to brew a great cup and also makes hot water for tea or hot chocolate. The thermostat ensures the perfect temperature and the water distribution system helps the water flow evenly over the grounds. Other great features of this machine include:

The showerhead water dispersion system gently diffuses the water over the grounds. This helps extract the maximum flavour. 

The pour over heating system stays on and ready to brew. If you are going away for more than a few days, turn off the vacation switch in the back of the machine. 

The commercial thermostat maintains the perfect temperature. 

A descaling rod is included to clean out build up from the spray head. Directions are included to clean the machine properly. 

A ceramic warming plate keeps the drink at the perfect temperature. This is controlled with a switch. 

o The water reservoir funnels water into the broiling system, where the water is heated. 
o The machine comes with special filters, a user’s manual and the descaler tool.


