Title: 
Search For The Right Coffee Machine

Word Count:
602

Summary:
“Joe was on the department store one day in search for a coffee machine he will use at his kitchen. He scanned and looked around for several brands just to make sure he ended up with the perfect one. Few minutes later, he was on his way home. When he arrived, he set up his brand new coffee machine on the kitchen. In the first few days, the machine worked perfectly. But after some time, he discovered that it was not the right one for him. He wanted more and can’t have it with ...


Keywords:
coffee machines


Article Body:
“Joe was on the department store one day in search for a coffee machine he will use at his kitchen. He scanned and looked around for several brands just to make sure he ended up with the perfect one. Few minutes later, he was on his way home. When he arrived, he set up his brand new coffee machine on the kitchen. In the first few days, the machine worked perfectly. But after some time, he discovered that it was not the right one for him. He wanted more and can’t have it with his present coffee machine.” 

Most people experience this. They buy what they think are the mort attractive coffee machine on display but ending up disappointed because it seems that their choice is wrong. But it does not automatically exclude that fact that there are those who have somehow landed on the perfect coffee machine. It is just there are more and more people craving to have the perfect coffee machine without knowing what they really want. So in order to put everything in place, this article may help you or ever improve your chances in bringing home the right coffee machine by determining different kinds of coffee machine available. 

There are as many types of coffee machine makers as the types of coffee around the world and choosing the right one has to be perfect so as not to end up buying another set few days later. 

The most popular coffee machine must be the percolator. It might not be your expected electric coffee machines but this type makes great tasting coffee by boiling water with coffee beans several times. This is perfect if you are going to use mild coffees. 

For more flexible coffee mixture, the drip coffee machine might be right for you. There are two types of drip coffee machines: automatic and manual. Both use filters of nylon, paper, or gold. Temporary filters are also essential that is usually paper filters. The method of automatic drip is to pour cold water to the reservoir and place coffee on the filter. When the coffee machine reaches the right water temperature, it will pour to the coffee in the filter. 

The automatic drip also has a wide array of great designs from different coffee machine manufacturers with lots of features you can use. Manual drip on the other hand has the same principle with that of the automatic. 

The main difference is that the manual has greater flexibility that enables the owner to change, the taste of the coffee in the middle of the brewing. If in the automatic drip you cannot add more coffee once you close the lid, the manual gives you all the freedom to keep the right taste you want without worrying of spillover. 

One drawback from the drip coffee machine though is the after taste of the paper filter. 

Another type of coffee machine is the French press. All you have to do is the mix coffee beans and hot water and you can have a great tasting coffee in no time. If you don’t mind the temperature of the coffee, you can consider French press. 

Espresso coffee maker is another type of coffee maker you can have. There are two types of these: the stovetop and the electric. The stovetop is much cheaper than the electric with the same principle of making coffee. For some, this type of coffee machine makes the perfect cup of coffee. 

There are more coffee machines available but basically these types are widely used. It is up to you then to choose from these.


