Title: 
The Bunn Coffee Maker won't leave a bitter taste in your mouth.

Word Count:
489

Summary:
There are many different coffee makers available in the marketplace to choose from.  One of them is the Bunn Coffee maker.  The Bunn Coffee Maker is made by the Bunn-O-Matic Corporation.  The Bunn-O-Matic Corporation was founded in 1957 and they are credited with introducing the first paper coffee filter.  Over the years the company has evolved and started making commercial beverage equipment and, more recently, home coffee brewers.


Keywords:
bunn coffee maker, coffee, parts for bunn coffee maker, bunn coffee maker stores


Article Body:
There are many different coffee makers available in the marketplace to choose from.  One of them is the Bunn Coffee maker.  The Bunn Coffee Maker is made by the Bunn-O-Matic Corporation.  The Bunn-O-Matic Corporation was founded in 1957 and they are credited with introducing the first paper coffee filter.  Over the years the company has evolved and started making commercial beverage equipment and, more recently, home coffee brewers. There are seven different types of Bunn Coffee brewers available which include; My Café Brewer.  My Café Brewer brews one cup of coffee at a time.  The Bunn coffee makers take pride in brewing coffee at home that matches the standards of the expensive restaurant cups of coffee.  They have a stainless steel tank with an advanced spray head, which dissipates the water over the coffee, and a very effective hot water heater.  The coffee machines are either black or white with a stainless steel trunk which allows them to blend with any of the home décor styles.  The decanter on most of the machines can hold up to ten cups of perfectly brewed coffee.  Bunn also makes the BCG Grinder for pre-grinding your coffee beans.

The Bunn Advantage claims that Bunn Coffee makers brew coffee that is robust in flavor without the common bitterness encountered with some coffee machines.  Bunn Coffee makers do this by using a patented system that keeps the temperature at the ideal brewing temperature of 2000 Fahrenheit.  The coffee maker has a fast brew cycle which exposes the water to the ground coffee beans for the perfect length of time for a perfect coffee flavor.  The Bunn Coffee maker creates the right amount of turbulence via its spray head to suspend the ground coffee and extract it’s flavor uniformly for the perfect cup of coffee.

How to Use a Bunn Coffee Maker

Start with a good quality coffee that has been well stored.  The coffee maker requires one tablespoon of ground coffee for one brewed cup.  Use good clean odorless water preferably water that has been filtered.  If you need to keep your coffee for more than 30 minutes store it in a thermal carafe; it can hold its flavor here for up to 60 minutes.  Clean your decanter after every use, even the faintest trace of old coffee can taint your fresh pot.

Bunn Coffee maker replacement parts can easily be obtained from vendors and from the manufacturer.  Parts for the Bunn coffee maker are easily accessible.  On the companies website you can find access to customer service representatives who can answer your questions and help find the replacement part or accessory that you need.  Bunn coffee makers are available at many different locations.  You can purchase your coffee maker online at the different sites of the coffee makers distributors.  There are Bunn coffee makers and replacement parts available on the different auction sites online; this allows you to purchase your coffee maker at a discounted price.


