Title: 
What Are Coffee Pods?

Word Count:
380

Summary:
People drink coffee to stay awake and get more things done. But how can you get more things done if you’re waiting around for your coffee to brew. Oh sure you can go buy a cup of coffee but at some point you going to want a cup at home. With a coffee pod maker you’re only 30 seconds away from an excellent cup of coffee. 

Senseo was one of the first coffee pod makers available. And having sold more than 10 million units in four years Senseo is definitely here to stay. A cof...


Keywords:
coffee, coffee pod, senseo


Article Body:
People drink coffee to stay awake and get more things done. But how can you get more things done if you’re waiting around for your coffee to brew. Oh sure you can go buy a cup of coffee but at some point you going to want a cup at home. With a coffee pod maker you’re only 30 seconds away from an excellent cup of coffee. 

Senseo was one of the first coffee pod makers available. And having sold more than 10 million units in four years Senseo is definitely here to stay. A coffee pod looks just like a round tea bag. It works like this. You fill the coffee maker with water, place a coffee pod in the receptacle, hit the button and thirty seconds later you have a great cup of coffee. A patented method that uses a special spray head and mild pressure to balance the ratio of coffee to water while brewing creates a rich frothy cup of coffee. 

If you’re looking for great tasting coffee that’s convenient and time saving then try pod coffee. Coffee pods are available in different brew strengths including dark roast, medium roast and mild roast. You can usually buy a package of 72 coffee pods for less than twenty dollars. Since you can also buy a 33 oz can of coffee grinds for about five to 10 dollars at the supermarket, coffee pods are not for budget minded coffee drinkers. That large can will definitely contain a lot more than 72 cups of coffee. But remember you’re paying a premium for a no mess, no measuring, easy cleanup, ready in thirty seconds, cup of a coffee. For some people that’s money well spent.

Cleanup is a breeze, just discard the pod. Since the coffee grinds are enclosed in a pod instead of a filter there’s less of a chance of spilling them all over your kitchen floor. The pod receptacle is even dishwasher safe.

Another reason to buy a coffee pod maker, especially a Senseo, is that the machines are so good looking. They are sleek, stylish and will look great on your countertop.

Coffee isn’t just for breakfast anymore, it’s an all day long affair. Why not make coffee pods part of your daily routine?


