Title: 
ABCs Of A Good Accountant

Word Count:
443

Summary:
Have a good laugh at this joke concerning accountants:

A businessman was interviewing applicants for the position of divisional manager. He devised a simple test to select the most suitable person for the job. He asked each applicant the question, "How much is two and two?"

The first interviewee was a journalist. His answer was "twenty-two"

The second applicant was an engineer. He pulled out a calculator and showed the answer to be between 3.999 and 4.001.

The las...


Keywords:
Accounting


Article Body:
Have a good laugh at this joke concerning accountants:

A businessman was interviewing applicants for the position of divisional manager. He devised a simple test to select the most suitable person for the job. He asked each applicant the question, "How much is two and two?"

The first interviewee was a journalist. His answer was "twenty-two"

The second applicant was an engineer. He pulled out a calculator and showed the answer to be between 3.999 and 4.001.

The last applicant was an accountant. When the businessman asked him the question, the accountant got up from his chair, went over to the door, closed it, came back and sat down. Then, he leaned across the desk and said in a low voice, "How much do you want it to be?"

Dropping off the fun out of this joke, accountants are indeed essential in the community of professionals. It cannot be denied that it is a job with a good distinction over others. At any rate, a good accountant will always be different from a so-so one.

What does it take to be a good accountant?

A good accountant is someone with:

Good Time Management- time will always be a major concern. Accounting is a complex job. True as always will be, time is gold.

Oral Expression- he deals with loads of people. Therefore, he must be good at speking his mind.

Outstanding Quality of Work- In whatever side, quality beats quantity. An accountant must pour out his best in every task he performs.

Deep Sense of Professionalism- He must act as if he owns everything under him. A good accountant is somebody who knows how to act the way his profession asks him to.

Assertiveness- he must not be contented with just sitting down. He must know his stand, speak it out and work on it.

Creativity- he must not have a shortage of ideas, strategies and methods of making great results attainable.

Competence- he has to ignore choosing the least. His target must be the rooms on top.

Open-mindedness- he must view change in an optimistic way. Moreover, he must be flexible towards it.

Understanding his Job- he will act well if he knows what his real purpose is.

Numeric- I need not explain.

Team Work Flexibility- He can work well with all kinds of people. He can build a good relationship with almost everybody.

Analytical Skills- He must think beyond mediocre does

Necessary Listening Skills- Talking alone will not shape him into a good adviser as expected of him. He must be someone who respects the view of others.

Trustworthiness- He is someone who does his job well and establishes others’ confidence in him.


