Title: 
An Interview With Nicoals Darvas 1975

Word Count:
547

Summary:
The only interview with Nicolas Darvas in the World

Hi Nic. It’s a pleasure to meet you in person. Thank you for agreeing to do this interview. Welcome and please do feel comfortable.

Nic: Thanks for having me and it’s always my pleasure to discuss stocks and the stock market.

Nic would you mind if we get right down to talking about the stock markets? I can’t wait to pick your brains on this subject. In fact, I’ve been waiting for many years to do this.

NIC: Sure....


Keywords:
investing,stocks


Article Body:
The only interview with Nicolas Darvas in the World

Hi Nic. It’s a pleasure to meet you in person. Thank you for agreeing to do this interview. Welcome and please do feel comfortable.

Nic: Thanks for having me and it’s always my pleasure to discuss stocks and the stock market.

Nic would you mind if we get right down to talking about the stock markets? I can’t wait to pick your brains on this subject. In fact, I’ve been waiting for many years to do this.

NIC: Sure..that’s what I am here for.

OK. After your amazing success in the late 1950’s and after publishing “How I Made $2 Million In The Stock Market” how did life change for you?

NIC: It was an amazing period in my life. I went from $25,000 which was everything I had at the time to a multi-millionaire in quite short length of time. But I was amazed at the publicity I stirred up in Time Magazine in 1959. I never knew there would be such a big interest in a solo stock trader. Then the success of my book was another major accomplishment in my life. It sold over 400,000 copies in the first year you know. Sure I was much richer than I dreamed I ever would be by 1960 but my life never changed. I carried on dancing and investing. I was able to buy more properties throughout the world with my financial success. For that I was grateful. As a person it never changed me one bit.

Glad to hear it Nic. I got that impression. You seem a very sincere down to earth guy. Do you think this attitude helped you succeed in the stock market?

NIC: Maybe it’s not for me to say. I never got too down about losses. It never bothered me if I was out of the market for months at a time. And because my system dictated when I got out of a winning stock I never got anxious or excited about hose winners. Looking back, I suppose it was quite remarkable how I could go from $25,000 to over $2 Million with such calmness. That’s me. After the massive success in the late 1950’s I took a portion of my profits out of the stock market and invested in property. I felt there would be no point of great success if I didn’t see something tangible for it. After that I felt like I was merely participating in a game. If I followed the rules I won money. When I broke them I lost. My challenge was following the rules.

So you admit to still making mistakes in the stock market?

NIC: Of course I do. It’s very hard not to try and cut corners even when it’s your own ultra money making method. Occasionally I get swayed. Break the rules. Lose money. But it isn’t very often theses days.

What’s the biggest question you always get asked when traders find out you are Nicolas Darvas?

That’s easy. Can I have your autograph and can you borrow me some money.

Ha,ha. Really?

Nic: No. Just kidding you. Hm.. the two most asked question I get? Let’s think. They would probably be…..


