Title: 
Are Free Grants Really Free?

Word Count:
379

Summary:
The short answer to this simple but fantastic question is that yes, free grants do in fact come at no cost to the recipient. That does not mean that there are no strings attached but we will talk about that later. First we need to get the basic concepts down first so that you can understand why the government is willing to hand out these monetary offerings to it’s citizens.

How does the government make its money? That’s right taxes. Taxes on property and income are the maj...


Keywords:
free grants


Article Body:
The short answer to this simple but fantastic question is that yes, free grants do in fact come at no cost to the recipient. That does not mean that there are no strings attached but we will talk about that later. First we need to get the basic concepts down first so that you can understand why the government is willing to hand out these monetary offerings to it’s citizens.

How does the government make its money? That’s right taxes. Taxes on property and income are the major money makers for good old Uncle Sam. So the government in order to make money has to have citizens who number one make money and number two own property. We all know that the only way to make money is to have money, so it makes sense that the government would want to provide this impetus (money in the form of free grants) to people in relatively small amounts, in hopes that people will turn this into large amounts of profit. If this happens everybody wins!

So the only stipulation for eligibility for these free grants is that they will be used in specified ways that will create revenue for the recipient and in so doing for the government. Examples of grant uses are small business grants, housing grants for down payments, real estate grants to improve existing buildings and areas to attract consumers, public housing grants, education grants, and the like. All in hopes of stimulating the economy.

The next important thing to know is that there is more money available than is being handed out and so there is no shortage and you are almost guaranteed money if you make the appropriate application. Perhaps the only difficulty is learning how and where to apply. This information is available for free but is (because it is government run) very unorganized and messy. The best way to learn about free grants that are available is to purchase (for a relatively small fee when compared to the profit it will bring) lists that different companies have organized that have all the information that you need. You simply get the list and look in the areas that apply to you, apply, and once accepted receive the money and go to work.


