Title: 
Car Insurance For Teens - Is There A Cheaper Route?

Word Count:
505

Summary:
There are remarkable increase both in Teenager Car Insurance Policy and Claims. Normally the premium for teenager car insurance is very high when compared to people over 25 years.   However, some insurance companies are considerate towards teenagers and offer cheap insurance polices.


Keywords:
There are remarkable increase both in Teenager Car Insurance Policy and Claims. Normally the premium for teenager car insurance is very high when compared to people over 25 years.   However, some insu


Article Body:
There are remarkable increase both in Teenager Car Insurance Policy and Claims. Normally the premium for teenager car insurance is very high when compared to people over 25 years.   However, some insurance companies are considerate towards teenagers and offer cheap insurance polices.  

	Teenage drivers get into more accidents when compared to age group 30 to 50. If the risk covered is high then the insurance premium will also be high.  Suggestions to keep lower premium for car insurance are:  Traffic rules and road safety laws are to be strictly adhered to in order to keep the driving license of the teenager clean; driving with in the permitted speed; instead of taking separate policy for teenager, he can be covered as an additional driver in the same policy; enrolment of teenager in regular driving courses and stay away from alcohol.   

	Car Insurance premium is based on the certain factors viz., 1. Age and sex of the driver;  2. Driving record of driver and how long this person has been driving;  3. City in which the driver lives and 4. Type of vehicle being insured.   There are fabulous discounts on premium offered by different companies.   The vehicle should be checked before insured with respect to  air bag, anti lock brake features and anti theft devices.    

	Car insurance premium  is a real problem for  the parents of the teenager.  In the teens driving becomes an obsession  and  to protect them car insurance is a necessity.  Insurance companies  offer cheap rates  for  older, heavier cars when compared to sports cars.  Older cars are hard to drive and cannot be driven recklessly.  The risk coverage on older cars is less compared to new cars.  Hence, insurance companies offer cheap rates for old cars.   Insurance companies offer substantial discounts on good driving records.  Students with better school grades may get  good student discounts on insurance premium.  A teenage driver  can also be included in the family policy listing them as an occasional driver  and this will reduce the premium  when compared to individual teenager car insurance policy.   According to the statistics taken by different  Insurance Institutes, teenage car driver  is vulnerable  to car accidents when compared to drivers whose ages are between 30 and 60.  This is the reason that car insurance premium is higher for teen drivers.  

	Insurance companies consider  teen drivers as reckless drivers based on  accident frequency  and they charge higher premium on insurance policy.   However,  there are exceptions to this based on  the value of the car.  Higher value car is charged  more premium compared to old and lower value cars.   The teen driver has to be advised not to drive recklessly.  Family insurance  or  parent insurance policy for the car is advisable when compared to individual teenage car insurance.  This makes  every parent not to feel the burden of insurance premium when their adolescent child becomes licensed  to practice driving.  The teens should get away from lack of driving by properly learning driving by joining a driving course which makes the teens to get cheaper insurance rates than teens that do not undergone driving course.


