Title: 
Consolidate your websites to single web hosting account

Word Count:
347

Summary:
Web hosting rebates are offers make by hosting affiliate partners and not from the hosting companies itself. Can you trust these people? And how to identify the real hosting rebate provider.


Keywords:
web hosting, hosting account, links, webmail, email account


Article Body:
If you are having many websites across multiple hosting provider, it will cost you lots of hosting annual fees and it might be very hard to maintain as well. You might need to consider consolidate them into single hosting account. See the pros and cons of doing this.

Having 3 or five hosting plan, can easily cost you $500 dollars per year. And if you are running single website at each web hosting account, this will be a waste of space and money as well. Do consider to consolidate them into single web hosting account.

There is few web hosting provider that offering multiple domain hosting. Meaning that you can have multiple unique websites in the single hosting account. This mean you can have firstwebsite.com, secondwebsite.com, thirdwebsite.com and so on. Each websites can have their own email account, ftp account, webmail services, etc.

To have this multiple domain hosting features, you need to look for web hosting provider that have the addon domain features. If they write 10 addon domains, this will mean you can have up to 11 websites in your hosting account. 10 addon domains plus the primary domain that you get when register the hosting account.

There is little few hosting provider that offering unlimited domain hosting. Meaning that you can host as many websites or domain in the single account. And you can add more addon domains as you like. Some hosting will have unlimited domain hosting value set to 999, and this will mean you can have 999 websites in the account only.

If you are having many websites in single hosting account, the only thing that you need to make sure off is that you not heavily linking each sites together. Search engines like google not prefer links coming from same IP address, and on only that, this link can harm your website too. However, you still can have 900 websites on your accounts, and you must make sure they are not link together like a spider web or link farms.

After consolidation, your web hosting cost will drop, and you just save yourself some money.


