Title: 
Craps Tournaments: Winning Tips and Guidance

Word Count:
526

Summary:
Here you can find craps tournaments tips that will help you make the best of your tournaments playing experience.


Keywords:
craps tournaments, craps tables, craps tournament, craps playing, casinos, craps game, casino gambling, entertainment 


Article Body:
Craps tournaments popularity is increasing lately. If you are a novice craps player who is still intimidated by the great selection of bets or you find the fuss around the craps tables too loud, you might not be able to enjoy playing craps tournaments. If you are an enthusiastic craps shooter, taking part in a craps tournament is a great way to enjoy a more intensive craps playing experience, meet other craps fans and, of course, a chance to win bigger cash prizes as well as the desired title. 

Many casinos hold different types of craps tournaments to suit the different levels of skills and budgets of the players. Here you can find tips on the different types of casino craps tournaments including tips on how to choose the most suitable and enjoyable craps tournament as possible. In addition, you can find here tips on how to win in craps tournament. 


Choosing a Craps Tournament 

Cost: The cost of playing in a craps tournament can range from a free entry and a low buy in to an expensive entry fee with a high buy in. The prizes, needless to say, are corresponding; the higher the entry fee the larger the grand prize. The free tournaments are usually held on a weekly basis for promotional purposes while the high stack tourneys are pre scheduled, last for more than one day and their expensive entry fees include a cocktail party, free accommodation and other freebies. 

Competition: Evaluating the level of the competition you are going to face in advance can be tough. However, the number of entrants allowed to take part in the tournament can give you a basic indication on the level of the competition. 

Rules: Casinos often set different rules in craps tournaments. For example, some casinos require players to place a pass or dont pass bet each play on top of any other bets or limit the proposition bet to 25 dollars. 

Winning a Craps Tournament

The main difference between playing a traditional craps game and a craps tournament is that with the latter you suddenly find yourself surrounded by competitors. While in a regular craps game you are used to compete against the house, in a craps tournament you are playing against the other entrants and especially against those who have managed to accumulate the biggest amount of chips. Therefore, playing craps tournaments requires amending of you strategy. Primarily, you can no longer ignore your opponents; you must keep an eye on their moves!


Tips

Always pay attention to your opponent’s chips; bear in mind that they might have been hiding chips to confuse the other players.
Pay attention especially to your closest opponents; watch their moves and conclude your future bets so you will stay far behind.
Start by playing conservatively; place small bets on pass and come bets.
When an opportunity comes up, for example after making two consecutive points change your pattern and make dont pass bet.
If during the final rolls you are still not leading, it is time to play aggressively; place large even bet your entire bankroll on one number and then hope for the best.

Have fun.


