Title: 
Discover Business Card

Word Count:
409

Summary:
The Discover Business Card is a card which you should consider using within your business when looking for a business credit card. You will want to find a card which can fit with your business needs.  The Discover business card can be that card for you.  This article will focus on a couple all of the different features which are available with the Discover Business Card which will be beneficial to your business.


Keywords:
business credit cards, compare credit cards, credit card offers, apply for a credit card, chase


Article Body:
The Discover Business Card is a card which you should consider using within your business when looking for a business credit card. You will want to find a card which can fit with your business needs.  The Discover business card can be that card for you.  This article will focus on a couple all of the different features which are available with the Discover Business Card which will be beneficial to your business.

The Discover Business Card offers you 12 months at 0% APR for balance transfer.  If your business carries credit card debt, you could look at doing a balance transfer from one card to another.  This would allow you to reduce the amount that you have to pay toward your credit card every month, thus freeing up monthly cash flow. You could also use the money that was put towards servicing your credit card debt interest to pay them off more quickly. This will help improve your business’s net worth as you pay down your credit card debts. 

With the Discover Business Card, you can have cards issued for you as well as your employees.  What is nice about this is that you can have a different amount and limits for different employees. Monthly statements can also be broken down so that employee’s spending can viewed more carefully to ensure that spending is within line with what is being reported by employees. 
	
The number of merchants which will not accept business credit cards is declining every year but there are still many who do not accept a credit card.  If you would like to use your credit card and pay these merchants, there are fee-free purchase checks which you can use to send to these merchants.  This can once again helped you free up monthly cash flow since you can leave the money in the bank to earn more interest income until it must be paid on your credit card every month.

This article has talked about the benefits of using a Discover business card.  Having 0% APR on balance transfers for 12 months can help you pay down high interest debt and also allow you to free a monthly cash flow.  Being able to more carefully monitor employee spending as well as sending checks to merchants who don't accept credit cards can have benefits depending on the business that you are in.  If you are thinking about a business credit card, this could be the card for you.


