Title: 
Don’t Retire in Thailand Unless

Word Count:
479

Summary:
Don’t retire in Thailand unless you are ready for a life of leisure at a very low price.  Don’t retire in Thailand unless you want to live a lifestyle you deserve.


Keywords:
thailand, retire thailand, retire, thai, home, years,  final years, travel, spend final years


Article Body:
Don’t retire to Thailand unless you enjoy a very low cost of living.  Lease a property for under $50,000 – a place that would cost you 10 times that much in your home country.

Don’t retire to Thailand unless you like to eat really good food for very little money.  Seafood, fruits and vegetables for mere pocket change.

Don’t retire to Thailand if you disdain real culture and old fashioned customs.  Learn to live with Buddhist principles and live your life like a Thai with a “mai pen rai” – never mind attitude.

Don’t retire to Thailand if you want to remain single and lonely.  Find a good Thai lady who will take care of you like a king for the rest of your life.

Don’t retire to Thailand if you like snow and cold weather.  Tropical breeze, emerald waters, and sandy beaches abound in Thailand.  Cold is when the temperature drops below 70 degrees Fahrenheit.

Don’t retire in Thailand if you are an old man who thinks that he doesn’t have a chance with a beautiful, young Thai lady.  Age is just a number in Thailand and the ladies prefer a man with a good heart over one who is young and superficially handsome.

Don’t retire to Thailand if you would rather spend your final years at home with family and friends.  I would rather spend my final years with my new 26-year old girl friend who is soon to be my wife.  I am almost 56 and this young lady will do anything for me.  She is well educated, single, a school teacher and has great values and a very positive attitude.  My family and friends can come and visit me if they want.

Don’t retire to Thailand if you hate to travel.  Being in Thailand you can easily travel all over Asia and very easily travel to Burma, Laos, Cambodia, and Vietnam.  Japan, Singapore, Korea and more are 3-hour flights away.

Don’t retire to Thailand if you are rich.  “Joe Average” on a meager pension of about $500 per month can live comfortably in Thailand.  A rich man can live like a king if that is what he wants.  If you have a pension or retirement plan that pays you $1,000 or $2,000 per month – you will live the life of luxury.

Don’t retire to Thailand if you think you are better than the Thais.  Check your attitude at home and if you want to live in Thailand, just go with the flow and enjoy your retirement.  The Thai people are great – you just have to learn the customs and culture.  It will definitely not be the same as your home – but who cares.

Retiring in Thailand is totally “up to you”.  Don’t do it unless you are prepared to live your final years in a wonderful country with some very beautiful people.


