Title: 
Don't Be Held Hostage By The Price Of Gasoline

Word Count:
338

Summary:
It seems everywhere you go these days, at least in the US, the conversations are about the price of gasoline.

No wonder, since it's broken the $3.00 a gallon barrier and is causing a lot of people real hardships.

I'm old enough to remember the gas lines of the 1970's when a similar situation occurred. At that time, I had a production services company in New England, in partnership with a man named, Irving Goldmacher.

In addition to being one of the two smartest peopl...


Keywords:
money, finance, gasoline, budgeting, debt


Article Body:
It seems everywhere you go these days, at least in the US, the conversations are about the price of gasoline.

No wonder, since it's broken the $3.00 a gallon barrier and is causing a lot of people real hardships.

I'm old enough to remember the gas lines of the 1970's when a similar situation occurred. At that time, I had a production services company in New England, in partnership with a man named, Irving Goldmacher.

In addition to being one of the two smartest people I've known - my wife, Georgia, being the other - Irving was a fascinating person. I could probably write a book about him.

One day, in the midst of soaring gas prices, Irving went out and bought a new Caddilac, a car that was known to have low gas mileage.

I asked him if he had lost his mind, buying a gas guzzling car when gas prices were at an all time high.

"James," he answered, "if the price of gas goes up, I'll just figure out how to make more money. I'm not going to live my life worrying about the price of gasoline."

Talk about a prosperity mindset! What a great outlook. Irving knew he was capable of creating whatever income he wanted, no matter what was going on around him.

This is the real key to living a prosperous life. Be in control of your income.

First, realize that your income comes from God and is not dependent on the economy. If you believe otherwise, you're in for a challenging time.

Then, develop additional streams of income to supplement whatever else you're doing. If you have a job, this might mean starting a part-time business.

If you're already in business, it may mean adding new revenue streams to your existing products or services. Whatever your path, it is crucial to have more than one channel of income.

For a list of resources to help you increase your income, visit http://www.jimdonovan.com/resources.html


