Title: 
Financial Options After One Has Declared Bankruptcy

Word Count:
491

Summary:
Bankruptcy is a financial option for those individuals whose debt has run away from them. It is not that hard to experience debt issues and individuals have had to declare bankruptcy in order to dig themselves out of the surmounting debt. The term bankruptcy has negative connotations however this should not be the case. An individual who declares bankruptcy is taking that big step in order to get their finances under control and wipe the slate clean. Individuals may be hesita...


Keywords:
Mortgages, Finance


Article Body:
Bankruptcy is a financial option for those individuals whose debt has run away from them. It is not that hard to experience debt issues and individuals have had to declare bankruptcy in order to dig themselves out of the surmounting debt. The term bankruptcy has negative connotations however this should not be the case. An individual who declares bankruptcy is taking that big step in order to get their finances under control and wipe the slate clean. Individuals may be hesitant to do so as they feel their life post-bankruptcy will be financially constrained. This is not so and the following paragraphs will highlight some financial options one has following the declaration of bankruptcy.

Mortgage after Bankruptcy

One issue that disturbs individuals considering filing for bankruptcy is that they may never be able to obtain a mortgage after bankruptcy declaration. The fact is that individuals who have declared bankruptcy have been able to obtain a mortgage after that proceeding has been completed. Most individuals looking to obtain a mortgage post-bankruptcy will have to wait until the bankruptcy is final and proceedings have been completed yet there are lenders who are more than willing to lend to an individual post-bankruptcy. Bankruptcy mortgage financing is available to many individuals who are in that predicament. Some lenders may deny loans to these individuals yet there will always be other ones who will finance home loans after a bankruptcy declaration.

Credit Cards after Bankruptcy

Another issue which individuals find themselves contemplating both prior to and after declaring bankruptcy is whether or not they will be able to obtain credit cards after bankruptcy. Credit cards are extremely important items for many individuals as they provide a way for people to make large or vital purchases and then pay back the debt on a monthly basis. It is important to note that credit card companies will and do provide credit cards to individuals who have declared bankruptcy. Although some credit card companies will be more selective than others, it is necessary to point out that there are options with regard to obtaining credit after bankruptcy.

Personal Loans after Bankruptcy

Individuals who have declared bankruptcy may also be able to obtain personal loans. Personal loans are used for a variety of reasons such as college, home improvements, or purchasing a car. A personal loan after bankruptcy is not a rare occurrence and a variety of lenders will make this option available to borrowers who may have fallen on hard times in the past

Summary

There are certain instances in individual’s lives when they need to declare bankruptcy. It is crucial for these individuals to keep in the back of their mind that declaring bankruptcy will not definitively thwart any future loans which they need to acquire in the future. One who seeks bankruptcy advice should also inquire about credit repair after bankruptcy and what the future may hold for individuals like themselves who need to declare bankruptcy.


