Title: 
Financial Budgeting, Income, Costs and Hints (Part 3 of 5)

Word Count:
357

Summary:
The 3rd of a 5 part series covering aspects of Personal Financial Budgets and moving forward.


Keywords:
Finance, Budget, Forex, Internet Marketing, Manifest, Self, Help, Income, Costs, Profit, Wealth, Currency, Home, Household


Article Body:
Part 3 is:  Start Saving!

So you are loaded down with bills to pay each month and are wondering how you can begin a savings account for emergencies and other high-expense endeavors.  In other words, where can you find that extra cash to put away for later?  

Firstly, when configuring your budge, plan for your savings first.  You will grow richer each month if you begin to pay yourself first.  Before paying any bills, decide on a set amount that you will pay yourself first - maybe five or ten percent - or whatever you decide - of your paycheck.  Then, deposit the amount into a savings account before paying any bills.

When you do this at the beginning of the month, your entire paycheck will not suddenly slip through your fingers.  If you wait until the end of the month, there may be nothing left to save.  Paying yourself first will give you a systematic way to make your money grow.  Regardless of your profession or your income, this system will work if you stick to it.  

Anoter technique you may try for saving money is to empty your extra change into a coffee can or a jar each day.  At the end of the month, roll the coins and put them into your savings account.  You may be able to save 30 or 40 dollars each month just with your spare change.  

Remember that good money management is more than just a mathematical formula.  It’s too closely tied with the ups and downs of living to be just that.  Your money management plan is always subject to change if your life situation changes.  The object of a good budget is to make your money go the farthest in helping you reach your goals, it is not there to force to you to abide by rules.  

Don’t get discouraged if the budget plan doesn’t work perfectly right away.  It may involve some revising and editing until it fits your needs.  Then, make sure to review it often, and be sure it is making the best use of every penny!  Because we know how helpful those spare pennies can be!


