Title: 
Five ways to increase your income.

Word Count:
405

Summary:
This article gives clues to effective ways on how to increase your income.


Keywords:
live, living, working, goal, wealth, financial, without,success,goal,believe,wealth building,financial success


Article Body:
Copyright 2006 David Brown

Here are five positive and effective ways to increase your income.

1. Do you have objects or clutter around your house which you are not using and could sell to increase your income? In today’s electronic world EBay would be a good choice to use to sell these objects. There are books which are available to assist with becoming effective with using the internet for this means or even to design a simple web page which could sell advertising. Holding a yard sell or boot fair would be another excellent option to increase ones income.

2. Do you have an effective budget, planning system working in your life? A budget is an organised managed system which tells you exactly how much you have coming in and going out over a period of time. There are several types of budget systems which can be used. On the internet there are different web sites that gives free down loads for basic budget systems. I suggest that you use them as it can make life easier. It is amazing that when money is managed correctly then it produces more. It is a fact that the universe will provide more income when finances are managed correctly! 

3. Do you have an idea which you are passionate about? Think about Alexandra Bell, he invented the telephone. Today a telephone is amazing! When you have an idea, go to work on it NOW! First of all write the idea down on paper. Then work to expand the idea as soon as possible, while it is fresh in your mind. Continue creating the idea until it becomes reality. Seek advice and help from people who can help you. It could provide you more income. 

4. Think about starting a small business. It does not have to be a big business but with a lot of hard work and focus on long term goals then it is possible to establish. Use experienced people who have already set up businesses in the past. Work on that life time idea. 

5. If starting your own business seems daunting or not for you then if you work for a boss, negotiate a pay rise. Tactfully approach your boss and ask for a pay rise. Give your boss positive reasons why he should consider this. Make sure that you are willing to work longer or harder, but remember your priorities in life.

Thank you for reading our article.


