Title: 
How To Start, Survive, And Finish Your Journey To Super Success

Word Count:
627

Summary:
"The more you hate, the more you love."

What an ironic statement. Whoever said those words must have been drunk. The bottom line is this: It is extremely difficult to like or love something that you despise.

But what can we do to solve this dilemma? What if you're trapped in an environment that you don't want to be involved in? What if you're sick and tired of your job that you feel like puking every time someone mentions your work?

Of course, you take inspired and m...


Keywords:



Article Body:
"The more you hate, the more you love."

What an ironic statement. Whoever said those words must have been drunk. The bottom line is this: It is extremely difficult to like or love something that you despise.

But what can we do to solve this dilemma? What if you're trapped in an environment that you don't want to be involved in? What if you're sick and tired of your job that you feel like puking every time someone mentions your work?

Of course, you take inspired and motivated action to get out of your present rut and start living the life you've always dreamed of.

Guess what? It's not going to be easy. You will have to come out of your comfort zones to discover potentials and opportunities waiting for you. You have to conquer your fear and take calculated risks. You have to stay focused and persevere despite the difficulties you will encounter.

Success doesn't come easy. It takes heart and passion. It may also take some time before you can actually reap the fruits of your labor.

But how do you actually survive this stage? This is the moment when you're working extra hard to reach your goals. This is also the instance when you're enduring whatever adversity hits you.

For example, you're employed in a job that you hate. You know deep inside that you would not like to stay in the rat race throughout your life. So you decided to engage in a part-time business or to study night courses. Good move, my friend.

So far so good. A few days later, time started running out for you. Your family complains that you've never spoken a word to them in such a long time. You're getting crazy over your very hectic schedule. Soon enough, your attitude changes negatively. You get mad and frustrated over the tiniest setbacks. You hate the world for all the misery it has brought upon you.

Stop right now!

That is not the way to go. You are attracting negative elements into your life. Yes, you have to work harder, dig deeper, and sacrifice more to attain your ambitions. But no, you don't have to hate the world and feel bad about your difficult situation. Remember the Law of Attraction. If you hate the world, the world hates you back.

So what do you have to do?

Learn to love your current situation. See all the positive sides of life. Be enthusiastic. Love your boss, your coworkers, your family, your friends, and even strangers that you meet on the streets. It may not be easy, but nothing is impossible with a strong will power. Just don't fall in love so much that you totally forget about your dreams.

Balance is the key. Dream and take some positive action to move you toward your goals. Take it one step at a time. But while you're slowly crawling into the long journey to success, be patient and be as enthusiastic as possible. Don't hurry up too much that you totally forget how to enjoy life.

One fine day, you will finally attain what you have always longed for. But when that day comes, don't spit back on the face of those who belittled you before.

Stay humble. Don't look down on others when you see that you are becoming more successful than they are. Help them. Inject your positive aura into their personalities. When you give, you will yield back equal or greater rewards.

Are you ready to begin the journey? Start it with the courage and desire to improve your life. Survive and go through it with persistence, enthusiasm, and positive thinking. Finish it with a resounding bang of accomplishment and with the desire to help others succeed as well.


