Title: 
How To Lower Your Cost Of Gas & Travel

Word Count:
616

Summary:
Are you sick and tired of watching the price of gas go up on a regular basis? Have you had enough when it comes to traffic and the inconvenience of travel? Would you like to reduce your travel related stress while at the same time reducing your costs as well? If you’ve answered yes to any of these questions, read on…

After hearing so many people recently complain and moan about the high price of gas and the inconvenience of travel, and after recently observing gas prices g...


Keywords:
find cheap gas, lower gas bill, video conferencing, web conferencing, video conferencing software


Article Body:
Are you sick and tired of watching the price of gas go up on a regular basis? Have you had enough when it comes to traffic and the inconvenience of travel? Would you like to reduce your travel related stress while at the same time reducing your costs as well? If you’ve answered yes to any of these questions, read on…

After hearing so many people recently complain and moan about the high price of gas and the inconvenience of travel, and after recently observing gas prices go over $3.50 per gallon, I finally reached my breaking point when I saw a news report about the airlines thinking of offering “seats” which will allow the passenger the pleasure of standing throughout a flight! I knew at this point that the time had come for me to let the traveling public know that there is an alternative.

The first thing I did was create and design a new website to show all individuals and business people how much their gas and travel is currently costing them. If you go to www.LowerYourCostOfGasAndTravel.com, and put in the information requested, an automatic calculator will show you how much money you are currently spending on gas, as well as how much Middle Eastern oil you are using up. In addition, instead of “just adding salt to the wound”, I also offer a solution to help individuals reduce their cost of gas and travel by implementing an inexpensive technology.

And what exactly is this “inexpensive technology” that I mention here? Well, it is what I call browser based Video & Web Conferencing. With browser based Video and Web Conferencing, all you need is an Internet connection and an Internet browser and you can meet with other people. If you wish to be seen, you will also need a web camera or “webcam”, which is available for $15 and up at electronics stores (Best Buy, Circuit City), as well as office supply stores (Staples, Office Depot). If you want to be heard, you will need either a headset or a microphone and speakers. The best part about browser based video and web conferencing is that since a browser pretty much comes with EVERY computer purchased, this means you can hear and see people no matter where in the world you or they are located – even if you or they are vacationing in a hotel! As long your meeting “guest” has Internet access, they can be part of your meeting.

Browser based Video and Web Conferencing can save all individuals (and especially the business traveler) money, time and aggravation and has actually been around for several years now. In my mind, the fact that people are wasting their money, at over $3.50 per gallon, driving to appointments, and unnecessarily spending money on airline tickets and hotels when there is a viable alternative available is not only wrong, it is un-patriotic!

In addition to lowering the cost of gas and travel, browser based video and web conferencing can also help families stay together and “whole”. It is unconscionable that parents have to travel and be away from their children and loved ones when they can accomplish the same tasks of meeting with their customers, clients and colleagues anywhere in the world without leaving the comfort of their home or office.

I encourage you to see how much your gas and travel are currently costing you. Just go to www.LowerYourCostOfGasAndTravel.com, put in the information requested, and an automatic calculator will show you how much money you could save, as well as how much Middle Eastern oil you are using, by not taking advantage of inexpensive technologies available today, including browser based video and web conferencing.


