Title: 
If the stocks start at just under a dollar, how can an investor hope to become rich in the end?

Word Count:
340

Summary:
Is it possible to get rich in penny stocks. Is there any hope at all for the speculator to strike it rich in penny stocks. Penny Stock investing. Is it really a viable method to get rich?


Keywords:
stock trading,penny stocks


Article Body:
To get the most gains out of your penny stock investments, it’s important that you pick up information about certain companies before the news hits the primary media stream.	As soon as word is generated about a company, the price of the penny stock soars until it no longer falls in the category of penny stocks at all.  So how do you get this kind of information if the media isn’t disseminating it to the public yet?

	You must do your own due dilligence on the penny stock.As penny stocks are not followed by the main stream mutual funds you can usually get in before they do.
	You have to become an investigator of sorts and figure out which companies have the best opportunity for you to profit from an investment of their penny stocks.  Sometimes you’ll get wind of a small news item where stocks aren’t even mentioned and it gives you just enough information to leverage an investment of penny stock before the company starts heavily promoting their stocks in connection with the news.

	In order to amass a fortune in penny stocks it does mean you are going to have to take big chances. .  Some investors prefer to wait and see what will happen with a company before they buy stock.

	This kind of approach nullifies the opportunity they have to take advantage of the low stock cost, because once investors know for sure that a company is on the rise, everyone will be scrambling for a share and the stock prices will rapidly climb.

	One way to stay abreast of up-and-coming penny stock companies is to join one of the many penny stock advice forums on the Internet and watch what others have to say about the choices available to penny stock investors.  
Always make sure you do your own investigation into the company as well, but having other investors with a like-minded attitude can help you learn what to look for before shelling out too much money as a junior.


