Title: 
Is Money Really The Root of All Evil?

Word Count:
575

Summary:
by Lorilyn Lassells
DRKBFinance.com
Let's review some of the laws of money, since it is so easy to loose sight of the fact that we live in a very abundant world, even though at times it seems that we have to face many financial challenges.


Keywords:
financial market, wealth, money,need money, invest in the stock market,financial freedom,finances


Article Body:
Aril 28, 2006
As you are well aware, we live in financially challenging times. If you do not agree with this statement, don't bother to keep reading this article.

Times are changing, the financial market is up, it's down - a roller coaster. Gas Prices just hit $3 per gallon in the US. Your salary stayed the same.

Have you heard the expression: Money is the root of all evil?

No, it is not money that is evil. Money is neutral, it is a barter item so that we can buy the things we think we cannot live without. Money is also a symbol: a symbol of appreciation, a gesture. 

So why do we say that "money's the root of all evil"? because it is the negative emotions around money that are evil: greed, avarice, an obsession of power etc. Wouldn't it be better if we said "The love of money is the root of all evil"? 

So what really is money? 

To many people in this world, money is energy, just as life is. 

Money is also a feeling: feeling of wealth, feeling of security, feeling of success. Money can also be a feeling of importance and a feeling of power.

In other words, money is important. We need money to eat and cloth ourselves. We need money to communte to work; pay our employees; invest in the stock market to make more money (or loose it if we buy unwise) 

Money = abudance. Abundance is natural. There is a difference between being aware of our natural abundance and owning a good portion of it. Many well-know speakers explain it as the art of controlling your energy and manifesting your thoughts and ideas. Most of us are not well aquainted with this idea of having to manifest in order to achieve.

Manifesting is really a innermost wish. And most people on earth wish formost for ...... 

Abundance, Wealth, Financial Freedom

So how do we achieve this? We need to be close to money. Often our relationship to money follows a push-pull or love-hate pattern, similar to our human relationship (s).

Naturally, the closer you are to a person, the more likely you are to be able to receive what they have to give. It is very similar to your financial situation: the closer you are to money, the more likely you are to receive plenty of it. You must be intellectually, emotionally and physically ready in order to receive abundantly.

Many people resent money because they feel life hasn't been fair to them, that they worked hard and haven't received as much as they should have - or they are paid less than other people with inferior qualities to them. Is that you?

Change your thought pattern. Rather than blaming others or displaying your unease, lack, anger about money, begin to own your feelings. Understand where you want to go, what you are trying to achieve. Ask yourself: "Do I have enough information about the marketplace, the deal, the j.o.b, the particular area of creativity, the person I want to be involved in(with)?" 

In order to answer this question, you may have to go beyond your own resistance, shyness or inhibition and start looking at your goal.

In other words
-know what you doing 
-be aware of of what's or who is up or down
-know what's happening and what isn't

Money is important because it is a symbol of your mastery and comprehension of life's great journey.
# # #


