Title: 
It’s Your Money - Why Wait?

Word Count:
339

Summary:
The money in your IRA is your money.  Every cent you put into that IRA was hard-earned, and if you really think about it, it’s not growing fast enough.  What’s worse, you’re a few years away from retirement.  Can you really bear the thought of NOT retiring in comfort?


Keywords:
ira, self directed ira, finances


Article Body:
The money in your IRA is your money.  Every cent you put into that IRA was hard-earned, and if you really think about it, it’s not growing fast enough.  What’s worse, you’re a few years away from retirement.  Can you really bear the thought of NOT retiring in comfort?

Two realities are in play here: first, the stock market’s lackluster performance that started in 2000, and second, the real estate boom that had developers scampering for land to satisfy the heightened demand for residential and commercial real estate. 

Put your IRA money to work.  Your banker and broker will not allow you room to maneuver because they want complete visibility and control over your IRA.  In the meantime, they’re earning fantastic returns on your money.  It’s time you take the driver’s seat.  

Fundamentally, what do you need?

•	Sufficient funds in your self-directed IRA.

•	A Self-Directed IRA Advisor – Asset Exchange Strategies, LLC a limited liability corporation can share valuable information and advice. 

•	A low fixed annual fee to pay your custodian, while you maintain full checkbook control at all times.  You – not they – issue the checks for managing your investment.


Provided you satisfy IRA regulations on the type of investments allowed for your self-directed IRA funds (real estate is only one of several possibilities) you can take charge of your financial future by turning that IRA into a high-earning instrument.  

The IRS’s position is clear, as defined in their publication # 590: your IRA should be a separate and distinct entity from yourself.  Whatever investments you make should benefit your IRA, and not you directly.  Your self directed ira advisor will be able to explain the subtleties and refinements of this IRS publication.

It’s your money.  If we told you that there are about $7 trillion dollars sitting in IRAs but of that amount, only 3% are self-directed, wouldn’t you be curious about how you can be part of that 3% that unknown to most, are enjoying unheard of returns?


