Title: 
Lakeycia Jefferson on Wealth Masters

Word Count:
544

Summary:
Prior to becoming a consultant with Wealth Masters International, Lakeycia Jefferson, a consultant with Wealth Masters International (www.wmitoday.com/wealthtransfer) was a network marketer who experienced firsthand the limitations of a traditional mindset.


Keywords:
eliminate debt, get out of debt, build wealth, debt free


Article Body:
Prior to becoming a consultant with Wealth Masters International, Lakeycia Jefferson, a consultant with Wealth Masters International (www.wmitoday.com/wealthtransfer) was a network marketer who experienced firsthand the limitations of a traditional mindset. "I never went beyond my inner circle of family, friends, and acquaintances," she says. "I simply didn't have access to a marketing system that would enable me to reach the numbers of people necessary to truly create wealth." Regardless of how hard she worked, Jefferson was never able to generate the massive downline necessary to succeed with traditional network marketing paradigms – which is one of the reasons that she switched to Carbon Copy Pro (www.wealthtransfernow.com).

Whichever way you look at it, American families are suffering unprecedented financial hardships. The collapse of the subprime mortgage market is forcing homeowners into foreclosure and is having a ripple effect on other borrowers, who are finding themselves in dire straits or in bankruptcy court. "Although people desperately want to gain control of their finances and build wealth, there has been an overwhelming trend in the opposite direction," says Jefferson.

The numbers bear out Jefferson's assertions. According to the U.S. Federal Reserve Board, 58 percent of families with credit cards have an average outstanding balance of $5,100. Between 2001 and 2004 (the last year for which statistics are available), household debt increased a whopping 26.3 percent. During the same time period, the median income fell almost a full percentage point, to $37,800. Furthermore, nine percent of families surveyed by the Fed reported that they had been at least 60 days late with a payment in the previous year. "Unless and until Americans adopt the practices of the wealthy, they will continue to spend more money than they earn, and have nothing to show for a lifetime of hard work," says Jefferson. 

Moreover, she witnessed the mistakes of those who did experience success. "Oftentimes, people who made a considerable amount of money would simply blow through it, because the companies they were affiliated with didn't offer direction and guidance to help them achieve their long-term goals," Jefferson says. 

In contrast, she has found Wealth Masters International's commitment to personal and financial growth a refreshing change. "The company offers a free analysis of a member's credit situation and helps them get on track to pay down their personal debt and step on the road to financial freedom," Jefferson says. "The company has alliances with experts in everything from credit repair and financial goal-setting to investments and wealth accumulation strategies." 

Jefferson notes that the company's "Six Steps to Freedom" resources have not only assisted her in her consultancy, but have helped her develop skills that she routinely uses in her other business ventures. The six steps involve analyzing your personal finances, minimizing your tax obligations, creating a savings fund, ensuring that you are legally protected, building a legacy through wealth creation, and creating a lifestyle that achieves your personal goals. "Wealth Masters International has enabled me to create a life where I can achieve my income potential and spend more time with my family. But the most rewarding part is being able to help other people stop the downward spiral and not only live, but also thrive," Jefferson concludes. Considering the state of our nation's collective financial trouble, that's refreshing news indeed.


