Title: 
Make A Quick Sale To Avoid Repossession

Word Count:
383

Summary:
Repossession is a spectre that haunts many homeowners and once your home has been repossessed, you are unlikely to be able to get a mortgage again and so lose all chance of owning your own home in the future.

It is possible to avoid repossession. There are ways of stopping the process at every stage, but if it gets as far as a court summons, you can still sell your property to pay off your mortgage before you’re ordered to give it up.

Selling your home, as most of us kn...


Keywords:
quick house sale


Article Body:
Repossession is a spectre that haunts many homeowners and once your home has been repossessed, you are unlikely to be able to get a mortgage again and so lose all chance of owning your own home in the future.

It is possible to avoid repossession. There are ways of stopping the process at every stage, but if it gets as far as a court summons, you can still sell your property to pay off your mortgage before you’re ordered to give it up.

Selling your home, as most of us know, can take months. By the time you’ve chosen an estate agent, waited for them to advertise your property and stayed in over two or three weekends so that people can view it, several weeks can have passed – time in which you could have already sold your property if you had chosen an alternative route. If you’re facing repossession, you simply don’t have the time to use the traditional method. Instead, look for a specialist company that can complete the purchase of your property in a fraction of the time.

These companies will buy your property from you at a fair price. There’s no chain involved and no estate agent’s fees to pay. You just meet the company’s agent, who will view your house and give you a valuation based on the type of house and the area it’s in. Once you have accepted the offer, the sale can go through in as little as three or four weeks. If you need to sell more quickly than that, just let the company know, because an immediate sale can often be arranged.

What are the benefits to you? Peace of mind and avoiding repossession are key benefits for homeowners in this position. It is really important that you do everything you can to avoid a repossession order being granted, because you will find it almost impossible to be granted credit of any kind once you have suffered repossession. By arranging a quick house sale in this way, you can pay off your debts and either rent back your home so you don’t have to move, or buy somewhere more affordable in the knowledge that your credit ranking is healthier than it could otherwise have been.


