Title: 
Making A Good First Impression When Selling Your Home

Word Count:
441

Summary:
The decision to buy a home is often dependent upon the first impression of the buyer. This means your home must be spiffed out so buyers will make the emotional attachement.


Keywords:
real estate, sell, selling, sell home, first impression, buyer, propertyreal estate, home, house, homes, house, sell, selling, open house,


Article Body:
The decision to buy a home is often dependent upon the first impression of the buyer. This means your home must be spiffed out so buyers will make the emotional attachement. 

Making A Good First Impression When Selling Your Home

Imagine you have always wanted to work in a particular job for a particular company. After years of education, you have finally received an interview for the position. How are you going to present yourself at the interview? Are you going to wear jeans? A t-shirt? Of course, not. You are going to get out your best professional outfit, go get a haircut and so on. Why? You want to make the best first impression available. 

Selling a home is no different that going for a job interview or a first date. You must spiff up your home so it makes a great impression on potential buyers. For many buyers, the decision to purchase a home is an emotional one. Recognizing this fact, you want to make it love at first site. This issue is so important that an entire industry has evolved to help you do so. 

The home staging industry is exactly what it sounds like. A person comes in and reviews your home from an objective perspective. They will then reorganize the home to make it more buyer friendly. They often will ask you to leave before doing this so they can get the job done without objections. 

You must let a staging professional do their job. They are going to help sell your home. They will organize the home in a manner that facilitates this. You, on the other hand, have organized the home in a manner that makes it livable for you. The two goals are very different and you must realize as much. 

Once you make the decision to sell a home, your personal tastes are no longer relevant. You will suffer less if you can come to grips with the fact the home is emotionally no longer yours the moment you decide to sell, not when escrow closes. From the moment you make that decision, the property is no longer where you live. It is an asset to be sold for as much money as possible and as fast as possible. You must learn to let go. Don’t worry, you can start looking for a new home to get attached to!

Independent parties that spiff up your home are not all that widespread. It is a growing service sector, but has a lot of room to grow. If it is available in your area, you would be wise to give it a try.


