Title: 
Medicare, Social Security and Retirement

Word Count:
324

Summary:
Everything keeps changing, how do I keep up?  Why is there so many choices?  This is common question and concerns of most seniors today.  The cost of health and prescriptions is higher today for seniors, averaging over $500.00 a month.


Keywords:
medicare,social security,retirement,pension


Article Body:
Everything keeps changing, how do I keep up?  Why is there so many choices?  This is common question and concerns of most seniors today.  The cost of health and prescriptions is higher today for seniors, averaging over $500.00 a month.

With fixed incomes, a comfortable retirement seems to be slipping away.
Retirement is re defining itself.  The days of a lifetime pension and 401ks are being wiped out.  You must think and live different than our Mothers and Fathers did before us.  The nest egg is under attack with high health rates, limited 401k's and lack of pension plans from former employment.  Some day Social Security may not be available.  What are we to do?

Washington State - 12/29/2005 - Medicare, Social Security and Retirement
Today a person coming to retirement must study and understand their future goals.  A plan must be in place.  Some may have to work part time to assist their retirement funds, and some maybe able to live from rare pension plans and investments.  Education is the key.  Classes, Seminars and home study is available and necessary. 

Here are a few items to cover:
- How do the changes for 2006 affect me?
- What do you need to understand about the new Medicare plans.
- How do I plan for retirement.
- Can you plan on your pension?

Business Subjects That affect Retirement:
- How do I manage my portfolio.
- What investment should you consider?
- What do you need to know about Social Security and Medicare.

Donald Trump has proven to be a household name to us for his accomplishments.  Many folks down play his forwardness and horn blowing ways, but he always seems to be on top.  Mr. Trump is someone to watch, learn and understand.

There is a few sites provided for you to understand Social Security, Medicare and Retirement better, at http://www.medicare-search-online.com , http://www.socailsecuritydata.com and http://www.retirementonlinefind.com .
You can also email ssn@nwcustomwebs.com  with any of your questions.


