Title: 
Miami Money Talks

Word Count:
493

Summary:
Consistently on top of investors' lists of prime real estate areas, Miami continues to prove that its lands and properties are worthy, not to mention, deserving of big investments. As if its colorful night life and fabulous beaches weren't enough reason to buy property on this strip of heaven, developers of the area continue to put up skyscraper condos and apartments. With an array of spacious villas and urbane condos, Miami real estate are truly hot stuff.

The latest in t...


Keywords:
Miami real estate, pre-construction, investment, financial gain


Article Body:
Consistently on top of investors' lists of prime real estate areas, Miami continues to prove that its lands and properties are worthy, not to mention, deserving of big investments. As if its colorful night life and fabulous beaches weren't enough reason to buy property on this strip of heaven, developers of the area continue to put up skyscraper condos and apartments. With an array of spacious villas and urbane condos, Miami real estate are truly hot stuff.

The latest in the Miami real estate scene is the rapidly developing downtown Miami. Pre-construction buildings, apartments and condos are sold in a rate even builders did not expect. Almost all units are sold even before a construction project is finished. The influx of many investors in real estate fueled the rise of new stores, malls, theater, and cafes. Miami downtown is proving to be a sunny New York. Not to be outdone, even old communities and developed areas are getting the attention of small developers. The leveling of old buildings start the reconstruction of newer and more promising establishments.

On a grander scale, skyscrapers are slowly but surely replacing old buildings. The state university even started the development of a 15-storey, $74,000,000 clinical research facility of 338,000 square meters. Miami real estate never looked so promising with more than twenty fresh pre-construction projects. In addition, new laws and city development guidelines are being drafted and prepared for a hipper and younger population. Add to that a reliable and responsible local government and efficient taxation system and Miami has the makings of being the next major player in Florida. You'd think that with these developments, people will soon stop buying and all the buildings will be left unfinished. Wrong conclusion, in fact, the real estate market in Miami has never been so active as it is today.

Developers and statistic records show that over 700 units can be sold in as little as 9 days. And these units range from $800 to twice or thrice the amount per square meter. Four days are all that is needed to sell a whole building or two. Now, that's serious money. Of course, there are Miami's regular celebrity buyers but most of the other buyers are people who have that blessed instinct of knowing where to invest. Aside from serious financial gain, other reasons for buying Miami real estate is the sunny weather. People from the north are rushing to buy Miami property for a chance to enjoy the sunshine all year. Other buyers, believe it or not are also from Miami. They are moving into the cities to reduce travel time and enjoy the comforts of city life. Some choose to stay downtown while putting their beach villas for rent. If you want to invest your money, do it in Miami. Even if you won't live there, your property would fetch high rent rates. After all, it's hard to resist a beach front paradise even if do come with a sky-high price tag.


