Title: 
Money Counters: Counting Cash And Change Made Simpler

Word Count:
361

Summary:
A money counter is a device which is used to count currency, checks or coupons. It takes less time than counting money manually, increases efficiency and eliminates the errors caused by manual counting. There are various types of money counters depending on their ability to count, add, batch, sort and align cash receipts. Some are designed to handle international currency. Other types of counters count and sort coins.

A Money Sorter for Coins
A money counter is a great de...


Keywords:
money counters,change counters,coin counters


Article Body:
A money counter is a device which is used to count currency, checks or coupons. It takes less time than counting money manually, increases efficiency and eliminates the errors caused by manual counting. There are various types of money counters depending on their ability to count, add, batch, sort and align cash receipts. Some are designed to handle international currency. Other types of counters count and sort coins.

A Money Sorter for Coins
A money counter is a great device for counting and sorting coins. It is very useful to anybody who handles a lot of change. People who receive tips and cashiers will find it useful. Some machines can also sort and put the coins into bags that are preset. Some can even deposit the money directly into pre-formed coin wrappers.

Cash Receipt Counter
Some money counter machines are so easy to handle that you just have to put the stack of bills in it and the machine will do the rest. Some others are designed to detect counterfeit notes as well. They remove the counterfeit money from the genuine one. They have a built-in UV light system, an incandescent bulb to detect watermark, a magnifier for verifying the micro printing and a magnetic component which helps it to detect them. Money sorters have different speeds, depending on the machine you buy. Some can count up to 1000 bills per minute.

Types and Preferences
There are certain money counters which are designed to count international currency as well. You can alter a few settings and customize the machine to count international currency according to its type and size. You can even customize the security levels for your counter. It will detect counterfeit currency depending on the settings that you use.

Advanced types of money counters also come with built in settings to create batches, sort denominations and display the total of the current count. A quality money counter is reliable, sturdy and simple to use. The function of a money counter is to make money management an easier job. Time is money in business, so the faster the bills can be counted and stacked; the better it is for the businessman.


