Title: 
More Energy Is Within Your Reach

Word Count:
469

Summary:
When you bring up the word "energy" in conversation, people respond. It seems as if everyone is looking for ways to increase his or her energy level and vitality. We need energy to succeed on the job, at home, in our social lives and to feel good about ourselves.


Keywords:
More Energy Is Within Your Reach


Article Body:
When you bring up the word "energy" in conversation, people respond. It seems as if everyone is looking for ways to increase his or her energy level and vitality. We need energy to succeed on the job, at home, in our social lives and to feel good about ourselves.

Sometimes we treat energy like an item we can't afford at an expensive store. But having more energy actually is as easy as 1-2-3.

1. You have to feed your body properly.

2. You have to make your body move an adequate amount.

3. You have to give your body sufficient rest.

Here are some tips on achieving ample energy and vitality.

* Remember, you are what you eat (and drink). We tend to gravitate toward sugar, white flour and processed foods that don't give an optimum type of return on our "eating investment." By eating this way, we lose vitamins, minerals and important nutrients. 

It's important to build an exceptional nutritional foundation. Enzymatic Therapy's Fatigued to Fantastic Energy Revitalization System provides the necessary nutrients at the right levels to safely and powerfully help people achieve peak energy.

This daily energy drink mix and B complex vitamin delivers more than 50 vitamins, minerals and nutrients and replaces the equivalent of more than 30 tablets.

In addition to good nutrition, we also need a large amount of water. Think of all the good things water does for your body and drink up.

* Move it. Adopt a "do more than now" philosophy. For example, if you have no exercise routine, start walking. If you are walking 20 minutes a day, set a goal of 30 minutes. 

* Sleep, perchance to dream. A hundred years ago, the average American was sleeping nine hours a night. We're now down to six and a half hours, which is not enough for tissue repair or to recharge our batteries. If you've bought into the myth that you can somehow "cheat the system" when it comes to proper sleep, think again. If energy is your goal, adequate sleep has to be a part of the equation. 

Consider adding Fatigued to Fantastic Revitalizing Sleep Formula to your regimen. Formulated with six highly effective herbals, it can help you get to sleep faster and wake up energized. 

* Take charge of your energy level. Reclaim your energy and reclaim your life. Incorporating Enzymatic Therapy's Fatigued to Fantastic Energy Revitalization System -- found in health-food stores nationwide -- is a step in the right direction. Proper nutrition, regular exercise and rest are the essential building blocks for enjoying life with new vitality.

Dr. Jacob E. Teitelbaum, a best-selling author, researcher and world-renowned medical expert in the field of energy support, is a board-certified internist and director of the Annapolis Research Center for Effective Fibromyalgia/CFS Therapies in Annapolis, Md. He is on the Scientific Advisory Board of Enzymatic Therapy and lectures internationally.  - NU


