Title: 
Mortgage Is A Very Harmless Loan

Word Count:
504

Summary:
A mortgage is referred to the house loan, and it will be placed as the security with the lender. The house will also be seized by the lender if the borrower does not pay a certain number of monthly installments.


Keywords:
finance, loan, dept, home, consolidation


Article Body:
A mortgage is referred to the house loan, and it will be placed as the security with the lender. The house will also be seized by the lender if the borrower does not pay a certain number of monthly installments. Most of the time mortgage is related to real estate, but there are also other securities that are used. This loan is called harmless as there will be good options for interest rates.

The term for repayment is also very long, so there will be the chance for the borrower to plan his monthly finances, and also take a plan accordingly. Most of the time of course, the mortgage loan value will be calculated based upon the amount that the borrower cannot pay. Normally he is asked to pay a down payment on the property that he is planning to purchase.

The down payment for the mortgage will be calculated according to the value of the property. The amount or percentage to be paid will also be calculated differently from company to company. This method is popular in the United States, as the home ownership is large and many people wish to rather own homes than rent it out.

The creditor will legally hold the rights to the property as he has funded the purchase of the house. Most of the time, these loans are given out by banks and smaller financial institutions. They are simply known as mortgagee or lender. The debtor is the person who has signed for the loan and who is obligated to pay back the borrower for the amount he has taken.

As there are several banks and other institutions who lend money for the property mortgage, there will be various interest rates and the financial advisor will be sought for help to choose the right company. There will also be a legal advisor present who will look at the agreements to be signed, and the creditor as well as debtor may have one.

The unregistered land ownership will be transferred to the bank, and the bank will hold complete rights to the property. The debtor of course will sign part of it, as he has made a down payment towards buying the property. The mortgage deed will be drawn by the banker as he is the one to lend the money. 

With a mortgage there will also be the fees for the disbursement charges as well as other legal and registration charges. When the debtor signs all the agreements, he has to look carefully at the value of the property, and also how much interest the bank is charging him. He has to ensure that he is able to repay the monthly installments accordingly.

There could also be the option of the mortgage by legal charge, where the debtor will hold rights to the property, but the creditor will still be able to sell it or repossess it if the loan amount is not repaid. A public register will record these details so that the borrower is safe.


