Title: 
Mortgage and Real Estate Information for Debtors

Word Count:
453

Summary:
If you owe money and have a below average credit score you may find it difficult to get a mortgage loan. In view of these facts, you may find interest in asking a qualified real estate agent help you find a home. These agents have a database full of houses that stream from land contracts, bad credit approval, and so on. The real estate agent may help you find a home you can buy despite how bad your credit maybe.


Keywords:
debt,debtor,real estate


Article Body:
If you owe money and have a below average credit score you may find it difficult to get a mortgage loan. In view of these facts, you may find interest in asking a qualified real estate agent help you find a home. These agents have a database full of houses that stream from land contracts, bad credit approval, and so on. The real estate agent may help you find a home you can buy despite how bad your credit maybe. 

If you have outstanding debt, the lender will inquire about your credit history and debts incurred. The lender will ask if you have any outstanding loans, and if so, what amount do you pay monthly. In other words, if you have car loans, you will need to supply the balance owed and the amount paid monthly toward the loan.

Lenders will ask about credit card debts. If you reply yes, then the lender will ask how much do you pay monthly. Overall, the lender will ask how much monthly do you spend on incurred debts that come from your pretax salary on credit card repayments etc.

You will need to answer questions pertaining to assets, which includes cash on hand. The underwriters will investigate information relating to the questions. For example, they will examine and ask, "What is the estimated amount in your banking account?" How much funds will be available in your account after you have paid closing fees, down payment costs, and other fees applicable to mortgage loans. Do you have a saving account?

The lender will ask how much cash do you intend to apply to the loan. The lender may ask also if the down payment is money coming from your pockets. If the answer is no then the lender will ask where the money is coming from...

Loan Purpose 

The loan purpose is of interest to the lender. Accordingly, you will respond to questions relating to the purpose of the loan, which includes, are you refinancing a current home, or are you an innovative buyer?

Refinancing Mortgage 

If you respond to the question pertaining to the loan, letting the lender know that you intend to refinance a current home with the money lent; the lender will ask, "Do you require cash at closing to repay debts? Of course, the question that follows will be, "How much" cash will you need to pay the debts in full?

Property Purpose 

The lender will require information pertaining of the home's purpose. Do you intend to use the home for work or dwelling? Is the loan intended to invest in the property?

Type of Property 

The mortgage lender will also need to know if the home is duplex, condominium, or single-family housing.


