Title: 
Online payday loan process

Word Count:
481

Summary:
This article is a short step-to-step instruction for full loan process in online payday loan service. It’s short description for any payday loan service application process, but in some particular services this process is another. So, please read carefully service terms, before taking your loan.


Keywords:
instant payday loan, payday loan, us fast cash, fast cash advance


Article Body:
Do you need some extra cash for your uncontemplated needs, but you don't have a time for offline loan process? It's not a problem. There is some special loan type for such situations – so called “payday loan”. Another term of “payday loan” is “cash advance”. So, what is payday loan – it’s short-term loan for borrower's urgent costs until their next payday. Usually the amount of such loan type is between $100 and $1500. Typical time term is about 2-3 weeks. Interest rates for this service various greatly from lender to lender in the range of 250 percent to 900 percent. Payday loan is the only answer for instant needs of people who need fast cash. Not every person is rich and has some cash for extra times. Many will only have enough to scrape along. In some situations it is possible to actually run out of cash. And it’s a big problem. Especially when payday is too far. Payday loan line is undoubtedly a convenient option for such people. But remember about the interest rate – it’s not a small rate for usual loan! Closely calculate your future income to be confident, that you will have enough cash to cover your loan and rate for it.
I’ll try to describe typically loan process. But it’s only typically steps, so there are some special services with another application process. Every service has it’s own “terms and agreements” – read it intently. In most payday loan services we can find the following steps for customer:
1.	You find some reliable online service. There are a lot of such lenders and it’s really not an easy thing to choose the best one. I can propose 2 payday loan sites. The first - <a href="http://paydayloans-on.com">Instant payday loan</a>, this online-service works with reliable lender ExtraPayday. And the second - <a href="http://us-fast-cash-now.com">Fast cash service</a>, which works with OneHourCash lender.  
2.	Read “Terms and Agreements” for this service: look for the interest rate for the application, study what is the max time term for the loan, and find some special requests to the borrower.
3.	Calculate your future income to be confident in your financial consistency for a loan. Some people, who miss this step, become in a “debtor's prison”…
4.	Fill online application form on service site. Some lenders request fax copies of some information.
5.	Wait for approve by phone or by email.
6.	When approve receive your cash on a checking or savings account.

It’s look simply? It’s true! Payday loan is a very fast and easy way to receive some extra cash. Very often “bad credit”, “no credit”, “bankruptcy”, “no faxing is required”! But don’t forget about the interest rate – the rate very often is really big. You pay a lot for continent, speed and flexibility of this loan type.
By http://us-fast-cash-now.com/ and http://paydayloans-on.com/ sites materials.


