Title: 
Online Trading And System Trading

Word Count:
331

Summary:
Indeed, online trading has revolutionalised the way common folks like you and me trade 
in the capital markets. 

Online trading has its pros and cons. Online trading’s main pro is convenience and speed, giving a trader maximum control of all aspects of trading. Conversely, online trading’s main killer con is in the tons of human error that can happen due to a lack of guidance. 

Due to a lack of guidance, most online traders find themselves extremely prone to their emot...


Keywords:
online trading, system trading


Article Body:
Indeed, online trading has revolutionalised the way common folks like you and me trade 
in the capital markets. 

Online trading has its pros and cons. Online trading’s main pro is convenience and speed, giving a trader maximum control of all aspects of trading. Conversely, online trading’s main killer con is in the tons of human error that can happen due to a lack of guidance. 

Due to a lack of guidance, most online traders find themselves extremely prone to their emotions when trading online. When they feel the urge to get out of a position simply because their emotions are all fired up, they can at the simple click of a mouse. This has led to a lot of failed trades and a lot of lost money.... The only way anyone can succeed in online trading in the long run is through a disciplined trading regime based on a fix trading system or what we called “System Trading”. 

System trading means that you pick stocks based on a fixed criteria, enter on a fix criteria and exit on fixed criteria... all put together nicely like different parts of a car. With system trading and a fixed portfolio management policy can anyone truly attain success in online trading.

System trading aims to take the emotion out of the trader by having objective and specific criteria for every aspect of online trading. With a fixed set of criteria to follow when online trading, the trader have something to fall back on when emotions start to fly, and that is, the proven track record of the system that the online trader is following. The online trader is assured that as long as he follows the rules to the nigh, the odds of winning will always be stacked in his/her favor. Over the long run, with a sound portfolio management policy, anyone can succeed in online trading.

For the Best in System Trading, please visit http://www.mastersoequity.com/MOE_startradingsystem.htm


