Title: 
Preferred Rewards Green Card From American Express - A True Financial Companion

Word Count:
456

Summary:
Established in 1850, American express happens to be one of the oldest and most honored financial service organizations in the world. Also referred to as “Amex”, the concern excels in credit card, charge card and travelers’ cheque businesses. Credit cards from American express are known for providing unparalleled customer service and immediate purchasing power. Preferred Rewards Green Card from American Express is an exceptional Amex credit card.


Keywords:
american express green credit card, business, compare, offers, finance, bills, apply,


Article Body:
Established in 1850, American express happens to be one of the oldest and most honored financial service organizations in the world. Also referred to as “Amex”, the concern excels in credit card, charge card and travelers’ cheque businesses. Credit cards from American express are known for providing unparalleled customer service and immediate purchasing power. Preferred Rewards Green Card from American Express is an exceptional Amex credit card.

The Target Group

Though Preferred Rewards Green Card from American Express is recommendable for everyone, yet it is ideal for those who can afford to pay the full balance every month to successfully skirt accumulation of credit card debt. This is because an accumulated debt leads to a very high rate of interest, which is inconvenient for an individual to pay later.

Key Characteristics

With no pre-set spending limit, the Preferred Rewards Green Card from American Express comes fee-free for the first year. It is not just the annual fee of the basic card, but fees for up to five additional cards are waived in the first year of card membership. After the expiry of the first year, an annual fee of $95 is charged for the basic card and $30 for each additional card.

Additional Benefits

Preferred Rewards Green Card from American Express is recognized in numerous places all over the world. This card provides several additional benefits like fraud protection, extended warranty for purchases, purchase protection, medical and legal referral services, roadside assistance, emergency cash replacement, auto rental as well as lost luggage insurance, emergency card replacement and a travel accident insurance up to a maximum of $100000.

Cardholders also get various Internet a/c related services and have easy access to the global assist plus hotline that proffers several assistances even when the holders are more than 100miles away from their home. At the year-end, all the cardholders receive a financial statement that carries all the minute details of the financial transactions.

The Reward Program

Merely signing in the card, inducts one into the reward program and the cardholder receives a warm welcome in the form of 5000 bonus membership rewards points (which can be redeemed right away). After this, one point accumulates for every dollar spent using the card and these points are redeemable towards fifty big names in entertainment and shopping, or for rewards from 21 airlines, over 50 cruise itineraries, hundreds of hotels worldwide, vacation packages and spa retreats.

This apart, the holder can transfer the points to eleven frequent flyer programmes at the rate of one point equated to one frequent flyer mile or frequent guest credit. It is mention worthy that there is no limit to the amount of points that can be earned and the points never expire on a Preferred Rewards Green Card from American Express.


