Title: 
Refinancing: Mistakes and Misconceptions

Word Count:
496

Summary:
It is often the biggest mistake we make when attempting to refinance by overlooking and disregarding equity lines that are right around us and that can possibly be sourced with a little ingenuity.


Keywords:
refinance


Article Body:
It is often the biggest mistake we make when attempting to refinance by overlooking and disregarding equity lines that are right around us and that can possibly be sourced with a little ingenuity. You never overlook any possible source of finance when building a property portfolio. This is a common mistake that can cost us a lot in the future as without the right financing we will be subject to things such as higher interest rates as well.

When we look at the equity available around us we also often limit it to our own belongings. This is not a bad practice however when looking to build out we have to think at a deeper level. In our list of equity lines we should in addition to our belongings have a potential list of persons that we can approach to sign with us as guarantors or even as joint owners. This is important to consider in tandem with refinancing.

There is no need to look too far when compiling this list and in fact this list should be close to home for the most part. Ask yourself this question, "Do you know anyone that owns their own home?" I am certain the answer will be an outstanding yes. What about someone that has their own business? These are all options when you are looking for someone to give you that last edge towards getting a loan or even in given you the additional boost so that refinancing is easier to accomplish.

You can use your own resources such as your own equity and any savings you may have and refinance as well but the importance of a guarantor is often overlooked. It is hard to get that loan if you have the requirement of a large amount or sum of money. Even with equity and savings there is no guarantee that the person that is approving the loan will be sufficiently convinced of your ability to repay and hence refinancing is easier with that additional guarantor. It also helps that this person is willing to go out on a limb for you so the provider of the loan is able to establish some level of trust that you are capable of repaying.

This is where building a trust relationship comes in handy. Institutions do not approve loans. We go to many places to source loans such as:

"Banks "Credit Unions "Private Lenders "Wealthy Investors

These are just a few of the institutions that we can approach. However it is the people in these institutions that we have to convince that we are capable to handle a refinancing of our loan and repay it efficiently. We also have to convince them that our plan is one that will be profitable. They are in essence putting there security at stake when they approve a loan for us and as such there must be a certain level of trust in your ability to fulfil the obligation of a loan.


