Title: 
Refinance Mortgage - Now could be a good time to refinance

Word Count:
415

Summary:
If you are looking to take a mortgage or refinance one, great opportunities may be available to you now.


Keywords:
refinance guide, refinance advice, refinance mortgageThere are several distinct differences between the methods of how males and females sculpt ripped abs. Read this article


Article Body:
The mortgage market is currently experiencing an increase in rates as 30 year mortgages rates push slightly over six percent, and 15 year mortgages move over the 5.50 level. Both of these loan rates assume that you would be putting 20% down at borrowing, which is customary amongst most commercial lenders. While most people are hesitant to move into the market at these rates, there exist other options you could possibly take advantage of. The federal government is attempting to ease the crisis in the mortgage market with the Federal Housing Administration. Passing new legislation, the government hopes to spur on new applications by allowing lenders to introduce mortgages with only a 3% down payment. 

  For a first time home buyer with not much savings this could be an extremely welcome opportunity. Additionally, buyers who are in a bit of trouble with plummeting market rates may be able to benefit from FHA backed refinancing. In August, the government allowed over 200,000 homeowners to refinance, and now additional people may be able to refinance their home down to its current market value, giving people and incentive to stay in the home. The FHA is now getting authority to refinance homes that are in the $700,000 range, were as before, they were only allowed to come in on loans in the high 300s. 

   Families looking to get into a home fast, who have suffered from the recent recession, may find FHA backed loans quite attractive. The down payment requirements, which now stand at 3%, may be lowered to 1.5%. Moreover, there is no credit history requirement and no fixed income requirement either.  But, you do have to pay an upfront premium for these reduced lending guidelines, which amounts to 1.5% of the loan total at closing, and half a percent every year.  Not too bad on a reasonable mortgage, especially when compared to a 20% down payment. 

    For potential buyers, home prices look pretty attractive right now, with the median national home price just under $240,000. Prices have fallen recently, just a bit, to make the market even more attractive. People are rushing to buy homes in areas that have had record numbers of foreclosures. The inventory in hard hit states like California, Florida, and Utah is truly stunning.  If you are an eager home buyer, who has some cash saved, now is a great time to be searching for a great deal. And with so many people and institutions looking to sell homes as fast as they can, you may walk away with the deal of a lifetime.


