Title: 
revolutionised banking

Word Count:
469

Summary:
Article that explaines why In a couple of  years the internet has revolutionised the manner the most of us do our banking.And from a customer's point of view why there are many good reasons to do your banking online


Keywords:
savings account banking bank online cheaper


Article Body:
In a couple of  years the internet has revolutionised the manner the most of us do our banking. The majority of banks and building societies offer their internet services 24 hours per day, meaning that even those leading the most unconventional of lifestyles can access banking at their convenience. Wherever you live in the UK, loans, current accounts, and mortgages can all be bought and administered online that makes life so much easier for any person. 

Ever since the advent of the internet, businesses have been looking for ways to use it in innovative, safe and secure ways eager that it will offer more opportunities to drive business and increase profits. That includes banks which have often been at the forefront of internet technology in the search for a cheaper and much more efficient way of undertaking business with their customers. Even though they are unlikely to risk outrage by completely eliminating their branch networks, many high street banks would prefer the majority of clientele to transact their business online. That is because it is by far the most profitable channel for the financial institutions. 

And surely from a customer's point of view there are many good reasons to do your banking online. It's enormously convenient plus you don't have to go cap in hand to the local bank manager if you want to arrange any form of borrowing, and risk the embarrassment of being turned down. Now all that is required is a click of the mouse, whether it's to submit an application for a short-term extension to an overdraft, or to apply for one of the many longer-term personal loans, all are available on the internet plus it is a great way to open online savings accounts and have access to your account any time of the day. 

Indeed, the internet is quickly becoming the number one place for applying for personal loans, and more people are frequently doing their banking online with payments association APACS reporting a 174% rise in numbers over the past year. Their figures show the greatest rise in usage coming from the over-55s with a 350% rise over last year. That ties in to a drop in reported online fraud as users become savvy to the most obvious phishing scams, and banks improve their education of users and tighten their own online security. 

Online comparison sites have also become extremely popular with the internet community. They have made momentous in-roads into the financial markets and potential customers can go there to compare loans, credit cards or even mortgages all on one website, without the need to do any of the hard work themselves. With everything required to cover all banking needs online, it is easy to see why it has become so popular and will grow even bigger within the next couple of years.


