Title: 
Save Money, Spend Time!

Word Count:
351

Summary:
Everyone wants a relaxing holiday and today’s holidaymakers are used to taking more than one holiday a year. This has been made possible by the availability of cheap holiday travel, with the internet giving us access to great discounts on flights and hotels. What are the benefits of low-cost holidays to the traveller?

1. More destinations

One of the obvious benefits of the reduction in travel costs is that you can reach more destinations. The increase in discount flight...


Keywords:
cheap discount holiday travel


Article Body:
Everyone wants a relaxing holiday and today’s holidaymakers are used to taking more than one holiday a year. This has been made possible by the availability of cheap holiday travel, with the internet giving us access to great discounts on flights and hotels. What are the benefits of low-cost holidays to the traveller?

1. More destinations

One of the obvious benefits of the reduction in travel costs is that you can reach more destinations. The increase in discount flights means that destinations that were previously too costly for most travellers are now easy and cheap to get to. From the UK, you can now travel from most of the country’s airports to cities that were previously only accessible either from a single major airport or by a train connection once you arrived. These include:

• Prague
• Vienna
• Venice
• Bratislava
• Budapest

In addition, coastal resorts across Europe are attracting more tourists, not just from the UK, but from all over the continent, where the cheap flight revolution has touched just about everyone. Croatia and Bulgaria are just two of the countries that are attracting not only holidaymakers but developers and new businesses.

Take advantage of discounted flights and lower-priced accommodation to explore places that you may not have considered visiting previously. Exploring new cultures, new foods, new languages and new landscapes is one of the many benefits of the availability of cheap discount holiday travel across Europe and around the world.

2. Longer breaks

Cheap prices mean that you can often afford to be away for longer periods. Instead of taking a week to explore Spain or the Greek Islands, take ten days or a fortnight. There won’t be a big difference in price, and you can really relax and make the most of your surroundings. This is especially true if you book your flights and accommodation separately, as you are in complete control of when you fly out and when you come back. Pick off-season travel and mid-week flights to get the best discounts.

Spending less on your travel has many benefits, allowing you to make the most of your money.


