Title: 
Save Thousands By Listing Your Home On Flat Fee MLS Listing

Word Count:
523

Summary:
Selling your home on your own can save you a lot of money, and yet most people still use a realtor. One reason is that realtors actually do have access to marketing tools you don’t generally have. That, though, does not have to be the case. Take, for instance, the Multiple Listing Service (MLS) used by almost every realtor.

The MLS is a crucial part of marketing your home. Since about 70% of home buyers begin their search on the internet, it is very important that your hom...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Selling your home on your own can save you a lot of money, and yet most people still use a realtor. One reason is that realtors actually do have access to marketing tools you don’t generally have. That, though, does not have to be the case. Take, for instance, the Multiple Listing Service (MLS) used by almost every realtor.

The MLS is a crucial part of marketing your home. Since about 70% of home buyers begin their search on the internet, it is very important that your home be listed in MLS. However, you generally have to sign with a realtor and pay a commission on your sale if you want to be in MLS. Essentially it ends up costing you tens of thousands of dollars to list on MLS then.

The answer is to save thousands by listing your home on a flat fee MLS listing. In many states, even a home for sale by owner can be listed on the MLS. To get your home listed, you just have to pay a one time flat fee. Since in most cases the amount is less than $1000, you really do end up saving thousands of dollars.

The only difference between your flat fee listing and the realtor listing is that you get listed with zero service. However, you still do get the opportunity to reach all the buyers, brokers, and realtors with access to MLS. Additionally, many other websites link to listings in MLS so your home will be exposed to a lot of people. Exposure is half the battle when it comes to selling your home.

MLS is a significant marketing tool because of its reach and popularity. Every realtor and broker in your area will have access to your listing. That means that their customers, the buyer of the area, are going to be exposed to your listing as well. Considering that you are saving thousands by listing your home on flat fee MLS listing, your sale will be able to net you more money. Additionally, because you are saving on commissions, you are also able to effectively come down on your price more to seal a deal. That can be the difference between a buyer taking your home or another one. Then, in the end, you still end up saving money by selling on your own.

The other way you save thousands by listing your home on flat fee MLS listing is that you can avoid paying the local newspaper, real estate channel on cable, or real-estate papers from your neighborhood to have your properly listed. Once you are on MLS, there is no need to worry about other such listings since you may end up exposed to them anyway.

It is a fact that you can save thousands by listing your home on flat fee MLS listings. You can also save money just by the mere fact that you are selling as owner. By saving on commissions and realtor fees you can afford to be much more flexible with your home sales. The flat fee listing will allow you the marketing you need to sell in an efficient manner.


