Title: 
Save Online, Try The Online Savings Account

Word Count:
586

Summary:
Savings account is account deposited that is only intended to stay in the bank for a relatively shorter time span. This account usually offers much lower interest rates than most bank accounts. But still, like many other accounts, it accumulates interests. The rate of which is largely dependent on the conditions provided by the bank. 

Savings accounts are normally maintained by commercial banks, credit unions, loans and savings associations, and some mutual savings bank th...


Keywords:
saving accounts


Article Body:
Savings account is account deposited that is only intended to stay in the bank for a relatively shorter time span. This account usually offers much lower interest rates than most bank accounts. But still, like many other accounts, it accumulates interests. The rate of which is largely dependent on the conditions provided by the bank. 

Savings accounts are normally maintained by commercial banks, credit unions, loans and savings associations, and some mutual savings bank that are offering interests that can never be used as money. However, the account may be utilized by writing a check. 

These accounts allow customers to use parts of their liquid assets, which may be used for any transactions. But before a savings account is used, the balances in the savings account must first be transferred to checkable deposits or transaction deposits or currency. But due to the simplicity of transferring the saving accounts, they are often termed as "money".

Though the use of checks is often not allowed, withdrawals are still easier when done using the savings accounts. The Money Market Deposit Account or the MMDAs on the other hand may restrict you on a limited number of transference of accounts and withdrawals.

With the advent of the Internet comes the development of a new system of banking- the direct-to-consumer banking system. This particularly addresses online savings accounts. Direct-to-consumer system allows direct access to savings accounts from the traditional bank online where money naturally transfers by means of electronic bank transfer. There are two types of banking institutions that create and allow this form of transaction- online-only banks and the traditional banks. 

Online-only banking is the answer of the entrepreneurs to the growing consensus of the general public of who usually make banking transactions through the internet. These banks tried to accomplish what real banks have done. They offered almost the same spectrum of products that traditional banks have but offered them on consumer-friendly deals- high interest rates and low fees. 

Online savings accounts often offer significantly higher rates of interest as compared to the contemporary savings account. This deal may be attributed to the fact that lesser expenses during online processing and that online market is naturally rate-sensitive.

Sadly, the majority of the consumers are not yet prepared to this new treatment in banking. This in effect, brought down most of such banks.

But by the end of year 2000, ING launched an optimized form of online-only banking. This was rather successful and brought great increase in the online banking industry. They created a much simpler savings account transaction that pays higher rates than the traditional banking. But this does not permit the use of ATM cards, checks, and other services. It was only intended as an account for which your money may be safely guarded.

For almost three years, ING had no other rivals in this system of banking. But recently, many other banking institutions have followed suit. Some were the pioneers of the online-only banking who eventually died down during the course yet returned to beat the market share ING has. Some of these banks offer the same services with that of the ING programs. Most have the same principle of high interest rates and no unnecessary frills. 

One notable new entrant is the VirtualBank. This targeted the high-end techy society yet they offer much lower rates as compared to the ING Bank. Thus they gained some consumers.

Eventually, the industry expanded sometime in 2003 until 2004. And by the year 2005, savings account virtually revolutionized banking by means of online-only banking.


