Title: 
Savings Accounts – An Overview

Word Count:
409

Summary:
Being in control of your finances means not only managing your current account wisely, but planning ahead too. Although we are used to thinking we will have the welfare state to fall back on, the support offered by state benefits is far from generous.


Keywords:
banking, savings, bank, accounts, interest, higher, greater, more, earn, money, cash


Article Body:
Being in control of your finances means not only managing your current account wisely, but planning ahead too. Although we are used to thinking we will have the welfare state to fall back on, the support offered by state benefits is far from generous - most people would struggle to exist on a basic pension alone. 

Furthermore, our ageing population face an uncertain future as demographics change – by the time today’s thirty-year olds reach retirement there’s no telling how the economic situation will look. Aside from planning your retirement, you ought to have something to fall back on in case there’s a sudden change in your circumstances – how would you manage if illness or redundancy curtailed your earnings?

Although these issues are serious ones, there are many ways to ensure that you and your family will be well provided for and finding them need not be a nightmare. Start today by considering how much you can afford to put by. Be realistic, but try to allocate a fair proportion of your budget – aim to save at least 10% of your monthly income if you can. Secondly, look at your options – this guide provides a general view of some of the more common ways to save and resources for finding more information. 

How you choose to save will depend on your age, circumstances and the amount you want to invest – but remember it’s never too late to start, and never too early to plan for your future. Even if you can only afford to put a small amount away every month, it could make a huge difference in the long run. 

There are vast amounts of different ways to save and invest, and there are also tax benefits to take into account. In an effort to urge people to save, the government offer various incentives – such as tax-free savings plans and children’s savings accounts. 

Savings accounts often attract higher interest rates than current accounts, so you could be earning money daily without expending any effort. For those willing to diversify, there are offshore accounts and investments to consider - these are explored in more detail below. 

Considering your family’s financial security is often a high priority – check out the sections on children’s accounts for ideas. The last section offers ways to find more information, with listings of bodies that may be able to help you. 

Finally, enjoy the feeling of taking responsibility for your own future!


