Title: 
Selling Your Property On The Internet

Word Count:
359

Summary:
Should you sell your property on the internet? This is a common question with an equally common answer – YOU MUST!


Keywords:
real estate, property, internet, selling, sell, photographs, pictures, photos, list, listing


Article Body:
Should you sell your property on the internet? This is a common question with an equally common answer – YOU MUST!

Selling Your Property On The Internet

For those looking to sell a property themselves, many ask themselves whether or not they should sell on the internet. Well, the simple answer is, if you don’t list it on the internet then you are only hurting yourself. Just like magazines and newspapers, the internet provides a great source for homeowners to draw attention to the property that they have for sale. In fact, the internet is now the dominate media where homebuyers look for properties with over 70 percent reporting as much.

What is more is that the internet is an incredibly easy place to list a property. The typical process involves opening an account, uploading as much description as possible and uploading photographs. Much like a dating site, the more information and photographs you post, the quicker your property will attract interest from potential buyers. This is the digital equivalent of curb appeal.  

There are a number of sites you can use to list your property for sale on the Internet. All basically offer the same listing characteristics, but pricing is radically different. Some sites, such as ours mentioned below, offer a free first month listing. Others try to get you to commit to a flat fee for a year with prices as high as $750. There are plenty of others as well that offer prices ranging between these two extremes. 

In general, you do not want to commit to the flat fee for a year listing. Although the real estate market has cooled, it is still roaring hot from a historical perspective. Practically speaking, property may not sell in a week any more, but it does sell in the first 90 days if appropriately priced and so on. Given this fact, it makes little sense to commit to a year listing. 

Regardless of the approach you take, the web has radically changed the game in real estate. Online sites offer greater access to the pool of buyers and, in many cases, make the need for real estate agents a superfluous one.


