Title: 
Signs That You're Not Using Your Credit Cards Properly

Word Count:
460

Summary:
It is a fact that many people fail to use their credit cards properly. Only when they have gained a credit card balance which is difficult to pay off do they begin seeking help.


Keywords:
credit, cards, use, best, pay, payments, debt, charges, fees, cost, high


Article Body:
It is a fact that many people fail to use their credit cards properly. Only when they have gained a credit card balance which is difficult to pay off do they begin seeking help. While it is possible to pay off your balance and get out of debt, it is much easier to look for the warning signals which indicate that your spending is getting out of control.

If you find that you are only able to make the minimum payments each month, this is a sign that you've allowed your balance to become so high that it will be difficult to pay off. If any of your credit cards have been maxed out, this is another sign that you need to get your spending limits under control immediately. If you are charging more money on your card than you bring in from your job, this is a bad sign as well. If you are using the money from one credit card to pay off another, this is another bad sign.

If you find that you're in denial, and don't want to talk about how much you owe, it is time to seriously look at your financial lifestyle to see what is wrong. People who are having problems with their credit cards may have to resort to using their retirement savings or other funds in order to get out of debt. People who are seriously in debt will begin using their credit cards in order to buy necessities such as food or gasoline.

If the examples above describe you or someone you know, this is a sign that you are in financial trouble. By this time, it is usually very difficult to pay off your credit cards in a reasonable time period. If you feel that there is nothing you can do, it may be best to begin looking at debt consolidation or even bankruptcy. Before you do either, you should first consult a lawyer or credit counseling service to find out which option is best.  The first thing you will want to do is stop using your credit cards.

Adding more money to the balance won't make things easier. While you may not be in a situation which is  this serious, if you find that you are buying things on impulse, this is a sign that you shoud stop. If you can't afford to pay for something in cash, this is a sign that you should avoid using your credit card to pay for it. If you really want it, it may be best to save money. If you feel that saving money for the product will take a long time,  you should realize that it will take a long time to pay off your credit card as well.


