Title: 
Simplifying the Process of Finding Affordable Health Insurance

Word Count:
384

Summary:
Having too many choices when buying healthcare can be a minefield for consumers; knowing what to look for before you start can be a tremendous help.


Keywords:
health insurance quotes, affordable health insurance quotes


Article Body:
As consumers’ choices increase when buying affordable health insurance online, so has the growth of benefit information within those plans. Today there are thousands of broker-sponsored websites ready and able to serve the consumer.  

However, there are many pitfalls to watch for when buying something from someone you don’t know, filled with information you don’t understand. Many of these sites lack information that is crucial to make an educated decision when getting health insurance quotes.

Keeping up-to-date information is a vast challenge for companies; some sites offer up to 80 different carriers providing 150 separate types of individual, family, or business insurance.  With this much information, a change to one of these products can often take up to 30 days to be reflected in online insurance quotes.

It’s difficult for insurance brokers, much less the untrained consumer, to find the right information and make the right choice when getting health insurance quotes. So what can the consumer do when faced with this informational overload?  

As simple as this may seem, find a company whose site provides enough insurance information for consumers to do a little homework. A Glossary is a great starting point, as you can familiarize yourself with many of the terms you will encounter when shopping for affordable health insurance. When getting a health insurance quote online, be sure you know who you’re working with. 

Another very important question to ask is if the person guiding you through your insurance options is a licensed health insurance agent.  Insurance advisors are the very ones provided with updated information about policies you may be interested in. Licensed health insurance agents must follow strict guidelines mandated by their state’s department of insurance and those insurance companies they represent. 

Using a service that provides you multiple quotes from various carriers (insurance companies) is a great way to simplify the process. Make sure the health insurance quote web site you are using only works with reputable licensed insurance agents, solid insurance companies, and that they can be easily contacted. I simple way to see if a real person is on the other end is to simply call a conspicuously placed toll free number on the page. If a phone number isn’t present, you should consider requesting an affordable health insurance quote from another source.


