Title: 
Specialty Halloween Pies Perfect for a Halloween Costume Party

Word Count:
506

Summary:
It is always a wonderful experience when you walk into a home where someone has just baked a pumpkin pie—all those intoxicating smells of nutmeg, cinnamon, pumpkin, and crisp piecrust.


Keywords:
Halloween Costumes


Article Body:
It is always a wonderful experience when you walk into a home where someone has just baked a pumpkin pie—all those intoxicating smells of nutmeg, cinnamon, pumpkin, and crisp piecrust. This piece is dedicated to all you pie-lovers out there, as well as all you non-bakers. I’ve put together some recommendations for where you can get delicious pumpkin pies. These pies are perfect for family get-togethers, Halloween costume parties, or as gifts to your friends and loved ones. In no particular order, here are five places where you can get fabulous pumpkin pie. 

1. Try out Achatz Handmade Pie Company. The company makes two superb pumpkin pies, perfect for Halloween costume parties or for anytime of the year! There is the traditional pumpkin pie, with freshly made crust and filling with only the highest quality ingredients. But my personal favorite is their Pumpkin Crumb Pie. It’s almost like Crumb Cake mixed with Pumpkin Pie, and the flavors are amazing together. The Pumpkin Crumb Pie is essentially the traditional pumpkin pie with a layer of Achatz’ secret recipe crumb topping. This is great for a fancier Halloween costume party. 

2. Bonerts Slice of Pie Company also has two delicious pumpkin pies. Like Achatz, Bonerts has a classic pumpkin pie and then a specialty pumpkin pie. Next time you’re planning a Halloween costume party, don’t forget to order a few of Bonerts’ Pumpkin Cream Cheese pies. It’s a great take on a classic pie, and the cream cheese gives the pie a rich, velvety texture that is incredible with the pumpkin flavor. Your Halloween costume party guests will be singing its praises!

3. In the spirit of the ghoulish Halloween, why not buy a Black Raspberry Pie from Garden Harvest Supply? The black, gooey filling and the flaky crust provide a nice alternative to pumpkin pie. With the Black Raspberry Pie, you can add creepy-crawly decorations like fake spiders, gummy worms, or plastic eyeballs. The deep, red-black color of the pie is a great addition to any Halloween costume party or Halloween costume get-together. 

4. I can’t help mentioning Ms. Hill’s Pies. She’s a nice lady in Iowa who has been making delicious, handmade pies for over 30 years. That’s a lot of pies! For a nice “bloody” pie, why not buy the Cherry Pie? It tastes incredible, and it’s a great texture and color for Halloween costume parties and haunted houses. You could even hand out slices of pie to your trick-or-treaters in their Halloween costumes. 

5. And last but not least, there are the delectable gourmet pies at Underhill Farms Gourmet & Specialty Pies. As the company states, “Each pie is made to order from the freshest ingredients, back to perfection, and delivered to your door.” Try the Single Crust Pumpkin Pie. They also sell a Sugar Free Pumpkin Pie, which is perfect if any of your Halloween costume party guests have trouble processing sugar. Plus, with all that Halloween candy, all that extra sugar in a pie is a bit unnecessary!


