Title: 
Stopping Foreclosure – How To Stop Home Foreclosures

Word Count:
562

Summary:
It’s easy to get behind on your bills. It happens even to the best of us sometimes. When it comes to mortgage payments though, getting behind can mean risking your home’s foreclosure. The best way to stop foreclosures is to avoid getting behind on your mortgage payments in the first place, but when circumstances prevent you from paying on time, what can you do? Where can you go?

The first thing to be sure to do, is be open and honest about what’s going on. Don’t try to hid...


Keywords:
stop foreclosure, stopping foreclosure, home foreclosure


Article Body:
It’s easy to get behind on your bills. It happens even to the best of us sometimes. When it comes to mortgage payments though, getting behind can mean risking your home’s foreclosure. The best way to stop foreclosures is to avoid getting behind on your mortgage payments in the first place, but when circumstances prevent you from paying on time, what can you do? Where can you go?

The first thing to be sure to do, is be open and honest about what’s going on. Don’t try to hide from your lender, or ignore them. This will just give them reason to believe that you aren’t going to pay them back. You need to contact them and be open and honest about your financial situation.

Lenders do not want to foreclose. It is only a last resort for when they feel that you will not be able to pay them any other way. There are a few things you can do to stop foreclosure.

1)Reinstatement – This is when you negotiate to reinstate your behind payments by promising to repay later a lump sum to get back on track with your regular payment plan.

2)Forbearance – This is when you are allowed to hold off on payments for awhile with a plan for later getting back on track with your payments.

3)Modification of the Mortgage – This is when the mortgage is re-negotiated for a new workable payment plan financed over a longer period of time and often smaller regular payments.

4)Selling your Home – This means losing your home, but it can certainly mean getting more money for your home than if you had a foreclosure. You would be given a time period to sell your home in order to pay off the rest of your loan to get out of debt.

5)Deed in Lieu of Foreclosure – This is when the lender and you agree that you will give up your home, and they will forgive the debt. This does not look good on your credit history, nor does it allow you to keep your home, but it is still much better than a foreclosure.

All of these foreclosure stopping methods depend on what your financial situation is in the present, what potential it has for the future, and whether you can negotiate a workable plan with your lender. It’s best to get all your financial documents in order, so that you can present your best possible case to your lender. If they see that there is good potential for you to pay them back, then they will certainly be willing to negotiate with you. You may end up paying higher interest rates over a longer period of repayment, but it’s certainly worth it if you can keep your home.

If you need help in the negotiation process, or getting your financial records in order to plead your case, there are many financial advisors that specialize in helping to stop foreclosures. Financial advisors can be your savior if you don’t know where to start when it comes to negotiations. If you are going to seek an advisor for help, be sure that they are working on results. That means don’t pay them any fees up front. Foreclosure advisors that know what they’re doing, will only take payment if they do the job for you successfully.


