Title: 
The Key Advantages Of The Subaru Master Card

Word Count:
463

Summary:
The Chase Manhattan Bank offers a host of credit cards, which have their respective advantages and lucrative rewards’ programs. Those who are interested in the purchase of and/or are planning to lease a Subaru vehicle within four years of the date of issuance of the card will find the Subaru Master Card very useful. The card promises the cardholder great many rewards in the form of Subaru products and services.


Keywords:
subaru mastercard, chase, subaru credit card,


Article Body:
The Chase Manhattan Bank offers a host of credit cards, which have their respective advantages and lucrative rewards’ programs. Those who are interested in the purchase of and/or are planning to lease a Subaru vehicle within four years of the date of issuance of the card will find the Subaru Master Card very useful. The card promises the cardholder great many rewards in the form of Subaru products and services.

The cardholders should know the key features of the credit card so as to be able to apply for it easily.

Key Features Of The Card

For the first six months, the card has a 0% introductory annual percentage rate on balance transfers. The card does not charge any annual fee. The great money-saver card also has a free of interest grace period on new purchases made with the card. The regular APRs of 14.24 percent, applicable on purchases and balance transfers are also reasonable. The variable APR applicable on cash-advances is based on the prime rate.

The Attributes Of The Card

The highlight of the Subaru Master Card is undoubtedly its rewards’ program. The card brings with it the opportunity for its members to earn three percent in SubaruBucks Rewards on regular every day purchases.

As per the program plans, when your purchases reach the $3333-mark, you will be eligible for a $100 coupon. In a year, you can earn a maximum of $500 or $2000 in the span of four-years. Remember that the coupons will expire in a four-year period from the date of the issuance of the credit card.

The rewards earned from the purchases made with the card can be redeemed for Subaru parts and services like oil changes, tire rotation and even for buying a new Subaru vehicle. If you intend to purchase a new Subaru car, then you can receive a tremendous discount against the Purchase Price of the new car. You can also receive discounts on the expenses incurred on the maintenance services of an old vehicle.

The Perks

The card offers account related services online. The card also provides other facilities like roadside assistance, auto rental insurance, emergency cash and credit replacement, travel accident insurance, travel and emergency assistance services and other similar services.

The Subaru Master Card proves helpful for the cardholder in yet more ways; it shields you and purchases with services like fraud and security protection services, purchase protection, extended warranty for purchases, and lost and stolen card reporting services, etc. The card also provides you with different Internet account related services.

The Subaru Master is ideal for you if you have a good credit and hardly carry any balances on your card. Before you proceed with applying for a card, make sure that you have a clear conception of the applicable restrictions, exclusions and limitations.


