Title: 
The Beginning Of The Payday Advance

Word Count:
494

Summary:
We’ve been hearing about the advantages of pay day advances repeatedly. The convenience that an emergency payday advance offers have also been widely recognized. The questions that arise here are, what exactly is a payday loan? How did the concept of an emergency payday advance evolve and when?

A payday loan put in simple terms is a small, unsecured, short-term cash advance that can help consumers to meet their instant cash needs until the next payday. A payday advance is ...


Keywords:
payday loans, payday advance, cash advance, no fax payday loans, online cash advance


Article Body:
We’ve been hearing about the advantages of pay day advances repeatedly. The convenience that an emergency payday advance offers have also been widely recognized. The questions that arise here are, what exactly is a payday loan? How did the concept of an emergency payday advance evolve and when?

A payday loan put in simple terms is a small, unsecured, short-term cash advance that can help consumers to meet their instant cash needs until the next payday. A payday advance is commonly used to meet unexpected expenses that could arise from any situation. A lot of times, these pay day advances are also used to finance a holiday, purchase a gift or have a little extra cash to spend while on a holiday. The biggest advantage of these loans is that these are paid back on the next payday and as a result you do not need to pay interest for a long duration.

The evolution of pay day advances
The concept of payday loans was introduced in the early 1990’s. The main reason why these loans were introduced is the fact that the penalties on late payment of bills and the cost of bounced checks was steadily increasing. This fueled the need for a solution that could help consumers to meet these expenses even if they were running short of cash. Also, the options for short term credit that were available at that time had extremely high costs that were not affordable by most customers.
With the acceptance of the advantages that these offered and the resultant increase in consumer demand, these loans became popular and are now easily available. In fact, now these loans are recognized by law and there are regulations that the industry has to adhere to. Availability of consumer protection have made these loans even more popular.

How to get a payday loan
So, how can you get a payday loan? Well, the process is extremely simple and at the same time very quick. All that you, as a customer, need to do is, to find the payday advance that suits you the best. As long as you have a regular job with a regular income, getting an approval for these loans is not a problem. The next prerequisite is that you should have a checking account and should be over 18 years of age. If you fit these criteria then all that you need to do is fill in the application form that is usually available online. Next, go through the terms and conditions and would have to agree to comply with these. After that you would need to write a personal check for the amount of the emergency payday advance you are applying for and the agreed fee. This check would bear the date of your next payday. Once these formalities are taken care of, the payday advance company would process your request and the pay day advance would be deposited directly into your account, usually within 24 hours.


