Title: 
The Advantages Of Department Store And Gas Station Credit Cards

Word Count:
590

Summary:
If you are attempting to rebuild damaged credit, department and gas station credit cards may be a good solution. As opposed to bank credit cards, gas and department store cards are easier to be approved for and even if your credit is damaged, you may qualify. It is very important to use them solely for the purpose of rebuilding your credit. If you overspend or misuse the cards you could easily wind up with credit difficulties again.


Keywords:
credit card, credit cards


Article Body:
If you are attempting to rebuild damaged credit, department and gas station credit cards may be a good solution. As opposed to bank credit cards, gas and department store cards are easier to be approved for and even if your credit is damaged, you may qualify. It is very important to use them solely for the purpose of rebuilding your credit. If you overspend or misuse the cards you could easily wind up with credit difficulties again.

After you apply and are approved for a gas or department store credit card, you should make only limited purchases and pay your balance in full each month. These types of credit cards generally have a higher interest rate and letting your balance increase steadily can cost you a lot of money in interest charges. Make sure you pay on time, in full each month and if you feel as if you have waited too long to mail your payment, go to the customer service department in the store and pay your bill in person. Keep in mind that just because these types of credit cards are easier to be approved for, this does not mean you should apply for many of them. When lenders look at your credit report and see numerous open credit accounts, they will look less favorably upon your request for more credit.

Once you have established a payment history with your gas and department store credit cards, you will have to decide whether or not it is in your best interest to keep the cards. If you have built up your credit sufficiently, you would be better off closing these accounts and using a bank issued credit card with a lower interest rate to make these same purchases. Many people think of only purchasing gas with a gas station credit card, but the fact is these cards can be used for repairs if your car breaks unexpectedly or you can use the card to purchase snacks and meals while traveling as most gas stations in remote locations have restaurants or fast food establishments located inside. Gas station credit card may also give you rewards such as discounts on travel, hotels, car rentals, and insurance.

Department store credit cards can provide you with benefits as well. Department stores generally carry a wide range of merchandise. Appliances, house wares, tools, clothing, cosmetics, and jewelry are just a few of the items you can find inside most major department stores. Holiday purchases can be made with a department store credit cards as well as necessary items for special occasions and gift giving. Remember to keep your spending manageable and pay your balance in full each month. Higher interest rates that typically accompany gas station and department store credit cards can really add up if you do not monitor your spending carefully. The point is to rebuild your credit, not to incur more debt that you cannot afford to repay.

Department store and gas station credit cards can be very beneficial to your quest to rebuild your credit. Make sure you do not get carried away with your spending. Your credit report will reflect your efforts in a relatively short period of time and your credit score will rise with each timely payment you make. Without a good credit report it is extremely difficult to obtain a mortgage or new car loan. Use your credit cards wisely and do not charge more than you can afford to repay each month. Gas station and department store credit cards are a great way to begin rebuilding damaged credit.


