Title: 
Turn $7 into Thousands

Word Count:
638

Summary:
Had to turn a handful of money into to a fortune!!!


Keywords:
make money online paypal easy simple oprah


Article Body:
THE PAYPAL 7 DOLLAR MONEY-MAKING METHOD


THE PAYPAL 7 DOLLAR MONEY-MAKING METHOD
AS SEEN ON OPRAH - EARN HUGE practically free only $7

I gave it a try, hey its only $7, I figured at least 6 people would respond out of the MILLIONS of people that use the internet.

You should give it a try too!
You have nothing to lose, and a whole lot to gain!

A little while back, I was browsing through some interesting adds, just like you are now and came across an article similar to this that said you could make thousands dollars within weeks with only an initial investment of $7.00!

So I thought, "Yeah, right, it must be a scam",
but like most of us,I was curious, so I kept reading.

Anyway, it said that you send $1.00 though paypal to each of the emails stated in the article.

You then place your own email address in the bottom of the list at ..7, and post the article in at least 200 news groups. (There are a lot)

So after thinking about it, I went ahead trying it.

I figured what have I got to lose except $7.00 small dollars, right?

Like most of us I was a little skeptical and a little worried about the legal aspects of it.

It follows the same regulations as the "mailed chainletters, which according to the U.S. Post Office (1-800-725-2161) is indeed legal!

Then I invested the measly $7.00.

Well GUESS WHAT!!?

Within days, I started getting money in my paypal account!

I was shocked!

I figured it would end soon, but the money just kept coming in.

This is now my fourth week and I have made a total of just over $24,641.00 and it's still coming in rapidly.

It's Certainly worth $7.00.

Let me tell you how this works and most importantly, why it works?

REQUIREMENTS:

You must have a verified paypal account.

If you do not have an account you can go to www.paypal.com......
and get a free account.

I would suggest signing up for a business account because it does not limit you to the amount of money you can receive.

Example: with a Personal account you are limited to receiving $500.00 a month and withdrawing $500.00 a month.

And trust me you WILL be receiving more than $500.00 a month!

Like i mentoined before In order to place the initial $7 into your account, you will have to verify your bank account with paypal (which may take a few days).

STEP 1:

Send, through paypal, $1.00 to each email on the below list. Make the subject of the payment "Email List" and in the comments, write "PLEASE PUT ME ON YOUR EMAIL LIST." What you are doing is creating a service by this and best of all you are not giving your address to anyone ... THIS IS ABSOLUTELY LEGAL!

The email list:

#1) blank
#2) bearcat@keyway.net
#3) pasimo@gmail.com
#4) sfmm7@hotmail.com
#5) hsweaney1224@hotmail.com
#6) matthewtaylor1@hotmail.co.uk
#7) jprice1990@gmail.com
STEP 2:

Now take the ..1 email off the list that you see above, move the other addresses up (eg- 6 becomes 5, 5 becomes 4, etc) and add YOUR email
address (the one used on the paypal account) as number 7 on the list.

STEP 3:

Change anything you need to, but try to keep this article as close to original as possible. Now, post your amended article to at least 200 newsgroups, message board. (I think there are close to 32,000 groups)
All you need is 200, but remember, the more you post, the more money you make - as well as everyone else on the list! NO single person gains – you all do!

For example: you log on to any search engine like yahoo.com, google.com, altavista.com, excite.com then you search with subject like millionaire message board or money making message board or employment message board or money making discussions or money making forum or business message board etc.


