Title: 
Unfair Credit Agreement Claims

Word Count:
566

Summary:
Unfair credit agreement claims refers to the process under which an aggrieved customer seeks out to reclaim the amount paid for a loan if the agreement executed is unfair. In a stricter sense, it means that if a person is a victim of an unfair loan agreement for which he has been making payments, he / she can make claims to seek the return of the money. This is common practice in most countries.


Keywords:
Mortgage Claims, Credit Agreement Claims, Secured Loan Claims, Personal Finance Claims, Mortgage Loophole


Article Body:
Unfair credit agreement claims refers to the process under which an aggrieved customer seeks out to reclaim the amount paid for a loan if the agreement executed is unfair. In a stricter sense, it means that if a person is a victim of an unfair loan agreement for which he has been making payments, he / she can make claims to seek the return of the money. This is common practice in most countries.

Unfair credit agreement claims refers to the process under which an aggrieved customer seeks out to reclaim the amount paid for a loan if the agreement executed is unfair. In a stricter sense, it means that if a person is a victim of an unfair loan agreement for which he has been making payments, he / she can make claims to seek the return of the money. This is common practice in most countries.

The claim can be sought on various financial products resulting in mortgage claims, credit agreement claims, secured loan claims and personal finance claims. There are agencies which specialise in helping victims of unfair credit agreements seek a refund. Some agencies help customers who have completely repaid the loan to the lender. However, these agencies charge a fee to carry out the process. The claim process will not be completed overnight since it involves a lengthy process of negotiations. However, at every step, the customer is updated on the developments. The fee ranges differ and depend on the loan amount. For instance, there are agencies which charge £49 for claims over £5,000.

It is up to the customer to choose the agency which can help in securing the claims. There are various agencies all over the country that specialise in this particular line of work. You can employ the services of such agencies in case you have legitimate claim in view of an unfair credit agreement. These agencies can be tracked through the internet or through local yellow pages. There is also a chance for the potential customer to evaluate their process by looking into past deals. The reviews of the agency's performance are available for perusal.

Once you contact an agency, make your case very clear. Never try to hide or destroy facts. The agency will decide whether you have a genuine case by looking into all the relevant paper work. In case you are not in possession of the documents concerned due to loss or theft, the agency will help you. The agency will contact the lender concerned and obtain the relevant documents through the official process. However, this requires the payment of an extra fee by the customer. If the agency finds that your case is genuine, it will take it up; however, if the agency dismisses your application on merit, you have the liberty to visit another agency. The best advice is to make sure that you have a genuine case by cross checking the credit agreement details with the banking and credit regulations.

In an effort to make sure that the credit agreement has been executed with your full knowledge, the agency will carry out a study. In the case where you are fighting a losing battle, the agency will not be in your favour. So be it any kind of loan or credit agreement, the aggrieved customer has to be very clear about the issue. Otherwise, it will result in an unnecessary payment of a non-refundable fee.


