Title: 
Vehicle Financing Explained

Word Count:
388

Summary:
Financing a vehicle is something that most people will have to do once, twice, or several times throughout the course of their lives


Keywords:
loans, uk finance


Article Body:
Financing a vehicle is something that most people will have to do once, twice, or several times throughout the course of their lives. There are a few different ways that one can go about vehicle financing and those include:

•	Vehicle Leasing
•	Vehicle Loans

Both of these have their benefits and draw backs, and must be thoroughly considered prior to making any sort of decision. Either way you choose one thing that will remain the same is the fact that both will affect your overall income for several years to come. You will be required to fill out an application for credit, that will be used to determine rather or not you are eligible for financing, if you have a good credit score this could be easy, if not you may have difficulty finding financing for a vehicle. Typically the financing option will last anywhere between 3 to 5 years depending upon the amount of the loan, and your payment arrangements.

Leasing a vehicle is completely different and has a variety of aspects that make it typically appealing to the average consumer. Some of the key appealing points in leasing include:

•	Lower monthly payments
•	Lower down payments
•	Lower costs of maintenance

By leasing a vehicle, you will be gaining a vehicle with less money all the way around. Typically leasing a vehicle is cheaper than obtaining financing for one, and you will have a longer warranty than you would outright purchasing a vehicle. This could prove beneficial if the car ever malfunctions mechanically or otherwise. It is well known that when a car breaks down or any part of the vehicle malfunctions it could be extremely detrimental to the consumer as well as their pocketbook. With this type of warranty many items will be covered that would not generally be covered under a financing option. 

The ultimate choice is yours financing versus leasing, it is all the matter of doing some extensive investigation and figuring out which option works the best with you and your financial situation. If you have no credit or bad credit, you will likely have to speak to a lender that specializes in these types of situations, there are many ways that even with a bad credit score that you can obtain the financing you need to obtain a reliable vehicle at a price you can afford.


