Title: 
Visa Business Credit Cards

Word Count:
553

Summary:
The Visa Business Credit Card is one of the most popular business credit cards serving the business market today. Recognizing that businesses appreciate the need for good cash management, Visa offers business credit cards designed to provide business people with purchasing convenience, cost savings, instant access to credit when they need it and complete, detailed reporting of all business expenses charged to their Visa business credit cards.


Keywords:
visa business credit cards, credit articles,


Article Body:
The Visa Business Credit Card is one of the most popular business credit cards serving the business market today. Recognizing that businesses appreciate the need for good cash management, Visa offers business credit cards designed to provide business people with purchasing convenience, cost savings, instant access to credit when they need it and complete, detailed reporting of all business expenses charged to their Visa business credit cards.

Visa business credit cards can be obtained from any one of the many issuers that are affiliated to Visa. The credit card packages are likely to vary from one issuer to the next, but there are certain features that are universally applicable to any business credit card issued under the Visa brand. These universal features, privileges and benefits, will typically include the following:

Auto Rental Collision Damage Waiver
All Visa business credit card holders are covered for damages due to collision or theft, at no added cost. This benefit reimburses you for the costs incurred to repair or replace covered losses on a hired vehicle that you paid for with your business credit card. The only condition is that the vehicle should have been exclusively used for business purposes. When you rent the vehicle on your eligible Visa business credit card, remember to decline if the rental company offers its own collision damage waiver. This will activate your Visa coverage. If the rental company is adamant and insists that you buy their policy, call your benefits administrator. In the case of theft or damage to the rented vehicle, you will first call the Visa benefits administrator before speaking to anybody else. He or she will then advise you how to proceed.

Purchase Security and Extended Protection
The purchase security benefit entitles the business credit card holder to replacement, repair or reimbursement for eligible personal property that you completely paid for with your Visa business credit card (up to $10,000 per claim and up to a total of $50,000 per business credit card holder). Extended protection doubles the original manufacturer’s warranty period. This period is capped at 12 months.

Gifts purchased for others on your business credit card are covered by this benefit. The only challenge is that you will be requested to file a claim, and that the intended recipient will be required to provide documents in substantiation of the claim. You must develop the habit of keeping your copies of the Visa business credit card receipts as well as the store receipts, since these will be required as supporting documents to any claim you may file.

There is a host of exclusions on the items or situations that are not covered by the Visa purchase security and extended protection business credit card benefits, so you should review these with care.

Travel Emergency Assistance
Visa business credit card holders are assured of 24-hour assistance from appropriate emergency services when these are required. The benefit covers you, your immediate family members and your business associates. This special service for business credit card holders provides contact assistance and referral. You will still be responsible for all costs and expenses incurred with the suppliers of these emergency services, which could include ambulances, doctors, hospitals and towing. The upside is that you can pay for these with your card as the vast majority of emergency services know and accept the Visa brand.


