Title: 
When to Sell Your Structured Settlement

Word Count:
1108

Summary:
A structured settlement often follows a life changing incident, whether it be positive or negative. Due to these circumstances, you may be faced with the need for a large lump sum payment rather than small monthly payments over a number of years. So, where do you turn? To a company that can buy your structured settlement from you and turn it into an immediate payment that you may use on whatever you see fit.

Each individual has different reasons for wanting to sell their structured settlement, however, first you must decide if it is the right decision for you.


Keywords:
structured settlement. structured settlements, sell structured settlements, structured settlement buyer


Article Body:
A structured settlement often follows a life changing incident, whether it be positive or negative. Due to these circumstances, you may be faced with the need for a large lump sum payment rather than small monthly payments over a number of years. So, where do you turn? To a company that can buy your structured settlement from you and turn it into an immediate payment that you may use on whatever you see fit.

Each individual has different reasons for wanting to sell their structured settlement, however, first you must decide if it is the right decision for you.

The Benefits of Selling Your Structured Settlement

A large portion of those who receive a structured settlement can benefit from selling it for a lump sum payment. The situations listed in this section represent possible circumstances of individuals that may get the most rewards from selling their structured settlement.

 If you cannot wait to receive small, spread-out payments over a long period of time due to a dire financial situation or hefty medical bills and/or lawyer fees. Many of the situations that can bring about a structured settlement can also stick the individual with such obligations.

 If you and your family decide that this is the time to finally make that large purchase that you have had your eye on. For example, if you have previously been denied mortgages or loans and would like to take this opportunity to buy that dream home you have always wanted. Or if you have a child or children who are preparing to go off to college and you fear you may not have the financial means to support that dream otherwise.

 If you have talked with a financial advisor and both of you feel that you could profit more by investing a lump sum payment, rather than waiting on monthly payments. If the money is invested properly, there is a chance that you could end up with more money in the end than your settlement was ever worth. However, this should not be a plan that is entered into lightly. You should work closely with a financial specialist and feel confident that you have found a great opportunity to invest in.

 If you are of older age and feel that you may not be around long enough to receive a fair amount of your structured settlement. You may want to the chance to enjoy the benefits of your settlement or may want to secure part of it for your family after your passing. This way you can distribute the funds as you see fit instead of relying on lawyers or courts.

 If you don뭪 plan to use the money right away, but would rather put it into a savings or money market account to draw interest. This would be best suited for someone who has a very hefty settlement, can find an account with large payoff terms, and plans to keep the majority of the money in the account for many years.

No matter what your reason for wanting to sell your structured settlement, choosing this option puts you back in control of money that is rightly yours. The problem that many individuals have with their structured settlements is that the control over their money is left to lawyers, courts, and the company or persons paying out the settlement. You are now able to say where, how, and - most importantly - when you spend your money.

The Drawbacks of Selling Your Structured Settlement

For a few individuals, selling their structured settlement and receiving a lump sum payment may not be in their best interest. One must also evaluate these situations and determine if they outweigh the reasons you are considering selling your settlement.

 First and foremost, selling you structured settlement means that you will receive less money than you would if you were to keep it. However, for many people considering this option, this seems like a win-win situation - they will get one large lump sum payment and the company they sold it to will make a profit in the end. The good news is that since you have several companies competing for your settlement, you can choose the one that will give you the a portion of the full settlement that you can live with.

 Because you may lose out on a substantial portion of your settlement by selling it, if you are in a financial situation where regular monthly payments will only be a bonus on top of what you already make, waiting out your settlement may be in your best interest. However, if you뭨e a senior, then you should also take your age and the length of your structured settlement into consideration. This would be the ideal situation for someone who is young enough that they have a great chance of living out the life of their settlement.

 If you are a person who is poor at managing large sums of money, then selling your structured settlement may not be right for you. For example, if you are the kind of person who gets a large paycheck every two weeks and finds themselves running low on available cash at the end of those two weeks, then that may be an indication that needs to be closely looked at. In this type of circumstance, having your settlement portioned out to you on a monthly basis may keep you from spending it too quickly. Once your settlement is gone, you will be back at square one.

 For those reasons, you should also not consider selling your structured settlement if you have an addiction to gambling, shopping, or drugs.

 If your settlement was due to an accident that has put you out of work and the funds from it will replace your monthly income, then keeping the payments on a monthly basis may help your family keep your finances in order. However, even in this situation selling your settlement may be best for you if you would like to renegotiate your payments into a larger sum each month to shorten the life of the settlement.

Most individuals receiving a structured settlement can benefit from selling it to a company that can give them a large lump sum payment or shorten the life of the settlement, especially if they are older persons, an individual who has enormous expenses due to an accident or court case, someone in a critical financial position, or one who wishes to make a large purchase for themselves and their family. Finding the right company with terms that fit your needs is a key component of making your experience with selling your structured settlement a positive one.


