Title: 
Who Else Needs A Gimmick-Free Approach To Financial Freedom And Success?

Word Count:
758

Summary:
Stating that we are living in a "world gone mad" may sound a bit drastic, but no one can deny we're hurtling towards an ugly place at a speed we can't control. The economy is going downhill, jobs are being shipped off overseas and even real estate is declining in value. How can we protect our future when our present is so dire? The outlook doesn't have to be bleak. I have the answers.


Keywords:
independent success, financial independence,  save money, saving money, savings club, savings group


Article Body:
We all have some common problems which are very serious. By this article I would like to raise the awareness and then propose a solution which will be beneficial to anyone who's interested. Please allow me first to create the context for this: 

It is clear to all of us that we live in a troubled world. We can all agree on that. Whether we are talking about individuals, organizations, systems or governments, it seems that the rule of law, the concepts of traditional values, decency and respect are all being pushed aside in favor of short term gain, control and easy or quick enrichment regardless of the consequences. 

How do we manage in such a 'dog eat dog' world? 

It seems that there are two general concepts we must embrace to not only survive, but to thrive in such a lawless and threatening environment; 

A) We must 'Get Ahead' 
B) We must then find a way to 'Stay Ahead' 

Lord knows that when you look around and read the headlines that are telling us: 
====== 
terrorism is rising 
the tax man's appetite is becoming more voracious 
huge banks are reporting losses in the billions 
the trillion $$ mortgage industry is upside down 
big brother is tightening his grip 
jobs are being exported 
credit is tightening 
recession is looming 

...this environment spells trouble for the masses. If you are one of the masses, you are in trouble! The masses have virtually no ability to help themselves with individual creativity and independence so they look to government for help and the cycle or dependence intensifies and trend worsens. God help us all ! 

So what's a person to do to escape from the herd of lemmings diving off the cliff? 

First, you must re-align your thinking in a way that creates a new paradigm for complete self reliance. Nothing short of complete personal independence and sovereignty will do. This is paramount. Continue doing what you've been doing and you'll continue getting what you've always been getting. You MUST break from the 'herd' mentality. 

Then, you need to immerse yourself in the knowledge that you will need to acquire the skills required for the job. This knowledge will enable you to accomplish your goals and feed your new paradigms of personal self reliance. This will involve and include new ways of doing business, managing finances, creating wealth, preserving wealth, accumulating savings and resources much faster than 'conventional wisdom' would ever allow. But that's only the finances part. You must also break free from the pharmacological medical monopoly that ensures poor health. You must break free from the legal entanglements that ensure your slavery and the list continues. 

Do this and you have at least started the process in an important way. 

The problem is the 'how', right? Or maybe the 'where' as in 'Where' do you find the resources, the people, the mentors the knowledge systems and support for such a massive personal transformation? 

I won't beat around the bush. Here is where you do it if you're serious about getting results as soon as possible: The Venture Resources Group. Get with your referring member and get started now, so you can attend the live conference coming up soon in Panama. 

Unfortunately, not everyone is ready financially for The VR Group. It's an exclusive program and we recognize that it takes some preparation and financial capability to benefit right away. 

This is where my Special Announcement comes into play. 

I am very pleased to announce that VR Group has formed an alliance with the Continental Savings Club which accomplishes the following for you; 

You can start learning about what freedom requires taking some small beginning steps. 

You can start associating with like minded individuals for next to nothing 

You can start putting yourself in position to crank up your financial prowess with everything to gain and nothing to lose. 

You can position yourself to participate in VRG (a $1500 program) for only $99 one time. 

With the Continental Savings Club you can easily share this critically important news with virtually anybody you care about. 

Follow traditional thinking and you are in trouble! Conventional wisdom is not cutting it. You either break yourself free from 'business as usual' or you go down with the ship and risk your family's future with you. The ball is in your court! It's all up to you and the decisions you make for yourself. 

We invite you now, to participate in the Continental Savings Club. It's simple, it's easy, anybody can benefit. 

Check it out for yourself. 

Opportunity is knocking !


