Title: 
Why should I sell my house and rent it back ?

Word Count:
397

Summary:
When your mortgage is too much, but you don't want to move, you can sell your home to rent it back!


Keywords:
sell house fast, sell and rent back, UK real estate


Article Body:
Do you want to stay in the same home you live in now, but you are having problems paying the mortgage? This happens to many people and they unfortunately choose to move away from their beloved home to get away from the high mortgage payment. However, there is an option for you to sell to rent back. This is basically you  selling your home so that you may then rent it back. This is a great option for many people who want to  sell house fast for financial reasons yet continue living in the same home. There are several reasons why you might want to sell your house and then rent it back. 
Reason #1 Financial
The biggest reason you would want to sell your home and then rent it back would be financial. In many instances, people find they are unable to make their house payment. In this situation, there are not many options. One is to simply quit paying the mortgage and let a foreclosure take place. Or, you could continue sacrificing everything to pay the mortgage yet have no money to afford other things. Selling the house to rent back allows you to stay in the home without being financially worried about it. 
Reason #2 Comfort
Another reason to sell your home fast is so you can continue living there without the financial responsibility. This results in you and your family continuing your comfortable lifestyle. This is definitely one of the reasons why UK residents continue to sell and ret back their homes. It is really a convenience to sell the home yet continue living there on a monthly basis. 
Reason #3 Embarrassment
Nobody likes to talk about his or her financial situation in front of others. That is especially so for those who are not financially well off. However, if you sell your home many will question why and others will simply assume it is for the financial responsibility. You can quietly sell your home quickly and easily and avoid the embarrassment by continuing to live in the same home. 
These are just a few of the reasons why you should sell your home and rent it back. It really is a great opportunity for you if you find that making the monthly mortgage payments is not feasible for you. Consider the options offered by Sell My House Fast to find the best option for you.


