Title: 
Work At Home Moms - Save Money This Holiday Season

Word Count:
391

Summary:
Saving money is the same as making money, in my opinion. Either way, you'll have more money in your bank account. Here are a few ideas to help you save money this holiday season as well as earn a little extra cash. I hope these help give you some hope heading into the holidays.


Keywords:



Article Body:
As the holidays approach, many work at home moms begin feeling a sense of dread -- 

* How will we afford gifts? 

* Will I start the new year even further in debt? 

Saving money is the same as making money, in my opinion. Either way, you'll have more money in your bank account. Here are a few ideas to help you save money this holiday season as well as earn a little extra cash. I hope these help give you some hope heading into the holidays. 

Save on Advertising Expenses 

Reduce your Advertising Budget. I hear so often from moms who are using paid advertising as their sole method of promoting their online businesses. Advertising is great, but it is just one of the many ways to promote your business. Enhance your exposure with some of the free ways to promote your business, from press releases and articles to more effective networking. Make an effort to stretch beyond your comfort zone to try new ways to draw more traffic to your website. 

eBay - List it Now 

People are spending money like crazy this time of year. List all your extras on eBay to earn a little extra cash for the holidays. Outgrown clothing, toys that your kids don't play with, movies, books -- all the items currently taking up space in your home could put cash in the bank. Plus, by cleaning out the house, you'll have more room for the new 
goodies that Santa brings. 

Bartering 

Have you tried bartering? You can trade products or services with other work at home moms that you meet. If you have a talent with writing or website design, trade with a mom in Direct Sales for products. It benefits both of you. The mom receives much needed help with aspects of her business that she may not enjoy or care to learn - and gets rid of extra inventory. She may also receive an ongoing customer from the barter, once you fall in love with her products. And, you receive products that you can give to loved ones for the holidays. 

You do not need to start the new year further in debt. Plan your business promotions, barter for gifts, and sell your excess stuff. The holidays will be much more enjoyable, knowing that you took efforts to make them affordable.


