Title: 
Work Part Time Or Work One Time, It's Your Choice

Word Count:
698

Summary:
Many people are looking for ways to increase their income without working more or investing a lot of money. This article explains how I make an extra $7200 per year while only spending $11.24 per month.


Keywords:
save money, saving money, financial security, financial freedom, personal finance, building wealth, personal budgeting, budgeting money, money management


Article Body:
Copyright 2006 Randy McLean

Have you ever entertained the idea of having an extra income stream coming in to help pay the bills at the end of each month?  Don't worry, you are not alone.  Most people think about this quite frequently.

This thought process usually leads to 2 outcomes, working overtime or getting an additional part time job.  Unfortunately this can lead to burnout, unhappiness or both.  You have less time for yourself and your family and you are often working menial jobs that you hate.

Besides the obvious solution of proper money management there is a much easier way.  Today, I will show you how you can set up a simple internet business that works for you, even making you money while you sleep!

The first thing I did was visit the ClickBank.com web site.  ClickBank is a huge catalog of digital products.  This means that all the products for sale can be downloaded instantly to your computer.  There is no shipping or inventory to take care of.

Next I started browsing the catalog for a digital product I could sell.  The products are ranked by popularity.  This will give you a clue to which products are in demand and have a higher converting web site.

I chose to sell something related to the automotive industry.  I constructed a simple 2 page web site explaining the benefits of the product and provided a link to the merchant.  The second page was for exchanging links with related sites.  I then submitted the site to related directories so I could start receiving some targeted, no cost traffic.

This site now averages around $150 a week or $600 per month.  While this did take some trial and error and some experimentation the actual process only took a few days to set up.

While this isn't all the money in the world an extra $600 per month can go a long way.  This works out to an extra $7200 per year.  And this money comes in whether you are sick, on vacation or feel like working or not.  It frees up your time to spend with your family or to concentrate on other money making ventures.

You basically have 4 choices.  You can 1/ get a part-time job 2/ work overtime 3/ watch TV or 4/ experiment with affiliate marketing.  If you are really ambitious you can check out the Super Affiliate Handbook by Rosalind Gardner.  That is how I got started.

Now instead of working overtime I am concentrating my efforts on building more web sites like the one I just described.  The more time you spend learning about this the better you will become at it.  And don't let the fear of failure stop you.

Most people do not get things right the first time.  It is almost like panning for gold.  It takes a little bit of effort but once you find what you are looking for you will realize that it was well worth the effort.

It is much easier to create a bunch of small sites that produce a little profit rather than trying to strike it big with just 1 site.  A lot of people waste too much time and effort trying to do this.  If it happens that is great but if it does not I would suggest moving on.

After you create the site keep tweaking it until it creates more income than you are spending on it.  When you have exhausted all of your possibilities with that site start creating the next one.

When viewing this strategy from an investment standpoint it is not hard to see the benefits at all.  To make $600 per month from real estate or stocks, it would take a huge amount of capital compared to a simple web site like the one I set up.

My web site only costs me $10 per month to host and an additional charge of $14.95 per year for my domain name.  No loans from the bank, no dealing with people, no red tape, and hardly any risks.

Now don't get me wrong, real estate and conventional investing do have their place.  I am simply showing you a simple way you can use to start building your asset column quick and with relative ease.


