Title: 
Best Internet Marketing Strategies – Success Is Yours

Word Count:
357

Summary:
Do you have a list of words that you like?  I used to have a pretty extensive list.


Keywords:
Best Internet Marketing Strategies


Article Body:
Do you have a list of words that you like?  I used to have a pretty extensive list.  I had lots of words on there, but unfortunately I have forgotten many of them because I wasn’t thinking about them enough.  This is depressing because that list was such a simple little pick me up to maintain.  I also liked that I liked the words for absolutely no logical reason.  For example, the word “fusia” was on there and I’m not even one hundred percent sure what color that is, but I like the sound.  Incidentally, I’m thinking fusia is a burgundy-ish color.  

I once was out to eat with a girlfriend named Kit (actually her name was Katrina and for some reason it was shortened to Kit rather than Kat).  The relationship was clearly coming to a close, but we still had a few dinners and drinks in us before the official end.  Anyways, that night she told me that she liked the word “perpendicular” and although I was mentally tainted in my thinking about her, because I knew that we were going to break up, at the moment that she said that, she seemed to me the most beautiful woman in the world.  I like words and I like people who like words.

Anyways, I just realized that I also like the word “strategy”.  I’m not sure why.  I like it and moreover, just thinking about it makes me wish I had a strategy…for anything…except marketing.  I don’t want a marketing strategy and I definitely don’t want an internet marketing strategy.  Much like my feelings towards Kit in a positive way, I think that I would be negatively influenced by someone who had an internet marketing strategy.  I don’t even want to think about what I’d feel towards someone who claimed to have the best internet marketing strategy.  So in conclusion, I feel that the word strategy is cool and I also feel that actual strategies are cool, but a marketing strategy to me reeks of exploitative intentions and to me that is just not cool.


