Title: 
Bruce Berman Marketing Guru, Bruce A Berman shares path to success

Word Count:
279

Summary:
From the internet to the real estate world to the corporate finance setting, Bruce A. Berman has achieved tremendous success. He also shares his secrets with others. Once nominated (by Sprint) "Ernst & Young Entrepreneur of the Year" Berman is a self-made millionaire.


Keywords:
bruce berman, bruce a berman, bruce berman, bruce a berman millionaire


Article Body:
From the internet to the real estate world to the corporate finance setting, Bruce A. Berman has achieved tremendous success. He also shares his secrets with others. Once nominated (by Sprint) "Ernst & Young Entrepreneur of the Year" Berman is a self-made millionaire.

Berman has no qualms about telling others that he “squeaked by” in high school, just doing well enough to let the system pass him through his senior year. Junior college was an option, but after a few semesters Berman decided it just wasn’t for him. That was the point he entered the financial world.

When he was 23 years old and a junior associate at a financial firm, he took chances the other associates were not willing to take. Berman, who has an innate desire to succeed, founded his first start-up company with “OPM” (other people’s money).

With a mind for fundraising and a real time ability to turn over and capitalize ventures quickly, Berman was able to take this OPM and make his own capital. While it started with finances, Berman’s interests quickly spread into the fields of alternative energy, video producing, real estate, investing and dot com booms.

Bruce A. Berman (before the age of 30), was in fact the co-founder of the Wind Energy Association, he now is the CEO of Berman Marketing Group, Inc, and most recently the CEO of National HealthCare Alliance, Inc.

With over 30 years of direct experience in money-making strategies, Bruce A. Berman knows the path to a successful life and he is not one bit bashful about sharing this with the world. His program, appropriately entitled “Aggressive Wealth” has already helped numerous others create the lives they want.


