Title: 
Building A Solid Foundation for Your Website

Word Count:
305

Summary:
One of the best steps any Internet Marketer can take is implementing a free program that is easy to use, drives results, and is not laborious.


Keywords:
internet, marketing, advertising, free, traffic, ebook, advice


Article Body:
Developing a “Master List” of what your daily chores for your website can be daunting and time consuming.  You then are faced with budgeting questions such as, “How much can I afford?” and “Will this really work, or am I wasting my time?”

One of the best steps any Internet Marketer can take is implementing a free program (or at the least very low cost) that is easy to use, drives results, and is not laborious.  There are fantastic ways to do all of this; it’s just a matter of rolling up the sleeves and implementing it.

Some of the best ways to do this are article submissions, blogging/forums, ezines, and press releases.  These are all free, or at the very least, low cost solutions to begin building the foundation of your website.  

Internet Marketers need to be leery of traffic generation websites and SEO’s.  Traffic generation sites often promise the world to you (of course), but rarely can effectively drive quality traffic to your site.  If you are selling sporting equipment, why would you want to pay for a visitor who is in the market for vitamins?  Perhaps a bad analogy, but you get the point.

SEO’s are fantastic, if you can budget thousands of dollars a month.  Most Internet Marketers are small businesses looking to create a supplemental income monthly, not change the world.

Start small and have patience.  Focus on boosting your backlinks and page ranks.  Put in that elbow grease and blog about what you have.  Don’t oversell yourself; you don’t want to get booted out of a good forum, but educate people.

Most importantly, have fun.  Internet Marketing in one of the few ways a person can invest little money and time, and create a nice little income at the end of the day.


