Title: 
Business Card Printing Services

Word Count:
401

Summary:
The simple black and white business card has metamorphosed into designer versions. Unusual business cards are made from wood, plastic, metal, magnets, glass, or handmade paper. And some are printed in four colors while others are made using embedding or imprint technology. The purpose is to be unique and different, and make a lasting impression.


Keywords:
Printing Services, Scanning And Printing Services, Digital Printing Services, Business Card Printing Services


Article Body:
The simple black and white business card has metamorphosed into designer versions. Unusual business cards are made from wood, plastic, metal, magnets, glass, or handmade paper. And some are printed in four colors while others are made using embedding or imprint technology. The purpose is to be unique and different, and make a lasting impression. 

Depending on your thoughts, budget, design, and needs, a business card service will tell you what kind of printing your card will need. They offer die-cut business cards, embossed cards, CMYK full color printing, bi-fold business cards, or thermograph print cards—different processes that produce varied results. 

Most business card printing services will provide in-house design services if you let them have all the information you need on the card. Otherwise, you could design your business card yourself by using the online card design services. Print providers like GreatFX business cards offer a complete online design studio with which you can create a business card in minutes, using your web browser.

Printers today are innovative.  They club together to offer online business card printing services which offers a free estimate if you fill in a questionnaire. The questionnaire will go to different card printers, and the ones who can do the job will get in touch with you. There are other online sites where clients can post projects for which printers can place bids—the same concept like elance or guru.com.  

For a world-class product you need to ensure that you scan logos and other images in eps or bmp format. Specify how many cards you need, what kind of paper, black and white or color, whether it should be coated, whether you need a proof, and when you need the cards delivered.

Be wise and do your homework well. Contact at least three business card printing services. Comparison shopping is good business sense, not a waste of time. Check the reliability of the printers. Find out if anyone you know has used the service. Read up on design and how one can use a template to design a professional-looking, unique card. Seek the help of a computer-savvy friend or colleague, and find out if designing your own card is as easy as it sounds.

Your business card represents you—it is your brand ambassador, so think before you leap. When it doubt, just choose a classy style instead of shiny brass or psychedelic varieties.


