Title: 
Business Stationery

Word Count:
351

Summary:
Business Stationery is meant for commercial and official correspondence and usage. It can range from paper products like letterheads, business cards, notes, labels, memos, computer sheets, typewriter stationery, checks and forms to other items like pens, folders, writing pads, clips, adhesives, tapes and highlighters.


Keywords:
stationery, personalized stationery, email stationery, printable stationery


Article Body:
Business Stationery is meant for commercial and official correspondence and usage. It can range from paper products like letterheads, business cards, notes, labels, memos, computer sheets, typewriter stationery, checks and forms to other items like pens, folders, writing pads, clips, adhesives, tapes and highlighters.

Most of the Business Stationery is ordered in basic and subdued colors like white, cream, gray or light blue. In some cases, where Business Stationery might need to reflect aggressiveness or brightness depending on its line of work, it could be procured in other colors also. It is for the business head to decide what kind of impression needs to be conveyed through its stationery. No doubt it is a very important decision, because this mode of communication would be sent to almost all business associates. One also needs to be clear beforehand as to what stationery requirements are there in the business, and what quantity needs to be ordered. 

The quality of stationery items and its prints should be of good standard since it also reflects the company's image. The paper used for stationery should be of firm strength and its size should be easy to handle. Before printing the stationery, write down the information, like name, address, phone numbers, logo and so forth, that needs to be put on the stationery.  Sometimes you need to print some notifications due to legal requirements, depending on what is the line of business. For the placement of information, one can get hold of ready-made templates available for letterheads, envelopes and business cards, or have the stationery designed by professional consultants especially for your business needs. 

Last but not least, the cost factor comes into play. Ask for quotes from multiple stationers and printers. It is a good idea to check references before placing your order. Since Business Stationery is something that can contribute toward building a distinct identity for the business, one needs to be extra careful while designing and ordering it. Most of the time, Business Stationery is the first contact with a prospective client or agency. Quality stationery can make a good impression for your business.


