Title: 
Cable Tv Advertising – With A Difference

Word Count:
352

Summary:
Using cable TV to advertise your business is a wise decision both economically and in regards to advertising potency, however, if any marketing strategy is to be successful it must be couple not only with a chosen medium, but with also well thought out content.


Keywords:
Cable Tv Advertising


Article Body:
Using cable TV to advertise your business is a wise decision both economically and in regards to advertising potency, however, if any marketing strategy is to be successful it must be couple not only with a chosen medium, but with also well thought out content.  There are two points to this.  First, branding isn’t just for the multinationals.  Second, the approach one takes to their advertising must be done correctly; this is a mistake that many small business owners make, as intimate details of advertising usually isn’t part of their repertoire.  

In regard to the branding of your company, this can be done using both your cable advertising, but also in the signage you have at your store.  The idea of advertising is that when it’s all said and done you want potential customers to think of you first when your product of service is needed.  Be seen!  Maximize the outdoor signage your local regulations will allow and be bold.  Signs are expensive and you need to not cut corners.  The people in that go by your store need to imprint your company in their minds.  It’s incredibly cost effective in the long run. 

The other aspect of branding your company is the way that you’ll use cable advertsing.  Do not…I repeat, do not let the cabble company talk you into a “broad rotator” advertising schedule.  You want to get the same slot, the same day at the same hour.  Again, you are trying to imprint your company in the minds of peope and you do that by repetition..

The second prong of your strategy is simple.  Do not have your content sell the accolades of your company or even your product or service.  What moves people is when you tell them how they will be positively affected by the experience they have with your company.  So, its about them, not you.  

This will take you a long way from many of the other local businesses using cable advertising.  So, follow your instincts, but do so while on the path that others have forged before you.


