Title: 
Choosing the Best Canvass For Your Flyer Artwork

Word Count:
485

Summary:
In addition to your design and layout, your paper choice can have a significant impact on the success of your flyer printing project as a promotional tool for your business.


Keywords:
flyer printing, flyers, flyer printing services, flyer printing company, online printing company


Article Body:
In addition to your design and layout, your paper choice can have a significant impact on the success of your flyer printing project as a promotional tool for your business.

Commercial flyer printing paper can be determined from coated or uncoated stock; by its weight; and by its costs. Here are some of the features of the different paper stock options available in the market:

<u>Coated Paper Stock</u>
Coated paper stock generally comes in gloss or matte. Normally, flyer printing companies use 80 # gloss text stock for printed flyers and brochures. There are also available number text stocks in the market which you can choose according to your flyer printing specifications (e.g. 70 # and 100 #).

Gloss is used to create a shiny and highly reflective finish to your flyers. Naturally, gloss coated paper is the popular choice for flyer printing layouts with full color pictures and images for that real and brilliant look.

Matte, on the other hand, is a coated paper stock with a dull finish. It is the popular choice for flyers printing companies that deal with heavy content and intensive text. The matte coat finish allows for easy reading of the content. 

<u>Uncoated Paper Stock / Offset Stock</u>
Generally, offset stock paper includes uncoated stocks that are, in printing terms, “sized”. This means that the materials used on this offset stock gives off a smooth finish that can hold and maintain colors without absorbing them. Nevertheless, the material causes the offset-printed flyer printing image to have a dim and otherwise fuzzy appearance.  

Offset stock is usually available in different colors, but the most popular of course, is white. It also comes in many weights and sizes; in rolls or cut sheets; and in cases or reams. What’s interesting about this kind of paper stock is that it’s been in the printing industry for ages that it is considered as the stock of all stocks among printers. 

Both paper stocks are further subdivided to (1) Text Stock, and (2) Cover Stock. The first one is the lighter of the two and is often used for the inside pages of a book or a catalog. Hence, it is less expensive compared to the cover stock. On the other hand, the cover stock is heavier and more durable that is why it is chosen by most printers for the outside cover of books and catalogs.  

Your choice may be a heavy weight paper, or you might consider a glossy coated one for a more brilliant look and feel to your flyer printing pieces. Whatever your choice of paper stock, remember to consider all your options and decide on the one that will help you optimize your marketing strategy and business costs. And don’t forget to ask your flyer printing company to help you make the most suitable choice. They can give you a better alternative which can save you much of your budget.


