Title: 
Classified Advertising in Local Markets

Word Count:
614

Summary:
Even with the growth of online classifieds, newspaper classifieds are still the preferred method of advertising for many wishing to sell unwanted items.   Most newspapers have a large local circulation and the chances of completing a sale through the newspaper greatly increase since the product can easily be obtained.   Advertising in the newspaper classifieds and locating a buyer within your locality can very well be the key to a successful transaction.


Keywords:
newspaper classified ad photo hosting local advertising selling marketing pictures for sale cars real estate pets furniture home goods image automobiles craigslist ebay advertisement print ad jobs


Article Body:
Even with the growth of online classifieds and the increase in popularity in sites such as Craigslist, newspaper classifieds are still the preferred method of advertising for many wishing to sell unwanted items.   This is evident in the number of print classified ads listed daily in newspapers and magazines throughout the country and worldwide.  These advertisements may cost more than those which can be posted on the Internet, however, posting your classified advertisements in the newspaper will likely increase the chance of a sale as you are reaching a more local market.  It is unlikely that someone from across the country or around the world will want to purchase your used furniture, lawn mower or Kenmore washer and thus much of the traffic that would come to your Internet ad would be useless.  However, due to the fact that most newspapers that feature classified advertisements have a local circulation, the chances of completing a sale through the newspaper greatly increase since the product can easily be obtained.   On the contrary, if you were to find a motorcycle for sale online and the seller lived in Florida while you resided in California, it would be very difficult to purchase the item.  Furthermore, with the decreasing costs of advertising in the newspaper, many people find it a viable method of advertising the products they no longer need.

Another reason why classified advertisements are so popular in newspapers is because of the reach that many larger newspapers get. For example, a newspaper such as the Boston Globe, had hundreds of thousands of readers throughout the Boston area and throughout Massachusetts and southern New Hampshire and Vermont. Hence, if you are selling a product such as a car or other high-ticket item, many of these people may be interested in traveling a bit of a distance to make a purchase. By advertising in the classifieds section of larger newspapers, you are reaching an even greater number of potential customers within your local market.

Internet classified advertising does have some benefits such as it is very easy to post your ad and in certain circumstances your Internet classified advertisement may attract more visitors than your advertisement in the newspaper. Therefore, it is sensible to advertise your product on the Internet as well.  By combining your newspaper and Internet advertising, you are sure to reach a large number of potential buyers in both the local and distant markets.

There are two types of classified advertisements which I would strongly recommend advertising primarily in newspapers. These types of advertisements would be promoting the sale of automobiles and low paying jobs. Many newspapers have a special section for these products/services and thus advertising these products in the newspapers is likely to reach more buyers in the local market.  Advertising higher paying jobs and hard to find items, such as a classic car, can do well on the Internet since people may be willing to travel far from home for these types of jobs or to acquire a unique item.    If you are selling smaller sized items, such as jewelry, clothing or books, they can be sold utilizing online portals such as Ebay, since these products are fairly easy to ship to their destination and finding a local buyer is not as imperative.

In conclusion, you need to determine the best method of advertising for your item.  Newspaper classifieds should always be considered since this medium can very often bring you the customer you are looking for to complete the sale.   Depending on the type of item you are selling, advertising in the newspaper classifieds and locating a buyer within your locality can very well be the key to a successful transaction.


