Title: 
Convention Advertising – Infinite Possibilities

Word Count:
333

Summary:
You know what sucks?  Really hoping to aspire to something and wanting to be that thing, yet making absolutely no headway in your attempts.


Keywords:
Convention Advertising


Article Body:
You know what sucks?  Really hoping to aspire to something and wanting to be that thing, yet making absolutely no headway in your attempts.  Its broken dreams, its lost understanding of oneself, its exactly the kind of thing that pushes someone into being an “associate” for silly operations like Amway.  Unfortunately that is exactly where I am in my life.  

What I want to be, yet have thusfar mustered total failure, is a convention guy.  I want to go to conventions.  I have my first choices, but would settle for just about any kind.  I feel as certain that either the Democratic National Converntion or the Republican version would off someone unprecedented opportunities to party.  I had a big phase in my first year in college where I salivated at the thought of rocking a Kiss convention.  But, the original convention that tempted my wildest dreams was a Star Trek Convention.  I can’t even imagine how insane the after parties would be.

It is this personal historical fact that prevents me from completely trashing online business, advertising and networking conventions.  Although, most of these guys are probably pretty depressing to be around for 52 weeks of the year, I just have a feeling they’d be ready for anything come convention week.  Unlike a Start Trek convention where the people you’d be watching the sun come up with would probably inherently real cool people, where you’re laughing with them; the online advertisers could most certainly supply ample amounts of material to laugh at.  Really, I have no preference if I’m laughing with someone or at them, so long as I’m laughing.  Plus, when you have s group of people that are so tightly wound and are on their string form day to day, when you open the flood gates, I bet there’s a burst of pressure that could wipe a medium sized city right off the map…and that’s the kind of party I’m looking for.


