Title: 
Corporate Gifts - imprint to impress!

Word Count:
551

Summary:
How to buy corporate gifts


Keywords:
luggage,discount luggage,travel accessories,corporate gifts,luggage sets


Article Body:
Most of us have received something imprinted with a corporate logo.  Corporate gifts can consist of anything that can be imprinted, embossed, screened or embroidered with a corporate logo.  In some cases, flowers, liquor, or food items can also be considered.  Items can range from inexpensive key rings or pocketknives, to Italian leather briefcases and Movado clocks.   It can be something of little value or very expensive merchandise.  It always has some sort of logo or message imprinted on it or on the packaging.

       A gift of obvious value will always leave a good impression.  Brand name merchandise is well received because people recognize it's worth. They know the merchandise by the reputation of the product.  Clever items will also leave a lasting impression.  No one can resist an item that makes them laugh or smile.  Something useful, especially if it pertains to their occupation or profession is always welcome.  Fine merchandise that is well made is another way to make a long lasting impression.

     Obviously, an item imprinted with a corporate logo is a great way to introduce a new product.  It can be tied in with national advertising.  Logos can be printed in any shape or color, and this serves to reinforce the product name. The product can be in the shape or color of the new item you are introducing, and can contain advertising copy.   The merchandise can be sent to potential clients, or given away with the purchase of another product.  It's also a great way to say "thank you" at a launch party or dinner.  Not only can the gift be imprinted with advertising information, but also the packaging.  The gift box can be screened with information, and the gift bag can also be printed with a logo or product information.  When this is done tastefully, it leaves a lasting impression and is very well received.

     Imprinted corporate gifts are a good way to reward employees or clients.  Besides the logo imprinted on the gift, the occasion can be engraved.  Many companies give out 5, 10, 15, and 20-year gifts to employees.  It's a wonderful way to acknowledge that the person is appreciated.  It also calls attention to the entire staff that the employee has been rewarded.  

     Corporate gifts are a great way to celebrate the holidays or say "Happy New Year" to clients and potential clients or customers.  Everyone likes to know that they are appreciated.  A gift that will remain in their possession is a constant reminder and will keep your name, your product name, and your sentiments in front of them. 
  
      Many items can be individually personalized as well as printed with a logo or a corporate expression.  Often, the item is printed with a motivational message that the company has been using in their advertising.  However, most people cannot resist their own initials or name.  It shows a lot of thought and effort went in to a gift when it's monogrammed with the recipient’s own imprint.  People cannot help but be impressed when it is made especially for them.  Initials or name does not take away from the advertising message you are giving.  It just shows that you took the extra time and effort to make the product especially for them.  A gift packaged beautifully is irresistible and elegant wrapping is sure to please.


