Title: 
Custom Air Force Ones

Word Count:
302

Summary:
Nike’s Custom Air Force Ones came to the market as early as 1982.  The “air force” refers to the air technology that Nike exclusively held patent for fifteen exclusive years. This technology put Nike on the world map and made it into the giant it is today.  All the other companies in the competition had to stand and watch Nike grow till the end of 1997 when some other manufacturers got a wind of what exactly is the air technology that made the Custom Air Force Ones the success they are today.


Keywords:
Custom Air Force Ones


Article Body:
The Custom Air Force Ones from the very day they were launched in the market, met with great acceptance of the crowd because they were fantastically designed and they were incredibly comfortable. The ‘air technology’ is nothing but highly pressurized air trapped under the sole of the shoe to give the foot perfect buoyancy and never-before-felt comfort.

The Custom Air Force Ones were received so well by the public that in 1986 Nike based on the tremendous boost in its sales, crossed for the first time a turnover of $1 billion. From then on everything is history. Nike has since brought out many models based on the air cushion and with it grew into a larger than life company.  Between 1990 and 2000, in the short span of ten years, Nike opens more than 14 Niketown stores which actually further establish its name on the global market. 

But let us come back to our Custom Air Force Ones (www.urbanhotlist.com) – the shoes that revolutionized forever the idea of a sports shoe in people’s mind. The sneaker can be classy looking as well as comfortable – the idea and the feasibility of the adjectives came to the forefront only with the Air Jordans.  Among all the Air One sneakers, reports show that the Nike Air Jordan I has today the highest number of replicas in the market. And if we believe that copying is the best form of flattery – then these sneakers by any standards are Number 1.

Another pair of Custom Air Force Ones that swept the market off its feet is the Air Jordan III, which as a marked difference showed a visible air sole as its main attraction. This sneaker model was designed by Tinker Hatfield who designed the Air Jordan IV, V and VI also and which creating  great waves in the sneakers’ market.


