Title: 
Detroit Seeing Ovals-Jonathan Munk

Word Count:
304

Summary:
Anyone who works in a Detroit skyscraper or flies into Detroit Metropolitan airport may have noticed a new landmark–or rather, roof-mark–as they look down on the city. In preparation for the 2006 Super Bowl, Ford has ordered two gigantic logos for the roof of Ford Field, where the Detroit Lions play. A South-facing logo is already in place, reports the Detroit News, and measures 153 by 316 feet. A North-facing logo will be put in place shortly. The stadium’s vaulted roof is visible from Interstate 75 too, but the main reason Ford is investing in the $175,000 blue ovals is to get publicity from blimp shots during the next Super Bowl.


Keywords:
logo design logos maker graphic 


Article Body:
Anyone who works in a Detroit skyscraper or flies into Detroit Metropolitan airport may have noticed a new landmark–or rather, roof-mark–as they look down on the city. In preparation for the 2006 Super Bowl, Ford has ordered two gigantic logos for the roof of Ford Field, where the Detroit Lions play. A South-facing logo is already in place, reports the Detroit News, and measures 153 by 316 feet. A North-facing logo will be put in place shortly. The stadium’s vaulted roof is visible from Interstate 75 too, but the main reason Ford is investing in the $175,000 blue ovals is to get publicity from blimp shots during the next Super Bowl. 

This makes sense considering a 30-second spot on TV during the Super Bowl costs about $2 million. Using this logic, Ford will have gotten their money’s worth from the logos if the ovals are on camera for just 2.625 seconds. What football game shows only 2.625 seconds worth of an aerial camera view during the entire four-hour game–especially during the Super Bowl? 

It seems Ford’s marketing department has scored a homerun, or rather, a touchdown, with this plan. This move only bolsters the point I made a few weeks ago, where I talked about commercialization and advertising invading the sports arena. How long will it be before open stadiums paint a 100 yard-long logo on the grass? Before you know it, the Baltimore Ravens will be running up and down a huge M & T Bank logo for first downs (they play in M & T Bank Stadium). 

Instead of mentioning yardage earned, sportscasters will reference the location of the player by using the logo. “Favre scrambles to the last ‘M’ serif for a first down!!”

Logos will continue creeping into sports and any other industry where companies think they can make a buck or two through sponsorship.


