Title: 
Differences in Color Brochure Printing

Word Count:
595

Summary:
Brochures are commonly used by business owners for trade show handouts, as information sheets, or basically for promoting products and services to target clients. In addition to your design and layout, the more effective brochure printing pieces are usually those done in full color.


Keywords:
brochure printing, online printing company


Article Body:
Brochures are commonly used by business owners for trade show handouts, as information sheets, or basically for promoting products and services to target clients. In addition to your design and layout, the more effective brochure printing pieces are usually those done in full color.

Choosing the most suitable brochure printing colors though has a significant effect not only to your overall look and feel of your promotional items, but most importantly, to the impact it can have on your prospective audience. To maximize the use of color, you need to understand a few things about your color printing choice. 

Full Color Brochure Printing
Full color brochure printing usually meant the standard four color commercial printing done on offset presses. This is being offered in almost every brochure printing company. 

Basically, the brochure printers apply the 4 color build process called the CMYK (cyan, magenta, yellow, and black inks). CMYK is used to create the color shades you commonly see in any brilliant, full color brochure. 

Nevertheless, what you see in your computer monitor would most likely be RGB color (red, green, and blue) instead of CMYK, which can be a totally different shade when you get them printed from the offset lithographic presses. The color shades would not exactly be similar; the difference would be in the calibration of your computer screen. Most brochure printer would require your text and images in CMYK though. As this part can be most tricky, there are software programs that can help you convert your RGB text or image into CMYK, which you can then bring to your brochure printing shop.  

The advantage of having a four color brochure printing process nevertheless, is worth more. Colors are basically mixed and controlled by the computer to develop a more consistent quality in the end result. That is why full color offset brochure printing is the most popular choice for business owners today.

Spot Colors
Spot color brochure printing is applied when you have one or two color printing projects. What brochure printers do is mix inks to provide you with an exact color match every time you need it throughout your brochure printing process. The specially mixed inks are called pantone colors. Logos are mostly done in spot colors. 

Spot color brochure printing is most appropriate when you need to have an exact match of a particular color to your brochure design with that color in the offset press machine.  

More tips –

Full color brochure printing though needs to be well planned. You don’t just decide to use it on your brochure printing project just because you fancy it or that your competition is using it. When you decide to go for a full color brochure, remember to consider all the basics, like:

-  Where to apply the full color design? To be more cost effective, use both front and back covers.
- Consider your folding options. Do you want a tri-fold or a half fold?
- Determine your overall design and appearance.
- Consider your paper stock because it can have a great impact in the reproduction of your colors. 

The most important factor to consider is to understand your colors and when to use them. When you plan to apply color to your brochure printing project, just make sure to consider all your elements and try to blend your colors with them. Bear in mind that your elements plus your color can create a huge impact on how your prospective readers will receive your print brochures. Use your colors wisely and see how your brochure printing items do wonders for your business.


