Title: 
Different Spin to Online Pixel Advertising?

Word Count:
319

Summary:
MyMillionDollarCity Site Plans Multiple Million Dollar Giveaways with the pixel site looking to take the idea online pixel advertising to a new dimension.


Keywords:
pixel ads, pixel, internat advertising, online advertising


Article Body:
As opposed to similar sites that only sell a page of pixel-space, MyMillionDollarCity sells "buildings" and "plots" that can be bought and sold, and adverts can be resold or auctioned-off at a later time. The Web site is truly an online city, with businesses and people from all over the world coming together. 
 
The advertising space is in the design of a large city map, with skyscrapers, highways and waterfront properties. 
 
Users can select which building or property they wish to buy or simply place an advertisement on the Web site. The map is even broken down into sections, like downtown, the finance district and beach boulevard. The site is not only for businesses looking to advertise, but for individuals looking to increase traffic to their personally created MyMillionDollarCity Web site. 
 
MyMillionDollarCity also plans to give away $1,000,000 every time 6,666 business plots have been sold. At sign-up, each business or individual is allocated a number of prize draw tickets. If a user purchases 1,000 pixels they will receive 1,000 prize draw tickets which will be used in subsequent draws. 
 
"Our aim is to create an international-online city with people and businesses from across the globe," said Simon Dumville - spokesperson for Valio Limited. "Not only do we give members maximum worldwide exposure, but we give them a chance to win from one of our rolling $1,000,000 prize draws." 
 
On purchase, members will receive a free entrance to the $1,000,000 rolling prize draws and free entrance to the searchable directory. The site also offers individuals the ability to buy and update their own Web sites including styles and images. 
 
"Taking into account the current growth of Internet Advertising Worldwide " said Dumville, "we have studied a lot of the already popular pixel advertising sites, and we feel that this site will bring a much-needed sense of community to the industry." 

Have a look at the site and make your own mind up -  visit http://www.mymilliondollarcity.com


