Title: 
Do Click Exchanges Really Work?

Word Count:
324

Summary:
When you are surfing what are you thinking? Maybe “that’s 20 another 10, and then I’ll get my site seen 10 times for free” etc, what do you think everyone else is thinking? The same!


Keywords:
Click exchanges,free,advertising,how to,newbies,mailing,list,responders,auto,traffic,build,building,internet,market,marketing


Article Body:
Yes and No!
First you have to ask yourself: What do I want the click exchange to do for me?
If you want to promote a product or website directly by placing your URL on the click exchange and then surfing like mad to get your site shown once for every two that you see, then the answer is NO!

When you are surfing what are you thinking? Maybe “that’s 20 another 10, and then I’ll get my site seen 10 times for free” etc, what do you think everyone else is thinking? The same!

So let’s look at this logically: Who’s surfing click exchanges? Answer: Other internet marketers that are trying to get more free visitors to their sites in order to sell them a product or concept. Right?

When you’re surfing what do you want?
Answer: More free advertising. Right?
So wouldn’t it make sense to offer other marketers more free advertising and customers? Of course it would!

How can we do that? Simply create a webpage on your site that is super lightweight (loads quickly) looks like a bonus or reward page from the exchange you are using, it should have some traffic lights or stop signs etc.

Only have a few words such as CONGRATULATIONS! YOU HAVE WON!  To receive your free report that tells you how to get MORE FREE ADVERTISING and BUILD YOUR LIST! Enter your details here:

It sounds cliché I know, but it’s ethical and you do give them a valuable prize.

That’s all there is to it, that person is automatically emailed a free gift as the first email from your auto responder that is set up just for this purpose. (More on auto responders and free gifts in other articles)

You now have an internet marketer on your mailing list and it isn’t spam.

I’ve found that this works for me; why not give it a go!


