Title: 
Effective Classifieds Advertising Tips

Word Count:
316

Summary:
Classified advertising is a relatively inexpensive way to promote your product or service, so it's a great option to consider for small businesses. However, if you're not careful, you can waste a lot of time and money on ineffective classified ads.

There are several factors to keep in mind when writing classified ads. If you keep these factors in mind, you can run an effective classifieds campaign.

1 – What are you selling?
Before you decide to run classified ads, you ...


Keywords:
classified,classifiieds,classified advertising


Article Body:
Classified advertising is a relatively inexpensive way to promote your product or service, so it's a great option to consider for small businesses. However, if you're not careful, you can waste a lot of time and money on ineffective classified ads.

There are several factors to keep in mind when writing classified ads. If you keep these factors in mind, you can run an effective classifieds campaign.

1 – What are you selling?
Before you decide to run classified ads, you should determine if your product is well suited to classified advertising. In other words, are the people reading the classified ads likely to be looking for your product? For example, if you sell used cars, classified ads might be a great way for you to go, because people do read classified ads when they are looking for a car. On the other hand, you probably won't sell many Ferrari's with classifieds.

2 – Where are you running your ad?
How many people will read your ad? Who are these people? Are they young or old? Rich or poor? Are they likely to be interested in your product or service.

3 – Writing Your Ad
When you write your ad, remember what you are trying to do:

A. Catch the reader's attention, so they will read your ad (that is the job of your headline)
B. Convince the reader that you have something they might be interested in (that is the job of your ad body)

Get the reader to contact you or otherwise respond to your ad (you should have an clear idea of what you want the reader to do – call you, visit your website, etc.)

5 – Test, test, test
Once you start a classified advertising campaign, you should rigorously test your ads and methods to perfect them. This is one of the most important parts of any advertising project – removing what doesn't work, and improving what does work.

Happy advertising!


