Title: 
Effective Advertising Pointers

Word Count:
452

Summary:
Businesses cannot get away from the force of advertising. If they want to make their products known in the marketplace they have to use some form of advertisement.


Keywords:
printing, services, advertising


Article Body:
Businesses often become known today through effective marketing. The marketing may be in the form of a regular news item or half column society news in the Sunday newspaper. The marketing may be in the form of a heart to heart talk with Mr. Brown on his prominent local television show. These are all advertising. Businesses cannot get away from the force of advertising. If they want to make their products known in the marketplace they have to use some form of advertisement. Advertising is being more and more known as a reasonable and desirable business force. 

Let’s say you own a department store. The advertising manager of the store is like the managing editor of a daily newspaper with his group of reporters regularly bringing fresh matter to his desk and the different department heads acts as the reporters.

Take it on a Thursday or Friday, when the big Sunday advertisements are in process of construction, the scene is remarkably lively, and the man at the head of the advertising department has plenty occasions to exercise his ready cleverness and level-headedness. He must have very clear-cut and definite ideas as to what's what, and no matter what influence may be brought to bear upon him by the different managers the advertising manager must have a stamina to select what he considers the best and arrange the same as he thinks wise, while at the same time he must have sufficient tact and skill to do these things without hurting the feelings of buyers—who, after all, are the real powers in the department store. 

The advertising manager soon knows the buyers. Of course, the manager has a pretty accurate knowledge of the products. He knows what the other stores are advertising. And he sees to it that the prices that go into print do not run higher than competing figures. Thus, every advertising manager should constantly study his market – which marketing material is best or which language is best – he should not shoot too high or too low. Likewise, his brain must constantly be devising new ideas and sales method to attract the public. 

In choosing the right marketing material to use, the manager should consider their audience, their product and their budget. A good ad is very important but if its cost and design does not complement the product you might as well receive poor sales. For this reason, it is important to carefully consider how to design the material, what to include in it and how to print it. There are a lot of affordable printing techniques today. The method that you will choose will depend on the material that you will produce. Thus, carefully weigh your options.


