Title: 
Effectiveness Of Internet Advertising – You Bet!

Word Count:
273

Summary:
Effectiveness for me is overrated.  That’s why all this hubbub and fuss about finding and then constructing measurement schemes for internet advertising that allow for universal terminology, comparable systems, standardized measurement, scalable auditing, and all the rest just puts a burr in my saddle.


Keywords:
Effectiveness Of Internet Advertising


Article Body:
Effectiveness for me is overrated.  That’s why all this hubbub and fuss about finding and then constructing measurement schemes for internet advertising that allow for universal terminology, comparable systems, standardized measurement, scalable auditing, and all the rest just puts a burr in my saddle.  I think we need to get back to the basics.

My mom once told me that it was the thought that counts.  She also one time told me that I was a horrible person, so I don’t take everything that she says as gospel, but on this one I feel she’s on to something.  Thought.  Intention.  These are the building blocks upon which a job poorly done is created and summarily congratulated.  

You tried.  I see you really, really tried…and that’s what means something to me kid.  Keep up the good work.”

That’s the kind of response to failure that we should be supporting, preferring and engaging in on a daily basis.  What’s this overwhelming value that we’ve given to effectiveness gotten us anyways?  The economy’s still going through that crest and trough thing, the dollar’s down, oil’s up, cardiology is in ever growing demand and kids are shooting up schools like its part of the mandatory curriculum.  

Sure, there’s some things that have come with actually meeting high expectations, but do they outweigh the bad?  I don’t know.  If we had some form of effective measurement we could come to a scientifically deduced and pragmatically derived at answer.  But we don’t, so let’s keep it at that it’s the thought that counts.


