Title: 
Famous By Morning Gives You the chance to Attain Celebrity Status and  Earn $1000

Word Count:
325

Summary:
Whats it take to get your video talked about? How do you make a viral video? What are the triggers that can have your video passed on by mouse advertising?


Keywords:
famous, celebrities, reality, acting


Article Body:
Have you ever wanted to become famous?  Now is your chance to do it and, in the process, earn 1000$.  Famous by Morning gives you the opportunity to use your creativity and stimulates the competitive spirit. With  Famous by Morning everybody has the possibility to become a star.

FamousbyMorning.com also offers several suggestions in order to help the contestants win the competition. Let’s say that a group of students are planning to attend a Friday Night Football game, they can start by arranging to have the website featured in a sky written advertisement.  As the pilot is skywriting the URL, the contestants can spell out each letter of the website on their stomachs.  Alternatively, if a person happens to notice a news broadcast airing, they could feature the website on a sign showcased in the background.

But, simply making your sales message easier to get across with video doesn't fully explain the dramatic increase in sales, so here's the underlying reason. The real marketing magic of video is this: people buy with e motion and the language of the emotional part of the brain is pictures, video not words. This is the reality shown in statistics.

Our system is offering you multiple suggestions helping you in the contest for example if a person happens to notice a news broadcast airing, they could feature the website on a sign showcased in the background.  

There is a small step between reality and acting . Considering that you know the basics , you can use the site and get the exposure you need. And you have the opportunity to post your personal video on famousbymorning.com You can become a celebrity by acting in your own movie. Many participants are using these ways to become famous and they succeed. See if your video is good enough to make reality nice to watch and you, a famous person.

	
If you are interested to become a celebrity try www.famousbymorning.com


