Title: 
Finally! A Stylish, Free & Easy To Use Classifieds Site!

Word Count:
429

Summary:
Have you ever had to list an item up for sale on a site like Craigslist or eBay?  Do you know how much of a hassle it is to figure out how to post the item, let alone get enough traffic or interested people to get a reasonable offer?  Well, SubBlurbs.com wants to help you with your classified ads.


Keywords:
classifeds, free classifieds, buy, sell, free, ads, advertising


Article Body:
Have you ever had to list an item up for sale on a site like Craigslist or eBay?  Do you know how much of a hassle it is to figure out how to post the item, let alone get enough traffic or interested people to get a reasonable offer?  Well, SubBlurbs.com wants to help you with your classified ads.

Classified ads in newspapers have been shown to decrease over the past few years as more and more people are heading online to buy items the traditionally bought in the newspaper.  This includes everything from pool tables to fire wood.  The beauty of this is that you can still get these items sold online.  SubBlurbs.com has a great color layout that will bring the intuitive buyer directly to your listing.  They don't mess around with you, trying to charge you fees like eBay would.  SubBlurbs.com is also much better looking than the ugly Craigslist.  Plus, SubBlurbs.com allows much more customization of your ads than Craigslist.

It is also dead easy to post a classified ad on SubBlurbs.com.  You just go to SubBlurbs dot Com and click Post Ad on the top left hand corner of the site.  It is a large button and you cannot miss it.  Next, you choose the state you are living in so the item can be properly categorized.  You then choose the proper category for the item that you are selling.  You can choose from things like For Sale or Jobs, these are classified ads so remember that many different fields are covered and not all are going to apply to you.  You will then be asked to select the proper sub category.  Finally, you will get to the last page where you can input your title, city or town, your ad description and any other pertinent info you would like potential buyers/viewers to know.

The only thing you have left to do is to verify your email.  You just have to login to your email account and click the link that SubBlurbs.com emailed to you and your ad will go live.  It is just as simple as that.  No confusing process to go through like eBay has and a beautiful site, unlike Craigslist.  Also, SubBlurbs.com doesn't have any really strict TOS, unlike many of the other classified ads sites, just don't scam or spam and you will have a great place to put up your ads.  So go check out www.SubBlurbs.com great place to put up your classified ads for a great price...FREE!


