Title: 
Flying High with Flyers

Word Count:
437

Summary:
For a more economical way of promoting a business you can consider using the marketing ability of flyers.


Keywords:
flyer, printing, services, advertising


Article Body:
The season, the weather, the style, the geographical condition and the mood of the people are all factors that affect the advertising outlay today. You will find that a lot of business owners spend twenty or thirty percent of their receipt in advertising. In order to give your business a start, as a business man you must shut your eyes to advertising expenditures and consider only the growth that advertising will bring as long as other conditions are equal.    

For a more economical way of promoting a business you can consider using the marketing ability of flyers. Flyers are full page ads that are distributed directly to your potential customers. You can always do the flyer yourself or have them done professionally. You can put them in bookstores, coffee shops or wherever you think possible customers might hang out. Here are a few things you need to consider to get your flyer noticed and remembered. 

First off, include your picture. People often like to connect with other visually. If you have your picture included in the flyer, readers may feel welcomed and at ease with contacting you. A colored picture is great yet a black and white is fine, too. 

Second, use headlines that can hook your prospects to make some action. Give them a reason to read the flyer and show them benefits. You only have three seconds to accomplish this. If you are looking for a specific target market, find out the words or phrases that grab their attention. If you are unsure of what to write experiment with several to see what works until you get the response that you want. 

Third, let your prospects know that they can easily purchase the product. Show them how they can order online, by phone or through fax. Let them know when they can expect to receive the product. Better yet, offer them a URL link to get more information. 

Fourth, include testimonials that appear authentic. A two or three-line quote with initials, last name and a state are oftentimes not perceived as authentic. Thus, to make the testimonials authentic you can use the line “visit my web site for additional testimonials” and include live links to contact these people. 

Fifth, wherever you go carry at least twenty-five or more flyers with you in a plastic sealed folder. This will protect your flyers from getting wet or crumpled and keeps them fresh. You can also place a piece of cardboard in front and in back for stiffness. 

Lastly, do not stop at one try. You must follow-up. After several exposures, chances are you have already created interest.


