Title: 
Forum Marketing Advertising Online

Word Count:
579

Summary:
You can learn how using forum marketing can skyrocket your sales!


Keywords:
forum, internet, marketing, advertising, money


Article Body:
Want to make money online but don't know how?  It's easy if you know where to go and what to do.  It's finding out where to go and what to do that is the real kicker. Many people have spent countless hours and dollars trying to figure out how to use the world wide web, and even more so, how to make money from it! 

If you've found this article than you've done the hard part already, you've mastered how to navigate the world wide web.  But now how to make money from it? I know you're already saying to yourself that it's impossible, but trust me, if I can do it, anyone can!

I'm going to let you in on a big secret to what it takes to make money on the web. The first thing you need is a good product or idea.  Let me save you the trouble.  One of the best money making websites for you to learn from while making money at the same time is The Purple Cowboys.

Who?  Yes, The Purple Cowboys.  Here, check it out. http://997makemoneynow.com/pages/150.htm
You will learn so much from them with their 14 day marketing course than you ever dreamed of.

But enough about that, you've got a good product, now you need to get it out there.  Well, one of the best kept secrets on the web is that making money is easy if you use forum marketing.

Forum marketing you ask?  What is that?? Well let me tell you.  A membership to the right forum is like a goldmine.  It's one of the best things you can do for your business.  A forum is a group of people together on a website laughing, chatting, playing games, sharing business ideas, and making money together while doing it.

When you join a forum, you create your member profile and in that profile is something called a signature.  In this signature, you are allowed to post a short piece of text, banner, graphic, or advertisement and this advertisement is  connected at the bottom of every single post you make on the forum.

What does that mean?  What's so special about that?  Well, I'm glad you asked.  This means that everytime you tell a joke, post a recipe, respond to a topic, or chat with others, your business is being advertised! With a really active forum, you'd be surprised how many times your advertisement gets seen and clicked on it a day if you make only 5 posts!  Imagine if you made 50 a day!  The posts aren't even about your business, they're about sitting back and having a good time.  You're not even WORKING yet your business is booming and you're making lots of cash!  I do it everyday!  

I have just shared with you one of the best money making secrets out there, forum marketing!  It is truly a brilliant way to pull in profits while having fun.  So what exactly do you do?

1) Get a good product (If you don't already have one the purple cowboys is amazing!)
http://997makemoneynow.com/pages/150.htm

2) Join an active forum (WAHM.com is an amazing one!) and add your signature (ie ADVERTISEMENT!)

3) Post to your hearts content about FUN stuff, debates, games, and discussions!

4) Watch your bank account get bigger without ever even mentioning your business!

It's really that simple! I make thousands of dollars a week off this method!

Warm regards,
Dezarae Starnes
http://997makemoneynow.com/pages/150.htm


