Title: 
Get Best Advertiser in Your Side Pocket!

Word Count:
800

Summary:
Another form of emerging advertising media is Pixel Page Sites. Perhaps you should have notices few of them. Alex, one student founded Pixel Page idea and built one website for advertising. Website owners put their ads on it and surprisingly they found increased traffic on their sites. Foremost, they are fun. People stay online for hours checking out all of the cool websites. This also creates lots of traffic for the advertiser.


Keywords:
pixel page advertising marketing strategy


Article Body:
I have been questioned by many people to disclose some of the greatest traffic generating techniques that I know of. I am not to immediate to reveal them because I know the majority doesn't even take battle on them. All I know is that they work and you should be familiar with this too.
Let's find to them! 

My first and foremost form of traffic comes from the higher ranked pages. My link is on web’s most popular sites. You should be able to be part of those famous sites. Do not waste your time in submitting your link anywhere blindly. You must show up your creative work. Going for link partners just to gain a few ranks, is a hard work.

Advertising is key factor in your web site promotion. Let people talk about you, your products, and your services. You see, people are always on the look out for good content right? Your site should have really good contents. Don’t write “Welcome to my website” or “Ours is a World’s first company...blah blah” unless and until you really have dominating product. 

You sell your products or services as like others, but you think you must be noticed. Your offer should be different to attract visitor. Your presentation should be mind catching. Get aware of advertisers online. There are few major players around.

•	Google Adsense
•	Yahoo ad
•	Pixel Page sites

You can use either of Google Adsense or Yahoo ad. These two programs run by Google and Yahoo respectively that pays you per click. You sign up for free, paste a little bit of code on your website and every time someone clicks the links on your site, you get paid a certain amount per click. 

I just launched a site and placed Google Adsense program at the right of the panel. I also placed my personal site logo attractively on one famous pixel site. InnovativePixelPage provider resulted my site some hundreds of clicks. The result? The site went from a page rank 0 to a page rank 4 in less than 2 months!

This is because you are being noticed online even while you are enjoying your summer holidays! There are some useful tips for being top in Google Adsense frame.

The real key to using this method is to write good content. Make it look nice. For example, if your site is about “Website traffic” your pages should contain exact keyword more time than only “traffic” word. Otherwise Google Adsense will show irrelevant result like “Rash hour traffic” or “Traffic jam”.

Some clicks are value higher than others depending on the "keyword" that the ad is targeting. What does this mean? Google Adsense are "contextual based" ads, meaning that they display the links for people to click on based on the context of your website.

Here are a few tips to get better earnings with Google Adsense:
1.	Don't make your ads look like ads! People are so "banner blind" now that they'll fly right over your Adsense ads if you make them look too much like actual ads. By removing the background and the border of your ads and making them blend in with your own site's background, it will help your sales enormously!

2.	Don't click your own links! It may be tempting to earn that potential for yourself but in the long run it's not worth it! Google has ways to sense "click fraud" and you will get caught and you'll surrender all of your earnings thus far.
Another form of emerging advertising media is Pixel Page Sites. Perhaps you should have notices few of them. Alex, one student founded Pixel Page idea and built one website for advertising. Website owners put their ads on it and surprisingly they found increased traffic on their sites. Foremost, they are fun. People stay online for hours checking out all of the cool websites. This also creates lots of traffic for the advertiser. If your ad is really eye-catching, it’s more like that visitor will click on your ads.

There have been many pixel page sites online. Not all of them are effective. 95% of such sites lack proficiency and eventually put down pixel site. I warn you not to get caught by such novice site builder.

Few tips for getting best Pixel Site Advertiser or Publisher.
1.	Investigate enough to be satisfied at first look. First impression is the last impression!
2.	Avoid blind copier. People will never visit their web site. Even if someone visits that site, he or she won’t recommend to his friends. Real PSA site is referred most of the time.
3.	Go for professional or just through out your money.
4.	Think different, Go for different. 

I recommend some of the interesting pixel page sites here.
•	www.milliondollarhomepage.com
•	www.innovativepixelpage.com
•	www.milliondollarscreenshot.com


