Title: 
Give FREE Long Distance Calling to all Your Customers and Members and Watch Your Business Grow!

Word Count:
403

Summary:
AdCalls offers you the opportunity to set up your own branded PC-to-PC and PC-2-Phone service through our Private Label Program. You can offer your own branded AdCalls system to all customers for FREE, while capturing vital contact details about them such as their name, email, zip code, area code etc.


Keywords:
direct marketing,free unlimited long distance calls,local internet advertising,online coupons,permission based e-mail marketing solutions,free VoIP dialing system,special offer advertising,advertising, marketing, media, telecommunications, sales,ad sales,


Article Body:
Instantly increase sales and traffic to your store or web site. AdCalls offers you a complete marketing solution and Customer Relationship Management CRM system to identify and capture vital information about your customers.


Give FREE long distance calling to all your customers and members and watch your business grow!


AdCalls offers you the opportunity to set up your own branded PC-to-PC and PC-2-Phone service through our Private Label Program. You can offer your own branded AdCalls system to all customers for FREE, while capturing vital contact details about them such as their name, email, zip code, area code etc. 

You also start to earn immediate income from coupon redeemers while capturing vital demographic data about all your customers. That's why we say "Advertising Doesn't Cost... It Pays With AdCalls". 

IDEAL BRANDING SOLUTION 

The result is the conversion of interested individuals to loyal customers that help you develop and maintain relationships and maximize the lifetime value of each customer. You’ll be given our administrator management tracking system with which you can frequently communicate with your customers. 

 
  
 
Key Benefits and Features 

Customer Incentive: Unlimited FREE calling and Print-At-Home Coupon Center for every customer and prospect 


Customer Data Base: Complete real time access to all customers and prospects using the free dialer and coupon program.


 Name Branding: The Coupon Redemption Center will be customized to include custom icon, dialer and coupon redemption center of your company for your name branding to be seen whenever your customer or prospect uses the coupon program. 


Customer Updates and Information: The Private Label Coupon Redemption Center will include customized links to your web site and/or specific website pages , directing customers and prospects to your website 


Ideal Viral Marketing: Your company can capture unlimited number of new customers when others refer their friends to download the free dialer. 


Run unlimited local and national ad campaigns targeting and capturing vital contact information about your customers.


Ideal income generating system for Non-Profit organizations and Religious groups.


Unlimited access to the Ad Builder Pro so you can modify or add new coupons and specials to all your customers. 


Unlimited world wide exposure of your ads to millions of potential viewers 


AdCalls360 handles every facet of implementation and management. All you need to do is put up your ads and send to our waiting viewers.  


Earn $.05 cents from each coupon print, redemption etc. 


For more info  go to http://pvtlabel.patbelgrave.com


