Title: 
How to boost your traffic of your Blog and destroy the competition.

Word Count:
547

Summary:
Do you want to send swarms of traffic to your blog?
Well here's a guide on how to achieve just that.


Keywords:
Blog,traffic,popularity,popular


Article Body:
With the Internet spreading like wildfire and reaching every part of our daily life, more and more traffic is directed to websites in search for information. 
Imagine a website without any text and completely overloaded with pictures. Well Blogs serve as an unstoppable entity in today’s scenario for online promotion and branding. They are the latest selling mantra for websites. Many businesses, manufacturers and wholesalers use blogs to promote their products, services. 
Social interest groups also use blogs for airing their opinion on important issues. 
Writing catchy blogs is an art as much as developing a website. 

So how do you Make Your Blog Popular?
Now that I've explained the benefits of blogs, the important question is how to make your blog popular and attract wild floods of traffic to your blog. 
Listed below are some valuable tips that will enable you to become a successful blogger and attract increased traffic to your blog. 

1. Write what your target audience wants
One thing you have to understand is this, that writing articles for a newspaper or magazine is completely different from writing for the Internet. 
A blogger should keep this mind and strictly adhere to the principles of online copywriting to make your headlines and copy appeal to the to the people viewing it. 
Unlike writing for print media, writing for blogs is very different because web traffic is very impatient and any thing less appealing is not likely to generate any interest by the people viewing it. Blog posts that captivate reader’s mind and that are understandable, share good ranking from search engine optimizers as well as from the readers. Make sure that your posts stick to one topic and the topic should be burning and topical. 
Remember to write at least one post a day to make the visitors keep coming back to your blog for more. 

2. Search Engine Optimization 
Make sure your blog posts are keyword rich. 
Write blogs around the in-demand keywords for your subject. This enhances the visibility of your blogs on the search engines, thereby increasing your success rate. 
Also adhere to following norms:
*Your blog URL must contain the primary keyword to increase your search engine ranking.
*Primary keywords that you use in the URL should also be included in the title of your post.
*The body of your post should have sufficient secondary keywords.
*The anchor text of links in the body of text should also contain keywords.

3. Make use of The Blog Services
By doing so, you prompt the visitors to visit your blogs on a regular basis. 
Pinging the blog services gives you a practical option make your readers aware of the fact that you've updated your blog so they can come and check out the updates and latest information. 

4. Advertise Your Blog
Make your posts known to potential visitors. 
You can achieve this by: 
*Creating a buzzword for your blog or its topic
*Introduce some complimentary gifts/stickers along with your blog's URL and tag line.
*Write a newsworthy press release as an addendum to your blog topic.

Thus, by following the above tips you would be able to drive floods of traffic to your blogs. 
The more readers you have viewing your blogs the more traffic you will generate for your website and profits.


