Title: 
How to Improve Emergency Situations With Affordable Emergency Monitoring Systems

Word Count:
407

Summary:
How to Improve Emergency Situations With Affordable Emergency Monitoring Systems


Keywords:
ebusiness


Article Body:
Elderly Healthcare Alert Report - It's no secret that the aging population is on an increase. And it's no secret that more adult children will be facing the challenges of caring for their elderly relatives, many of whom live in fear of living alone safely. What is a mystery to some, though, is that as aging issues become more a part of everyday life, what is being done to help? And what can be done?
 
So far, many leave safety up to the elderly themselves. However, this posses many challenges. For example, take into account three recent news cases. 
 
FALLS - The first involved a 90-year-old woman found dead outside her home, at the bottom of a rock wall. Her nephew found her, and surmised that she had probably gone out looking for her cat in the evening and fallen, as her glasses were lying atop the wall. And unfortunately temperatures had dropped into single digits that night.
 
CARBON MONOXIDE POISONING - In the second case, 'Weird Al' Yankovic found his parents dead in their California home due to carbon monoxide poisoning. His dad was found in a chair, mother in on the bathroom floor, a wood fire had been recently going, the flue found closed. 
 
FIRE - And in the third case, an 89-year-old man was found dead amidst a house fire in San Diego. He was known to often smoke cigars while relaxing in the part of the house were he was discovered.
 
In many cases, like the three above, home safety systems may have been able to prevent early deaths
 
"Home safety systems are a great low cost option for families to consider," said Steve Rowin, owner of Widescope security systems. "They preserve the independence that seniors want while providing safety and peace of mind for their family." 
 
Widescope Security Systems provides the G.E. Caregard home safety system nationwide. And with the U.S. population age 65 and over expected to double in size within the next 25 years, as reported by the U.S. Census Bureau (SeniorJournal.com 2005), that's important. In fact that translates to 1-out-of-5 Americans - or approximately 72 million people - aging by 2030 and in possible need of help in emergency situations, but not getting it. Especially for those aged 85 and older, the fastest growing segment of the U.S. population, life threatening situations need to be taken more seriously.
 
 
For more information on safety systems, call: (866) 736-8148 or visit Widescope security systems online at http://www.EmergencyMonitoringSystems.com .


