Title: 
How To Print A Digitally Image

Word Count:
622

Summary:
If you like taking pictures, downloading and editing it, you also probably want to save them and sooner or later print them. You can do it by simply saving your images onto your personal computer. For you to easily find your images, creating a specific folder is essential.


Keywords:
image printing


Article Body:
If you like taking pictures, downloading and editing it, you also probably want to save them and sooner or later print them. You can do it by simply saving your images onto your personal computer. For you to easily find your images, creating a specific folder is essential.

However you don’t just want to keep them on your computer and save it for life; perhaps you also like to print and frame some your work or build a tangible collection of them. There are many ways to print a perfect carrier for an image. Because its digital they can easily transported, there is no need for special equipment in terms of viewing them, and you produce additional copies easily. However, the process of producing copies is not as simple as it seems. To be able get the best results of prints, first you’ll need to know about some of the factors that affect print quality. 

Digital imaging printing is a good choice when you want to print a photo quality images. How to know if your printer is good enough to print a photo quality images? Digital printers measure their performance in terms of the number of ink dots per inch they produce. It is generally considered that 300 dpi is required for photo quality prints. DPI is an abbreviation for Dots Per Inch, and it specifies the number of dots in a square inch that make up an image on a printed page. More dots in a square inch mean a smoother image, whereas an image with a low DPI, the dots may be visible to the naked eye. The recommended minimum DPI is 150, while 300 DPI will make an excellent quality print.

Digital imaging printing is satisfactory, but the printer alone is not enough, you must also put onto consider of what kind of paper you will be using. For photo quality images, it is best to use a name brand sheet of photo papers such as Kodak and Fuji.

A thermal printer is also a good choice. Thermal printers have a color ribbon of Cyan, Magenta, Yellow and Black or the CMYK colors inside of them. With these 4 colors, any color can be printed. The printer reads the color scheme of your image and heat is applied to each color on the ribbon. The result is a near perfect reflection of your previewed photograph, which has been “pressed” onto the photo paper. Thermal prints do not smudge and last a great deal longer than ink-based photos. 

Knowing how big a file that needs to be to make a print is also one of the biggest sources of confusion about printing concerns resolution. Size also matters here. The size of the image file determines the maximum size at which it can comfortably be printed before the image starts to break down or become “pixilated”. You can calculate the size of your image by taking the pixel dimensions and dividing it by the resolution of the printer. For instance calculation, if you have a 2,400 x 1,800 pixel image on a 300 dpi printer it is easily be printed to 8 x 6 inches. You can also print it in a larger size but you will lose quality. 

Another problem is by matching the color on the screen with the print, the reason is that there’s a big difference between them if your printer is using the color scheme CMYK, while your monitor is formatted as RGB or the Red, Green and Blue color scheme. This can make a big difference in what you preview versus what you print. A tip of advise always perform a checking first, check if the calibration of the monitor is correct and it matches the printer before you print.


