Title: 
How To Promote Your Website With Free Leads

Word Count:
473

Summary:
How to generate real traffic to your website with free leads and free online advertising techniques


Keywords:
free leads, leads, advertising, internet advertising, opt in leads, business leads, multi level marketing leads, mlm leads, networking marketing leads, free ads, bulk email, email leads


Article Body:
If you are trying to promote your online business on a shoe string budget you are in luck.

If you are creative there are many opportunities to get real traffic to your website with free leads.

One way is through ffa leads or free for all links free leads.

Ffa free leads are leads of those who have posted free ads on free for all links network pages and have agreed to receive a one time email advertisement in return.

In exchange for being able to post their ads on thousands of free for all links pages the advertiser agrees to receive a confirmation email for each posting from the owners of the free for all links page. In the confirmation email is an advertisement from the owner of the free for all links page.

This is called reverse advertising. One advertiser posts free ads and another advertiser sends an advertisement to the person who just advertised for free. This is how the free leads are generated.

Sounds crazy but it works. There are ffa network sites such as Lead Club Pro FFA Free Leads where you can join and get your own free for all links page immediately.

This free for all links page will collect your free leads daily for you. The network generates usually between 2-3000 posts free leads daily to your free for all links page.

The management of the free for all links network is responsible for keeping your free inks page submitted to the major submission services.  This gives you a constant flow of new free leads.

You then have the option of sending your advertisement to those who place their ad on your page through an online interface or with your own bulk email program.

Generally ffa leads are very inexpensive. You can expect to get from 10,000-60,000 eads per month for as little as $20. per month.

Some sites such as Lead Club Pro FFA Free Leads will allow you to join free for 7 days. You can download 10,000 free leads immediately without paying.

Some people say that ffa free leads are just junk email leads. This used to be true but now most ffa free leads networks require posters to confirm their email addresses in order to send out their free ads. This means that the email addresses must be valid and belong to the poster. Posters must look in this email box to confirm their advertisements. When they look for the confirmation they see your ad.

Now, if you are selling real estate in Montanta ffa free leads are really not targeted specifically to your market. However, if you are selling a product which is useful to other marketers these leads are highly targeted free leads!
All ffa leads are marketers. If you have a product which helps them market their websites you have a potential prospect.


