Title: 
Importance of the Custom Company Logo Design

Word Count:
442

Summary:
When you starting a company you are thinking on how to cut expenses. One of such options to cut the startup costs is a company logo design. But is it good idea to order a cheap logo or work without company logo at all?


Keywords:
logo design, corporate identity, business card, designer, company, business, stationery, logotype


Article Body:
When you starting a company you are thinking on how to cut expenses. One of such options to cut the startup costs is a company logo design. But is it good idea to order a cheap logo or work without company logo at all?

Logo represents company’s identity. First impression is made by logo or its absence. To know the importance of a logo just answer one question: “How many big, leading and famous companies don’t have logos?” If you company doesn’t have a logo this can raise doubts and negative thoughts. If logo was made by non-professional designer or made by owner of the company it is sometimes worse than no logo at all.

One of the popular questions is – why my logo should be custom? If logo is created with the use of a clipart (premade graphic elements from the public collections) it may look like or be identical to other logos and even your competitors’ logos. This will make identification of your company difficult or your logo may be easily mixed up with logo of another company. This situation may harm your reputation and money invested in marketing of your brand will be wasted. 

Good company logo reflects the main point of your company, its values and helps in successful development of the business. Also, it is important to distinguish the logo design for big companies and start-ups. Logo for the big company may consist only of a one graphic element (Nike swoosh) and it will be easily identifiable but for small company such logo is a bad idea because you will need to spent huge amounts of money to promote it.

When owner of the company decides to create logo himself results are rarely look professional.  Results of his work may serve as concept for a new logo but not as logo. To create a successful logo you need more than Photoshop and tutorial from the internet.  You need to have knowledge of the basics of design at least; you need to have experience in logo design. Bad logo is worse than no logo.

Company logo is one of the must have attributes of the successful business. High-quality business card may tell a lot about its owner as well as a bad one. 

Let’s sum up. Logo should be custom and designed by a professional logo designer.  You'll never have a second chance to make a good first impression. You have just a few seconds to attract the attention and to make first impression. In many ways first impression depends on your logo. Successful marketing of your business starts with a successful corporate identity.


