Title: 
Internet Web Site Advertising - Legendary

Word Count:
398

Summary:
Internet web site advertising seems to be the Topic of the day. And I thought that instead of ignoring that fact with senseless personal anecdote, I’d give in to greater office pressure and write about it.


Keywords:
Internet Web Site Advertising


Article Body:
Internet web site advertising seems to be the Topic of the day. And I thought that instead of ignoring that fact with senseless personal anecdote, I’d give in to greater office pressure and write about it.  I’m nervous, but here we go.  Oh, wait, before I get into that I want to tell you why.  The why part is because normally I’m a little cynical.  When I am supposed to research some topic and I do, I usually fill with a little bit of disgust.  I don’t think that that’s out of line, considering to the things I read.  

But, today as I’m reading about web site advertising I had that familiar tinge of bile backing up in my throat and I was thinking about how I could articulate my inevitable irritation that would inevitably turn into full blown madness.  And then, of all things, this author started making sense.  Even though he’s talking about web site advertising and I typically have sorts of rage (legitimate or not…probably not) about that particular subject, I started getting down with what this person’s saying.  So, without further delay, I will quickly tell you what I think about all this internet web site advertising deal.  

But, I’ll do it with an anecdote.  But, this time it’s relevant.  We were making a web site for a company I was working with.  We had very little money and the primary financial backer of the project wasn’t too interested in internet advertising.  Finally, he was convinced to get a web site made for us, but on a shoestring budget.  It was fine, but quite low budget and the designer we got did just that, design.  The little work that was put into traffic generation reaped an equal amount of response—a little.  Well, that business has just been sold to a company that has been known to focus intently on the other aspects of internet web site advertising.  They have gone to great lengths with their previous businesses to develop their site to meet their customer’s needs, utilize various links to bring customers to their site, etc. etc.  I look forward to seeing the remarkable progress that the company will make with their new vision of utilizing internet technology.  I wish them the best, but probably that won’t be necessary.


