Title: 
Internet Online Advertising; a Great Resource for Employers

Word Count:
441

Summary:
Online advertising for recruitment of employees has employers world-wide applauding this method of advertising for numerous reasons. Read this article and discover how advertising online can benefit your company!


Keywords:
online job search, internet online advertising, ads advertising online, job online 


Article Body:
The speed and ease of internet online advertising has become attractive to an increasing number of employers looking for qualified employee candidates. Not only is advertising immediate, reaching a broader audience than any other form of media, but ads advertising online yield quicker responses from interested persons.

<b>The Benefits of Ads Advertising Online</b>

Aside from being a quick and easy form of advertising, more and more job seekers are turning to the internet for online job search purposes. They know tapping into online resources when looking for employment, benefits them by broadening job possibilities, and online profiles and résumés are made readily available to employers at the click of a button.

Employers save precious time not having to meet with job applicants in their offices, only to discover minutes into the interview the person is unqualified. Handling resumes online and viewing the applicant’s online profile equips the employer with a time-saving method of culling ineligible applicants to find the perfect candidate.

Internet online advertising also provides the employer with an effective means of sharing employee information with sister offices or other staff involved in the hiring process. E-mail applicants and online resumes are easily forwarded and can be easily retained in an online “bank” of possible candidates for future purposes. 

Employer advertising trends reveal that the job online market is the wave of the future. Web sites catering to employer/employee matchmaking services such as istaffsolution.com make world-wide advertising online affordable, and an effective means of networking for online job search purposes.

<b>Advertising Online; a Win, Win Solution</b>

Advertising online is a win, win solution for both the employee and the employer. Broad range distribution of “employee wanted” and “employee for hire” type advertisements increases success in a shorter time span than other forms of advertising.

With a possible savings of $100s or even $1,000s of dollars in advertising, advertising online is also the most cost-effective method of advertising available, and yields better results.

In fact, some online resources allow the employer to “test drive” their services before paying. At istaffsolution.com, for instance, employers have the opportunity to register for free, before becoming a member.

A test search for available employees, and an opportunity to view profiles and resumes provides the employer the chance to determine for themselves whether or not that service is the recruitment solution for them.

And, with no finders fee, no unnecessary time wasted interviewing unqualified applicants, and complete control over whether or not to initiate direct contact with applicants, employees are shouting a resounding “<i>Yes</i>” to internet online advertising! 

© 2006 Lori S. Anton for istaffsolution.com


