Title: 
Is Fax Advertising Still a Good Marketing Choice in Canada?

Word Count:
408

Summary:
Until 2000 the Canadian laws on fax advertising were not uniform across the country. It applied to some providers but not to all. Also prior to this it was not customer friendly; it was very confusing for the average consumer to understand what the rules were.


Keywords:
web development, web design, wesite design, oscommerce, shopping carts


Article Body:
Until 2000 the Canadian laws on fax advertising were not uniform across the country. It applied to some providers but not to all. Also prior to this it was not customer friendly; it was very confusing for the average consumer to understand what the rules were. When this new generalized rule came down there was also a ruling saying what the calling hours could be for proper calling times. The decision took into account each areas time zone. 

Unsolicited fax advertisements are not enforced or punished by the government. They are enforced and punished through the media carrier. The national rules that have been set up are an agreement that was reached via the commissioner of the CRTC and the various telecom service providers in the country. 

If a person is wishing to not have their fax number contacted for fax advertising they may place themselves on a voluntary do-not-call list. Their number will remain on the list for a period of three years. During the time that their number is on the list the companies do not call them out of choice. If they do choose to call a person that is on the list the violation of that can not be enforced by law though. That means if a person feels that they have been violated by the company then they are not able to sue. The do-not-call list is more like a gentlemen’s agreement than an actual strict law. 

If a consumer is receiving these fax advertisements and they no longer wish to be, they can look on the fax advertisement for a way to contact the company to let them know that they no longer wish to be contacted. 

Fax advertisements can be a wonderful tool for helping any business to get more costumers. However, customers prefer to be treated with respect. If they are not happy and feel that they are being bothered by a business in any type of way they will not be so kind as to spend their money there. Through fax advertising a solid business relationship can be either formed or destroyed depending upon how well the customer is treated through it. It is best for any business to abuse the media forms that they have at their fingertips. By following the general rules and guidelines set forth by the powers that be a company will portray the image of a responsible integrity based company that values their clients.


