Title: 
Keys to Successful TV and Radio Advertising

Word Count:
616

Summary:
TV and Radio commercials have become immensely popular in today’s advertising market and is used as an effective tool in conveying your product or service to your target audience. These means of advertisement are often proved to be affordable and can reach out to a huge audience.


Keywords:
advertising,tv,radio,commercial,audience


Article Body:
It is very important to remember certain essential points that lead to a successful TV commercial. Here are a few tips.

Writing the Script in a TV Commercial
During a TV commercial you have got a very limited time frame to capture your audience and you need to get your message across quickly. Therefore in order to grab your potential customer’s attention it is important that you use short punchy sentences. Long sentences can make the customer loose interest in your commercial.

Audio and Video Must Match in a TV Commercial
When writing your commercial, one vital point that you must make sure of, is that your audio and video do match. When you're talking about new car models arriving, you don't want to see video of the current year's make. Hence, you must merge your audio and video to create a powerful sales tool. 

Put People in Your TV Commercial 
People relate to other people. Hence putting people into your commercial can help draw more target audience compared to commercials without people. In order to avoid your commercial look hokey, it is important that you get these people do something that relates to your business.

Radio is an affordable advertising medium that can reach a mass audience. Following are the keys to help increase your chances of having a successful radio ad campaign. 

Frequency of Ads 
Frequency refers to how many times your ad is aired in a short period of time. A radio commercial needs to be aired multiple times before it gains the attention of the listener. Therefore running your commercial once a week for a month isn't going to be enough. Rather a commercial that is aired multiple times in a day has a better chance of reaching the listener than a commercial that is only aired a few times in a week. 

Target Audience 
For every ad you create, it is very important that you must know your target audience. Advertising your western gear store on a country station makes sense. Advertising a teen clothing store on the same station doesn't. 

Follow a definite process while advertising. First, make a list of the radio stations in your market. Listen to each one to help identify your own target audience. It is very important that you understand what kind of listeners will be tuning in and are they a potential customer for your product or service? 

Producing Your Commercial 
Unlike television commercials, production is more simple for a radio commercial. All you need is a script and voice talent. However, that doesn't mean you should just punch something together. In this case, your copy isn't relying on any visuals so it's vital you capture the listener's attention from the start. This means that the copy needs to be crystal clear and not muddied by trying to be cutesy in your pitch. 

Remember, frequency is the key so make sure your ad hits the mark and will get the consumer's attention the first time. Research shows it takes a few times before the consumer actually gets what your company is all about. It's vital your ad stands out and conveys your message repeatedly.

Rates 
Costs are much more affordable and therefore take advantage of the low ad rates for radio. Ad rates are on the rise but the costs are still more affordable than visual mediums like television. Use your negotiating skills to get a good deal on an ad bundle. The more ads you buy, the better rates you'll be able to get. 

Before you take the plunge into radio advertising, find out if you are ready for radio and if your product or service is apt for your target audience.


