Title: 
Make Traffic, Problems The Thing of The Past, Discover The Power of PDF.

Word Count:
1067

Summary:
Discover how to get PDF files to bring your on-line business to life. I have found that allowing people to download your E-books Can bring in a huge volume of free traffic. If you write about your on-line business they will read it. Writing a short E-book is easy to do, and you can do it free!


Keywords:
PDF files, E-book,traffic with pdf files,


Article Body:
Among many struggles, and obstacles that a new on line business face is getting enough targeted traffic! Now there are thousands of articles about how to get more traffic to a web site. There are twice as many services that offer on line businesses with ways to promote their sites. Before you spend a dime on getting traffic, I would like to tell you about 3 ways that you can get tons of free targeted traffic. 

One of the best things about the Internet is "content". No matter what you want to know, or learn, you can learn it from the internet. The way you get information on the web is through content, words information. Without content you have nothing but a blank page. Believe it or not life is all about content. The human mind always thirst for new content of some sort, it's the reason why we gossip, the reason we watch TV, listen to the radio, and the reason we surf on the Internet, read the newspaper, talk on the phone ect...

With that being said I will give you the secrets of getting huge amounts of traffic free. So sit back take notes and, get ready for some awesome tips.

The Great PDF File.

I am a huge fan of PDF files. You know those little short e-books that have great content, that teaches you how to do things? E-books are great for bringing in tons of free targeted traffic. The very people who download a PDF file, do so because of the content. They become the ultimate targeted audience.

For instance, if I write a short E-book on how to brew beer at home. In my book I write about the basics, the ABC's to brewing, I also include tasty, and easy to brew recipes in the PDF file. The person who downloads a copy of my book is in the market to buy products relating to beer brewing.

Now because I am a business owner I insert links to my web site in my beer brewing E-book. On the Web site I sell beer brewing supplies, and ingredients. My goal is to give out valued information, that is downloaded to a prospect's computer, where the person uses the book as a reference, they love the content, they need supplies, and now have a link to my site. This gives my web site a huge amount of targeted traffic automatically. 

The PDF file can be a great asset for any web site, and any on-line business. The other great thing about PDF is you never know where it will end up. People may post it in their blogs, on their web site, they may email it to friends who knows where it will posted, but any way you look at it, it's good news for the Internet business owner.

It isn't all that difficult to write a PDF file/ E-book. You can download the latest version of Adobe. Using Adobe, you can compose a PDF file. The PDF file can be as short as 1 page, or it can be hundreds of pages. Just remember to give informative information that your reader will value, include a title page. Obviously you want to include links back to your site. Do yourself a favor, and give consent for your readers to redistribute your E-book, ask that the E- book be in tact and unedited. From there you can upload it to your server, and begin promoting your PDF file. You can even design a fancy cover should you choose to, but it is not required.

The simplest way that I have found to promote a new PDF file is to join forums that complement the E-book. Add a SIG file to be seen at the end of all your post, in that SIG file place a direct link to your E-book include a description of the book. I like to write in "to download this report right click on the link, and select save as." Now the person who reads the E-book has the PDF saved on their computer. 

In the forum all you have to do is respond to a post, or 2, or even start up a new post with a few comments, try to provide great insight, and people will download you PDF file guaranteed.( Note: do not spam the forum, or your post will most likely be deleted by the moderator. A forum should not be used as a method as advertising.) Remember, people are always looking for new content, curiosity killed the cat. If you write it, and it looks good, it will be downloaded, and read.

Another easy way to promote an E-book is through e-mail. Send out a funny message, or information that is related to your E-book. Along with the email attach a link to your PDF file in your E-mail SIG file. Use a snappy title something that promotes interest towards people downloading your PDF file. (make sure that the link works okay, then send out your email to your friends. Ask them to help you out by sending out the email to everyone they know. Send out a good entertaining, or informative e-mail, and that thing could go around the world a few times exposing your PDF file for free, to countless numbers of people. I guarantee that someone will download it. The worse case scenario, if no one downloads your PDF file, It is not a big deal it didn't cost you anything to send out those e-mails! 

Another way to promote your PDF file, is write a short article about a topic that compliments your E-book. Many directories include a resource box. I recommend adding a link to your PDF file in that box. Hundreds of people read articles. Remember if these people read your article for the content, chances are they are going to want, to read your E- book for even more advice, and information.

You have just read about a few great ways of getting tons of free targeted traffic. The traffic is yours if you are willing to work for it. The great thing about the Internet is once your work gets published, you will never have to do the work again, and the traffic will keep on flowing to your site over, and over again! If you write it they will read it, that's just the wonder of the Internet!


