Title: 
Negative Aspects Of Online Advertising

Word Count:
310

Summary:
While there are a host of benefits for companies and websites that choose to advertise via the Internet, there are many negative facets to online advertising as well. These aspects include advertising activities that many deem immoral or even illegal. Such things as Spyware and Adware, commonly referred to as malware, can have detrimental effects on your computer and should be avoided at all costs if possible. Much of this malware is actually viewed and obtained via activity ...


Keywords:



Article Body:
While there are a host of benefits for companies and websites that choose to advertise via the Internet, there are many negative facets to online advertising as well. These aspects include advertising activities that many deem immoral or even illegal. Such things as Spyware and Adware, commonly referred to as malware, can have detrimental effects on your computer and should be avoided at all costs if possible. Much of this malware is actually viewed and obtained via activity on unsafe websites. Fortunately using the security settings on your computer can allow you to block such websites from being visited.

Essentially adware is an application of sorts which, when come into contact with, can modify your computer system's settings. It is through this modification that your computer is harmed. While there is an extensive variety of this type of damaging adware and spyware programs, the most common of which is perhaps the Trojan. Trojan applications are designed in such a way that once they infiltrate the surface of your computer's inner workings they can become extremely difficult to remove. Many people have written procedures on the Internet trying to explain how to rid your computer of the Trojan, sadly though many of these simply do not work. If you are a well educated individual when it comes to the removal of adware and spyware programs and methods of protecting against infiltration, you are certainly in luck.

If, however, you are not so skilled when it comes to computers and you find yourself directed to an unsafe website, you may be in some trouble. Of course, you may never come across any dangerous adware while visiting such a site but, it is important to keep in mind that this malware can affect your computer in a matter of seconds if you happen to be once again redirected to another less safe website.


