Title: 
Network Marketing Advertising – We Have Vision

Word Count:
385

Summary:
Do you ever watch a movie that you think is excellent and wonder why movies like Titanic are the ones to captivate the attention of the greater public?  Well, I don’t.


Keywords:
Network Marketing Advertising


Article Body:
Do you ever watch a movie that you think is excellent and wonder why movies like Titanic are the ones to captivate the attention of the greater public?  Well, I don’t.  People are ridiculous and their taste in music and movies is even worse.  But, if there was a case point that we could discuss for a moment, the movie that’s on my mind is Go.  While I’m not sure that it created any historical cinematic breakthroughs, I tell you this; I really, really enjoyed myself for a couple of hours watching that movie.

One scene that I particularly liked was when the guy from Party of Five and his boyfriend went to have dinner at the cop’s house.  They thought the guy and his wife were hitting on them, but they turned out to simply be trying to recruit them for Amway.  I love that.  I think that Amway is hilarious and I truly like their style—oversell and under deliver…and that’s just to their employees.  

This network marketing business is great.  In fact, I’m a little put off that I have to stick with just one anecdote on this one, as I really could drop a few gems that have thankfully come into my life due to network marketing, or multilevel marketing.  

What gets into people?  I mean at what point does someone drop the dreams they had as a child and decide that the way to personal and career success is through pyramid schemes and selling products to their family and friends?  This is what happens when people quite going to church.  People obviously are inherently flawed, leaving us with a persistent urge to fill some void in our minds with something to believe in.  You can take drugs and ignore it, you can read books in order to recognize that its simply a flaw and thus overcome it, or you can do what every society has done in the history of humankind and utilize religion.  But, it appears that another remedy for human imperfection is challenging these time honored techniques…network marketing.  So, if you don’t want to buy your cousin’s hokey products for their lack of quality, consider it your contribution to their psychological well-being.  Good deed for the day…done.


