Title: 
Outdoor Advertising Idea – We Think You’ll Agree

Word Count:
364

Summary:
When I was going to college I needed to satisfy my math requirements.  This proved to be a little bit of a problem, as I’m much better with macaroni noodles and construction paper than I am with numbers and equations.


Keywords:
Outdoor Advertising Idea


Article Body:
When I was going to college I needed to satisfy my math requirements.  This proved to be a little bit of a problem, as I’m much better with macaroni noodles and construction paper than I am with numbers and equations.  Well, thankfully I was able to take a logic course to complete my math credits.  My professor was this hilarious guy who dressed much like he was a founding member of the Trench Coat Mafia, except that he don’t carry a gun and he was remarkably adept at logic and sound reasoning.  His name was Stephen and I think about him often.  At times maybe because I thing that he was funny, but mostly because I am overwhelmed on a daily basis by the outlandish claims by politicians, advertisers, people in general, etc, which have absolutely not a nuance of logical basis for their claims.  I think the world would be a difficult place for Stephen to wander through.

Another of these now familiar incidents that spits in the face of logic surfaced recently when I was reading about outdoor advertising ideas.  From the start I’d like to point out that this isn’t to say that an illogical premise doesn’t ultimately make a claim that isn’t true.  Conversely a soundly reasoned argument can also make a literally untrue statement.  So, its not to say that the article I read about outdoor advertising ideas was incorrect, simply the manner in which it attempted to prove its claims were illogical and unsound, and that irritates me.

As a completely nonscientific study I feel safe in saying that I believe that outdoor advertising works.  I personally believe this because outdoor advertising in so many methods and ideas continues to exist, and seems to be proliferated in greater ways and means each day.  But, I wouldn’t try to pander and contribute to the already overflow of and influx of illogical claims and nonsensical attempts to support a position or claim through simply correlational links, as opposed to causal, or even worse, completely independent statements with no relevancy that are made simply to deceive.  Thanks Stephen, now the world irritates me too.


