Title: 
own the internet

Word Count:
549

Summary:
own the internet with agloco , agloco is too good to be true !!


Keywords:
agloco


Article Body:
Everyone knows google today, we make all our searches with it.
Do you know how much they are making a year? Their endorsement was
10.6 billion usd in 2006.
3.5 billion of the amount was net profit which occured because you
google for your searches.
The ads are 99% of the company's income. Do you get anything from this
amount?
Google paid 1.6 billion usd to Youtube. You uploaded your videos, 3
guys took the 1,6 billion.
Is it fair? It is the members that make these sites and services
valuable.

AGLOCO is a smart software designed to share their profit with their
users: You.
They will share 90% of their profit with agloco participants.
Hmm... Sounds nice.  How much money can I make?

You became a member to AGLOCO, you downloaded and installed the
viewbar. You are surfing online at least 5 hours amonth.
In these conditions the company will earn approximately 12.5 usd, they
will give 5 dollars to you,
6.25 usds to your 5 level referrers. The company will keep 1.25 usd
from the total.
Here most important pre-condition for you is to make your referral
network. You'll get money from up to 5 levels below you.

As an example: You refered 10 friends to AGLOCO. Your friends did not
work as hard as you and made just 3 new members each.
And let's assume that, the new members made 3 members each also. As
you are getting money from the members up to 5 levels below you,
your monthly income will be approximately 1517.5 usd. You can
calculate how much you can make monthly for different scenarios with
the member calculator at AGLOCO's web site.

How do I get my Money?
The money you earned will be transferred into your bank account. If
you wish you can get it by check or Paypal.
Will I be asked for a fee when I become a member or when I download
the software? Is this an illegal pyramid scheme?

Membership is completely free. Pyramid schemes work on the basis of
passing the new member's entrance fee to older members.
In AGLOCO, you will get your share from the internet profits. The only
relevance between two is, the first members,
who makes a good referral network, will get more of the share .

Google has made enough money. Even if it's not that much, you can
start making money right now by owning the internet by AGLOCO.
Seems worth giving a try, nothing to lose but we can make nice amounts
if all goes well. How will I start?

You can directly go to sigin page of AGLOCO by clicking here:
http://www.agloco.com/r/BBFW8250 . Join the economic network by filling the
form.

You'll recieve an activation e-mail including your password. Check
your junk/spam folder, if you don't recieve it.
If not there also, fill the ''forgot your info'' part. They will send
your e-mail.
You need to click the link in your e-mail and activate your account.
You will be asked to change your password.
Enter a new password that you won't forget. In the second mail, they
will send your referral link,
like: http://www.agloco.com/r/BBFW8250 .You should tell your friends to
use your link
so that they will be connected to you and you will earn money from
their membership
visit site for more info : http://aglocotopgroup.jeeran.com/agloco


