Title: 
Paper and Printing: The Link

Word Count:
337

Summary:
Printing is modern day need. That is why homes and offices are equipped with printers to help them out with the daily demands.


Keywords:
online printing four color printing 


Article Body:
When you say printing, the first thing that will come to your mind is paper. This is because paper is the most used material for printing. Another reason is that prints are very good when done on paper.

There are several types of paper available in the market these days. They come in different weights, sizes and thickness.

Inkjet paper, for one, is good for external communications that give emphasis on the aesthetic side of paper. It is made especially for inkjet printers.

Another type is the laser paper. This type maximizes the quality of print and color applications. 

Carbon paper, on the other hand, is a carbon-coated paper designed for typewriter and handwriting.

We also have photo papers. These papers are coated in glossy or mat finish to create high-quality images. They are fast drying, smear-resistant and do not easily fade. 

Paper industry also manufactures what is called as the executive paper. They come in wove, laid, contour and with or without watermark.

Recycled paper is made of 100% recycled material. Recycling paper does not entail the usual tedious process of making paper. Aside from that, this process does not harm the environment.

Colored paper is also another type. To add visual impact to the material, colors are added. These colors come in a great variety to blend every concept and design.

When it comes to laser application and other copying purposes, copier paper will come to the rescue. This paper runs well with the machine. However, this may not be good for aesthetic purposes.

Finally, we have the multi-purpose paper. It can be used for laser and inkjet printers. Also, it can be used for mono or colour copiers even as paper fax machines. 

With the demands of the complex world, we have to finish every thing in our deadliest deadline or perhaps earlier than that. We also have to cope with our business as well as our personal needs. We have to be ready with our papers. We can lose too much without papers around.


