Title: 
Poor Advertising of a Good Product

Word Count:
581

Summary:
Why do they create a bad advertising for this fine quality product? It is still a mystery that to me. But we will attempt to figure out why it happens. First of all let’s define what we mean under bad advertising.  It is an advertising that has not worked. That is it. The aim of the advertising might be…


Keywords:
advertising, product


Article Body:
Advertisers always pay attention at the range of products being advertised. Let’s imagine there is a revolutionary new product to be advertised. Regardless the immense budget and well-planned company the advertising still seems ineffective. Where is the mistake (mistakes) hidden? To find this out we’ll have to start a deep analysis of what is going on. What is the aim of any advertising strategy? There can be two answers to this question. One is plain and simple – to increase sales. But if a company constantly observes the movement of the differential of sales on the scale of specific field, they maintain this differential by increasing or decreasing the intensity of the advertising.   There are three basic principles that should be brought to life when advertising: give people information on the product, set a solid image of it in the mind of the consumer and then influence his choice by maintaining the advertising process with special techniques like discounts, programs etc.

The strategy development is the most frequent problem that sometimes even can not be seen. The reason is not in the budget or the plan, there are other factors. The reason for a failure is a “copy method”. The first step in strategy formation is analyses of what competitors do. The strategy may seem well-established, the financial issue – very promising and the implementation methods – quite easy. The mistake lies in the assumption that the competitor obligatory succeeds. Maybe this is good for your competitor, but is not meant for you. There is one thing about the consumer a professional should know about. The client has the subconscious image of the product in his head and he is going to make a purchase of a product that corresponds to the image. And when professionals present the video with revolutionary products nicely presented but the idea is quite new, the customers’ reaction would be: “this is not quite what I expected to see.” The so-called template exists for everything: delighted face of an individual drinking coffee, a gorgeous cat near his food etc. if success ids what you long for, you have to venture and ride the wave but certain amount of logics and ability to foresee has to be present. The idea is not to be “as good as competitors are”, then people will choose the competitor, the idea is to be “the best” in the field. The axiom – simplicity is a key to success is familiar to you from high school.

The same principle functions in advertising, brief and laconic statement that is well-composed and reflective and most of all ear-catching will be more effective than a thousand of brochures. The other mistake is lack or overload of information. When being told for a zillion times that they have to try this or that they will definitely hate it eventually. You have to give out as much as the audience is able to consume. You don’t have to walk everybody into the house, just open the door. The age range definition is the last out of three main mistakes. It would be not wise to limit the range to some extent. The conclusion is that advertiser should look at the product wider and give a chance for everybody to evaluate the product. e have said a lot about bad advertising. But then what is good advertising? Let’s keep the definition brief: good advertising is a fresh idea laconically arranged and targeted at a certain range of audience.


