Title: 
Promotional products    VS     Print advertising

Word Count:
424

Summary:
Why use  print ads when you can use promotional  products. They are less expensive, last longer and are useful.


Keywords:
advertising news,promotional products, trade shows,ads,cheap, online,,network marketing,mlm,


Article Body:
WWW.PROLINEPROMO.COM WWW.PROLINEPROMO.COM 
Print advertising vs. Promotional Product advertising has many different characteristics. PRINT ADS will only carry the life 
of the ad and are not considered effective advertising. Only effective on a repetitive basis. We have made a comparison of  
the 2 different types of advertising to attract customers for your business. Take a careful look. 
  
PROMOTIONAL PRODUCTS PRINT ADVERTISING. 
Very effective per cost Not very cost effective. The bigger the ad the more it costs 
Average life of a product is 6-12 months or longer Average life of an ad is only the time its run. 
Constant advertising always front of your customer Customers only see it once. Small ads are ineffective. 
Product may be past to another customer Customer most likely won't pass on a print ad. 
Customers need to see you an average of 7 times Customers only see it once  
Average life of a product is 6-12 months or longer There is no life to a print ad. 
Advertising can actually multiply Print advertising doesn't create a multiplying effect 
Helps customers customize there ad campaigns  You can only customize to the extend of a piece of paper 
Connects your customers to a unique memorable way. Not very unique. Only unique stated with words 
A greater selection of advertising forms Not a wide selection. Different paper different sizes and colors 
Convenience of your info in front of your customers Business cards are only convenient form then get tossed away 
millions of advertising products to choose from. Very limited to what you can put on paper. 
With 1000 product you can reach 1000 customers Very expensive for multiple advertising ads, poor retention 
 
 
Now you can't really argue these points. They are fact… Do you want to spend hundreds of dollars that are run once and then 
thrown away. Most people are not going to cut your print ad out and then carry it with them all day, pull it out and look at it 
3-5 times a day . With Promotional product they will do this. Your product will be used by them everyday. Thus your name is  
in front of them everyday. We have NO OVERHEAD. This allows us to pass those savings on to our customers!! 
 
If you are new to Promotional Product Advertising and are not sure what will work for you or your business. Please feel free  
to contact me. I will help you develop a strong promotional campaign at NO COST TO YOU> 
Richard A Kapsin  
661-202-5990  PST          fax 661-943-6429  
President/CEO  
Proline Promotionals  
Palmdale California 93551  
rb.international@yahoo.com  
www.prolinepromo.com


