Title: 
Silicone Bracelets for All!

Word Count:
442

Summary:
Customized silicone bracelets and wristbands are a great way to advertise, and seem to be becoming a very popular way to get a message across. Many companies are seeing the value of using customized silicone bracelets as a twist to word of mouth and viral marketing strategies.


Keywords:
silicone bracelets, silicone wristbands, custom silicone wristbands, custom silicone bracelets


Article Body:
Viral Marketing With Silicone Bracelets

Customized silicone bracelets and wristbands are a great way to advertise, and seem to be becoming a very popular way to get a message across. Many companies are seeing the value of using customized silicone bracelets as a twist to word of mouth and viral marketing strategies.

For What Are Customized Silicone Bracelets Used?

Customized silicone bracelets are used mainly for promotional activities like trade fairs, fundraising, raising awareness, and as a business promotion. Much like the key chain fad silicone wristbands are a great way to promote and advertise.

Who Is Using Customized Silicone Bracelets?

More and more companies and organizations are using silicone wristbands to promote their business and organization, customized silicone wristbands are ideal for anyone who needs to get some attention for their cause, some of the organizations that are using this method already include schools, non profit organizations and businesses, just to name a few. 

Styles Of Customized Silicone Bracelets

There are three different types of customized silicone bracelets available, in any imaginable color. Each different style has its advantages, depending on what they are intended for, the number of bracelets needed and cost effectiveness.

Debossed and Embossed Silicone Bracelets

Debossed and embossed silicone bracelets are much the same. Debossed refers to the design being recessed down into the wristband, where embossed is raised letters sitting above the bracelet. Both designs are set into a mould when the wristband is made, so for each different design a different mould is customized. These designs look very effective and work well for a company who is looking for large amounts of wrist bands. Although this is the most expensive choice in the silicone bracelet range.

Printed Silicone Bracelets

Printed silicone bracelets are plain bracelets that are silk screen printed, the ink that is used in the silk screening process is very good quality and penetrates into the silicone. The ink lasts the lifetime of the silicone bracelet so you can be assured that the design won't crack or flake off of the wristband.

Laser-Engraved Silicone Bracelets

Laser-engraved silicone bracelets are plain to begin with and laser engraving machines are used to write a message to different specifications. The laser-engraved silicone bracelet is an ideal way to get your message across if you only need a small number of bracelets, and are looking for a cheap option.

For a complete description and price quotes on silicone wristbands for your next big promotion or fundraiser why not visit the company that has blown the lid on the industry, don't pay extravagant prices when you can get the best prices on the planet at www.ValueBands.com


