Title: 
Spending Money on Catalog Advertising

Word Count:
444

Summary:
From products with general appeal to products that fits a specific market, catalogs and other direct marketing materials can be your key to being successful in the ever crowded marketplace.


Keywords:
catalog, printing, services, advertising


Article Body:
Apart from newspaper advertising, a system of leaflets, cards and catalogs can be operated to a business advantage in marketing its products and services. One week a business owner may send out leaflets, next week he may mail cards with a nicely written message calling the attention of the recipient to make some action, then the week after that a tasty catalog may float along – talking about good work, good stock, prompt deliveries and affordable prices.      

As most of you are probably aware of, catalogs are a good way to market all kinds and types of products. From products with general appeal to products that fits a specific market, catalogs and other direct marketing materials can be your key to being successful in the ever crowded marketplace.

Catalogs offer new and interesting products to their customers each month, quarter or year depending on the business. Catalogs also like to promote products that are not easily found at retail stores, products that are not available elsewhere or products that add to the best selection category of a certain product. Thus, to keep your catalog interesting and fresh to your customers, you should at least introduce over twenty percent of new products each year.  

Considering the sales potential for your product if you do get into catalogs, you can see that there is a great opportunity for you to make great sales. If just one decently designed catalogs picks up your product and carries it for a full year, you could expect to have a sale of five thousand to fifty thousand units or more in a year. 

One good thing about catalogs is that if you run a small business that carries only a limited number of products per month you can use smaller catalogs and move to bigger ones as your capabilities grow and as your business gets bigger. Nevertheless, before marketing your products through catalogs you need some prep work done. Even though catalogs are always open to new products, you still have to be professional in your dealings. If your catalog looks like slacking, you will be perceived as flimsy.      

Keep in mind that almost every printer can so express himself on paper that he can produce fairly good marketing materials. If he cannot you should find somebody inside or outside your establishment who can write snappy business-like ads. At any rate a good printer should give all advertising in the shape of cards, catalogs and posters among others the right typographical appearance which is very important in making a good impression. With such, a business man can tell at a glance whether or not the printer shows judgment with artistic sense.


