Title: 
The World of Advertising

Word Count:
430

Summary:
Advertising is a “perpetuum mobile” of trade and every fair businessman knows it. Article shows various ways to advertise and reveals the most modern one.


Keywords:
copywriter, copy writing 


Article Body:
No one remembers the date or even a year of birth of industry. Maybe it takes its roots from the first rake or the wheel created by some fellow from the cave. Thousands of years has past after simple inventions, bringing us greater, more advanced technologies. In the twenty first century people are surrounded by numerous products and services created to make our lives comfortable and bring pleasure. Commercial world never stops developing and will continue, even if inventions and discoveries stop. What is the “perpetuum mobile” of trade? Advertising.

A paradox lies in a simple fact; advertising was born before the industry. There were other values to advertise before the wheel or a rake. Ancient society was not less competitive than ours. People were always sure that their land, possessions, women, resources are the best, the biggest and the most desirable. Boasting off was an ancestor of advertising that now is a full-forced king of industry. It is difficult to choose what’s right out of the hundred products that have the same effect. Advertising helps people understand the difference and shows strong sides of each. Analyzing information about products a customer chooses a product that best matches his needs. Before delivering a product to a market you have to show why it should be bought.

There are dozens of ways to advertise products and services. We see adverts on TV, in magazines, newspapers, in the form of posters and stickers, billboards, various activities, sponsorship etc. Twenty first century is a century of modern technologies and internet. The advertisement made online is destined to be 10% more effective than a TV advert. Advertising agencies offer a wide range of services for clients, including online work. Creation of a website where all the information could be found is the first step. Next is design and content. People long for quality and beauty and it is within your interest to show it to them. Internet services include copy writing or otherwise methods of writing and editing used to achieve higher ranking in internet search engines. By placing right keywords onto web pages, a copywriter reaches the aim to make the product or service more popular within internet users. Various pop-ups and other methods are also used by outstanding specialists and real sharks in this business. Due to a couple efforts a product is at the top of the marketing list. Advertising brings miraculous income and increases income of companies using advertising company services. Once the world got acquainted with advertising, cooperation will never stop, the only change will be change of methods.


