Title: 
The Latest Advertising Craze

Word Count:
471

Summary:
Look for word pages for a cost effective form of advertising


Keywords:



Article Body:
With the internet still in its infancy stage, there is always the next big thing when it comes to advertising.  The first one was e-mail marketing, the people that started e-mail marketing in the very beginning have made and will continue to make loads of money.  If done properly with no spam and with a highly targeted list, as long as you have a solid product, e mail advertising will make you loads of money.  

Then came the “pop up” and in my opinion that was not good for anyone.  Pop-ups are annoying even if you do click on them every now and then, they are still annoying.  It's sort of like when you move from your home you have to handle everything in your house, whether you are moving it to take with you, or if you are going to be throwing out, it has to be handled.  Pop up ads have to be handled.


Fast forward past all of the obvious ways to advertise online.  Now we come to the pixel craze, and that is the next big thing.  Some of the best money making stories are the most simple,  who would have ever thought that people wanted a yellow piece of paper with sticky stuff on the back? The guy that started The Million Dollar Home Page was a 21 year old college student that made a million dollars in less then 6 months. Advertising dollars are always going to be part of internet commerce.  Web sites cannot be profitable on free advertising and search engine traffic only.  You have to have a realistic advertising budget that will  go as far as it possibly can.  


Now for a variation of pixel pages. Word pages are the next big thing.  Word pages use words instead of pictures which is a much more targeted form of advertising.  When you read a word your mind translates it into a picture, when you see a picture your mind translates it to words then back to a picture, which takes just a little longer.  That's why the simplest ads still work, “How to..., Act Now,,, etc etc.  Word pages also offer alot of bang for your buck, the pages that have a certain theme have a loyal following, which means return visitors.  Add the people that purchased a word along with the site being heavily marketed by the webmaster, it is probably the best $100 that you can spend on advertising. One simple rule on the internet is that you have to spend money to make money, word page advertising you buy once and it is there forever or until the agreement expires.  

Find a word page about your niche and see ”How To Get the Most for your Advertising Dollar ”so  “Act Now” and get in on the next big thing.


http://www.500TopBlogs.com


