Title: 
The Marketing Concept of Pixel Ads

Word Count:
568

Summary:
After the success of the Million Dollar Homepage, people have been puzzled by the amazing effect of pixel advertising. The idea, which most people regarded as crazy, has a great marketing concept leading to its success. Thomas King will have a detail analysis of the strategies forming this concept including the downside. There will also be an introduction about a newly proposed idea after the pixel ads.


Keywords:
pixel ads, advertising, advertisements, million dollar homepage, millionaire, the infinite levels


Article Body:
I believe that most of you have heard about the Million Dollar Homepage and it’s success story. The web site owner Alex Tew earned a million US dollar in a dramatically short time and brought public attention all over the world by selling pixels on his web site. However, it seems that the pixel craze didn’t last long as the copycats of the pixel advertising idea were mostly not doing well, especially the later ones who sometimes ended their site without a pixel sold.

      When talking about marketing strategies, the pixel advertising should be in the short-term category since curiousness of people don’t last long on a narrow topic. Alex Tew was smart to have noticed this point and that’s why he limited the number pixels to a million. This is not to ignore the huge demand out there but to generate an even higher traffic while pixels are limited in supply.

      The Million Dollar Homepage generated a huge traffic mainly because of the mass media, no matter the international ones or local ones, which are thirsty to find some amazing or crazy ideas that really work. People are always curious about news related to earning easy-money or becoming a millionaire while everyone is working hard in the society for money. In another word, this news makes people think out of the usual way. In fact, Tew’s whole idea including the web site’s domain name just hit the target. When people view the ads, the ads have their value.

      Although pixel advertising is probably out-of-date, there are still some innovative marketing strategies of the Million Dollar Homepage that web designers worth a reference.

      Since every page in the web site is about the advertising business itself, all visitors of the web site have a common intention – to try those extremely tiny pixel links and see what is it all about. In result, the ads owners receive a large amount of quality traffic, which other types web-based ads seldom have. 

      Another point to note is about the price of a product. A higher price set for your product is not a scary monster that drives your customers away if it is used in a suitable manner. Just take a look of the Million Dollar Homepage if you haven’t and you will understand how small is a hundred pixels. It’s just enough to put a character of a novel in it. However, in fact, the values of the ads are beyond what you can actually see when the value of the ads themselves creates a high commercial status for the pixel owners. This is one of the successful usages of money itself in generating transactions in recent days.

      Indeed, many people were inspired by Alex Tew and have started their own new idea of advertising.  One of the examples is The Infinite Levels (http://www.theinfinitelevels.com) a new web site aims at building a virtual AdLevels construction starting with $10. What makes it different from the others is that it is not earning short-term revenue like the pixel advertising as it adapts numerous innovative designs and the Dollar Accumulation System which brings a continuous interest from the public. If this idea is successful, the designer of the web site may be able to go beyond Alex Tew’s achievement.

      Let’s wait for the second miracle in the advertising industry to happen.


