Title: 
The Benefits of Press Releases

Word Count:
571

Summary:
So you have a new and bright web site that you will be putting in circulation very soon, you will need advertising for this site to make a big splash on the market. How does one go about writing a big press release for an impending site introduction?


Keywords:
press release, web site introduction, traffic, in bound links


Article Body:
So you have a new and bright web site that you will be putting in circulation very soon, you will need advertising for this site to make a big splash on the market. How does one go about writing a big press release for an impending site introduction? You are not alone if you are unsure on this, but there are a few pointers to get you started, and are successful at it at the same time.

Keeping in mind that you are going to need the public’s attention, on this media release it is important to remember the fact that the news sells. What you need is very persuasive communication to get your point across. If an editor finds material that makes false promise of nonsense claims that are just not reasonably accepted, they will trash the media release. Some of the most common are one of a kind, changing the face of the planet, or everyone wins. The entire premise is to act and think like a reporter to get the word out in that media format. If the release is not in a journalistic format, it will not be taken seriously.

A good measure would be to make the title around ten words, keep it short to grab attention. Brief summary or the information should be in the headline, and should be dynamic and bold. You are trying to reach mass public; it should be as broad as a roadside sign or billboard. The best way to get a good review is to have the editor notice your release above all others, this can be done in just a few words. Just like all good journalists know the most potent and important part of the release is always the opening paragraph. This can be referred to as the summary lead. It is always the most important facet of any release that you incorporate the common 5 w’s of journalism, not excluding the single and ever important h. who, what, when, where, and the single how are the mainstay in quality information that everyone truly looks for when reading a release. It is imperative on this note to include them.

This is the beef of the information with the introduction and the closing statements surrounding this bulk. It is the introduction that leads the readers down the path of craving more on the subject it must be powerful. This opening paragraph is what is known as the hook. This hook not only has to grab the audience’s attention but the press and the editor as well. Not always an easy task. The hook in every sense of the word is strictly fact and not a method of persuasion to the masses.

Properly written and distributed press releases bring in traffic for weeks or months to come and build valuable one way in bound links. Reputable newswire distribution services are strict standards when it comes to press releases. It is better if you have never written any press release to use services from professionals. Myself, I use services from a company called Just Articles. They guarantee that their press releases gets accepted and even given high ratings by the chosen newswire distribution service.

Have a look at their offer in the CopyWriting area of their website, and start sending huge amount of traffic to your websites :
<a href="http://www.internet-marketing-springboard.com/PressReleases">www.internet-marketing-springboard.com/PressReleases</a>


