Title: 
The Power of a Niche Directory

Word Count:
373

Summary:
You know that old saying? Build it and they will come? True, it’s a line from a ‘90’s baseball movie “Field of Dreams”, but that adage still holds true in the world of niche directory websites.


Keywords:
niche directory, niche, search engines, directories, articles


Article Body:
You know that old saying? Build it and they will come? True, it’s a line from a ‘90’s baseball movie “Field of Dreams”, but that adage still holds true in the world of niche directory websites. 

It seems that with the advent of some new directory script by some unknown publisher, another webmaster rushes to jump on the bandwagon of creating another directory. But there’s a problem with that. EVERYONE is creating the same search directory! 

So how do you stand out in a sea of sameness? Easy. Create a niche directory and ask for links from those websites that your directory caters towards. This way, you build a unique database and the word will get out amongst those webmasters in your niche that you are actively seeking submissions.

As time goes on, your page rank should increase with reciprocal link passing as well as people talking about your site. That’s the goal isn’t it? You can even start charging for webmasters to put links on your website. Or even charging for submissions! At some point, all of your submissions could be paid submissions! You just need to dominate your niche with your specific directory.

Take me for example, I’m attempting to do just that with my diet directory, located at http://www.dietdirectory.org .It’s not really a fancy directory, but, it only caters to the diet and weight loss field. Over the next couple of months I’ll be charting how well I can penetrate and benefit from staying in this niche.

But it all comes down to marketing your niche directory. Let’s be honest, you could have the best directory in the world. Chances are, if no can find it, then it is completely useless. What you need to do is to blitz market your niche directory. Send out a press release, have a writing service write 10 promotional articles centered around the power and usability of a niche directory like your own, and submit your directory to as many search engines as possible. Then finally, and the hardest, contact those sites in your niche to fill your directory.

I think over time you will see some nice results. I’m hoping I will!


