Title: 
The Power of Targeted Marketing

Word Count:
333

Summary:
When marketing to an audience of people who all hold the same interest in the product/service being offered, every single person in your audience is much more apt to respond to the marketing efforts.


Keywords:
business, sales, marketing, success, entrepreneur, profit


Article Body:
Occasionally I read some really compelling information regarding business strategies and I'd like to share with you a concept in the power of targeted marketing that has really caught my attention.  The idea in this concept is for a person to focus his/her marketing efforts toward a specific audience who holds an interest in the very product/service being sold.  When marketing strategies of this nature are applied, the results are exceedingly more beneficial than when a more generally targeted strategy is used.  For example, if marketing to a general audience who holds interests in a wide range of products/services as apposed to a targeted, specific product/service, the results in sales generated from this effort would be greatly diminished compared to the results in sales realized through focusing on a concentrated interest among an audience.  The reason for this is because within an audience of people with a large range of interests only a few of the people will find interest in the product/service offered to them.  Conversely, when marketing to an audience of people who all hold the same interest in the product/service being offered, every single person in your audience is much more apt to respond to the marketing efforts.  This concept can be likened to a ship at sea that is focused on a specific destination (or target.)  If the ship maintains it's aim toward the specific target, the ship will effectively reach its target because of the concentrated effort.  However, if the ship is aimed in a wide range of directions, the ship's target will in effect be missed and there will be a great deal of effort and energy wasted as the ship meanders here and there.  Targeting a specific audience with a specific interest enables you to avoid wasted marketing efforts, time and money.  And this is the true power that is found in targeted marketing.

I hope this information will enable you to concentrate your efforts for effective results.    
Joe Clinton.


