Title: 
Thinking of having your Vehicle Wrapped?

Word Count:
1106

Summary:
If you’ve been considering having your vehicles wrapped then here are some helpful tips on vehicle wrapping. 

As more and more Blue Chip companies begin to recognise the value of total vehicle wrapping, as an effective form of advertising. Smaller business are now jumping on board as costs are coming down making it an affordable and cost effective way to get to the heart of your target market.


Keywords:
vehicle wrapping, vehicle branding, banners, vinyl graphics, vehicle graphics, car wraps, car graphics, vehicle wraps, building wrapping, large banners, livery, advertising


Article Body:
Some businesses are exploring the idea of this fast-growing medium of vehicle wrapping as an effective advertising tool. Small businesses, large corporations, media outlets and others that want to attract attention are turning to vehicle advertising as a means to that end. 

But be warned: vehicle wrapping is not for the faint of heart. While some of the basic vehicle graphic application skills crossover to wrapping, the latter requires more sophisticated techniques. 
So if you are considering venturing into the bustling world of vehicle wrapping, then read on to learn more about what it takes to get started or if you even should!

To wrap or not to wrap? 

Vehicle wrapping is fast becoming one of the hottest forms of outdoor advertising with media houses actually buying the space on trailers from companies like Tesco’s. Your fleet of vehicles could be earning you more money than you think. 
Most large companies that want to advertise on their vehicles don’t have to be sold on vehicle wraps. But the high cost compared to traditional vehicle graphics will cause some individual operators and small business owners to cringe. 

There is no doubt that there is lot of value in wrapping vehicles as the traditional vehicle livery now looks out of date and its real only purpose is as a form of identification and not as a persuasive form of advertising. 

Chances are if you’re not considering wrapping your fleet then there’s a good chance that your competitors are, making them one step ahead of you. A good way to assess the effectiveness of wrapping then count the number of wraps you see during a month-long period. If you find that you are turning your head every day, then it may be time to begin considering wrapping your fleet. 

So where do you start? 

Design: The first place to start is the design, which is also the hardest to get right. As if the design is incorrect then the whole wrap can be rendered useless.  Most wrapping companies will not get involved with the design as it takes too much of there time up and they are unlikely to be familiar with your industry and the style you like to work in. Although the design is the clever bit, designers who have not done it before might stay clear of vehicle wrapping but when it comes down to it its not out of there capacity.  As design agencies are becoming more familiar with vehicle wrapping it is becoming easier to come up with an effective design. 

The Print: The best printing results come from high-end machines like HP Scitex and VuTek’s which are lower in resolution than machines like Mutoh and Mimaki but are a fraction of the price and faster. Resolution and Viewing distance is by far the most misunderstood concept involved in the printing and vehicle wrapping industries. What most people do not realise is that viewing distance goes hand in hand with the resolution and size of an image (for more information please see viewing distance report) It is not always necessary to have a bus wrapped with photographic quality print which is 720dpi if your viewing audience is going to see it from 5 meters away and at 65mph! 

So what materials?

The self-adhesive vinyl used for wrapping plays a very important roll in the longagivity of your vehicle wrap. Inferior vinyl’s can fail making the wrap look untidy and unprofessional and when it comes to removal can leave a glue residue which takes hours if not days to fully remove making it a complete false economy. 

Avery MPI1005 EZ. 

The Avery MPI 1005 EZ  is by far the best vinyl to use as it feature the Easy Apply technology that cuts down on wrinkling and damage, bubbles and waste during installation. It also offers 100 percent clean remove ability on the adhesive if it’s a sound OEM paint surface. This technology cuts down installation time, which means your vehicles can get back to work sooner! Avery also offer the Avery® Supreme Cover is Avery’s warranty system, which offers you all the reassurance you can wish for.

What is AVERY® Supreme Cover?

In the unlikely event that one of our films is not in a perfect shape, our system offers you a warranty on several ranges of self-adhesive materials, in combination with a variety of inks, original equipment manufacturers and converters. Avery® Supreme Cover covers not only the cost of the defective material, but also the cost of inks, re-conversion, removal and re-application. Underlining Avery’s belief in providing quality and durability.

3M Controltac Plus graphic film with Comply Performance Series 180C.

Comply is a mechanical feature that allows air to travel through the adhesive, so there are usually fewer air bubbles and the film can be applied with time-saving techniques such as large squeegees, The pressure-activated adhesive allows the film to be repositioned during installation until pressure is applied to the film surface. 

Other competitors are up and coming with vinyl films designed for vehicle wrapping, too. Like the MACTac’s JT5529P is emerging as a popular choice. The product is coated on one side with a permanent, opaque, acrylic pressure sensitive adhesive. 

When it comes to installation:

“The materials make all the difference in the world, some of it is very aggressive and it makes it harder to lay down and pull back up to reposition. People try to cut corners using different brands and there are many, but then installation becomes so difficult that you can mess it all up. If you use high end products, it can cut 30 percent of the installation time.” 
Regardless of the brand name, experts stress the use of cast over calendared vinyl for vehicle wrapping. While calendared vinyl starts out as a solid and is melted and formed into a sheet, cast vinyl starts out as liquid. The end result is that calendared vinyl has a memory of being something else and cast vinyl does not. 

In application, if you use calendared vinyl over a rivet, then it will tent because calendared vinyl tends to shrink a bit. Cast vinyl doesn’t shrink so it allows installers to go over rivets, corrugation and complex curves that run both horizontally and vertically with greater ease and longer-lasting performance. 

So how much does it cost?

The average going rate for wrapping vehicles varies depending on the size and type of vehicle. But a good rule of thumb in today’s market is between £45 and £50 ($90) per square meter installed plus design fees. However for larger fleets this price will be a lot less.


