Title: 
Useful tips and forms of advertising

Word Count:
422

Summary:
The main aim of advertisers is to communicate and influence the prospective customers to buy a particular brand’s product. Often they also advertise in order to improve the brand image. For this purposes every major medium and advertising tool is used to deliver their message. For more about advertising, please visit www.tdiindia.com.


Keywords:
advertising, advertising company, advertising agency, Out Of Home Advertising, Internet advertising, billboard advertising, mobile advertising, digital media advertising, airport advertising, outdoor display board advertising, dmrc advertising, OOH advertising, internet and mobile advertising, dmrc advertising company, online advertising company, online advertising, digital display advertising, internet mobile advertising, dmrc advertising, out door advertising, mobile advertising company, internet advertising industry, internet advertising agency, internet advertising firm, online advertising agency


Article Body:
The main aim of advertisers is to communicate and influence the prospective customers to buy a particular brand’s product. Often they also advertise in order to improve the brand image. For this purposes every major medium and advertising tool is used to deliver their message. Some of the key mediums like television, radio, cinema, magazines, newspapers, video games, the Internet and billboards are used extensively. To advertise, a company usually appoints an advertising agency or advertising industry to send their message across.
Commonly, advertisements are seen on carts, airport, on the sides of buses, buss shelters, etc. Advertisements are cleverly placed at places where viewers can easily and regularly access visual, audio and printed information.
Mentioned below are some forms of advertising:
	Advocacy Advertising: This type of advertising is done mainly for economic, political, or social issues. Advocate Advertising can be in the form of advertisement, message, or public communication. The aim of advertising through this medium is planned campaign to convince public and form their opinion on a specific issue.
	
	Comparative Advertising: Comparative advertising works on comparison. One brand is directly or indirectly compared with another or even more conflicting brands. Major industries like airlines and automobile manufacturers these days use this technique.

	Cooperative Advertising: Sharing is the key component here. Two parties share their advertising costs in this type of advertising. 
	
	Direct-Mail Advertising: Emails, catalogues, flyers, letters, and postcards are just a few of the direct-mail advertising options available. A lot of personal details are required to be known for this type of advertising.
	
	Outdoor Advertising:  Billboards, wraps on the side of buildings, etc fall in the category of outdoor advertising. Outdoor advertising is extremely effective if implemented on busy located areas where a lot of travelers come and can buy the product from nearby.
	
	Product Advertising: In this type of advertising, no selling of a specific product is done.

	
	Point-of-Purchase Advertising: Incentives play a major role in this type. Promotional items like package and its presentation is done in a manner to attract customers so that they purchase the product.
	
Some useful Tips on Advertising:	
 . Consistency:  The message of the ad should be delivered in a constant way. Even style of business cards, letterheads of the company, envelops, etc should be standardized and not change often.
. Tools:  Billboard ads can have the maximum impact when implemented with the right medium like TV, radio, newspapers, etc.
. Promotion:  Focus should be on the benefits of the products rather than the features as it connects with the consumer’s emotional satisfaction.


