Title: 
Webloyalty Services

Word Count:
332

Summary:
Webloyalty rewards their clients and, in turn, their clients' customers for sticking with an e-commerce provider and giving them their valuable repeat business.


Keywords:
Webloyalty, Webloyalty jobs, Webloyalty News & Events, Webloyalty reservation Rewards, Webloyalty Press


Article Body:
Webloyalty Online Membership Services

What services does Webloyalty offer?


Webloyalty offers several online membership services including Reservation Rewards, Shopper Discounts & Rewards and Travel Values Plus. Each service provides a different set of benefits based upon members interests and needs.


Reservation Rewards provides a selection of thousands discounts on dining, shopping, leisure attractions and movies. Webloyalty members can log onto the club website to search for discounts by zip code. They can find and print discount coupons to use in or around their local area or anywhere in the U.S.A. and Canada. In addition, there are club protection benefits such as 24-hour Road & Tow coverage, Trip Delay Protection, and more.


Shopper Discounts & Rewards provides its members with online discounts, automatic cash back rebates and select free shipping deals on purchases made at hundreds of participating websites. It also provides other valuable benefits such as Best Price Guarantee, Delivery Guarantee, Damage, Theft & Loss Protection and more.


As the name suggests, Travel Values Plus provides its members with a selection of useful travel benefits. Members can log onto to the website to locate hotel discounts up to 50% at top-name resorts, inns, motels and more across the U.S.A. and Canada. Airline discounts and car rental deals are also available. Plus, members can participate in an online community to share itineraries, photos and travel tips with one another.


Make Webloyalty your partner and make more money.


A small banner ad placed on your post-buy confirmation page can bring you a new revenue stream. Customers are offered a free trial of premiere reward, discount and travel protection programs.


You get paid for every customer that accepts the free trial regardless if they choose to continue with our offer. Webloyalty is paid a monthly membership fee for which customers gain access to discounts on travel, dining in popular restaurants or cash back rebates from hundreds of top online retailers. They can cancel anytime online or by phone.


The Article is Originally Published Here: Webloyalty.net.


