Title: 
Website Marketing- Pixel Page Advertising - The hottest advertising craze on the internet

Word Count:
357

Summary:
What is next? I’ve been in marketing for many years, and just when I assume I’ve seen it all, I get shocked all over again. Every new trick I see causes me to laugh at the beginning. But then results come in the picture. You get to believe it. I’m talking about Pixel Ads.

So, what is pixel page? Or what is pixel advertising? Or what are pixel ads?
Pixel Ads, sometimes referred to as Micro Ads, are little advertisements that only slot in the space of a pixel on a web page.


Keywords:
pixel,page,advertising,marketing,seo,google,pagerank,traffic,alex,tew


Article Body:
What is next? I’ve been in marketing for many years, and just when I assume I’ve seen it all, I get shocked all over again. Every new trick I see causes me to laugh at the beginning. But then results come in the picture. You get to believe it. I’m talking about Pixel Ads.

So, what is pixel page? Or what is pixel advertising? Or what are pixel ads?
Pixel Ads, sometimes referred to as Micro Ads, are little advertisements that only slot in the space of a pixel on a web page. These ads range anywhere from a penny to a dollar per pixel and several sites are offering free Pixel Ads.
 
“Selling the ads on the front page of a site has been easy because they are attractive to watch and easier for site owner to get lots of traffic towards his site”, InnovativePixelPage, one of the companies selling pixel ads said. If an advertiser buys a 10x10 pixels or block or slot, it appears as a small square in the grid of small squares on the site's front page.

It is kind of strange. The site also makes advertising fun, instead of a "big, serious thing." IPP. It’s no secret that banner advertising has been gradually declining in popularity and effectiveness, and everyone has popup blockers installed to keep those annoying popup ads from screening. Pay-per-click advertisers are becoming increasingly frustrated with click scam, the high rate of unqualified clicks.

In pixel page, when visitors click on the ads that link to the advertiser's Web site, they are on these sites for hours. Already, the guys that bought the ads are reporting fabulous amount shifts.

Crazy Advertising Schemes :
You’ve all probably seen innovativepixelpage.com by now; this is a website where pixel ads are displayed free in for site promotion. The site uniquely features pixel ads, periodic theme change, free monthly site status or report, new mouse rollover option to boost site rank, categorized advertisement, faster site loading supporting jpg format instead of other time consuming picture formats, real time site clicks, etc.,      

So enjoy pixel site, happy surfing!


