Title: 
What’s behind those Captivating Masterpieces?

Word Count:
398

Summary:
Behind a masterpiece is its productive master…


Keywords:
Online Brochures Printing


Article Body:
A canvass will never turn into magnificent painting without an artsy painter. A book will only be empty pages without a prolific writer.  A web design will be mediocre if not made by a skilled web designer. Moreover, a brochure will also be so-so if not done by a reputable and knowledgeable printer.

Ever wonder why we have catchy and head turner brochures? Well, aside from planning and designing, another factor is the brochure printing process used. Brochure printing is one crucial phase that you have to be meticulous about. It can either bring life to your work-of-art or simply enclose it to its lifeless and dull state.
What therefore, makes up nice, colorful and beautifully printed brochures?

The most common brochure printing technique is digital printing. In this technique, images and texts are transmitted from the computer to the printing press equipment. 

Another technique is laser printing. Here, laser beams brush across a photosensitive cylinder so as to generate the electrostatic latent images and texts. The latter are then passed in a toner whose particles are attracted by electric charges on the cylinder. Images and letters are then transferred to paper. This is done by virtue of the electric voltage difference between the paper and the cylinder. Heating and pressure processes are then used to fixed the images and letters. Repetition of the process is necessary for each basic color to produce color documents.

Liquid ink-jet is another viable brochure printing technique. In this technique, small droplets of ink are thrown through small tubes or nozzles. Nozzles lie in a row on the print head and move across the paper to transfer what are to be printed. Four basic colors namely cyan, magenta, yellow and black (CMYK) are commonly used in this technique.

Solid ink-jet technique, on the other hand, is somewhat similar to liquid ink-jet the only difference is that ink is stored in solid wax sticks. They are later on melted in a tiny container and squirted to paper. After squirting, they become solid again. The drawback though of this technique is that this is no good for fast printing needs. It takes time to dry the prints. 

Now that we have sojourned in the different brochure printing techniques, you already have a good grasp of what to use the next time you badly need a master to cover up your brochure magnum opus needs.


