Title: 
What is Offset Postcard Printing?

Word Count:
394

Summary:
Commercial printing companies have developed several techniques in printing.


Keywords:
Postcard Printing Company, Rush Postcards, Postcard Printing Full Color, Postcard Printing, Commercial Postcard Printing, Color Postcards, Color Postc


Article Body:
There are breakthroughs, state-of-the-art printers and other printing craze have emerged in the printing interface.  These are due to the development in today’s technology. Printers can now print lively, brilliant and clear images at the same time crisp texts in just a matter of minutes. These latest printing styles have tickled the fancies of the printing customers however, the traditional way of printing cannot be overshadowed by this new events.

Offset postcard printing services is the traditional way of printing postcards. It is still widely used nowadays. In fact, it has also caught up with technology so as to accommodate the changes in time and the needs of the customers. Offset postcard printing services now use computers as aid in postcard printing.

Basically, offset postcard printing services uses four color process called CMYK (cyan, magenta, yellow and black). These colors are used in creating a wide selection of colors to give life to color postcards. Full color postcard printing brings out vivacious colors and shades to complement to the images and texts. In using RGB (red, green and blue) or full color display in computer monitor, it must be realized that the colors on the monitor may not look exactly the same as in the printed materials. This is because some colors created by an RGB monitor cannot be reproduced by CMYK printing. Spot colors, on the other hand, are most frequently used for one and two color jobs and when there is a need to produce the exact colors. Pantone PMS color choice delivers the exact color you need for your distinctive printing job. PMS is good for spot colors but not for process colors which are generally specified using the CMYK colors.

After printing postcards, printing companies utilize techniques to protect them. Postcards are then coated. The most popular finishes are the aqueous coating, UV coating and film lamination. Aqueous coating is a fast-drying, water-based and the cheapest protective coating that is applied while the paper stock is still on the press. UV coating, on the other hand, is a liquid gloss plastic coating which is applied after the printing process. Finally, we have film lamination. In this finish, a plastic film is applied on postcards after printing.

Postcard printing services through offset printing is one of the fastest, easiest and inexpensive way to keep your business in its outstanding shape.


