Title: 
Why Corporate Identity is a Very Powerful Communication Branding Tools

Word Count:
420

Summary:
The world of business is a very competitive one with each executive competing with the other to get the best of sales, profits and customers for their business. This means that all businesses interested in becoming successful have to concentrate in developing their corporate image and identity to improve in their business. Corporate identity is actually the image or identity by which the business wants to be perceived by their customers or the physical manifestation of the brand.


Keywords:
coporate idenity, logo design, brand identity, communications, branding tool


Article Body:
Corporate identity is very much achieved by the brand building and marketing strategies of the company. So how actually is a brand built? It is done through the help of branding tools like logo designs, business cards and brochures. Brochures and advertisements are the most powerful communication branding tools as you get to distribute them to anyone around your locality. you can make brochures describing your company, it’s specialties and services to the public, thus making them aware of your presence! Once more people get to know about your services and facilities, more people come to you to try them out, thus making your company a better success!

It should be made sure that all marketing communication material has the corporate logo on it, thus enhancing your credibility as a professional enterprise. The reason for the need of all marketing communication having a corporate logo is that this is the thing that will be handed over to the public as an advertisement. You hand out business cards for potential clients for them to remember you and your company, there will be incidents wherein you have to send letters to different companies. If you send these letters through letters using letterheads with your company logo, the recipient company will remember you better for future correspondence and dealings. Therefore, it can be seen that to enhance the corporate identity, the brand has to be enhanced or built. We do this through marketing strategies, thus incorporating that corporate identity is a very powerful communication-branding tool.

When getting the corporate logo done, it is best to have it done by a professional, as logos made by amateurs may ruin the credibility of the business in no time, while a logo done by a professional logo designer helps to add value to the business. A professional logo designer is not only a graphic designer, he is one who has idea about your branding and positioning of business. He is one who creates a logo for you based on your requirements to exude the nature of your business and to meet all modes of your usage of the logo, on web, print, TV commercials or in a mixture of all of this. It should be remembered that logos and marketing materials are very important parts of a company’s brand building strategy. Logo designs are such an important communication tool for the corporate as it can make people perceive your company to be a large corporate house, when in fact; only one man runs it!


