Title: 
5 Gadgets That A Good Spy Can’t Live Without

Word Count:
367

Summary:
Whether you are an amateur or a professional, gadgets play an essential role in the life of a spy.  Although there are some tools and gadgets which are only designed for specific situations that you may encounter as a spy, there are other gadgets which can be useful to you every single day.  If you are a spy and don’t have these five gadgets, you are missing some valuable tools from your arsenal:

1) Portable Bug Detector-As a spy, you are responsible for not only obtaining...


Keywords:
cameras, gadgets, spies, spy, surveillance


Article Body:
Whether you are an amateur or a professional, gadgets play an essential role in the life of a spy.  Although there are some tools and gadgets which are only designed for specific situations that you may encounter as a spy, there are other gadgets which can be useful to you every single day.  If you are a spy and don’t have these five gadgets, you are missing some valuable tools from your arsenal:

1) Portable Bug Detector-As a spy, you are responsible for not only obtaining information, but also keeping privileged information completely secret.  Whether you are concerned about a phone, room or car bug, a portable bug detector can provide you with the security you need.  Portable bug detectors are extremely easy to operate, and allow you to quickly decide whether or not it is safe to divulge confidential information in your current environment.  Best of all, portable bug detectors are easy to conceal, which means that you can take one everywhere you go. 

2) Room Bug-Although you need a portable bug detector to protect yourself, the primary job of a spy is surveillance.  In order to do this, you need to know what other people are talking about.  The best way to accomplish this is with a room bug.  You can place a room bug in any environment, and then listen to the conversation from a secure location.  Because they can only be picked up by radio scanners, Ultra High Frequency (UHF) room bugs are your best option.

3) Binoculars-Since a lot of your surveillance will take place from a distance, it is important to have a pair of binoculars with you.  Having a quality pair of binoculars can mean the difference between whether or not you are successfully able to identify someone.

4) Audio and Video Recorder-This is the gadget that the general population almost always associates with spies.  An audio and video recorder will allow you to obtain and preserve valuable information and evidence.

5) Notepad-This may seem overly obvious, but many spies neglect to carry a notepad with them.  Whether its writing down a license plate number or a description of a suspicious person, a notepad is arguably the most important tool a spy can carry.


