Title: 
A Few Search Engine Optimization Techniques

Word Count:
386

Summary:
You completed a web site for your business about three months ago, but you are still not seeing very many people visiting your web site. You do a little research and find that your web site is buried about ten pages deep on all of the major search engines. It seems that you have created a very nice web site, but it is not optimized for search engines, so your page rank is very low. Search engine optimization has become a very large field for many different consultants all ove...


Keywords:



Article Body:
You completed a web site for your business about three months ago, but you are still not seeing very many people visiting your web site. You do a little research and find that your web site is buried about ten pages deep on all of the major search engines. It seems that you have created a very nice web site, but it is not optimized for search engines, so your page rank is very low. Search engine optimization has become a very large field for many different consultants all over the internet. However the techniques needed to optimize your web site for search engines are not very hard to implement on your web site all by yourself. Here are a few of the most important things that you can do for search engine optimization:

Use keywords throughout your web site. – Many people do a good job putting a good description and group of keywords in their meta tags, but they do not use these same keywords throughout the rest of their web site. You must continue to use your keywords throughout the content on the rest of your web site if you would like to get high search engine rankings.

Create a sitemap – Many search engines will try to index your site’s pages by following links to all of the different pages. However if a search engine is unable to follow a link, then a page might not get included in the search engine’s results. To make sure all of your pages get indexed, make sure that you have a text-based sitemap that includes all of the major pages of your web site.

Use Flash sparingly – Flash is a very neat technology and it has its place on the web. However you do not want to overuse Flash, because a search engine will not be able to read the text that is embedded in the Flash elements, which could hurt your ranking if you have keywords in that area.

Get inbound links – One of the best things that you can do for search engine optimization is to get inbound links to your web site. If you are able to get high quality web sites that relate to your business to link to your web site, then your search engine ranking is sure to climb.


