Title: 
A Gyude Tio Audiobook Formats

Word Count:
493

Summary:
Audiobooks generally come in two formats:  MP3 and WMA. Both of these formats will play on PCs and Macs and most portable players, like the iPod. 

The book publisher chooses which format they want the title to be distributed in. When you purchase a downloadable title from an online store, you are usually taken to a special area of the site where you can choose from a variety of file format based on the quality of the recording.

Naturally, the higher the quality, the big...


Keywords:
audio book, audiobooks, talking books


Article Body:
Audiobooks generally come in two formats:  MP3 and WMA. Both of these formats will play on PCs and Macs and most portable players, like the iPod. 

The book publisher chooses which format they want the title to be distributed in. When you purchase a downloadable title from an online store, you are usually taken to a special area of the site where you can choose from a variety of file format based on the quality of the recording.

Naturally, the higher the quality, the bigger the file and thus the longer it will take to download. If you have a high speed broadband Internet connection you will probably prefer to download the highest quality file available. If you have a slow Internet connection you can choose to download a file that is smaller in size, but will not be of quite the same quality, but it will still be very listenable.

With 70% of the digital player market dominated by Apple and the iPod, a natural question is whether the audiobooks can be transferred to the iPod. The answer is a resounding "yes."

All you have to do is burn the files to CD first (this is a step we'd always recommend as it is wise to make a physical backup copy of anything you buy just in case your computer ever fails or is stolen) and then rip that CD straight into iTunes, when it's transferred to your iPod on synchronization. 

And don't worry, Copying the files to an audio CD on your computer is quick and easy, particularly if you are using Windows. 

It is very easy to download an audiobook. Once you have made your purchase from a reputable online store, you will be taken through to a special part of the site where you can download the files you have purchased. Easy to follow instructions are always provided on the download page.
 
Audiobooks will work on a standard PC and Mac and there is no risk of breaking the law as with many music sites and piracy.

ALL of the content of audiobooks has been approved by the publishers and copyright holders. As a paying customer you are 
entitled to download and listen to these files as often as you wish and on whatever equipment you wish. However, like any other media, it is illegal to make copies of the files and give them to other people.

The length of time it will take for an audiobook download will vary greatly depending on what kind of Internet connection you have. If you have a broadband connection it will take just a few minutes per part. If you have a 56k dial-up connection it will be considerably slower.
 
If a recording is several hours long we will have split it into several parts to make it easier to download so even if 
you are on a slow connection you can start listening to the first part whilst the others are downloading.


