Title: 
A Reliable Partner At Home And At Work In Compaq

Word Count:
466

Summary:
Compaq Computers is one of the companies that have a short but very colorful history before its merger with Hewlett-Packard (HP) which another computer company based in the United States. Founded in 1982 by Rod Canion, Jim Harris and Bill Murto, Compaq was known for its IBM compatible computers. Compaq’s portable version of the IBM pc which was then known as the “luggable”, the equivalent of our present day laptop, became very popular, making Compaq an overnight success story...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Compaq Computers is one of the companies that have a short but very colorful history before its merger with Hewlett-Packard (HP) which another computer company based in the United States. Founded in 1982 by Rod Canion, Jim Harris and Bill Murto, Compaq was known for its IBM compatible computers. Compaq’s portable version of the IBM pc which was then known as the “luggable”, the equivalent of our present day laptop, became very popular, making Compaq an overnight success story. In the years that follow, Compaq became the largest supplier of computing system until it run into some serious management and financial problems in the late 1990s.

The management problems of the Compaq were so serious at that time that although Compaq at that time was leading the industry, its operations begun to cave-in. Experts say that the management problems of Compaq were one of the most turbulent in the computer industry at that time. The leaders of the company also made a series of bad decisions which led to the financial debacle in the company. In the end, the leaders of the company did not have another other choice but to merge Compaq with another computer industry leader which is Hewlett-Packard (HP).

When HP acquired Compaq Computers, it continued to use the name Compaq as a brand. Since millions of the people all over the world have come to know the Compaq computers and Compaq notebooks as one of the most reliable computers available in the market, HP sees it fit to carry on the brand and capitalize on it. The decision of the HP to continue using the name Compaq as a brand proved to be a sound decision.

The Compaq Presario PCs namely the Presario Desktop computers and Presario Notebook became a big hit together with the Compaq monitors. According to experts, the online sales of these computer products contributed much to success of these products. Websites like the http://compaqpresarioonline.com served as twenty-four display centers of these products. The http://compaqpresarioonline.com website in particular serves a useful link to the official website of the company, making it more convenient for online shoppers to find what they need. Moreover, this website offers discounts on items on display so one can easily save a good deal of money when shopping online using this site.

Can You Trust Online Companies?

Online shopping is safe if you only deal with well-known companies that have been in business for several years. Reputable companies have names to protect so they will always make it a point to give good service to their customers. Well known companies like Compaq and HP know that good products and reliable customer service will keep them in business for a long time so you need not worry about not getting good service.


