Title: 
A Review Of Popular Laptops

Word Count:
408

Summary:
There are a lot of laptops out there on the market by different company brands. The question many people ask about buying laptops is, "What are the laptops that I should buy?" If you is uncertain about what laptops you are interested in, then you is in luck that you have bumped into this review for laptops. This laptops review is about the laptops I have personally used and what I know about them.

Sony Vaio VGN-FE770G

The Sony Vaio VGN-FE770G is slim, light, well design...


Keywords:
laptops, laptop, laptops review, review


Article Body:
There are a lot of laptops out there on the market by different company brands. The question many people ask about buying laptops is, "What are the laptops that I should buy?" If you is uncertain about what laptops you are interested in, then you is in luck that you have bumped into this review for laptops. This laptops review is about the laptops I have personally used and what I know about them.

Sony Vaio VGN-FE770G

The Sony Vaio VGN-FE770G is slim, light, well designed and a good looking laptop and performs great. This laptop have the Intel Core 2 Duo with plenty of processor power and hard drive space. The Sony Vaio weighs about 6 pounds and measures 14 x 10.8 inches. The Sony Vaio also comes with a built-in camera, a microphone, and WiFi, so there is no need to buy those individual parts for this laptop. The wide-screen color display is crystal clear and provide awesome colors. If you want to play games on this laptop, that will not be a problem since the performance is superb. The battery when charged at 100% will provide power for about 5.4 hours and will take about 4 hours to fully recharge.

Dell Inspiron TM6400

This is a very good laptop notebook with a bright display, lots of storage and power. The Dell Inspiron TM6400 has a Intel Core 2 Duo processor T7200, and you can witness the power as your programs and applications will start and load very fast. The sound on the Inspiron is excellent as it has integrated High Definition Audio, so listening to music on this laptop is great. A feature that will catch your attention is how bright and wide the LCD screen display is. The LCD wide-screen display is about 15.4 inches. This is a great laptop for any customer for different variety of uses.

Toshiba Satellite A135-S2246

The Toshiba Satellite A135-S2246 is a quality laptop that gets what you need done at a low price compared to other laptops. The Toshiba Satellite is very easy to use and the laptop starts up very quickly. The laptop also play movies and music very well. This is a great laptop for anyone who want to buy a laptop, but have a low budget. The processor is a Intel Celeron M1.7 MHz and the screen display is a little over 15 inches. The Toshiba Satellite is WiFi Certified, so you can also connect to hotspots for wireless Internet access.


