Title: 
Advantages Of Using A Notebook

Word Count:
602

Summary:
Notebook or laptop computer is a portable computer that can be easily carried around, and is capable of performing all possible functions of a computer. Notebook, that usually weighs around 2.2 to about 18 pounds, comes in various sizes and varied possible features.

Unlike most other electronic goods, learning how to use a notebook is no big deal. People, who are used to working on computers, find notebooks almost as convenient to use as they have been using it already. Ho...


Keywords:
notebook, laptop, computer


Article Body:
Notebook or laptop computer is a portable computer that can be easily carried around, and is capable of performing all possible functions of a computer. Notebook, that usually weighs around 2.2 to about 18 pounds, comes in various sizes and varied possible features.

Unlike most other electronic goods, learning how to use a notebook is no big deal. People, who are used to working on computers, find notebooks almost as convenient to use as they have been using it already. However, the touchpad or the trackpads (that are used in place of the mouse), or the pointing sticks might pose slight difficulty for the beginners, though they can conveniently attach a mouse externally. Nevertheless, the fact that notebooks bear such great resemblance to computers surely serves as a great advantage to the users.

These days notebook can also read as well as write CDs and DVDs. They are also capable of copying and transferring data using Bluetooth devices. Most of the times, these are built in the notebooks, though one may need to attach them externally if the features have not been already provided beforehand. Pen drives, etc, can also be used on notebooks for exchanging data. Notebooks also allow the benefits of using internet connection after proper configuration has been done. Microphones and web cameras can also be used with the notebooks these days.

These days there are various kinds of notebooks that are available in the market. These can be broadly classified as Ultra-Mobile PCs (or the UMPCs), the desktop replacement computers and the ultraportables. While the Ultra-Mobile PCs are laptops that can be easily carried around owing to their extra small size, the powerful desktop replacement computers are mostly to be used in a fixed place. They are more bulky and weigh more as compared to the expensive ultraportables that are specifically meant for those business travelers who need small as well as light weight notebooks that can be easily carried around, while traveling around.

Notebooks are especially useful to those who have to work on computers for long hours, or are heavily depended on computers for their work. Though notebooks may not be as powerful as computers tend to be for the same price range, they are capable of performing all the functions that any computer would perform. There are a number of varieties one can choose from and the special features, included in each notebook, vary from one model to another. Much it depends on the price range and the manufacturer.

The main source of power for a notebook is its main battery, and the external adapter, that is used for charging the battery, from time to time. This allows the user to work on his or her laptop for hours together, without having to connect it with any wires, till the battery exhausts. The time taken for charging the battery varies from one notebook to another, though usually it does not take more than a few hours to charge them.

With each passing day, and new developments in technology, notebooks are becoming more and more popular among the people all over the world. Though these were initially meant for the business class, who had grown dependent on their computers, these days notebooks are being used by almost anybody and everybody.

The falling prices, reducing sizes and growing features are surely making notebooks one of the most sought after electronic devices of the new millennium. Hence in today`s world having a notebook has become a necessity, no one can stay without one. After all who can deny the luxury/necessity of owing a notebook in today`s world?!


