Title: 
An iPod Accessory Takes Your iPod To The Next Level

Word Count:
550

Summary:
Just ten years ago iPod technology seemed impossibly futuristic. Ten years ago we were all listening to compact disks, and even that technology was a relatively recent development that had only recently unseated analog cassettes as the music medium of choice. Yet today, only a few short years since its introduction, the iPod has been at the forefront of a musical revolution and that revolution is showing no signs of slowing down.

An iPod is a portable media player that can...


Keywords:
iPod Accessory


Article Body:
Just ten years ago iPod technology seemed impossibly futuristic. Ten years ago we were all listening to compact disks, and even that technology was a relatively recent development that had only recently unseated analog cassettes as the music medium of choice. Yet today, only a few short years since its introduction, the iPod has been at the forefront of a musical revolution and that revolution is showing no signs of slowing down.

An iPod is a portable media player that can fit in the palm of your hand, yet it can store an entire library of music and video that can be enjoyed anywhere. They are smaller than the compact disks they replaced, yet they can store information of hundreds, or even thousands, of those very same disks when that information is downloaded from a host computer. There are several different models of iPods on the market, and while their list of features might lead one to believe that there is nothing they can not do, in reality there are desirable features that iPods lack, and that is why there is such a large iPod accessory market.

There exists an iPod accessory to enhance nearly every element of your iPod. Perhaps the most popular iPod accessory is an iPod case. Due to their small size you can take your iPod everywhere, so an iPod that lacks the protection of a case can quickly acquire nicks and scratches that detract from its looks, value, and possibly function.

Another popular iPod accessory is the iPod docking station. iPods require frequent charging of their batteries – usually every eight hours or so – and a docking station allows the iPod owner to plug in and charge up when they are away from their computer. Further, some iPod docking stations have their own speaker system, so one can listen to music while recharging.

Listening to your iPod while driving is a natural combination because there is no other way to have thousands of songs, all in digital quality, at your fingertips. However, your car stereo and your iPod are not perfect mates without the help of another must-have iPod accessory, the FM Transmitter. An FM Transmitter not only acts as a docking station which maintains your iPod’s battery charge, it wirelessly broadcasts your music allowing you to “tune it in” on your car’s FM radio. No wires, no fumbling through compact disks, just your entire catalog of music at the touch of a button right on your car radio.

The latest iPod accessory to hit the market is an iPod remote control which allows you to operate your iPod from anywhere in your home. This is especially helpful for those who like to listen to their iPod through their home audio system. An iPod remote control makes your iPod as versatile as your full sized audio components, but at a fraction of the space.

iPods are certainly here to stay, and their size, performance, and features make them appealing to any music lover. But despite their myriad functions, there is an iPod accessory that can enhance your enjoyment. Docking stations that come in all shapes and sizes, adaptors that allow your iPod to play in a cassette player, and countless other offerings make the iPod accessory market nearly as hot as the iPods themselves.


