Title: 
An Introduction To Blogging For Money

Word Count:
447

Summary:
Blogging has become one of the most powerful economical forces on the Internet today. Thousands of speedy hands have taken to entering content into blog fields as a way to earn income or write about their life experiences. From its early beginnings with sites like livejournal, blogging for money has become the latest craze. Today, the more popular blogs like jossip.com and perezhilton generate close to a million dollars each year worth of advertising revenue. Blogging for mon...


Keywords:
blog how to make money online,make money blog,using a blog to make money,making money through blogs


Article Body:
Blogging has become one of the most powerful economical forces on the Internet today. Thousands of speedy hands have taken to entering content into blog fields as a way to earn income or write about their life experiences. From its early beginnings with sites like livejournal, blogging for money has become the latest craze. Today, the more popular blogs like jossip.com and perezhilton generate close to a million dollars each year worth of advertising revenue. Blogging for money can certainly yield this result with tremendous work!

Webmasters can make extra money blogging through advertising programs, sponsorships, affiliate programs, merchandising, Adsense, and more. Advertising options for those making money through blogs have been skyrocketing over the past year with the most popular method through contextual ad programs like Adsense that pay-per-click. With targeted ads that reflect your blogs content, consumers are more apt to click. Create a blog with higher paying “keyword ads” ($1.00 a click is common!) and lots of traffic and an extra thousand can be made every month!

Discovering income from home blogs also means signing up for affiliate programs. Programs like Commission Junction, Amazon, and Clickbank pair you up with companies who pay commissions for sales through your blogs’ banner ad leads. These products may include soaps, clothing, computer products, and more. All bloggers have complete control over the type of ads appearing on their sites. A third way to make money online blogging is through sponsorships. Highly regarded blogs with thousands of visitors every month can be acclaimed by companies looking to sponsor the blog for advertising space. Although it takes hard work to reach the top, money making opportunities are endless. Remember, there is more room at the top than there is at the bottom!

Finally, making money through blogs may mean creating other digital assets to sale to act as secondary income streams. Your blog may complement an e-book or course you’re selling and may double up as a discussion board to retain clients. In addition, bloggers can advertise freely on their sites. Monetizing blogs can happen in many different ways. Many freelance writers find themselves hired by bloggers to come up with dynamic content for their journals. This content serves as sales pitches to the contextual ads that may appear on the site, benefiting both the blogger and the “hired gun.”

To start blogging for money, type in blog into any Google search. If you want blogs to pay you instead of launching your own operation, you can do that too. Blogging is an excellent way to earn that side cash. With a little perseverance, you might find your site alongside mega blogs like perezhilton.com and celebslam.com.


