Title: 
Antivirus Software - A Must-have Protection For Computers

Word Count:
362

Summary:
With the advent of computer viruses of all kinds, antivirus software installation in PCs has become a necessity. The antivirus software comprise of computer programs which strive to identify viruses and 'malware' (other malicious software), thwart their endeavors and eliminate them altogether. 

About Antivirus Software

The antivirus software program may come installed on your computer or may be purchased and installed by you. There are quite a few 'invaders' against whi...


Keywords:
norton antivirus,norton antivirus 2005,norton antivirus download,free norton antivirus


Article Body:
With the advent of computer viruses of all kinds, antivirus software installation in PCs has become a necessity. The antivirus software comprise of computer programs which strive to identify viruses and 'malware' (other malicious software), thwart their endeavors and eliminate them altogether. 

About Antivirus Software

The antivirus software program may come installed on your computer or may be purchased and installed by you. There are quite a few 'invaders' against which the computer needs to be protected against. There are the viruses, worms, Trojan horses and so on. The best antivirus software available is geared to offer protection against the whole range of such known viruses and malware. The potential damage that viruses can inflict such as deletion of files, unauthorized access to personal data, and usage of the computer as a platform to carry out attack on other computers, can all be thwarted by installing at least one of the top ten antivirus software products. 

Techniques Used By Antivirus Software

The antivirus software usually uses two alternative techniques. It scans files for viruses that match the definitions given in virus dictionaries, or it identifies infection indicated by suspicious behavior from some computer program.

Some of the best antivirus software come for free. Usuaslly the best free antivirus software adopts both the techniques. However, the best antivirus software packages put special emphasis on the virus dictionary matching approach. 

Features To Look For In The Best Antivirus Software Packages

Look for the following features when purchasing an antivirus software product of choice:

Simplicity and ease of use of the software so that even a person with little knowledge of computers or viruses can use and install it.

Effectiveness in identifying viruses, worms and the like is a desirable feature of the best antivirus software products.  

Efficacy in cleaning out or isolating of files already infected so as to prevent further infection is another important feature that should be included in any good antivirus software. 

Each of the best antivirus software products assure high level of security for Windows based PCs. Depending on the uniqueness of the system in use you can choose from among the top 10 antivirus software products available from online sources.


