Title: 
Apple Iphone Review - Should You Buy The Apple Iphone Now, Or Wait?

Word Count:
322

Summary:
There has been a ton of buzz lately about Apple’s iPhone and for good reason. The iPhone is an innovative take on the cellular phone handset and it incorporates a lot of really great features. Having said that, should you rush out to buy the 1st generation Apple iPhone or wait for future releases of the handset? In this article, I’m going to give you some food for thought that you should consider before making a decision one way or the other.

As with virtually any new tech...


Keywords:
Apple iPhone Review


Article Body:
There has been a ton of buzz lately about Apple’s iPhone and for good reason. The iPhone is an innovative take on the cellular phone handset and it incorporates a lot of really great features. Having said that, should you rush out to buy the 1st generation Apple iPhone or wait for future releases of the handset? In this article, I’m going to give you some food for thought that you should consider before making a decision one way or the other.

As with virtually any new technology-related product release, there will be iPhone bugs to deal with. The first generation Apple iPhone is already catching criticism for things such as earpiece volume, battery life, and battery replacement. If I know anything about Apple, I know that they listen to user feedback and you can bet the ranch that the biggest complaints voiced over their 1st generation version will be addressed in future iPhone models.

Another reason to wait is pricing. As you’ve already seen, Apple drastically lowered their iPhone pricing just months after the initial launch. To be honest, I expected to see a price drop, but not that soon and certainly not by that much. Anytime you purchase the newest technology riding on a wave of hype and excitement, you’re going to pay top dollar for it.

So the verdict? If you can control the urge to buy the latest and greatest toy from Apple for just a little while longer, you’ll most likely end up with a product that you’ll be more satisfied with, and at a price that won’t pull on the pursestrings quite as hard. Don’t get me wrong, I love the iPhone and think it’s a fantastic product worth buying, however, it would serve you best in my opinion to wait for the next release. No matter what you decide, enjoy it... it’s a great gadget!


