Title: 
Apple Mp3 Player: If You Are Traveling Abroad!

Word Count:
742

Summary:
Mp3 technology has taken off since its debut in 1995. Desired by teenagers and respected by adults, the mp3 format’compression allows for large audio files to be utilized without using large amounts of storage space.

Apple iPod Nano

One of the most exciting Apple mp3 player models introduced by Apple Company lately is the Ipod namo 4GB mp3 player, which is considered as the tiniest color iPod in the market today. This tiny Apple mp3 player is smaller than a #2 pencil an...


Keywords:
Mp3 Player,Audio Books,ADCO,Paul Simari,iPod,Sony,iRiver,iTunes,sound,visually impaired,


Article Body:
Mp3 technology has taken off since its debut in 1995. Desired by teenagers and respected by adults, the mp3 format’compression allows for large audio files to be utilized without using large amounts of storage space.

Apple iPod Nano

One of the most exciting Apple mp3 player models introduced by Apple Company lately is the Ipod namo 4GB mp3 player, which is considered as the tiniest color iPod in the market today. This tiny Apple mp3 player is smaller than a #2 pencil and could store up to 1,000 songs! This means that if you have the Apple iPod nano 4GB mp3 player, you can enjoy up to 14 hours of non-stop music wherever you are.

If you are traveling on the road on your own, you will never be bored with this Apple mp3 player around. The Apple ipod nano 4GB mp3 player is a state of the art gadget. It is USB and FireWire compatible so you can easily download music from your computer into this Apple mp3 player.

If you are one of those people who usually purchase music online, you can just download everything into your Ipod nano anytime. Aside from giving you very clear digital sound, this newest member of the Apple mp3 player family also gives you audiobooks, podcasts and built-in games. If you are traveling long distance and would like to take a short break, you can just
pull up at a rest stop and play some games in your Apple mp3 player. Some of the popular brands already on the market are: Apple, Microsoft, Creative

Labs, iRiver and SanDisc. An internet search for mp3 players can boggle the mind with the brands, prices, reviews, features and accessories available. One of the most important features to consider in an mp3 player is storage space. The amount of storage on an mp3 player is advertised in GB or MB.

Now for the math lesson

A 1 GB mp3 player has one gigabyte of storage which is equal to 1024 megabytes-abbreviated MB. One megabyte is equal to 1,048,576 bytes and a byte is equal to eight bits. Bit is a combination of two words: binary and digit. A bit is defined as the smallest unit of information in a media storage device and is represented as a 0 or 1. Are you confused yet? Remember 'The Matrix'?

The characters could read that code of zeros and ones at a glance and form a picture in their minds. That is essentially what a computer or mp3 player does and then passes that "picture" on to you in the form of your favorite song or audio book.

Choosing a byte

Choosing how many megabytes or gigabytes you will need in an mp3 player depends on what you are going to store and how much. An mp3 player can be used to store audio books for listening on the go. Audio book lovers may require a higher level of storage. The most popular use of mp3 players is listening to music.

Choosing a storage size for music files depends mainly on how many songs you want to store on your mp3 player. A 1 GB mp3 player is a good choice for anyone who is unsure about how much storage will be necessary. Most 1GB mp3 players hold about 240 songs at an average song length of four minutes.


A 1GB mp3 player may cost $80 to $180, depending on the brand and features desired. A review of available brands is easily found online to help you choose. If you prefer the good old fashioned, face to face shopping approach, most sales persons in your local electronics store can answer any lingering questions you might have.

While mp3 players are available with storage sizes of mere megabytes to 60GB and above, the 1GB mp3 player is a good starting point for the music enthusiast.

If you are traveling abroad, your Apple mp3 player could keep you keep track of the time at home and any other parts of the world. Since your apple mp3 player is equipped with a built-in world clock, you will never have any trouble tracking the local of other places around the globe.

Furthermore, your mp3 player can also help you remember your appointments. This tiny apple mp3 player has a calendar and daily appointment menu where you can easily store and review your daily appointments. With its vivid color display and touch sensitive click wheel, you can just choose the functions that you like with so much ease.


