Title: 
Are Video Games Good? A Non-Gamer's Perspective

Word Count:
301

Summary:
The argument as to whether video games are good or not is perhaps one of the hottest debates today. There are smart, well-educated, well-meaning people on each side of the debate.

As a non-gamer, I have an interesting perspective bring to the discussion - I'm a non-gamer who views video games favorably. Why? Allow me to explain.

Probably the largest complaint against video games is that they encourage violence. Perhaps they do. But I think that they are only a part of t...


Keywords:



Article Body:
The argument as to whether video games are good or not is perhaps one of the hottest debates today. There are smart, well-educated, well-meaning people on each side of the debate.

As a non-gamer, I have an interesting perspective bring to the discussion - I'm a non-gamer who views video games favorably. Why? Allow me to explain.

Probably the largest complaint against video games is that they encourage violence. Perhaps they do. But I think that they are only a part of the picture. Playing a shooting game on your computer does not and can not by itself create a murderer. There are many other factors involved. In my experience, the gamers that I know are certainly not violent.

I believe that playing violent video games may increase violence only if and when other factors are present. I feel the same about violent movies, which I generally do not mind. Take, for example, Gladiator or The Patriot, both R rated for violence. After watching those movies, I had an increased hatred of un-needed violence. They did not make me violent. Instead, they re-enforced my belief that cruelty is wrong, and violence should be avoided if possible.

Another argument against computer and video games is that they are sedentary. Kids who play them often end up overweight, lazy, and unskilled in other ares of life. Well, that may have some truth in it, but that can be said about lot's of things - including a desk job! I believe that the key is balance and moderation. Just as running marathon every other day would be detrimental to your health, so is playing too many video games.

Before I close, let me explain why I am a non-gamer - it's because I'd rather go hunting or fishing that play a game about hunting, shooting, fishing, etc.


