Title: 
Bluetooth: 10 Benefits

Word Count:
525

Summary:
People who use Bluetooth technology, swear by it.  Every user trumpets the benefits of Bluetooth; but are these benefits worth the investment?  

Review the ten top benefits of Bluetooth, and decide if grabbing on to this technological trend is right for you.

1.  Wireless Convenience
There are many benefits of using wireless devices.  The basic plus to going wireless is enjoying the freedom to work or communicated without being tied down.  You can travel freely and stay...


Keywords:



Article Body:
People who use Bluetooth technology, swear by it.  Every user trumpets the benefits of Bluetooth; but are these benefits worth the investment?  

Review the ten top benefits of Bluetooth, and decide if grabbing on to this technological trend is right for you.

1.  Wireless Convenience
There are many benefits of using wireless devices.  The basic plus to going wireless is enjoying the freedom to work or communicated without being tied down.  You can travel freely and stay connected, without the hassle of connection cables.  There is a safety factor to consider as well.  Bluetooth technology eliminates the risk of getting tangled with wires if, for example, you're wrestling with a wired headset while trying to drive a car.

2.  Instant Gratification
Using Bluetooth devices allows you the freedom to communicate without setting up connections or pushing buttons.  When two or more Bluetooth devices enter a range of 30 feet or less, they will instantly begin to communicate with each other.  There's nothing more that you need to do.

3.  Budget Friendly
The benefits of Bluetooth also extend to your pocketbook.  Bluetooth technology is inexpensive for companies to implement.  Lower costs lead to lower corporate overhead, and the savings may well be passed on to customers like you.

4.  Sets the Standard
Bluetooth is standardized wireless.  This means that the technology is guaranteed to meet a high level of compatibility with other wireless devices.  Bluetooth technology allows many different devices to connect and communicate, even if they are different models.

5.  Less Interference
Bluetooth devices are almost always able to avoid interference from other wireless devices.  The Bluetooth uses a technology known as frequency hopping, as well as low power wireless signals.

6.  Conserves Energy
Bluetooth uses low power signals, so the technology requires very little energy.  One of the most practical benefits of Bluetooth you'll find is in using fewer batteries or less electrical power.  Bluetooth won't drain the batteries on mobile devices.

7.  Shared Data and Voices
The standard for Bluetooth technology allows compatible devices to share data and voice communications.  Of all the benefits of Bluetooth this is most important to drivers who need to talk hands-free on their cellphones. 

8.  Instant Personal Area Network
You can form your own PAN (personal area network) by connecting up to seven Bluetooth devices within a range of up to thirty feet.  Multiples PANS, or piconets, can be set up within a single room

9.  Upgrade
Technology is constantly being upgraded, and Bluetooth is ready to comply with whatever changes may come along.  Newer versions of Bluetooth are now being released, offering even more advantages.  Many have backward compatibility with older Bluetooth versions. 

10.  Technology For Keeps
Bluetooth technology is used and available worldwide.  It's a universal standard that will be around for many years to come.  As more and more devices implement Bluetooth technology, more manufacturers will find it necessary to make their products compatible.  The "supply and demand" chain reaction has already set Bluetooth as a standard in cutting-edge wireless.

There are more benefits to Bluetooth; just ask anyone who uses this wireless wonder.  Find out more about Bluetooth, and then decide if the benefits of Bluetooth can help make your life a little easier.


