Title: 
Boost Your Web Site Traffic - 14 Benefits Of Keyword Optimization

Word Count:
562

Summary:
Having a top search engine ranking is like money in your pocket. However, search engine optimization is an ongoing challenge for companies and individuals who want to drive more traffic to their sites. One of the best ways to boost your search engine traffic is to populate your site with optimized content. Here is how to create it: with a keyword optimization tool.

Keyword optimization tools perform three extremely valuable functions that are hard to find anywhere else:
...


Keywords:
boost your web site traffic, optimized content, keyword optimization, content optimization, seo


Article Body:
Having a top search engine ranking is like money in your pocket. However, search engine optimization is an ongoing challenge for companies and individuals who want to drive more traffic to their sites. One of the best ways to boost your search engine traffic is to populate your site with optimized content. Here is how to create it: with a keyword optimization tool.

Keyword optimization tools perform three extremely valuable functions that are hard to find anywhere else:

a. They suggest variations on your selected keywords that you had not yet thought of yet

b. They tell you how often each keyword is actually being searched for daily on the World Wide Web (note: the higher the number of searches, the more valuable the keyword)

c. They reveal how many competing Web sites feature the keywords you want to use (note: the lower the number of competing Web sites, the more easily your site will make it to the top of the rankings)

You can perform keyword optimization yourself by using any one of a number of free or fee-based tools, easy-to-use tools. I recommend starting out with a free tool like that available from Overture (do a search on your favorite search engine to find it). Another option, once you get the hang of things and want to go pro, is to try out for free the leading keyword optimization tool, Wordtracker®, at: http://www.Wordtracker-Free-Trial.com/

If you do decide to use a fee-based tool (which I highly recommend), the investment you make in a subscription will likely pay off in just a few days of use: making educated guesses about what people are searching for is no match for taking your advice from a keyword optimization tool. And, in addition to finding keywords for creating optimized content for your Web sit, you can use your subscription to a keyword optimization tool to do a whole bunch of other value-adding activities, such as:

1. Embed your Web pages with optimized keyword meta tags

2. Write successful articles that get ranked on the first page and above the fold of top search engines and position you as an expert in your field

3. Do preliminary product or service testing: see what people are thinking about and looking for in different product areas

4. Write better, more eye-catching and successful ads for online ad sites

5. Write blog titles that get more attention for your already-chosen topics

6. Get ideas for new blog topics

7. Find out what terms people are searching for in general and use the terms in your traditional, offline media such as brochures and newspaper ads

8. Write subject titles for opt-in e-mail campaigns that get people’s attention because it is what is already on their minds

9. Test which words to use for a new content Web site you are considering creating in order to generate income from Google AdSense ads

10. Try ideas for various product or service names to see what is hot and what is already taken

11. Look for popular keywords and try to extrapolate microtrends upon which your business could capitalize

12. Optimize your Pay-per-Click advertising campaigns, in terms of both ad title and keywords bidding

13. Etc., etc., etc.!

Creating optimized content for your Web site is one of the cornerstones to boosting traffic to your site. A keyword optimization tool is a no-brainer decision for getting you the optimized content you need.


