Title: 
Capture Precious Memories With The Art Explosion Scrapbook Factory Deluxe Software.

Word Count:
408

Summary:
The Art Explosion Scrapbook Factory Deluxe is an absolute miracle in scrapbooking software. This sought after program is the greed of many of the moms who frequent the scrapbook club I joined a few months ago. This package has everything any scrapbook making mom, dad or child could want. There are endless possibilities.

There are so many features available through the Art Explosion Scrapbook Factory Deluxe that are not available in other programs. Premium photo editing is ...


Keywords:
art explosion scrapbook factory deluxe,scrapbooking software,software


Article Body:
The Art Explosion Scrapbook Factory Deluxe is an absolute miracle in scrapbooking software. This sought after program is the greed of many of the moms who frequent the scrapbook club I joined a few months ago. This package has everything any scrapbook making mom, dad or child could want. There are endless possibilities.

There are so many features available through the Art Explosion Scrapbook Factory Deluxe that are not available in other programs. Premium photo editing is my personal favorite. I love the idea of editing my photos right in my scrapbooking software program. Before I had to visit Photoshop for a few hours then transfer the pictures to the other software program. Now I can do everything in one place.

There are tons of editing tools that can give the popular Photoshop program a run for its money. Art Explosion Scrapbook Factory Deluxe offers cutting edge editing options for your pictures. You can achieve a lot in relatively little time by using this outstanding program.

Once your pictures are edited, the Art Explosion Scrapbook Factory Deluxe allows you to look through a plethora of templates to beautify your photo masterpieces. The options are seemingly endless. The only complaint I have is that I spend way too much time trying to choose just one for each page. It can be very difficult.

In addition to the patterns, there are images to use as well. This adds to the time consumption in the project as well. The images are of superior quality and there are so many that you can take hours and hours out of your day just sorting through the wonderful graphics that the Art Explosion Scrapbook Factory Deluxe has to offer.

There is also a spell check feature that I appreciate beyond my ability to express. I can’t spell my way out of a wet paper bag so I rely heavily on this type of feature in my software programs. Many do not provide such a service which means that I have to enter my text into Microsoft Word to run a check for errors.

Normally, I would have to edit my photos in Photoshop, browse the Internet for good templates, continue to browse the Internet for images and make sure my text for spelling mishaps in Microsoft Word. The time that I save just by using Art Explosion Scrapbook Factory Deluxe actually affords me an afternoon of browsing its lovely images and excellent templates.


