Title: 
CCTV Security System: Are You Getting The Right One?

Word Count:
530

Summary:
Are you thinking of installing a home or office CCTV security system? Don’t rush it. Take the time to shop for the latest gadgets and choose a system that’ll work well for you. This is an investment worth your money, time, and effort.

CCTV Cameras and Lenses

For your home and business security, you cannot afford to scrimp on your CCTV cameras. If you are after performance, shell out extra cash to get a better performing system.

Brand name cameras are a bit pricey, de...


Keywords:
CCTV


Article Body:
Are you thinking of installing a home or office CCTV security system? Don’t rush it. Take the time to shop for the latest gadgets and choose a system that’ll work well for you. This is an investment worth your money, time, and effort.

CCTV Cameras and Lenses

For your home and business security, you cannot afford to scrimp on your CCTV cameras. If you are after performance, shell out extra cash to get a better performing system.

Brand name cameras are a bit pricey, depending on the features: higher resolution, larger formats, and better sensitivity. If you want those decent cameras that can be cleverly hidden, you’ll be spending $150-$250.

A Pan-tilt camera (PTZ) that has angling flexibility and wider coverage fetches a hefty $1,500 to $5,000. This comes with a controller so you must have a worker to operate the camera.

After the CCTV cameras, you’ll need lenses because you’d be buying cameras without these. Lenses with fixed focal lengths are cheaper.

You will require camera housing to protect it from the elements and possible vandalism. Perhaps the dome tinted cover is best for your indoor camera if don’t want the subjects detecting camera direction.

Your CCTV Monitors

After you have decided on the CCTV cameras, choose the appropriate monitors. The monitor should be able to go on for 24 hours daily. You may have a TV but perhaps this is not built for a non-stop daily grind.

Choose a flat panel LCD because these generate less heat, take up less space, and are known for their exceptional resolution. Be sure that the monitor complement your CCTV system. Buy color monitors if you want colored security cameras.

Don’t go overboard with more than a 15-inch monitor if your purpose is to merge multiple images from different cameras into one monitor. For a smaller system, a 9-inch monitor will do as long as the operator keeps a close watch.

Before Your Purchase

Before you rush to the store, take a look at the area where you want constant surveillance. If you have a grocery store, you might want all aisles monitored. You want to see what customers are picking up and plopping into the cart.

Do you want to see who is getting in and going out of your store, or who is getting off the car at the entrance? Do you want to see crowds, merchandise, and faces? Do you want good face shots? At home, do you want to know who is at the door? Do you want to watch the baby in the crib, or your teens in their band practice in the basement? The answers to these questions can help you pick the right CCTV cameras.

Having decided on what you want will make it easier for you to choose your CCTV component and system. Also consider if you need an operator to control the system or not. Quality will come next in your shopping agenda – detailed images and speed of frame rate.

Knowing your security needs will delight the supplier and eliminate post purchase problems. The supplier will make sure that you get what suits your needs for home or business security.


