Title: 
Cell Phone Or Blackberry?

Word Count:
406

Summary:
When considering whether to purchase a cell phone or a blackberry, one of the most important features to consider is cell phone technology. While blackberries still out perform the traditional cell phone, cell phone technology is rapidly catching up. With the cell phone’s ability to text, download, instant message, and even calculate the tip percentage in a restaurant, their technology is ample for most individuals.
	
Blackberries have a considerable amount of technological...


Keywords:
cell discount


Article Body:
When considering whether to purchase a cell phone or a blackberry, one of the most important features to consider is cell phone technology. While blackberries still out perform the traditional cell phone, cell phone technology is rapidly catching up. With the cell phone’s ability to text, download, instant message, and even calculate the tip percentage in a restaurant, their technology is ample for most individuals.
	
Blackberries have a considerable amount of technological capability when compared to cell phones of even just three years ago. And while blackberry technology continues to advance, it is not progressing at the same rate as cell phones are. Cell phones have increased so much in their popular necessity that most technological manufacturing companies are focusing on the implementation of cell phone advancement. Cell phone advancement turns into a larger profit margin than blackberry advancement.
	
With the enhancements to cell phone technology that have already taken place, most people replace their cell phones every 12 to 18 months. Very few people hold on to their cell phones for more than 2 years. It is important to cell phone owners to keep up with the latest technology and everything that a cell phone is capable of handling.
	
Blackberry replacement statistics suggest that the average blackberry owner replaces their equipment every 24 to 48 months, thus lowering the repurchase value. Just like any other technology equipment on the market, with greater popularity and equivalent technology advances, the cost of the technology decreases even as the technology itself enhances.
	
Most people choose cell phone technology due to its relative ease and familiarity. Those who are not inclined to get excited about new technology do not even know what a blackberry is, though nearly everyone knows what a cell phone is and what you can do with one.
	
Each individual’s personal inclination toward technological advancements is a matter of choice. Cell phones are such a staple in our society that even those who have alternate technology still carry a cell phone. It can be more convenient than trying to explain something new to someone who doesn’t understand it. Cell phone technology isn’t that far behind most other portable technological advancements. Cell phone technology has advanced to the point that most of us would be lost without our cell phones. We rely on them for everything from placing a call to waking us up in the morning to knowing when to pick up our kids at soccer practice.


