Title: 
Cell Phone Purchase Guide

Word Count:
529

Summary:
To own a cell or mobile phone (telefone celular) used to be a dream of most people not long ago. But as technology evolved and with the introduction of new players in the market, they became available with an affordable price range.

These days, cell phones (telefone celular) can be found from different manufacturers and even the cheapest of them boast features such as FM radio, camera and MMS capabilities. Amid the wide-range of models available to the customers in the mar...


Keywords:
cell phone, telephone, cellular, celular


Article Body:
To own a cell or mobile phone (telefone celular) used to be a dream of most people not long ago. But as technology evolved and with the introduction of new players in the market, they became available with an affordable price range.

These days, cell phones (telefone celular) can be found from different manufacturers and even the cheapest of them boast features such as FM radio, camera and MMS capabilities. Amid the wide-range of models available to the customers in the market, it is often difficult to make a perfect choice.

Although design and looks of mobile phones (telefone celular) are factors that may influence one to make a purchase, the following are some important considerations that should be taken into account while buying a new device.

1 - Contrary to what most people think, it is the calling plan that is more important than the cell phone itself (telefone celular). You may get a host of attractive features with the device but unless its calling plan is suitable for you, it is not worth buying it.

One important thing about a calling plan is the regional or nationwide service coverage. Imagine if you are going to extensively use your cell phone (telefone celular) only within a particular region, then there is no point in getting a device having nationwide coverage. This can save you a substantial amount of money.

Also, choose the right cell phone plan for your calling habits. If you are the one who literally spend a fortune on their phone bills, then go for the services that offer saving schemes. Otherwise, you can opt for services that help you control your expenses on cell phones (telefone celular).

2 - Think if you really need a camera phone. How often will you be using it in your day to day life ? Besides, most online service plan providers offer a free handset with their service plan. Some even offer a cash-back on the cell phone (telefone celular) purchase. So, explore your options before buying a device. 

3 - Don`t go by the look of the cell phones (telefone celular). Eventually, it becomes outdated over the times. A bulky hand-set is difficult to carry around. So pick one that fits your size.

4 - Pick a wireless carrier first then select the phone you want. Inquire your friends, relatives, and acquaintances if they are satisfied with the phone service they are using. Since, you will be using it in the same neighborhood they are the ones who can offer you the best advice on this. 

5 - Online purchase is always a good idea as you can get the accurate descriptions in writing before you buy. Shopping online allows you to know the plain truth about each phone (telefone celular) and service. On the contrary, staffs of cell phone kiosks are paid on a commission basis and they always try to con the buyers into buying their phones at a higher rate. So you can never be sure about these buys.

This article is under GNU FDL license and can be distributed without any previous authorization from the author. However the author's name and all the URLs (links) mentioned in the article and biography must be kept.


