Title: 
Cellular Phone Choices

Word Count:
563

Summary:
Determining what kind of phone service you want is not so easy anymore. There are lots of choices to make: local phone service, long distance phone service, cellular phone service, calling cards, and voice over IP (VoIP) are just some of the choices we have to make. Does it make more sense to just have a cellular phone, or is VoIP best for you? Or, should you stick with the traditional land line phone service? Well, the answer is...it depends. Here are some interesting facts ...


Keywords:
phone,telephone,cellular,cordless,communication,cell,VoIP


Article Body:
Determining what kind of phone service you want is not so easy anymore. There are lots of choices to make: local phone service, long distance phone service, cellular phone service, calling cards, and voice over IP (VoIP) are just some of the choices we have to make. Does it make more sense to just have a cellular phone, or is VoIP best for you? Or, should you stick with the traditional land line phone service? Well, the answer is...it depends. Here are some interesting facts about cellular phone service.

Did you know that a cellular phone is basically a radio? To be precise, it is actually a radio transmitter and receiver. A cellular phone is essentially a two-way radio transceiver that patches into the telephone system via a cellular network of base stations. The antenna of a cellular phone is the phone's primary source of radio frequency, and the quality of the signal depends on your phone, the distance to the source (usually a tower), and other factors which may affect radio transmissions.

What kind of service is best for you? First, understand that, for the most part, you will need to enter into a contract with the service provider. In other words, a cellular phone is typically provided with a service contract so caution is advised that you think about what kind of use your cell phone will get and to sign up for the appropriate service plan.

Trying to decide which mobile phone service is right for you can be very difficult. But there is another option: if you do not want a lengthy agreement, opt for prepaid mobile phone program. The prepaid cellular phone is an alternative to a monthly cellular phone plan. Basically, you pre-pay for your service (like a calling card). When you near the end of the amount of minutes you've paid for, you either just discontinue using it or buy more time (minutes).

While the cellular phone is mostly made up of plastics, it is run by several powerful computer chips. Each cellular phone is assigned a unique ESN, which is automatically transmitted to the cellular tower station every time a cellular call is placed. All that means is that the cellular phone is even unleashing us from telephone wires. This is hi-tech in motion.

But if you want to buy a new cellular phone but don't know where to begin researching, look for wireless phones and cell phone plans based on plan features or usage. What kind of cellular phone should you buy? Well, that's where that research on your part comes in, just like picking the right service does. And, there are lots of choices to make. For example, a camera phone is a cellular phone that also has picture taking capabilities. There are also video phones available. There are games, organizers, Bluetooth technology. The list grows daily. In fact, picking a cellular phone is almost a science in itself. For more help with your research, go to http://www.fxphone.com.

And don't forget ringtones! Because of the multitude of cellular phone ringtones available now, you never have to wonder whose cellular phone is ringing. And after all, to be stylish you want a ringtone that not only is unique but defines your personality.

So go forth and do your research and find the best service for you. Talk to you later.


