Title: 
Cellphone Taboos

Word Count:
500

Summary:
Are you an abuser? This does not refer to whether you are a drug user, a dealer or something of that sort. It was a frightening question, wasn't it? Well, this is actually pertaining to your things and gadgets and on whether you are taking good care of them or not. You carry your cellphone everyday, everywhere and they also carry germs. But this is not trying to tell you to wear synthetic or medical gloves for this matter. You just need to be responsible in keeping it safe. D...


Keywords:
coupons


Article Body:
Are you an abuser? This does not refer to whether you are a drug user, a dealer or something of that sort. It was a frightening question, wasn't it? Well, this is actually pertaining to your things and gadgets and on whether you are taking good care of them or not. You carry your cellphone everyday, everywhere and they also carry germs. But this is not trying to tell you to wear synthetic or medical gloves for this matter. You just need to be responsible in keeping it safe. Do not waste your money away. Here are some taboos when dealing with your mobile phone.

1. Do not text while driving. Fifty percent of car accidents are caused by texting while driving in a highway. If your cellphone beeps or if you have to send an emergency message to somebody, turn on your signal lights and park at a corner or side off your care from the highway to do your messaging. Remember that you can't do two things at a time.

2. Do not answer or make calls while driving. Again, steer your car to the side off the highway to answer or make your call. Just try to picture this out. You are in a busy and wide road with a thousand cars and motorcycles when somebody calls you. You do not know if it is an emergency or a prank but you are aware that it is a call and that you must answer it. So, you grab your phone, holding it in one hand with the other on the steering wheel. What if, you suddenly have to change gear? You will be forced to use the hand on the wheel and change the gear leaving nothing in-charge of your direction. Next thing you know, you are rushed to the hospital. Prevent these accidents now.

3. Do not put your cell phone in the back pocket of your pants. Cell phones are fragile gadgets and have very sensitive parts. If you put this in your back pocket and forget that you keep it there, you may accidentally sit on it.

4. Do not hold or grasp your cell phone for too long. Holding something for a long time causes your hand to sweat heavy. And with this, some or may be all of the parts of your cell phone may get wet, shut off and cause malfunction.

5. Do not use your phone as a medium to let go of your anger. Some people really lose their nerves and smash their cellphones to relieve themselves. If you are angry, think of something to let you feel otherwise and do not resort to going wild.

6. Do not hold or touch your cell phone with wet or greasy hands.

7. Do not use your cell phone when you are fueling up. There are already signs that remind you to turn off your mobile phone when you are fueling up in a gasoline station because you may cause huge danger for you and the gasoline station.


