Title: 
Chase Dreams With Chase Credit Cards Online

Word Count:
619

Summary:
The Internet is the greatest discovery since indoor plumbing. It has made next-door neighbors of Asia and Africa. It brings to your screen not just a deluge of words but also an outpouring of worlds. 

 The Mail Must Go Through 
Before the dawn of the PC and Web, applying for a credit card was a pain in the neck. First, you have to search high and low for a pen. Then, while filling out the application form, you put yourself at the mercy of your pen. Will your pen work? It ...


Keywords:
chase credit cards online, chase credit card online


Article Body:
The Internet is the greatest discovery since indoor plumbing. It has made next-door neighbors of Asia and Africa. It brings to your screen not just a deluge of words but also an outpouring of worlds. 

 The Mail Must Go Through 
Before the dawn of the PC and Web, applying for a credit card was a pain in the neck. First, you have to search high and low for a pen. Then, while filling out the application form, you put yourself at the mercy of your pen. Will your pen work? It might; it might not. It might run out of ink, or leak. 

After the form is done, you mail it at the post office. Your mail must go through, even if it could possibly end up in Kalamazoo. Suppose, though, that your application arrived at the bank. The lack of both computers and Internet connection makes the processing of your application slow as molasses. If your application is approved, the plastic follows the same snail-mail route back to your home. Yes, the mail must go through, even if it could be misdirected to Timbuktu. 

Today, technology has revamped the process of applying for a credit card, with online Chase credit cards leading the way. 

 JPMorgan Chase 
JPMorgan Chase, one of the world's first financial services firms, is the United States' largest issuer of credit cards. The company has assets of over $1 trillion, and is headquartered in New York City, New York. JPMorgan Chase was formed, via the merger in the year 2000, between J.P. Morgan & Co. and The Chase Manhattan Corporation. 

 Your Visa to Card Masters 
Chase credit cards online give you ready access to the biggest names in the business: Master Card and Visa. These companies have withstood the test of time, and continue to provide borrowers with shopping or emergency money. 

 No APR and Annual Fees (Most of the Time) 
Like shoppers for personal computers or Internet service, customers want their Visa and Master Card cards at low prices. Chase credit cards found online can deliver! The majority of their credit cards do not charge any annual fees. Also, most of their cards have a 0% introductory Annual Percentage Rate for a generously long period, as well as a rock-bottom APR following that timeframe. The APR is a consumer's complete cost of credit, shown as a yearly percentage of how much credit is given. The introductory APRs and annual fees of those cards that charge them are very reasonable. 

 Benefits, Benefits, Benefits 
In addition to charging less, Chase credit cards online give more. With the Chase Freedom program, you can earn points from purchases at places such as grocery stores, restaurants, and gas stations. After you have earned a certain number of points, you can choose between a check and gift certificate. Certain cards also offer benefits, such as rebates on gas purchases, discounts to theme parks, business perks, free extra cards, and travel miles. 

 Information, Please 
If you want to enjoy the benefits of Chase credit cards online, applying for any of the Chase credit cards is as easy as one-two-key. You must first supply some basic personal information. Have no fear, however, because you will not be asked to reveal your life's most embarrassing moment. Next, you must supply some financial information, such as your yearly household income and the types of bank accounts that you hold. Additionally, you must fill out information regarding a second cardholder or a balance transfer, if those services are needed. Finally, simply click on a virtual button to submit your application. It's easy to apply for a Chase credit card online; and when you do get chase credit cards online, you will find shop doors magically opening for you.


