Title: 
Choosing The Right HDTV

Word Count:
373

Summary:
Looking to replace your old TV? Then you may might to invest in the new HD technology. Unlike regular standard televisions, HDTV sets are much lighter, occupy less space, offer more features and provide better image quality. However, the search for a new HDTV can be a daunting one, especially for new customers who are unfamiliar with the many HDTV technologies. Hence, in this article we will examine the various types of HDTVs and their benefits.

HDTV CRT
HDTV CRT is based...


Keywords:
HDTV, LCD, CRT, Display, Plasma, TV


Article Body:
Looking to replace your old TV? Then you may might to invest in the new HD technology. Unlike regular standard televisions, HDTV sets are much lighter, occupy less space, offer more features and provide better image quality. However, the search for a new HDTV can be a daunting one, especially for new customers who are unfamiliar with the many HDTV technologies. Hence, in this article we will examine the various types of HDTVs and their benefits.

HDTV CRT
HDTV CRT is based upon on the old Cathode Ray technology which is found in regular TVs. Some of the benefits of this technology is its proven reliability (50+ years), picture quality and low price point. However, with this technology you have to deal with bulky, heavy TV sets, screen glare problems and limited widescreen choices. The biggest wide screen you can get for a HDTV CRT is only 34-inches.

Rear Projecting HDTV
Currently there are two types of Rear Projection HDTVs. The older Rear Projection HDTV is based on the CRT technology while the newer one is based on the LCD/DLP/LCoS Projection technology. Like HDTV CRT, Rear Projection CRT offers large wide screens at a very low price point. However, you have to deal with poor picture quality from non digital signals, expensive maintenance, bulky cabinet enclosures and narrow viewing angles. The newer LCD/DLP/LCoS Projection technology offer larger screen sizes, good black levels, larger viewing angle, and great picture quality. However, with this technology you have to deal with expensive bulbs that have to be replaced every 5,000-7,000 hours.

Plasma HDTV
The Plasma HDTV is a mainstream technology for viewing high definition channels. Plasma HDTV displays offer amazing color definitions, large viewing angle, good black levels and they occupy less space. However, with this technology you have to deal with the possibility of screen burn-in problems and screen glares.

LCD Flat Panel HDTV
The LCD Flat Panel HDTV is the other mainstream technology for viewing high definition channels. LCD HDTVs offer wider range of screen sizes (7” to 65”), greater image resolutions, are very bright, no burn-in problems and last very long (60,000+ hours). However, with this technology you have to deal with poor black levels, small viewing angle and a high entry price point.


