Title: 
Computer Viruses And Guarding Against Them

Word Count:
355

Summary:
In this modern Information Age, computers are necessities in life. Whether we use them for simple functions such as typing our homework and business reports, up to more important acts like online business meetings and transactions, one cannot deny that computers are a big part in our daily lives. Using a computer, particularly the Internet, is one task that even a ten year old can do at this particular period in time. 

With the growing increase of popularity and reliance o...


Keywords:
Registry cleaner, Registry cleaner review, Registry cleaner free, Registry cleaner download, Registry cleaner repair, Registry repair,


Article Body:
In this modern Information Age, computers are necessities in life. Whether we use them for simple functions such as typing our homework and business reports, up to more important acts like online business meetings and transactions, one cannot deny that computers are a big part in our daily lives. Using a computer, particularly the Internet, is one task that even a ten year old can do at this particular period in time. 

With the growing increase of popularity and reliance on computers, as well as the demand for it, security risks have also gone up, which is a reality that cannot be ignored. With the billions of information bits being spread across the World Wide Web, hackers and computer intruders (criminals) see the value in focusing their attention to computers and the Internet. The information they would retrieve here is (more often than not) more useful than when doing it the old-fashioned way. 

As such, these intruders have devised methods to get information out of computer users, with or without these people knowing that they’ve been hacked. As is the case in real life, there are some computer programs that are disguised to be innocent, but actually act as spies, providing information to the intruders. These malicious programs, which are security threats, are called computer viruses. 

Computer viruses should not be taken lightly. They work in many different ways; one of them may be to provide data to the one who planted the virus. Other viruses can simply be annoying - slowing down your computer, building unwanted files, etc. – while some can be very disruptive, such as deleting your hard drive, compromising your operating system, etc.Free Scan! See how many errors your computer has, at http://www.registry-cleaners-reviewed.info 

As such, there are different types of viruses, which normally differ in how they function and how they are spread. Examples of these include Trojan horses, worms, email viruses, and logic bombs. It would be important for you to know these kinds of viruses in order to better protect you from them, as well as to have the proper programs to get rid of them.


