Title: 
Computer Aided Drafting – Drawing Up A Career

Word Count:
609

Summary:
When looking at a list of an employer's most desired computer skills, computer aided drafting is commonly one of the highest. Computer Aided Drafting and Design, or CADD, is used in everything from design and manufacturing to modeling and technical drawings of prototypes. Those with CAD skills have a unique opportunity to combine computers and creativity that provide a functional result.

With the world moving to its dependence on computers in nearly every part of life, com...


Keywords:
computer aided drafting, CAD, CADD,


Article Body:
When looking at a list of an employer's most desired computer skills, computer aided drafting is commonly one of the highest. Computer Aided Drafting and Design, or CADD, is used in everything from design and manufacturing to modeling and technical drawings of prototypes. Those with CAD skills have a unique opportunity to combine computers and creativity that provide a functional result.

With the world moving to its dependence on computers in nearly every part of life, computer aided drafting is one area that has greatly benefited. The ability to use certain programs and software has allowed for great leaps and bounds in what can now be done in drafting. CAD is highly valuable when it comes to designing fields such as architecture, mechanics and even interior design.  

Depending on an individual's field, computer aided drafting may have more of a focus on aspects that are specific to architecture, mechanics and the like. However, the basics will start out the same. It is not unheard of for an individual to have an expertise in a combination of CAD programs.

Manufacturing is one of the biggest industries in existence and there are many different types to be found. As CAD can be used for designing tools or even civil engineering, having a combination of CAD programs under one's belt allows an individual more options on their career path. Those with this type of training have the benefit of knowing their skills will not be outmoded any time soon. 

Technology evolves quickly and because CAD is a computer-based skill, individuals who take on this field will need to update their knowledge on a regular basis. Individuals can expect to invest as little as two years to achieve their degree. As graduates move forward in their career, they can attend certification courses to ensure they are up to date on the latest in computer aided drafting. 

Though it may not be clearly defined, an individual should have an interest in both computers and design when opting for a CAD program. As a student learns the necessary basic skills, he or she will be able to more aptly define which type of CADD design they would most like to practice. While some prefer vocations that use aspects of graphic design, others may enjoy professions that work strictly with schematics and blueprints.

When opting for a program that offers CADD, individuals should choose an accredited program that offers the latest in software and equipment. Developing a solid set of basic skills is the one thing that will allow a student to move on to new levels. As with most types of professions, the more a person advances in skill level, the higher their earning power. 

Often, those who already work in the field will feel the need to further their expertise by returning to school. Because it is such a desirable skill, there are a number of institutions offering CAD programs. Individuals should always research the courses offered to make sure they are getting what they need.

For some, the idea of returning to school can seem daunting, especially when it comes to financial aspects. With accredited schools, there are many benefits such as financial aid for those who qualify. Plus, those already in the field may be able to apply their previous experience as credits toward their higher degree.

No matter what profession an individual uses their computer aided drafting for, he or she can look forward to a cutting edge career with a good salary. These sought after skills provide the best of job security, as they will likely be able to find a job in any number of cities across the map.


