Title: 
Computer Desks: Do They Have To Be Expensive?

Word Count:
466

Summary:
The answer, plain and simple, is no; computer desks do not have to be expensive. With so many different options on the market today and such a large number of retailers to choose from, there is a price range to fit anyone’s budget. And with a variety of styles and materials available, it is not necessary to give up quality for an affordable price.

Shoppers will find computer desks ranging in price from $100 for a basic computer workstation to over $1000 for an executive-st...


Keywords:
Computer,Desks,Do,They,Have,to,Be,Expensive,file,cabinets


Article Body:
The answer, plain and simple, is no; computer desks do not have to be expensive. With so many different options on the market today and such a large number of retailers to choose from, there is a price range to fit anyone’s budget. And with a variety of styles and materials available, it is not necessary to give up quality for an affordable price.

Shoppers will find computer desks ranging in price from $100 for a basic computer workstation to over $1000 for an executive-style desk with many accessories and amenities. This pricing will primarily be dependent on the materials and craftsmanship of the desk. Desks are now constructed of a wide range of materials from particle board and laminates to solid wood. Glass and metal can also be found in many of the contemporary styles.

The old adage has always been "you get what you pay for", implying that the more money you spend, the better quality of the product. While this is true to a certain extent (a solid wood desk is of better quality and certainly priced higher than one made of laminates and particle board), the principle does not hold true in all instances. Say a high quality, solid wood computer desk is available at a local retailer for $1000. That exact same desk is also available through an online retailer for $750, with free shipping and a lifetime warranty. Obviously, the $750 desk is the better value and of no lesser quality simply because it was the lower priced option.

The retailer from which a computer desk is bought can add value to your purchase as well. Consumers should look into such items as delivery charges (some will offer free delivery), warranties, and customer loyalty programs (discounts or rewards based on volume of purchases). The reputation and longevity of the retailer should also be considered when making a large purchase. After all, a warranty is only as good as the company that makes it.

Online retailers, commonly referred to as e-tailers, can often offer higher quality furniture at a more reasonable price due to their lower overhead – no storefront to maintain and no salespeople to pay. Some offer free shipping and lifetime warranties on all orders. Another benefit to shopping online is that e-tailers are able to offer a broader variety of products and price ranges. This makes it easier for the consumer to shop and compare a number of products from a single website.

There is no need to give up good quality office furniture in exchange for an affordable price. Smart shopping can land you the computer desk you want and still keep you within the needs of your budget. Furnishing your office with high quality products certainly does not have to be expensive if the consumer is connected with the right retailers.


