Title: 
Content Management - Fusion Of Technology And Creativity

Word Count:
414

Summary:
It is almost unimaginable to live in a world without the internet. And in the same token, it is also unimaginable to have no content on the internet. Behind the thousands of bites of digital information are the content writers and providers. In turn the driving force behind the content writers are the content management teams. To put it into everyday terms, if the content writers are like the movie actors, then the content managers are like the directors of the film. The writ...


Keywords:
content management,content management system,content management software,web content management


Article Body:
It is almost unimaginable to live in a world without the internet. And in the same token, it is also unimaginable to have no content on the internet. Behind the thousands of bites of digital information are the content writers and providers. In turn the driving force behind the content writers are the content management teams. To put it into everyday terms, if the content writers are like the movie actors, then the content managers are like the directors of the film. The writers provide the content, but it is the managers that channel the content towards a proper direction and optimal and manageable form.

In the cyber world, contents are the end products that are served to the consumers, that is, the visitors to a particular website. Now content does just not mean the actual content and topic. The manner in which the content is presented is also equally important, and it is the graphic designers that enhance the presentability of any write up.

So content writing and graphic designing are the two major aspects of content management. The primary job of the content management system is to establish a smooth blending of these two aspects. They are also simultaneous processes, so another responsibility of the content management is to maintain coordination between these two aspects of production.

The content management system is also the conduit between the client and the writer and graphic designer. It is the responsibility of the content management to clearly explain the client's requirement and view to the creative team; in turn the writer translates the client's idea into clear and concise writing, and the graphic designer expresses the idea into visual form. The finished product is then presented to the client by the content manger.

The web content management also blends creativity and technology. The editors in the content management team should be fully aware of the latest technologies available in the market and use them intelligently to enhance production value and reduce the cost of production.

After the creative process, the editors of the content management team then reviews the whole product and makes improvement where necessary in order to meet the needs of the clients.

Lastly and most importantly, the content managers also examine the legal aspects of the products. It is their responsibility to check whether the copyright rules have been properly followed or not.

Now the content is ready to be uploaded to the server. The content management has finished its full cycle.


