Title: 
Conversion At Its Best - Pdf To Text

Word Count:
522

Summary:
The other option is to search the net for softwares that allow you to convert PDF file to TXT file for free. PDF or Portable Document Format files were released in 1993 San Jose, CA. The format allowed for the easy storage and retrieving of large documents. The format soon grew to becoming the weapon of choice for businesses, educators and government.  

Being a powerful utility is a double edged sword. Adobe's Acrobat software is no doubt a very good utility but unfortunat...


Keywords:
PDF to text,converting PDF to text,PDF2TXT


Article Body:
The other option is to search the net for softwares that allow you to convert PDF file to TXT file for free. PDF or Portable Document Format files were released in 1993 San Jose, CA. The format allowed for the easy storage and retrieving of large documents. The format soon grew to becoming the weapon of choice for businesses, educators and government.  

Being a powerful utility is a double edged sword. Adobe's Acrobat software is no doubt a very good utility but unfortunately it puts a tremendous pressure on your system resources. System hang-ups and freezing are an everyday issue with the software. Adobe Acrobat software is known to literally crash out older systems with its insane choke hold on system resources.  A simple way of evading this nerve wracking scenario is to convert the PDF files to text files.  There are multitudes of software that does this for you, including Adobe authorized ones. The benefits of changing a PDF file to .txt is immense, the most important being lesser strain on the system which translates into faster load times. One can save hours of editing and typing by using these converters. PDF files also bring down the file size and render it easy to navigate. PDF files require an Acrobat reader to be viewed. While the reader is free, one requires a net connection to download it. Word documents on the other hand are universal and any Microsoft user can read and manipulate it. There are numerous tools on the net which are more efficient than the adobe authoring tools.

Newbie users can publish the PDF file on the web and use Google's ability to show a PDF file as HTML to convert the file to TXT. This is a loop hole in the system that allows users to by pass using the Adobe Acrobat software for converting the file. All that the user's needs to do is to log on to Google and look up on the PDF file. The user will be provided with a link that reads HTML version. Clicking on which lets you view the plain text and the converted HTML version of the PDF file you had just converted.

Many times user wants to convert PDF files into TXT files, unfortunately PDF files aren't exactly designed for that. A PDF file is essentially a snap shot of a text and not exactly a text. This makes it difficult if not impossible to copy and paste a PDF file into a word document. The immense overhead that the Adobe software uses has led to its diminishing popularity in the last few years. This calls for specialist software that interprets the snap shot and converts it into a Word doc.  A typical converter program in the net can cost anything from $20 to $100.  Most of these softwares allow a 30 day trial period so that you can try out the software before buying it. If you decide to go for the free ones be wary malicious spyware that often comes attached with these. Just remember to go through a couple of ones to try and get a feel of various features.


