Title: 
Cool Flash Drives: The Latest Releases

Word Count:
506

Summary:
Whether you are in need of something for business or pleasure, a good flash drive can make all of the difference. Many of us depend on our flash drives for business mainly, but there are many other types and classes of flash drives out there. For the time being, lets focus on the cool flash drives available; that is, the best suited flash drive for your needs.

Did you know that there are flash drives available right now that are bullet proof, water proof, impact resistant,...


Keywords:
cool flash drives, cheap flash drives, personalized flash drives, customized flash drives


Article Body:
Whether you are in need of something for business or pleasure, a good flash drive can make all of the difference. Many of us depend on our flash drives for business mainly, but there are many other types and classes of flash drives out there. For the time being, lets focus on the cool flash drives available; that is, the best suited flash drive for your needs.

Did you know that there are flash drives available right now that are bullet proof, water proof, impact resistant, or even the size of a credit card? Do you frequently carry a pocket knife or pen? What if your pocket knife or pen had a usb flash drive built into it?

Many people just purchase any flash drive because of an immediate need. The difference between a flash drive and a cool flash drive is in its additional features.

SanDisk 1 GB Cruzer Profile Biometric USB Flash Drive (SDCZ5-1024, Retail Package)

For those who are big on security, this is one of the best tools to use for safekeeping information. This cool flash drive doesn’t only hold information, but it also contains a thumb print reader built into it. You can use this device to keep your billing information safe as well. Today nearly a third of the population pays some bills online; likewise, identity theft is at an all time high. Besides not saving your passwords on your internet browser, you can also keep your billing statements safe on this biometrics flash drive.

Dane-Elec 1GB Dog Tag External Hard Drive – Black

This particular flash drive is unique because it can be worn as well as personalized. For some, this is an important feature especially for those who are very rough on electronics. Usually, a standard flash drive will not hold up very well throughout regular wear and tear. For these reasons, Dane-Elec’s Dog Tag Flash Drive is an excellent gift for the average dad or even a coworker.

Victorinox SwissBeat MP3 Player 1 GB

Most people who work hard for a living need at least a little pick-me-up throughout the course of their day. What better than to have loads of music to help speed up the dead moments in the day. With this cool flash drive you not only get a device that holds information, but also an mp3 player and a pocket knife. The pocket knife is most likely the main feature of this customized flash drive, but regardless of your daily habits, this is a great addition to your own gadgets.

eXpansys Memory Walletex 1GB Credit Card Flash Drive

If you already carry quite a bit of gadgets and extra equipment throughout your normal day, you may wish to consider this particular flash drive. It’s slim and fits into standard credit card slots within most wallets and purses. This is also a great business oriented gift as well as a great tool. Just getting into the habit of keeping your information in your wallet can also help you avoid forgetting to bring important data.


