Title: 
Creating Holiday Digital Photo Albums

Word Count:
781

Summary:
After wonderful holiday and other family gatherings,you need create photo albums, edit your digital photos, and then watch them on your TV using your DVD player. Imagine being able to show your friends and family all of your great shots in the comfort of your living room! Your whole family can enjoy this private photo albums.

This article will help you create your Digital Photo Albums yourself. These freeware or sharewares combine ease-of-use, power and flexibility.If you ...


Keywords:
photo,album,software,review,download


Article Body:
After wonderful holiday and other family gatherings,you need create photo albums, edit your digital photos, and then watch them on your TV using your DVD player. Imagine being able to show your friends and family all of your great shots in the comfort of your living room! Your whole family can enjoy this private photo albums.

This article will help you create your Digital Photo Albums yourself. These freeware or sharewares combine ease-of-use, power and flexibility.If you have older photos that are too delicate for handling, you can preserve the image forever on this software. 

Album Creator Pro is a Photo Album product from firmtools, get 5 Stars SoftSea Rating, AlbumCreator lets you create online albums from your digital photos using unique and highly professional Flash and HTML theme templates. You can customize the existing templates, create your own or download additional ones. The software also includes editing tools to enhance your photos, remove red eye, adjust colors, apply watermarks and more. It supports EXIF data, so you add EXIF information as image comment or image title. Album Creator Pro includes a simple FTP client that lets you upload the finished album to your web site. You can choose between several Flash themes and a variety of HTML templates, each of them unique and sophisticated. Additional features include lossless rotation and direct import of photos from your digital camera.

Flash Album Creator is from dreamingsoft, Flash Album Creator lets you create your own digital photo slideshow and publish it as a Flash file on the web, or as standalone EXE file. The slideshow comes with a small navigation menu that the user can use to start/pause the slideshow. When used for web publishing, Flash Album Creator can also create the HTML page, including custom title and background. The result is an attractive Flash presentation of your images. The software can only handle images properly that are larger than 640x480 (most digital camera images are). Other can also be processed but may be stretched to fit.

PhotoAlbumStudio is from exapower, PhotoAlbumStudio allows you to manage and distribute your digital pictures. It provides an interface to catalog your pictures (jpeg and gif) in virtual albums that can be placed on your hard drive or burned on a CD (burner not included). Since the presentation is HTML/Java based, you can also upload it to your web site and offer it for online viewing. Each picture may be provided with a comment or a short story. A number of albums may be managed in the project or catalog - they are displayed on an initial index page, so the viewer can choose an album. A project may be saved for later editing and published on a local hard disk along with JavaAlbum viewer. No extra program installation is required to view the published albums. PhotoAlbumStudio is very easy-to-use, all you need to do is select the images to be included, and generate the nice-looking photo album.

Photozig Albums Express is a Photo Album product from photozig, Photozig Albums is the complete solution for managing digital photos and short videos in the desktop computer with web connectivity. Photozig Albums software is the ultimate digital photo album and photo organizer software for consumers, consisting of digital camera/scanner transfer, album organizer, picture viewer, image editor, slideshow software, generator of free animated screensavers, and much more. You can also send free online photo albums to the internet and email your digital photos to your family and friends easily.

Centico Photo Album is from centico, Organize your photos in rich albums that contain both photos and text. Ordinary albums that show only photos are ok, but not very interesting. By adding text directly inside the album you will create attention-grabbing albums that your friends and family will love to see. This is a outstanding way to immortalize your child's antics, or what happened during the vacation.

JAlbum is a Photo Album product from datadosen, get 5 Stars SoftSea Rating, JAlbum allows you to create nice looking photo galleries for the web. You can simply select or drop drag/drop folders containing images or movie files onto JAlbum and it will create thumbnails and HTML pages to publish your images as a gallery or picture slideshow. JAlbum also includes a small web server that enables you to share images directly from your PC, without the need to upload any files to a web host. The galleries are based on various template designs and appearance can be further customized by advanced users. Additional features include support for EXIF data, URL encoding of file names, style sheets, lossless image manipulation, optional Shutterfly integration, (built in FTP client, UPnP support, and more.


