Title: 
CRM - The New Business Frontier

Word Count:
546

Summary:
CRM is like discovering the world of sounds after you get your first hearing aid. That’s the best analogy once can use to describe just how powerful CRM is. In fact may financial executives are calling CRM the new business frontier.

When a company leverages its business performance management software with the CRM tool suddenly the fuzziness is all gone. It seems that there’s always a fuzziness that surrounds a customer – how profitable has that customer been and how profi...


Keywords:



Article Body:
CRM is like discovering the world of sounds after you get your first hearing aid. That’s the best analogy once can use to describe just how powerful CRM is. In fact may financial executives are calling CRM the new business frontier.

When a company leverages its business performance management software with the CRM tool suddenly the fuzziness is all gone. It seems that there’s always a fuzziness that surrounds a customer – how profitable has that customer been and how profitable could it actually have been had that customer been tracked into the future. CRM can do that for you. It truly will take you into a new frontier for your business.

In fact many companies that are already using CRM systems say that it has completely changed their view of what it really means to track your customers. This comprehensive system leaves nothing unturned. You’ll know everything you need to know about your customer to provide the best customer service around.

If you ask potential customers what they find missing from interactions with business it’s that customer service doesn’t exist anymore. People are tired of taking to computerized systems. There also tired of having to repeat their stories over and over to various staff to get what they want. When you run a CRM system you have happy customers.

But let’s be clear here. Not all CRM systems are the same and so you need to take your time and investigate each one you are considering. Some CRM packages only offer transactional customer data; others are more comprehensive and analytical.

Microsoft Dynamics CRM Software is one program that is definitely worth considering. Why? Because it’s not only affordable it’s flexible, and it can work with the growth of your company.

How much emphasis should you put on customer satisfaction compared with employee satisfaction? With the right CRM you don’t have to make a judgment call. You can keep both customer and employee happy. In fact with CRM your employees are going to be very satisfied too because they have knowledge and knowledge is power.

Now when a customer calls they can easily and quickly handle any problem. They can also sell them additional products and they can impress the customer because they “know everything” and the consumer doesn’t have to continuously repeat the information. That means the customer is going to be much more pleasant to speak with and that will make your employers job much easier. So you see everyone wins.

There are some major points that you need to evaluate in CRM technology.

1. Functionality
2. Company Strategies
3. Company Goals
4. Web based – client side or hosted
5. Product Reliability
6. Scalability
7. Room To Grow
8. Vendors Reputation
9. Rapid Development Attainable
10. Customizable
11. Integrates with existing systems
12. user Interface – how easy

At the end of the day it’s all about money.  After all isn’t that what it’s always about? In order to invest in something you expect a return on your money and the Microsoft Dynamics CRM software will do exactly that. Once installed and in full operation you are going to see an increase in your bottom line – you will maximize profits and that’s good for your business, your employees, and your customers. So why wait?


