Title: 
Different Types Of Photo Shop Effects Tutorials

Word Count:
545

Summary:
Photo Shop is the most widely used image manipulation program in the world today. It should be no mystery therefore that so many people know the basics of the program. However, not many people know the full capability of Photo Shop. 

This is partly because every person has a limited time to devote to this program. In order to compensate for this, many people are putting up Photo Shop effects tutorials. This is in order to share what knowledge they have and maybe gain a lit...


Keywords:
photo shop tutorial,adobe photo shop tutorial,free photo shop tutorial


Article Body:
Photo Shop is the most widely used image manipulation program in the world today. It should be no mystery therefore that so many people know the basics of the program. However, not many people know the full capability of Photo Shop. 

This is partly because every person has a limited time to devote to this program. In order to compensate for this, many people are putting up Photo Shop effects tutorials. This is in order to share what knowledge they have and maybe gain a little more. Here are some of the different types of Photo Shop effects tutorials you can find today:

1) Retouching – this type of Photo Shop effects tutorial attempts to teach people how to accomplish the basic goal of Adobe Photo Shop –fix pictures. The retouching Photo Shop effects tutorials helps people get rid of red eye, fix skewed angles and basically make the picture presentable. This is done through the various tools offered by Photo Shop. 

Majority of the people who look for Photo Shop effects tutorials go with this first because, let's face it, everyone wants to look perfect in their pictures. By learning this Photo Shop effects tutorial, you will be able to take what you can see in nature and give it a whole new reality. Some people eliminate wrinkles, scars, and some actually erase people from group pictures! 

2) Lighting effects – a change in the lighting can dramatically alter the mood of a photograph. In the past, photographers either had to wait for the sun to be just perfect or make use of special lighting in order to achieve the effect that they need. With lighting Photo Shop effects tutorials, you can adjust the lighting of a photograph even after it is taken. 

Think of the possibilities! You can take the picture of a sunset even in the middle of a cloudy day. You can light up the subject of a photograph even without using a flash. Photo Shop effects tutorials will even teach you how to make it look like you are living on an alien planet, by adding 2 different colored suns to your picture. The great thing about this is that, unlike other image editors which just paste a sun into the background, Adobe Photo Shop can really make it seem as if the addition does affect the lighting within the image. 

3) Presentation effects – want to place your image inside a glass sphere? You can find Photo Shop effects tutorials to do precisely that on the internet. You can find different ways to manipulate your images. You can put an object in space, traveling at light speed. You can place yourself in field of flowers. You can turn your picture into an oil painting. A Photo Shop effects tutorial will teach you how to do these things and more. With Photo Shop, your imagination is the limit.

4) Photography – many photographers today resort to using special filters and customizing their cameras to get different effects. They take pictures in ultra-red, monochrome, and other styles to give people a whole new perspective of the world. Some Photo Shop effects tutorials can teach you how to make it seem like you took a picture using the same techniques as professionals do. This is certainly something every person wants, right?


