Title: 
Digital Cameras Are Small And Compact And Take Great Pictures

Word Count:
556

Summary:
Digital photography is a booming business and is slowly going to take over the film camera market. Compact digital cameras are the most popular and common of the camera types. To get a better quality picture you need to increase the number of pixels, so the cameras with more mega pixels will have a sharper image. Underwater digital cameras are small and lightweight, and the quality is comparable to film if you go for the higher resolution shots. Digital pictures have improved...


Keywords:
camera review,camera shop,best digital camera,disposable camera,video cameras


Article Body:
Digital photography is a booming business and is slowly going to take over the film camera market. Compact digital cameras are the most popular and common of the camera types. To get a better quality picture you need to increase the number of pixels, so the cameras with more mega pixels will have a sharper image. Underwater digital cameras are small and lightweight, and the quality is comparable to film if you go for the higher resolution shots. Digital pictures have improved dramatically, and are now incredibly clear. The main problem that most have is that after the picture is taken many people don't develop the pictures or don't have a a way to do it.

How exactly does it differ from the traditional camera? Up to the point when the image is captured, the process is the same in both. When you release the shutter the mirror moves out of the way and the image is captured in the same way as any digital camera. Zooming in on a subject works by cropping some of the image out of the picture. The thing to remember is the higher the resolution, the more realistic the image is, matching closest what the actual image is. The image is then enlarged to fill the camera frame, by doing this you will loose the quality of the photograph. If an image is too bright or too dark you can re-take the image.

Digital cameras are not that expensive today a 2 mega pixel camera can be had for less than $50. Also important to note is the memory capacity of the camera. In other words, how many pictures will the camera hold? Understanding a little bit about how pictures are recorded on a digital camera and then subsequently saved on a computer is critical but fairly simple even for a beginner. The key to getting the best possible digital pictures is to make sure the right camera is bought. Digital cameras are becoming more and more popular. Whether your pictures are good or bad it does not matter, with a digital camera you have full control.

In burst mode the camera shoots a fast series of photos for as long as the shutter button is held down or until the camera's memory is full. In this mode the camera writes the photos to a temporary memory which is very fast but small. When the shutter button is released or the memory is full the camera starts the slow process of writing the photos to the flash memory. Memory is also a very important issue to consider. 

In terms of features it may not have any more than a simple point and shoot model. Picture quality is normally an improvement from the more basic cameras. The price of a digital camera printer is lowering whilst the quality is increasing. As far as image quality is concerned, there are a couple factors - picture resolution, presence of noise in the camera, dynamic range, and the color quality of the image. Depending on the camera purchased and the accuracy of the settings, the quality can rival and sometimes even surpass a regular 35mm camera. 

Basically, a mega pixel is capable of storing a million bits of information about a photo. Because the digital SLR cameras are more professional, they come with a hefty price tag.


