Title: 
Digital Camera Purchase Advice

Word Count:
647

Summary:
Digital Camera has become a very popular consumer item, since it makes so easy and cheap to take pictures. However, some buyers are impulsive by nature and they are hardly aware of the standard features of digital cameras. Only after using the camera, they may realize its drawbacks. Therefore, it is important to know some standard features of digital cameras so that one can make the right decisions while buying this gadget. 

The following are some standard features: 

Co...


Keywords:
digital camera, photo, photographic camera


Article Body:
Digital Camera has become a very popular consumer item, since it makes so easy and cheap to take pictures. However, some buyers are impulsive by nature and they are hardly aware of the standard features of digital cameras. Only after using the camera, they may realize its drawbacks. Therefore, it is important to know some standard features of digital cameras so that one can make the right decisions while buying this gadget. 

The following are some standard features: 

Computing Platform: Most digital cameras have interface compatibility with Mac as well as Windows operating system platforms. However, some cameras might have more software for one platform than the other, where as a few will work only on one platform. In this case, usually these cameras work on Windows platform.

Image Quality: It basically includes factors such as exposure accuracy, color purity, optics (lens) quality and image compression techniques. 

Onboard Image Capacity: Whether a specific amount of onboard image capacity is sufficient or not depends largely on your application. Image capacity and image quality share a strong co-relation with each other. For instance, there is not point in having a digital camera that offers high image capacity whereas the amount of storage is not adequate in relation to the resolution. Beware of the cameras that promise a large number of images but lack actual storage space. It might affect the image quality of your photos. Standard onboard camera memory might range from 2 to 16 MB and the image storage capacity can vary from 10 to 100+ images, depending on the image resolution.

Reusable Memory Cards: There are quite a few digital cameras that allow storing images on plug-in cards and this enables users to add as much or as little memory to the camera as per individual requirement. Unlike the older version of memory card where a single type of memory card known as Liner PCMCIA was being extensively used, now memory cards can be found in different types. Some of the most popular cards are Compact Flash and FlashMedia. 

Exposure Versatility: Digital cameras are unable to handle different lighting conditions. This drawback is not found in film cameras as we can compensate for different lighting situations by using different types of films. So, since the image sensor of a digital camera acts as a film, users find nearly impossible to change this setup. However, you can ensure that the digital camera you are buying has the ideal camera exposure system, such as shutter speed, variable lens opening and supplementary flash to handle a wide range of shooting conditions. 

Other features: 

Consider buying a waterproof camera as it can withstand moistures. 

The camera you are buying should preferably have ISO support for crisper and cleaner images. 

Go for higher mega pixel resolution cameras, which will offer you greater cropping ability. The higher the mega pixel resolution, the more one can enlarge his photographs. But don`t get too fussy about mega pixel resolution as it is not everything in a digital camera. 

Look for pre-programmed scene modes in your camera which will take photos even in the tough and challenging lighting conditions. 

While buying, focus more on optical zoom of a digital camera and not so much on the digital zoom. Optical zoom makes use of lens to get closer shots and delivers better images.

Finally, you have to be careful of not being lured into buying a camera with a `package deal` offer. What costs cheaper could also be cheaper in quality too! Digital cameras have made it easy for those who want to capture special moments. Now with so many features and affordable prices, digital camera have really become a world wide consumer product. 

This article is under GNU FDL license and can be distributed without any previous authorization from the author. However the author's name and all the URLs (links) mentioned in the article and biography must be kept.


