Title: 
Digital Rights Management: Software Piracy Is Killing The Industry

Word Count:
799

Summary:
What would you say if you were told that you were losing thousands upon thousands of dollars on a piece of software that you have created and are trying to make a profit off of? Well, it is the truth. Software piracy is a problem that has brought the software industry to a near standstill, costing the industry billions of dollars each and every year in lost revenue, not to mention thousands upon thousands of software and IT jobs in the United States.

Something must be done...


Keywords:
piracy, software, secure, protect, refunds


Article Body:
What would you say if you were told that you were losing thousands upon thousands of dollars on a piece of software that you have created and are trying to make a profit off of? Well, it is the truth. Software piracy is a problem that has brought the software industry to a near standstill, costing the industry billions of dollars each and every year in lost revenue, not to mention thousands upon thousands of software and IT jobs in the United States.

Something must be done about the issue of software piracy but what? Copyright infringement is a faceless crime; the victim is often the hard working programmer but the assailant could be anybody; you could look them in the face and not know who they are. For this reason, it is important to protect your digital media as much as you possibly can because of all intellectual property is it at the most risk of infringement by others, and those who can take advantage of a weak security process or a hole in programming certainly will.

The world is full of those who want to profit from something that they had no part in. It has been going on since the beginning of time and the only difference now is that technology has allowed people to take advantage of the work of others like never before, as well as giving them an even more efficient means of distributing and even profiting from the work of others. It seems you don't have to have a software programming degree or experience to make money selling computer programs or similar digital media; all you have to do is be the proud owner of a CD or DVD burner and maybe even a few good hacking skills.

Good digital rights management techniques are necessary now more than ever before. Unfortunately it is another investment in its own but there are services out there that are making good digital rights management services more and more affordable, just to offset the enormous killing that software piracy is causing to the industry.

If you have created a software program, take the necessary steps to prevent it form being copied or utilized by others to make a profit. A computer program or video game, picture or e-book is just as important as a painting or novel and it is just as wrong to sell and distribute one as the other. Without having appropriate digital rights management procedures in place you are leaving yourself open to an unnamed amount of money in profits. Do the right thing and protect your digital property somehow or another.

Think of all of the digital media that flows through the internet, such as e-books, copyrighted images, articles, software, and other things. The internet is not as secure as it could and probably should be, and if you are one of those people who are using the computer and Internet to your advantage to gain a skill and gain something monetary from it, you are more at risk than ever before.

Just why is that, you ask? It is rather simple. As technology advances and gives you the tools and capabilities necessary to create innovative products it also gives other people out there license to take it and that can fast defeat the purpose of creating software to sell for profit in the first place.

If you were creating something for fair use and share with other people, digital rights management would not be important but in the case that you are creating something to make available to customers for a price, digital rights management is an important thing to take into consideration. For every person that takes your software or product and comes by it illegally or immorally, they are bound to share it with at least one person. That not only takes out of your pocket what you are due by their having possession of your product but it also doubles that due to their likelihood to share it with another person.

Luckily, there are services out there for people who do not have their own method of digital rights management in place. Service like Lock It Now! And Software Defender provides photographers, e-book creators and software entrepreneurs the opportunity to protect their product with an automated registration verification system, protecting you against repeat 'refunders' (those who order your product just to copy it and request a refund of their money, thereby having obtained your product for free).

Copyright infringement and software piracy are as real as any computer program, e-book or digital image out there so it is important to make sure that you take the necessary steps to protect your intellectual property from people who care not to pay for the things in life that they want.


