Title: 
Digital Camera Basic Information

Word Count:
604

Summary:
A digital camera is an electronic gadget that can capture photographs and then store them. Instead of employing photographic films like the traditional cameras or using magnetic tapes to record images in an analog format like in video cameras, a digital camera stores photographs in an electronic way in a digital format. Nowadays we also get modern and multifunctional compact digital cameras that can record and store sound and video apart from pictures.

Digital cameras have...


Keywords:
digital camera, photo, photographic camera


Article Body:
A digital camera is an electronic gadget that can capture photographs and then store them. Instead of employing photographic films like the traditional cameras or using magnetic tapes to record images in an analog format like in video cameras, a digital camera stores photographs in an electronic way in a digital format. Nowadays we also get modern and multifunctional compact digital cameras that can record and store sound and video apart from pictures.

Digital cameras have become a rage everywhere in the world. They are amongst the top items of must-have lists of every home. Not only much more technically advanced with better features than their older versions, digital cameras are also very handy and practical. They come in a wide range and variety to suit everyone`s tastes and budget.

Apart from having a better picture quality, the most obvious advantage of digital cameras over the conventional ones is that you can click and store as many pictures as you want without worrying about wasting the film roll. After you have transferred the pictures to your computer, you can easily keep those you want, discard others, print some and may even edit the not so flattering ones. This clearly gives you a lot of options and choices as you can change the background of photograph edit brightness and contrast and make other changes according to your whims.

Digital cameras can be of various types. The first in the category is the video camera which is mainly used to record moving images. Then you have digital still camera or live preview cameras. These cameras are usually of two types, compact and bridge. Compact digital camera has small zooms and is characterized by easy focusing and easy operation. They usually have a built in flash. Bridge digital cameras have super zoom lenses and are capable of taking good images.

Then we have digital single lens reflex cameras with a mirror and reflex system, digital rangefinders which is nothing but a camera that has a rangefinder and the professional modular digital camera system that is a very professional camera with different modular parts like grips, winders etc to suit different purposes. These types of cameras are usually used for commercial purposes in studios as they are quite big and bulky.

With a wide variety of digital cameras available in the market, it is obvious to get confused as to which will be the best-buy amongst them. However you need to understand that each camera has its unique function and specialty and you need to check out each one to determine your pick. As for example, if your purchased camera is going to be a gift then you need to know which type of digital camera will be suitable for the person. For instance, teens will obviously like cameras that are funky and cool, while mums will be delighted to get cameras that will allow easy image sharing for family pictures.

Before buying a digital camera it is important that you get your basic information right so that you can get the best deal. There are lots of factors that you need to consider like the resolution of the photograph and the size of camera. Another important consideration is the Digital Camera Storage or Memory Cards. Semi professional photographers would also like to consider having a decent Digital Camera Zoom.

Last but not the least, after you get your brand new digital camera then learn about the basics of its maintenance and operation. Get acquainted with its various features; learn how to share your images with friends and family and steps to take to troubleshoot your camera.


