Title: 
Digital Signage Solutions Help Improve Hotel Employee Productivity

Word Count:
406

Summary:
Hotels typically lag behind other industries in terms of technology spending. Capital investment is directed toward adding better amenities or renovating the property in efforts to remain competitive or drive occupancy and ADR. Tech spending is on the rise, however, and one emerging area is digital signage.

A digital signage network generally consists of large flat panel LCD or plasma displays that are driven by networked media players, which are customized, application-sp...


Keywords:
digital, hotel, signage, sign, network, electronic, reader, board, solution, system, lodging


Article Body:
Hotels typically lag behind other industries in terms of technology spending. Capital investment is directed toward adding better amenities or renovating the property in efforts to remain competitive or drive occupancy and ADR. Tech spending is on the rise, however, and one emerging area is digital signage.

A digital signage network generally consists of large flat panel LCD or plasma displays that are driven by networked media players, which are customized, application-specific pcs. They can be updated remotely over standard internet protocols and have robust scheduling software which allows hotels a unique new way of reaching out to their guests at the point of contact. The content they deliver is only limited to the creative ability of the designer. As a new communications medium, a digital signage network can be utilized to playback relevant information to the guests (weather, airline info, news, etc.), branding messages, promotional messages, or even third party advertising which can provide a new revenue source for the hotel.

Digital signage can also replace outdated electronic reader board systems and improve employee productivity. For many hotels, displaying the meeting schedule information can be quite a chore. Employees input the information in their sales and catering software and print out a copy every time it changes. After it is printed out, they distribute copies to display cases located throughout the property. In other cases, they may have to take the printed sheet over to another computer system and input the data again manually. The meetings or group schedule then gets distributed to outdated television displays and in-room systems.

While these methods may "work", they are outdated and inefficient. It is unnecessary for employees to waste their time inputting meeting information manually. A digital hotel signage solution can interface with the hotel's existing sales and event management programs, dynamically distributing the meeting schedules to flat panel monitors located throughout the hotel. Employees will no longer be required to spend time updating meeting schedules and they can focus their time and efforts on catering to their guests and groups.

Not only will the digital hotel signage network improve hotel employee productivity, but it will also have the capability of displaying attractive, compelling, and dynamic content. When groups enter the property and see digital signs that welcome them personally and include their logo, for example, they will feel at home. In addition, it will reinforce their decision to use that hotel as the host of their events.


