Title: 
Discount Inks For Your Printer

Word Count:
589

Summary:
Computer users were first treated to a taste of computer printer inks and ink cartridges way back in the early 80’s.  Computer printer inks were seen as a viable substitute for those unreliable and often noisy printers which used ribbons at that time.  Later on, new technologies that touted “drop-on-demand” ink cartridges were offered to the public, and this was soon extensively accepted, altogether becoming the most commonly-used technology for printer ink cartridges.
	
No...


Keywords:
discount ink cartridges, discount printer ink, discount printer ink cartridges, discount printer ink


Article Body:
Computer users were first treated to a taste of computer printer inks and ink cartridges way back in the early 80’s.  Computer printer inks were seen as a viable substitute for those unreliable and often noisy printers which used ribbons at that time.  Later on, new technologies that touted “drop-on-demand” ink cartridges were offered to the public, and this was soon extensively accepted, altogether becoming the most commonly-used technology for printer ink cartridges.
	
Nowadays, modern computer printers use separate ink cartridges for black and other color inks.  Specialized photo printers even use different ink cartridges for each color.  Different models and makes of inkjet printers use specific ink cartridges, most of which are widely available in computer supply shops, so users can quickly and effortlessly get replacements whenever they need it.  For instance, having a Canon inkjet printer will require you to find suitable replacement cartridges depending on which model you’re using.  

You can always have a choice of whether to get OEM cartridges, refilled ink cartridges, or maybe even just inexpensive printer inks and recycle the cartridges yourself.  These are cheap alternatives that are being used by cost-conscious users everywhere.  You can find a refill kit to refill your ink cartridges whenever you need to.  Several companies have already gotten into this business, getting used ink cartridges to refill and reseal so that they can function as good as new, original cartridges, but at a lesser price, of course.  

Actually, this is the main benefit of using recycled ink cartridges.  You can get the same quality and the same warranty like the original, but you won’t have to pay as much.  Another alternative for you would be to find a company, either in your local area or through the Internet, which specializes in discount ink and discount ink cartridges.  You can get really good deals from companies like these.

However, you should only buy discount inks and cartridges from reputable stores, whether from your local computer supply shop or on the World Wide Web.  This will guarantee that the ink cartridges you bought will have a normal-use lifespan, even if it’s recycled and inexpensive.  Established dealers can rely on their reputation for service and quality as an added warranty for their customers, so you can have more confidence in buying from them.  Lots of times, you can also avail of special offers from these stores, like free shipping or extra discounts.  Buying your supplies on the Internet is now easier than ever, and it’s the most convenient way to order anything you need or want.

There’s this common misconception that using recycled printer ink cartridges, cheap printer inks, or refill kits will void your computer printer’s warranty.  As a matter of fact, this is not true at all.  Using recycled printer ink cartridges or cheap ink will not affect your printer’s warranty in most cases.  This is another benefit to buying your recycled inks or discount inks from reputable stores, as you can be certain that the products you are buying can be used in your computer printer without damaging it in any way.

The most practical and cost-effective alternatives for computer printing today are discount inks, recycled ink cartridges, and refill kits.  Inkjet printers are proven to be viable and inexpensive business printing solutions.  And as long as there are inkjet printers being used in companies, offices, and even homes, inexpensive solutions like discount inks, recycled cartridges, and refill kits will be there to provide more cost-effective and practical solutions.


