Title: 
Dish Network's DVR

Word Count:
473

Summary:
With DVR technology from Dish Network, you have the ability to pause and rewind live television, fast forward through recorded commercials, and easily find and record television shows and movies.


Keywords:
dish network satellite dish hd hdtv dvr digital video recorder offer


Article Body:
Do you often worry about missing your favorite television program? Is it too inconvenient to program your VCR to record?  Where are your blank VHS tapes?  These problems can be avoided with the newest invention in recording, a DVR.  A DVR is the latest technology enabling you to record television shows for later viewing.  A Digital Video Recorder allows several more options than a VCR and many consumers have utilized a DVR to record their favorite shows. This technology allows you to have complete control over your television viewing experience. 

With DVR technology from Dish Network, you have the ability to pause and rewind live television, fast forward through recorded commercials, and easily find and record television shows and movies. Using your DVR, you can set it to record the entire season of your favorite show with just the click of a few buttons. With the push of a button, you can even pause a live television show for up to thirty minutes!  Never miss important moments in your tv shows again.

The amount of recording time available varies depending on the model you choose. Many offer at least 70 hours of recording time with some offering 200 hours or more. Some DVR receivers even allow you to record your favorite programming regardless of whether day or times of the broadcast change.  You don't even have to use tapes because your shows are recorded to an internal harddrive, like the one inside your computer.

The most recognizable name in DVRs is TiVo®. TiVo® works with cable, satellite or even antennae services. With TiVo®, there is a charge for the box, generally $200-$300 along with a monthly charge for the service. TiVo® offers many more features than other DVR systems including recording to DVD and online scheduling from the internet. With TiVo® service, you can quickly search for tv programs by actor, genre, or even keywords. With their newly introduced search features, you can record programs based on your favorite subjects. For example, if you search for “Hannah Montana,” every show featuring Hannah Montana in the description will be displayed and you can choose which ones to record days ahead of time. DIRECTV digital satellite service offers a DVR with TiVo® combined so you can take advantage of the benefits of both services. 

If you have satellite service through DISH Network the DVR is a must have to be sure you don’t miss any programming. Another great benefit of getting a DVR with your satellite tv package is that using the DVR through your satellite service provider will enable you to watch one program while recording up to two others.

With a DVR, you may never have to watch commercials again. It is time for you to be in control of the programming that comes into your home. With a Digital Video Recorder, you can.


