Title: 
Do You Need A Sturdy Tablet Pc?

Word Count:
387

Summary:
Tablet Pc's have been a hot item for a number of years now for people in all kinds of work, but if you are like me, you need a sturdy one.  

I am always on the go and I have found myself using my tablet pc in a number of unusual places.  I have had mine fall on the ground and even had coffee spilled on its base.  

One Tablet Pc that you may like is the Amrel Rocky Rugged Tablet PC which is very sturdy and certified for both military and industrial standards.  

It is ...


Keywords:
tablet pc, sturdy tablet pc


Article Body:
Tablet Pc's have been a hot item for a number of years now for people in all kinds of work, but if you are like me, you need a sturdy one.  

I am always on the go and I have found myself using my tablet pc in a number of unusual places.  I have had mine fall on the ground and even had coffee spilled on its base.  

One Tablet Pc that you may like is the Amrel Rocky Rugged Tablet PC which is very sturdy and certified for both military and industrial standards.  

It is designed and tested to be able to withstand dust, rain, vibrations and shock. The Amrel Rugged Tablet PC ways just over a pound so that it is very easy to handle on the go.  While this is a great sturdy and rugged tablet pc, it may be best suited to industrial and field service jobs.

Xplore's iX104 Rugged Tablet PC is another extremely rugged and sturdy tablet.  It is designed to be reliable for operation and durability in harsh environments like the Amrel model.  

These are some powerful machines featuring Ultra Low Voltage Intel Pentium III and have up to 48 MB of video memory.

If you are looking for a sturdy Tablet PC that may be more appropriate for business then industrial use, you will like the Tosheba Portege R400.  

This model is lightweight, sturdy and has a sleek design.  Some of it's features include Window's Vista's Active Windows Notification, Toshiba's organic light emitting diode and it lacks the typical protruding hinge on the spine and it has a lid with no latch.  

The R400 has some great connectivity features.  After enabling it with any Bluetooth phone, the R400 will create a secure connection with any secure phone automatically.  

If you don't want to use the Bluetooth, you can use Wi-Fi 902. 11a/b/g and a 10/100/1000 Ethernet port for local networks.  There really is only one main draw back to the R400 and that is the price of $3750.

One thing that is for sure is that there are many different makes and models of Tablet PC's.  There seems to be a model that fits perfectly with what ever job you may have.  

Prices and models do vary and it is advised to seek reviews before purchasing a Tablet PC for yourself.


