Title: 
Don’t Cry Wolf If You Don’t Have Home CCTV Or Digital Surveillance

Word Count:
598

Summary:
Remember the boy who cried wolf? He laughed so hard when people came rushing to help him because it was all a joke. But when the big bad wolf came, nobody believed him. Don’t let this happen to you. If you don’t have any electronic surveillance, don’t cry wolf!

Visual surveillance takes over homes

More homes are getting equipped with the latest surveillance technology, but closed circuit television or CCTV is still around. These security devices are meant to deter thiev...


Keywords:
CCTV


Article Body:
Remember the boy who cried wolf? He laughed so hard when people came rushing to help him because it was all a joke. But when the big bad wolf came, nobody believed him. Don’t let this happen to you. If you don’t have any electronic surveillance, don’t cry wolf!

Visual surveillance takes over homes

More homes are getting equipped with the latest surveillance technology, but closed circuit television or CCTV is still around. These security devices are meant to deter thieves from breaking into houses because people inside their homes are immediately alerted to suspicious movements within the premises of the property.

The CCTV home surveillance systems are installed to monitor children and nannies, pets, erring partners, etc. These has also proved valuable in protecting the family from unwanted and potentially dangerous strangers knocking at their doors or lurking in the shadows.

Precautions to take if you don’t have these gadgets

If you don’t own a home CCTV surveillance system, you can still secure your family’s safety by following some anti-thief-intruder measures.

Keep all ladders, building supplies, tools, and garbage cans away from windows and other entry points of the house. Better lock these away from sight.

Plant thorny shrubs and cacti around your house and if there are trees in your front and backyard, have overhanging branches removed because intruders can climb up to get into the nearest window. Always trim tree branches and bushes.

Forget placing the extra key under the doormat. Thieves have already known about this favorite hiding place. Find another place for it, or better yet, leave the key with your neighbor.

Install lights on all entry points and keep them on at night. You don’t want to bump into a burglar, do you? An iron fence around your house is also better than wooden ones.

Never put your name on your mailbox. Determined burglars can call up directory assistance and get your number. They’ll ring your number and know if you’re home or not.

The garage should be lighted from within the house, and the garage door should have a heavy lock. Always keep your car alarm on even if you have locked up your car in the garage.

Don’t fall into the trap of using dog notices or neighborhood watch decals or fake CCTV cameras unless you can substantiate this with the real thing. Remember if you are smart, thieves are cunning, so don’t be complacent. Sometimes the unexpected happens when you least expect it.

Your doors should be hardy and installed with heavy-duty bolts. Use long screws so these can’t be jerked open. Of course, always close the doors. If you want a bit of sunshine, then install a storm door with a durable lock.

Many houses are burglarized by robbers who gained entry through the basement windows. These wise guys remove AC units to get into the house. If you have glass windows, shatter-proof them with window film. Better yet, have these replaced and all broken locks fixed for your peace of mind.

If you go on a trip, suspend newspaper delivery, and ask your neighbor to take charge of your packages and mail. Install light sensors and leave your curtains the way it was. It would also discourage thieves if your neighbor parks his car in your driveway everyday while you’re away.

Until you have a CCTV surveillance system, you have to be doubly vigilant in your safety measures against thieves and other dangers that may befall your home and family, but never cry wolf.


