Title: 
Dump Your Desktop And Get One Of These

Word Count:
424

Summary:
The HP Pavilion dv9000t laptop has arrived and it comes packing plenty of punch. With the latest Intel Core 2 Duo processor, dual 100GB hard drives, 17 inch glossy display, and to top it all off, a HD-DVD drive that plays the latest high definition movies, though not at the highest resolutions.

This 7.8-pound HP notebook not only has power, but it looks good as well. With a shiny black finish on the outside and silver on the inside, this system can handle just about anythi...


Keywords:



Article Body:
The HP Pavilion dv9000t laptop has arrived and it comes packing plenty of punch. With the latest Intel Core 2 Duo processor, dual 100GB hard drives, 17 inch glossy display, and to top it all off, a HD-DVD drive that plays the latest high definition movies, though not at the highest resolutions.

This 7.8-pound HP notebook not only has power, but it looks good as well. With a shiny black finish on the outside and silver on the inside, this system can handle just about anything from multitasking office work to music, photos and playing DVDs. The 2.16GHz Intel Core 2 Duo T7200 processor, has no problem doing all of the above simultaneously, without any glitches to audio or video.

Navigating around the dv9000t is very easy. The large touch pad makes for easy scrolling, and the scroll bar makes scanning large documents a breeze. The QuickPlay multimedia buttons activate the DVD player and multimedia features, as well as starting or stopping movies or music.

Sound from the Altec Lansing speakers was very clear coming through, but cranking the volume right up made the sound a bit fuzzy, with the best option being to stick around the midrange for the best sound.

This HP computer comes with a 1.3-megapixel webcam that delivered good quality pictures, but had some trouble with videoconferencing and live video coming through a bit blurry.

The dv9000t has a 2.16-GHz Intel Core 2 Duo processor that delivers good performance without being stunning. Combined with a Nvidia GeForce Go 7600 graphics card with 256MB of video memory, this system is a very solid performer.

Battery life was pretty good at 2 hours and 40 minutes with the Wi-Fi on. The wireless networking performed strongly with 13.4 Mbps at 15 feet, and 11.5 Mbps at 50 feet. There are also plenty of ports to this system, with four USB ports, FireWire, VGA, S-Video out, two headphone ports and a mic port.

There is a nice amount of software that comes with this system, including Corel Paint Shop Pro X, HP’s QuickPlay Direct 2.1, Photosmart Premier 6.0, Intuit Quicken New User Edition 2006, Microsoft Office Trial 2003, Money 2006 and Muvee autoProducer DVD edition with Burning 5. There is also a trial version of Norton Internet Security 2006. There is the standard one year warranty with this machine, and one year of 24/7 toll free tech support, as well as email assistance and real time chat online.

Overall, this system is a good desktop replacement with HD-DVD. Along with the built in webcam, the QuickPlay functions and affordable price, the HP Pavilion 9000t will not let you down.


