Title: 
DVD Decrypter Software - Ethical Or Industry Breaker?

Word Count:
864

Summary:
As every day goes by, the security and creation processes make it increasingly complex to successfully duplicate and replicate popular media like Dvd movies and music Cd's. This is to protect industry, and stop the illegal production and distribution of these products, and urgent issue that is costing the entertainment industry millions of dollars each year. Unfortunately, these security advances also affect people using Dvd decrypter software for legitimate uses, such as cre...


Keywords:
dvd decrypter, dvd decrypt, dvd copying, dvd shrink, dvd burning, dvd decryptor, copy dvds, decrypt


Article Body:
As every day goes by, the security and creation processes make it increasingly complex to successfully duplicate and replicate popular media like Dvd movies and music Cd's. This is to protect industry, and stop the illegal production and distribution of these products, and urgent issue that is costing the entertainment industry millions of dollars each year. Unfortunately, these security advances also affect people using Dvd decrypter software for legitimate uses, such as creating movie backups or archives. Dvd decrypter software takes the complex job of copying and reproducing audio/video files, and turns it into a simple, two step process for the home user.

Dvd decryption is believed to have been established in early 2002, when the formula was discovered for deciphering Dvd security codes, analyzing the contents of a disc, and simply copying them onto another blank disc. Since that first discovery, Dvd decrypter software has been developed and is nowadays, commonly found on most home computers. All decryption process requires is for you to insert the disc you wish to copy, and it does the rest for you. It now begins to work through the security features of the original disc, decrypting them, and eventually copying the original video files.

Dvd decrypter software has been developed to be one of the most user-friend software applications that the everyday user will ever use. Depending on the programmer, you will have the option to customize the process, select your own settings, or to simply use a 'decrypter wizard,' that will automate the entire process, based on the most popular user options.

The user screen basically contains two screens, one displaying data related to the original disc, and the other screen displaying information about the disc being created, duplication speed and more.

Another thing to look for in your DVD decrypter is events-log, for you to reference the applications your software has performed, errors and different reasons for them. The logs can be useful as a quick reference tool, and if you ever need to ask for support. For the more technology savvy user, you can adjust the data that's being decrypted, in order to increase the audio-visual quality of the duplicated media.

One of the most popular uses for the Dvd decrypter, is simply creating backups or copies of favorite television shows or movies, allowing you to watch them anytime in the future, on your home Dvd player or laptop. The only issue with this basic use is that you need to be careful of the Dvd decrypter you use. Some descriptors may damage the data during the copying process, or produce a duplicate with poor audio or video quality. To avoid this, simply research and choose a reputable Dvd decrypter software (full reviews at http://dvdshrinkandcopy.com), and if possible, find software that comes offers high compression rates.

Stand-alone Dvd decrypter software requires another program to complete the duplication process. This is to first copy the Dvd onto your computer or temporary folder, then to actually decrypt and burn onto the new disc. Before you start copying Dvd's, have a quick check over your computer that everything is running smoothly, that there is enough free space to copy the contents of the original Dvd. You may need to delete some old, un-used data. It is also recommended that you have recently conducted separate adware and anti-virus checks to ensure nothing goes wrong with your computer, adversely affecting the Dvd decryption process.

As mentioned above, if you are using a stand-alone Dvd decrypter, you will need to run a separate burning program. However, with recent software developments, there is a large range of software titles that will complete the decrypter and burner process for you, leaving no room for error, offering highest quality results every time.

Decrypter software works on both sides of the ethical spectrum. On the one hand, Dvd decrypter offers a great service to legitimate users, allowing them to create equal quality backups of their music and movie collection, eliminating the risk and expense of damaged or stolen discs. On the other hand, this software gives the black-market movie industry a huge opportunity at the expense of the entertainment industry and production companies. Last year, major companies distributing the DVD decrypter software removed online access to download files, claiming the sudden move was in response to legal action. The court issued the order saying that DVD decrypter flouted copying laws of the UK and hence is illegal software. The original website of the DVD decrypter has closed, but many clones appeared claiming to be the original authors of DVD decrypter. These sites too have now been closedown.

However, it is legal in the US to make copies of digital media for personal use. This was a gray area since in someway it was in conflict with the laws to prevent unauthorized copying. A court order in this case ruled that the DVD decrypt software was lawful but the company could not distribute this software freely, since the intention was to cause a loss to a huge section of the entertainment industry. However, neither the Supreme Court nor the highest executive body, the Congress has given any comment or ruling on the matter.


