Title: 
Easy Connections Put Satellite TV On Your PC

Word Count:
418

Summary:
For those who would like a second television in their home, but are reluctant to spend the money, you can consider watching satellite TV on your PC. While it does not take a vast knowledge of computers and satellites, it does take a couple more pieces of hardware.

While some companies are advertising that with a computer and an internet connection, along with their software available for a one-time fee, a person can begin receiving television shows on their computer once t...


Keywords:



Article Body:
For those who would like a second television in their home, but are reluctant to spend the money, you can consider watching satellite TV on your PC. While it does not take a vast knowledge of computers and satellites, it does take a couple more pieces of hardware.

While some companies are advertising that with a computer and an internet connection, along with their software available for a one-time fee, a person can begin receiving television shows on their computer once the software is installed. There are also many free to air programs available as satellite TV on your PC, however programming may be limited and for some of the programs you may still have to pay a licensing fee.

In order to watch satellite TV on your PC or listen to the radio, all you need as a PCTV card. One kind is installed in the PC while the other is used as an external device and plugs in to a USB port. Using the computer’s built-in circuitry, these cards can decode the satellite signals, enabling users to watch the free-to-air programming. Either type of card can be used to watch a broadband signal, and while some programs may be available by way of a phone line connection, DSL, satellite signals are typically received at 40 megabyte per second.

Using PC Like A Digital Recorder

Your computer will need to have a minimum of a Pentium II, at 333 MHz processor and Windows 98 or higher operating system. You will also need the PCTV card and an open slot in which it is installed or an open USB port to connect the external device for satellite TV on your PC and a CD Rom drive. If your computer has the Windows media player, real player or quick time, your television viewing will be more even and less jumpy.

In order to receive satellite TV on your PC you can run a cable from your satellite dish directly to the computer’s PCTV card or an available satellite box. You can also connect your PC by running a cable from your satellite system receiver’s RF output to the computer. Direct TV and Dish Network both recommend this method for better picture quality.

Many free broadcasts you can receive as satellite TV on your PC are from all over the world and many will be in languages other than English. However, by watching satellite TV on your PC you can save the programs to your hard drive for later viewing.


