Title: 
Educating Through Video

Word Count:
597

Summary:
Video streaming technology by websites has ballooned significantly. Websites designed by amateurs and those people who have their own blog sites are starting to use videos. Video streaming is starting to grow. You might want to grow with it.

Many people from developing countries and the third-world who want to get updated or advanced education from industrialized nations are having a hard time, because of immigration or visa requirements. This much is true in countries lik...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Video streaming technology by websites has ballooned significantly. Websites designed by amateurs and those people who have their own blog sites are starting to use videos. Video streaming is starting to grow. You might want to grow with it.

Many people from developing countries and the third-world who want to get updated or advanced education from industrialized nations are having a hard time, because of immigration or visa requirements. This much is true in countries like Japan, the United States and the United Kingdom, whose immigration qualifications are very stringent. And some countries, like the United States requires that an amount of money be placed in trust as a bond to ensure that visitors do return to their countries of origin.

To avail themselves of superior standards in education educators in these developed countries recognize the desire of foreign students. This is where the internet becomes a central tool in global, quality education.

Today, you will find plenty of colleges, universities and even Ivy League institutions offering online education ranging from certification, degree, post graduate and doctorate level courses. These online schools and universities are certainly convenient for those who cannot enter developed countries due to lack of qualifications for visa approval requirements.

Often these online schools also become an alternative to the mentally ill or physically handicapped. For people with motor dysfunctions such as Parkinson’s disease, online education becomes a saving grace in their lives. Not only is it convenient, but it also provides these people with a connection to the world right in their own homes. Having the problems of education addressed by the internet is a convenience for the operators of care facilities too as they can exclusively use these online schools for the education of their patients or as extra sources and materials used in their curriculum.

With all of this in mind, new materials and tools for online instruction need to be developed. Among these necessary tools foremost is audio and video streaming through the internet. Audio-video streaming allows for two people to instantly communicate from distinctly separate locations. An instructor can use the internet to talk to his or her student face to face, so to speak.

There is no better teacher than experience that is one thing our educators agree upon. In recent years, companies have started manufacturing educational videos for use by infants. By using these video, infants are projected to start learning at an earlier age than before. Because of the audio-video experience, the attention given to these videos by an infant is considerably more than they would give to a children’s book., the video succeeds in educating the mind of the child. by being able to grab their attention and interest By the same manner, the use of audio and video in educating older children, juveniles and adults is a more entertaining and interesting experience than a plain chemistry book. With a person actually able to see the animated structure of an atom for instance, the curiosity of that individual is stimulated. When people become curious, their imagination becomes active and they strive to gather more information about the subject.

The content (assuming that it is interesting) grabs the viewers’ attention and stirs their curiosity, thereby stimulating a thirst for knowledge. This is where the importance of education through video lies.

People who have knowledge of how to install and use these utilities are quickly becoming assets to many entrepreneurs, especially those businesses that are situated in the internet. As internet audio-video streaming technology improves, the more use they will become to online educational institutions.


