Title: 
Everything You Need To Know About Polaroid Digital Photo Frame

Word Count:
406

Summary:
Polaroid as you probably are aware is not a stranger the photo industry and with the popularization of digital photo frame it was normal for them to enter the market.
The frame costs about $250 but it’s not a fixed value depending on the near Christmas offer or some other promotion. The Polaroid digital photo frame is internet-connected. It may look like a normal camera, but it isn’t. 

What can a Polaroid digital photo frame offer to you? You may store up to ten digital p...


Keywords:
Polaroid Digital Photo Frame,digital photos


Article Body:
Polaroid as you probably are aware is not a stranger the photo industry and with the popularization of digital photo frame it was normal for them to enter the market.
The frame costs about $250 but it’s not a fixed value depending on the near Christmas offer or some other promotion. The Polaroid digital photo frame is internet-connected. It may look like a normal camera, but it isn’t. 

What can a Polaroid digital photo frame offer to you? You may store up to ten digital photos that you may alternate. You may take your personal photos into special cards with individual message and you may even run small slideshows with your favorite digital photos display.

The Polaroid digital photo frame may be automatically set to turn on and off, and you may connect to Internet channels via Cevia Network. Free membership account with http://www.PolaroidDigital.com enables you to access your Polaroid digital photo frame remotely from any browser.
 
Every night your Polaroid digital photo frame connects via phone line to your album account at http://PolaroidDigital.com and downloads other ten photos to your Polaroid digital photo frame. The next morning a new slideshow is on.

So far so good, but Polaroid digital photo frame doesn’t have a direct possible connection to a PC for downloading pictures. Apparently, there would be a solution for this inconvenient, you could upload the pictures to Cevia web site and from there to your Polaroid digital frame photo, and I don’t say this is ok but it’s a solution.

Cevia offers you free access for about 3 months. After this little period you are supposed to pay if you want to continue using your Polaroid digital frame photo as before. So, after you $250 on your beautiful Polaroid digital photo frame you need to pay another $8 a month.

The problem is that according to the Cevia web site agreement contract you find out that all your Polaroid digital photos in the frame will be available for them to do whatever they want with them. If they want to put your picture on a stupid advertise you can’t do anything about it.

So, after that experience for some people Polaroid digital photo frame was a big disillusion. If you’re not comfortable with Cevia policy of accessing your pictures, than you should look for another way of connecting your Polaroid digital photos frame to your computer.


