Title: 
Everything You Need To Know About A Computer Virus

Word Count:
451

Summary:
A computer virus is something that can literally cripple your computer, depending on the severity. They come in different levels of severity from mild to dangerous and everywhere in between.
What is a computer virus?

So, what is a computer virus, not only is it something that can damage the performance and life of your computer, but your mental well being as well. Combating a virus, without the help of anti-virus software such as AVG internet security, can be extremely ne...


Keywords:
what is a computer virus, how are computer viruses distributed


Article Body:
A computer virus is something that can literally cripple your computer, depending on the severity. They come in different levels of severity from mild to dangerous and everywhere in between.
What is a computer virus?

So, what is a computer virus, not only is it something that can damage the performance and life of your computer, but your mental well being as well. Combating a virus, without the help of anti-virus software such as AVG internet security, can be extremely nerve wracking and depressing because it can literally affect various parts of your computer.

How are computer viruses distributed?

Computer viruses are distributed in many different ways. One of the most common methods of distribution is via email. Some of the most widespread and destructive viruses are distributed via email. Typically, they come in an email that looks completely legitimate and they can even come disguised with an email you might be familiar with. Some viruses are simply spread by opening the email or by downloading an attachment. Many free emails such as Yahoo come with email virus scanners installed, which will not allow you to download the attachment if it detects a virus. 

Another method of virus distribution is via internet downloads. These viruses are bundled in a download and typically come from websites with hacks or peer to peer programs. 

When asking the question, what is a computer virus, you should also ask how you can combat or prevent the viruses from affecting your computer. There are many programs available to help you detect, remove, and prevent viruses. One of the most popular and best programs to date is AVG Internet Security, or any of the AVG products. 

AVG, a product created by Grisoft, is an excellent software program that is perfect for detecting and removing computer viruses. Their internet security program not only provides anti-virus protection for your computer from Trojans, worms and viruses, but it also includes anti-spyware and anti-spam protection against phishing, spam, malware, adware and spyware. Additionally, AVG internet security provides protection with a firewall, preventing hackers from accessing your computer.

AVG is the best and easiest to use all in one program available for computer protection. You are constantly made aware of instant definition updates and program versions, as well as twenty-four hour a day technical support. 

So if you want to find out just what is a computer virus and how computer viruses are distributed, AVG is a great place to start. Not only can you get the best protection, but a number of resources are available to you as well. This enables you to learn about the latest virus threats and how you can eliminate the possibility of infection on your computer.


