Title: 
Exploring The Apple Ipod

Word Count:
442

Summary:
In a generation that has no recollection of 8-track cassettes, music has always been a convenience able to be carried around in your pocket. But for those of us who still covet our vinyl record albums, the advent of the Apple iPod is revolutionary; who would have ever imagined that we could store thousands of songs on one portable piece of equipment no bigger than a pack of gum? But iPods have quickly become a staple in today’s society; just as lightweight and necessary as a ...


Keywords:
Apple iPod


Article Body:
In a generation that has no recollection of 8-track cassettes, music has always been a convenience able to be carried around in your pocket. But for those of us who still covet our vinyl record albums, the advent of the Apple iPod is revolutionary; who would have ever imagined that we could store thousands of songs on one portable piece of equipment no bigger than a pack of gum? But iPods have quickly become a staple in today’s society; just as lightweight and necessary as a cell phone.

The Apple iPod, a digital music player, launched in 2001 and quickly found its place among a society on the go. Different series of the model allowed for the capability of holding a set number of songs. But what was originally just a music player has now morphed into a comprehensive piece of equipment, capable of holding music, video, games, and calendars.

Today’s Apple iPod comes in a variety of styles and with just as many capabilities. The iPod Nano offers a lightweight, sleek design that’s extremely portable and easy to use; the iPod Shuffle is a slighty more basic style than its more comprehensive cousins and holds less songs but its affordable price makes it great choice for teenagers; today’s fifth generation Apple iPod offers video capability. But what makes the Apple iPod so remarkable is its ability to interface with all Apple products.  Users can plug in and download songs from Apple iTunes directly onto their iPod; and the newer models allow for information to be transferred from the computer into the iPod and vice versa. As technology continues to advance, the Apple iPod will surely continue to evolve as an essential sidekick.

The best part for consumers is the fact that as the Apple iPod continues to make changes to its original design, its prices continue to fall. Those interested in purchasing an iPod can often do so at a deep discount when a newer model has been launched. But don’t forget the accessories when it comes to the Apple iPod; the convenience of using this amazing piece of equipment lies in the supplemental equipment that makes it so portable. In addition to headphones, iPods have docks that allow it to play through your computer, in your car, and through special speakers anywhere you choose.

User friendly, convenient, and cutting-edge, the Apple iPod has brought music into our lives in a way that nothing else has been able to do; and there’s no going back. Now that such technological advancement is right at our fingertips we will continue to look for ways to utilize its power.


