Title: 
Features Of Iphone Bluetooth Headset

Word Count:
392

Summary:
The recently release Apple iPhone has quickly become one of the most desired cellular phones on the market today. With its upgraded technology, the Apple iPhone requires upgraded accessories as well. One of the most popular accessories for the phone is the iPhone Bluetooth headset which allows users to make and receive calls on their iPhone hands-free without any wires to get in the way. This makes the iPhone Bluetooth headset very desirable to many individuals that have purc...


Keywords:
apple, iphone, accessories,books,apparel,buy,on sale,cheap


Article Body:
The recently release Apple iPhone has quickly become one of the most desired cellular phones on the market today. With its upgraded technology, the Apple iPhone requires upgraded accessories as well. One of the most popular accessories for the phone is the iPhone Bluetooth headset which allows users to make and receive calls on their iPhone hands-free without any wires to get in the way. This makes the iPhone Bluetooth headset very desirable to many individuals that have purchased the iPhone.

The design of the iPhone Bluetooth headset is simple and compact, adding to its appeal for the general public. The design is simply a black bar that is about 2 inches long with an earpiece in one end and a microphone in the other end close to the mouth. It features a lightweight earpiece that can easily fit in either the left or right ear and stay securely for extended periods of time. It is operated by a single button that allows users to quickly and simply make and receive calls without fumbling with the phone or finding the numbers to dial. The simplicity of the iPhone Bluetooth headset is what makes many individuals eager to purchase it.

The iPhone Bluetooth headset can allow up to 5 hours of talk time before needed to be recharged and can typically recharge to full power within 1 ½ hours. The iPhone Bluetooth headset comes bundled with a docking station that is used to recharge the headset when needed. The docking station is a dual one that can accompany both the iPhone and the iPhone Bluetooth headset that allows both items to fully charge at the same time. This feature is a lifesaver for individuals that travel, as there is only one item to remember to bring to charge the phone and headset, instead of multiple wires and docking stations.

The iPhone Bluetooth headset has a range of 33 feet, allowing the iPhone to be placed on a desk or central location in the home while freeing the user to move around without having the phone on their person. The call clarity of the headset is crystal clear and many individuals cannot tell whether the individual that they have called are using the headset or the phone to speak to them. Having an iPhone Bluetooth headset makes the experience of having an iPhone even better and easier to use.


