Title: 
Features Of Computer RPG's

Word Count:
427

Summary:
Computer role playing known as Role playing game or (RPG), has become one of the most popular forms of computer games on the market today. RPGs not only use point and click methods, but include traits such as character selection, multi-players, first or third person shooters and strategy. This means that the player gets emotionally and physically involved in the game.

The characters range from regular human beings to mythical creatures such as monsters. Each character has ...


Keywords:
computer games,  computer role playing, computer


Article Body:
Computer role playing known as Role playing game or (RPG), has become one of the most popular forms of computer games on the market today. RPGs not only use point and click methods, but include traits such as character selection, multi-players, first or third person shooters and strategy. This means that the player gets emotionally and physically involved in the game.

The characters range from regular human beings to mythical creatures such as monsters. Each character has different traits and levels of skill, for example they could be archers with their tools or magicians with their potions or even something as simple as a human being and his fists. These characters are on a quest. On that quest, they will face a lot of strange creatures such as berserk monsters or sinister enemies that could be in a horror movie. As you become successful in completing a level, the difficulties increase. All the traits you possess as the character must be monitored to see if you have the ability to protect your self and fight off your enemies.

To keep track of the area, there is a map always present. It is laid out on a rectangular grid and north is facing the top of your screen. This sometimes confuses people, so there is a more detailed map that pops up if you click automap. It breaks down the large map into a smaller section and tells you exactly where you are.

The character roams the map fighting off creatures or getting through other situations depending on the settings which could vary from fantasy or futuristic to wasteland or medieval. The tools you have may be added to along the way. You could get something that would heal wounds or strengthen the character (called manna) or you could upgrade the weaponry you possess so that instead having to hit your enemy with three blows you can cut them down with one. It is better to save these bonuses for fighting a group of creatures or the final challenge of that particular level.

Because RPG’s have been developed from the beginning in two different geographical locations, two distinct branches have evolved over time. There are the Asian RPGs, which tend to have creatures resembling Japanese anime characters set in a futuristic or fantasy world and represented with colorful bright visuals. And then there is the Western RPGs which tend to take a more realistic approach. The settings are usually based medieval periods or other historical and mythical times and the storylines are dark and build up slower.


