Title: 
Features Of Your MP4 Player

Word Count:
613

Summary:
When MP3s came into the market, they were a huge hit. They were small and portable, and owners could listen to all their favorite music while on the move. Now you have the MP4 player, such as iPod, with even more advanced, attractive features!

With the MP4 player (iPod), you can not only listen to your favorite songs, you can also watch your favorite movies, music videos, and TV shows, along with all your MP3 songs. It can do other things as well - you can listen to FM rad...


Keywords:
ipod, mp3 player, mp4 player, podcast, podcasting


Article Body:
When MP3s came into the market, they were a huge hit. They were small and portable, and owners could listen to all their favorite music while on the move. Now you have the MP4 player, such as iPod, with even more advanced, attractive features!

With the MP4 player (iPod), you can not only listen to your favorite songs, you can also watch your favorite movies, music videos, and TV shows, along with all your MP3 songs. It can do other things as well - you can listen to FM radio stations, you can record voice notes, and on some devices, you can even read your favorite ebooks.

Since 1993, when the MP3 technology was first introduced in to the market, it had been the most important music format. The recent introduction of the MP4 with its more compressed audio format has again changed the way digital sound is perceived. Most people might not be aware of how the MP4 differs from the MP3 and think that MP4s are more compressed and hence smaller than the audio files in the MP3 format; others assume that these two represent different technologies.

There are both common features as well as distinctions between MP3 and MP4 players. The most important point that comes to the mind when you compare the two, is that the MP4 format has properties that make up for all the shortfalls of the MP3, and the quality of perception of the files in the MP4 format is much better when compared to the MP3.

Basically, MP4 is a container. So it has the capability to carry video as well as audio files. So the basic difference is that the MP4 contains the audio and video at the same time while the MP3 format can support only the audio files. The MP4 player (iPod) allows you to realize something bigger and better than anything you can imagine. It is a new concept known as Structured Audio, and it is a mode of describing sound in the most ultra-modern way.

The MP4 technology supports a quality of sound that represents the future standard for a variety of multimedia applications, including computer music and gaming audio; hence one can think of the MP4 as the next step in the evolution of the file format that started with the MP3.

There are many types of MP4 players in the market. They are very light and have small screens of 1.2 inch, however some of them may have screens of up to 2 inches. The speakers are built inside the players and there are earphone sockets as well. It is not unusual to find OLED display characteristics. OLED produces brighter and sharper images as compared to LCD images.

A great characteristic of MP4 players (iPod) is that there are not innumerable buttons for the various commands. Only a few buttons are sufficient for the purpose. The memory is quite large at 8 GB for flash based and 100 GB in case of micro based hard drive.

The latest MP4 players (iPod) even support third party, flash memory cards, which are external... they even have USB support. Earphones and other accessories are also available with the MP4, but at times the quality may not be up to the mark.

Because of it capability of delivering both video and audio at the same time, MP4 devices (iPod) can offer an even greater range of features such as email, web browsing, instant messaging, music and video download, digital camera, bluetooth wireless technology and many more. Multiple language options and gaming capability add to its versatility. Features such as voice recording enable MP4 devices to be used not only for entertainment but also for professional purposes.


