Title: 
Fiber Optic Pool Lights – No Heat And Less Trouble

Word Count:
605

Summary:
When the concept of a “pool” was invented the inventors and the users of the pool quickly saw that if would be much more pleasant and look better if the water in the pool was lit up.
Now this was a challenging task because, as we all know, electricity and water is a bad combination and so it fire and water also for that instance.

To start with the usage of fire was out of the questions and as the fiber optic pool lighting wasn’t thought of yet, the solution would have to ...


Keywords:
home,fiber,optics,technology,pool,spa,lighting


Article Body:
When the concept of a “pool” was invented the inventors and the users of the pool quickly saw that if would be much more pleasant and look better if the water in the pool was lit up.
Now this was a challenging task because, as we all know, electricity and water is a bad combination and so it fire and water also for that instance.

To start with the usage of fire was out of the questions and as the fiber optic pool lighting wasn’t thought of yet, the solution would have to be made up of normal light bulbs. To avoid having the pool users grilled due to the mix of electricity and water the watertight lights were invented. Not only were the bulky in size but they were also difficult to replace when a bulb had burned out. That is why you might still see pools with defect light bulbs.

On the other hand fiber optics made it possible to change the bulb in an easier way because the source of the light was now removed from the water and that also removed the dangerous part of having the electricity near the water.

Future Pools Have Fiber Optic Pool Lights
The owner of the pool or the spa was not the only one having difficulties before the fiber optic pool lights. The spa and pool designers also had their share because normal light bulb light produces a lot of heat and the brighter the bulb the greater the heat.

Because of electricity every bulky bulb would have to be fixed to its own separate light source and sealed tightly so that there could never be made any contact between electricity and the water. This was normally done by a major glass lens (smaller for spas) that was held on to the pool by a metal frame. To have the light shine through the water the designer had to high wattage bulbs which in returned produced more heat.

So with bright high wattage bulbs sealed behind a glass lens and a metal frame the cocktail for possible human burn accidents were there. Many people did experience to touch the glass or feel the unpleasant feeling of a very high lamp. This is not something that is recommended to others.

Because the frames had to seal the lens and the bulb from the water the designers had their amount of difficulties. When it came to easily change the light bulbs as they burned out or in that case that you wanted to change the color of the lighting, the designers did very little progress in providing efficient systems. 

The fiber optic pool lights solved all of these problems efficiently and easily. Because fiber optic cables are only transmitting the light, the source of the light can be kept far away from the water and the pool. Fiber optic pool lights can operate by using just one light and besides keeping electricity at a respectable distance the usage of electricity is also greatly reduced. Keeping the actual source of the light far away from the pool the problem of the heat developed was gone and you could now touch the light without being burned (not the source but the once in the pool).

Finally the designers could now, with the use of filters in different colors, easily change the color of the light and even make it rotate to show all the colors of the rainbow. By integrating fiber optic pool lights the ease for designers are apparent and the user experience has been greatly increased and that is due to the fiber optic technology.


