Title: 
File Folder Compare

Word Count:
538

Summary:
Introduction to File Folder Compare Utility. File folder compare is the utility offering a complete and wholesome solution for total comparison and synchronization of files and folders. This utility can evaluate and co-ordinate two folders, drives or computers very fast in an easy and reliable manner. It offers a safe backup for emails, photos, documents and contacts. The file folder compare utility allows for viewing of actual differences between text files, spreadsheets, MS...


Keywords:
file folder compare,document compare,compare programs


Article Body:
Introduction to File Folder Compare Utility. File folder compare is the utility offering a complete and wholesome solution for total comparison and synchronization of files and folders. This utility can evaluate and co-ordinate two folders, drives or computers very fast in an easy and reliable manner. It offers a safe backup for emails, photos, documents and contacts. The file folder compare utility allows for viewing of actual differences between text files, spreadsheets, MS Word, Adobe PDF and Rich text documents. It also helps in removal of duplicate files on the machine, even if they are differently named. This services enables saving of time along with saving of critical information and valuable data on a permanent basis. It ensures that all files are retained in their appropriate versions. The utility is very simple to use with a user friendly interface. This utility is a power house of features, despite the simple usage. File folder compare utility helps in merging source code changes.

Benefits of the File Folder Compare Utility. The file folder compare utility provides the tool for coordinating the work on various PCs, ensuring that all systems have the recent and current updated versions of all files. Many people are working at different places at the same or different times and the various databases, documents, sales, contact information, spreadsheets, sales etc. get changed many times in a single day. It is necessary that all information is updated on regular basis.

Any computer professional who is a trainer, programmer, tester, support technician or network administrator must use this utility, so that the duplicate copies of files as well as folders are maintained in sync. The human error is greatly reduced. The processes of creation, comparison and application of files, folders and updates are controlled and handled in a more careful fashion. The utility has a network friendly synchronizer which replaces the non matching files, thereby reducing the network load.

The file folder compare utility has the benefit of comparing files right up to the byte level. It also helps greatly in management of all backups. The utility finds duplicate files very quickly, thus there is considerable saving of disk space.

Features of File Folder Compare Utility. The main comparison feature allows comparing of files and folders on hard drives, floppy drives, zip, network and CD-ROM drives. It supports many types of file systems. Comparison can be done on the basis of filename, size, size and date or time, attributes, contents and version stamp etc. Huge files can be supported by this utility. The utility has a memory for remembering the previous 20 compared folders.

The synchronization features include an auto single click, useful wizard screens, multiple choices for auto synchronization, strong support operations, renaming of multiple folders and files, checking of disk space availability, synchronization of dates and times of files and setting up the date and times for multiple files.

There are many additional features like matching of PC's clock with atomic type of time server, full featured finder for duplicate files, display of binary contents, editor, saving the comparison results and printing the results along with many more.

There are many companies offering a free trial and purchase scheme like the Araxis, Folder Match, and Beyond Compare etc.


