Title: 
Five Things To Ensure Smooth Working Of Your Laptop Forever

Word Count:
303

Summary:
In this age of information, people want their electronics everywhere. They like to carry all the information available with them, as they feel anything can be required anytime. Laptop gives you an upper edge as you can carry all the useful information with yourself.

Now once you have realized that laptop is an essential thing for you, the next step that follows is that what are the things that can make your laptop the best. Or we can say that there are some steps that help...


Keywords:
laptops, buying laptops, branded laptops


Article Body:
In this age of information, people want their electronics everywhere. They like to carry all the information available with them, as they feel anything can be required anytime. Laptop gives you an upper edge as you can carry all the useful information with yourself.

Now once you have realized that laptop is an essential thing for you, the next step that follows is that what are the things that can make your laptop the best. Or we can say that there are some steps that help you maintain an overall good health of your notebook computers.

The top five things that make your laptop the best are:

1.The most important thing in your notebook computer is your battery. You should always try to maintain a good health of your battery. In order to do so, you should charge the battery of your notebook to the fullest of its capacity after running it into empty, once  every week.

2.A hard disk clean up should be performed every six months. You should clean up the files that are of no longer in use with security back-ups.

3.When you feel that you no longer need to work on your laptop, do not simply unplug your notebook PC. Your laptop should be shut down in a proper manner. Also never leave your system over night after finishing your work.

4.To maintain  a good health of your notebook, you should continuously detect and repair the errors on your hard disk by using a scan disk tool, once a month. You should also use the de-fragmenting tool, which is there in your accessory box, to de-fragment your hard drive.

5.Always use proper cleaning materials to clean up your LCD display.

Taking note of above mentioned five points, your laptop will always work as smooth as a newly bought notebook.


