Title: 
Fix Computer Free: The 7 Commandments

Word Count:
599

Summary:
Do you become glassy-eyed when technicians spout computerese? Can’t they just speak in plain, simple English when they fix computer snags? Here is hope. Read on.

Should you beware of geeks preaching fast fix computer free?

Do you have computer problems? The most common is the slowing down of the system. Fix computer experts say this is the easiest to tackle. They list down 7 commandments to successfully rev up an arthritic unit. Don’t despair. It’s all in simple English...


Keywords:
fix computer free


Article Body:
Do you become glassy-eyed when technicians spout computerese? Can’t they just speak in plain, simple English when they fix computer snags? Here is hope. Read on.

Should you beware of geeks preaching fast fix computer free?

Do you have computer problems? The most common is the slowing down of the system. Fix computer experts say this is the easiest to tackle. They list down 7 commandments to successfully rev up an arthritic unit. Don’t despair. It’s all in simple English! People want to know what’s wrong with their computers and how to fix computer free of hitches, so open the door to the geeks bearing tweaks. They will save your day.

A free fix computer guide everybody would die for

Whether you like it or not, or pretend not to know, your electronic playmate will eventually encounter problems. This is the most dreaded part of owning a PC which becomes your better half – for better or for worse, till glitch do you part. But will you allow it? Of course not. A frantic call to a fix computer service shop will be the order of the day.

This fix computer free guide is good for slowing PCs. This may be caused by a lot of things – downloading big files like games and images and adding those very important dictionaries. There are also other reasons and these are very simple, like improperly plugged cables. Imagine that.

1. Restart your computer. Surely, this is basic and everybody has gotten the hang of this. Close all files and go to the main menu. Click shut down computer. You are immediately given multiple choices: Shutdown computer, restart computer, or log off. Click restart and run scan disk. In most cases PCs come to life again with just a restart. There is built-in software that revives the PC. Sometimes you will encounter a frozen case. This means your computer just won’t shut down. Unplug it and let it rest. After 30 minutes (just to be on the safe side), plug it back in. It will work fine.

2. Check your computer cables. Are the cables in their proper sockets?

3. Check the computer wires. Are they all plugged into the outlets?

4. Are the outlets in working condition? Better be careful about this, though.

5. Remove peripherals, such as mouse, keyboard, scanner, and external hard drives, and reset the computer. Observe if the computer gains speed without these excess baggage. Listen if there are strange sounds. Check the lights. Are they on?

6. When you unplug your unit take a peek inside. Are the cards and the wires properly installed? A practiced eye may spot any irregularity. Don’t worry, in time you’ll make perfect. Double check the wires before you turn the PC on.

7. Check out any missing Windows devices. This is another reason for your PC’s reduced speed. It is missing something. Go to the Start menu, settings, and then the control panel. Click the Device Manager tab. If you see an exclamation mark, then it is missing a system. You can delete this drive by right clicking it. Also reboot the system when you’re through.

Remember if you have installed any software. Try thinking back if the problem started then. If it did, uninstall this software and test the computer’s speed. Reinstall Windows. This may be the clue. There is no need to reformat your PC, unless you really have to. Use your installation CD and double click the setup.exe file.

If all these 7 commandments do not work, then seek the fix computer expert or the geek bearing tweaks.


