Title: 
Four Common Web Designing Mistakes

Word Count:
334

Summary:
Web designing is not just about putting up a web site and hoping it will get enough traffic.  And, while it is okay to reflect your personality through your web site, you need to remember that that is only a small part of web designing. Web designing is more about catering to your target audience and reflecting what it is they want to see. A person may stumble upon your website by pure accident but it is high-quality web designing that usually creates customer loyalty and kee...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Web designing is not just about putting up a web site and hoping it will get enough traffic.  And, while it is okay to reflect your personality through your web site, you need to remember that that is only a small part of web designing. Web designing is more about catering to your target audience and reflecting what it is they want to see. A person may stumble upon your website by pure accident but it is high-quality web designing that usually creates customer loyalty and keeps them coming back time and again.
 
Here then are four of the most common mistakes made by amateur web designers:

Bad Search

Search engines are fine tuned and tweaked to such an extent that, in a way, their usability has been reduced.  Such search engines are sometimes unable to process hyphens, plurals or typos, creating problems for its various users especially the elderly. Since most Internet users depend on searches to find what they what, it is best to keep it simple and easy to use.
 
Use of PDF Files

Most people browsing the internet hate PDF files, preferring to skip the site altogether and it is easy to understand why. PDF files break the flow of internet browsing. They do not respond to standard browser commands and it is impossible to select data to save or print. To get even a tiny selection of data, the entire PDF file will have to be saved or printed.
  
Retaining the Color of Visited Links

Links are an important factor when navigating the internet. With no color difference between visited and unvisited links, internet browsers could find themselves re-visiting the same sites again and again. 

Web sites that look like advertisements

Most experienced web users have learnt to ignore banners, pop-ups, animation and any other flashing message that distracts them from their goal. Designing your web site to look like an advertisement  only ensures that it will get shut down before it even loads on to the computer screen.


