Title: 
Franklin Covey’s Planning System

Word Count:
459

Summary:
Ever felt that you can do more with your day if you had a more structured scheduled, a planner maybe, some time management workshop? Interestingly, anybody who has had problems with meeting deadlines and just making things happen are familiar with time management or their apparent lack of time management skills, and have gone over to some part of a bookstore to get hold of a Franklin Covey material. And is there anybody in the world that is not familiar with Franklin Covey? O...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Ever felt that you can do more with your day if you had a more structured scheduled, a planner maybe, some time management workshop? Interestingly, anybody who has had problems with meeting deadlines and just making things happen are familiar with time management or their apparent lack of time management skills, and have gone over to some part of a bookstore to get hold of a Franklin Covey material. And is there anybody in the world that is not familiar with Franklin Covey? Or Stephen Covey and Stephen Covey’s Seven Habits? But just to explain, Franklin Covey is the brand that carries the books by Stephen Covey, the Seven Habits of Successful People, and all of the other Stephen Covey system products to get you and anybody started with managing their habits and their lives together as the first step towards success.

If you have read the book, then you are familiar with all the concepts of the Seven Habits, which is the basis of the whole Franklin Covey Planning System. If you are not familiar with it, then basically it just outlines the changes that you need to be able to be your best, to do your best and achieve your goals, first by changing your habits and knowing your principles, and working with these principles in mind towards achieving your goals and values. 

The Franklin Covey Planning System is a planning system inspired by Seven Habits that will help you stick with your resolutions and outline your own steps in achieving success. It has two planning systems that you can choose from, depending on what kind of person you are. If you are into the traditional paper and pen group of people who like having something concrete in their hands, then you can opt for the Paper Planning system, with a binder and planner, which you can purchase at your local bookstore or order and customize on the Franklin Covey website. It has the Seven Habits Planner, and the Her Point of View Planning Pages for women, and you can choose the designs to reflect your personality or the person that you want to be.

If you are more into technology and electronic planning is your thing, Franklin Covey also has electronic planning tools to help you. Franklin Covey has NewPlanPlus for Windows XP, PlanPlus for Microsoft Outlook, and even palmone Life Drive Mobile Manager, if you want a handheld organizer. 

Whatever your preferences are, Franklin Covey has an option for you to better equip you with the tools you need in acquiring the successful habits of successful people. So try out the Franklin Covey planning system, and you will suddenly find that you have extra time on your hands to spend on enriching your life.


