Title: 
Free PSP Themes - An FAQ

Word Count:
562

Summary:
So many people own PSP game consoles today that they many are looking for ways to make theirs look unique. One great way to do this is to download a theme for your PSP. This is a smart way to customize your unit and make it show off your style.

Here is an FAQ about downloading free PSP themes.

FAQ #1: What is a PSP theme?

A: A PSP theme is the overall look and feel of the screen of your PSP unit. It mainly includes two items: wallpaper and icon styles. There are thou...


Keywords:
free psp themes, psp theme downloads, download psp themes, get psp themes, get free psp themes


Article Body:
So many people own PSP game consoles today that they many are looking for ways to make theirs look unique. One great way to do this is to download a theme for your PSP. This is a smart way to customize your unit and make it show off your style.

Here is an FAQ about downloading free PSP themes.

FAQ #1: What is a PSP theme?

A: A PSP theme is the overall look and feel of the screen of your PSP unit. It mainly includes two items: wallpaper and icon styles. There are thousands of themes available for your PSP unit. With all of these choices and being that themes are so easy to get, most people do not want to settle for staying with the theme color choices that came with the PSP console when they purchased it.

FAQ #2: Why would I want one?

A: The PSP console follows in a long line of cool consumer goods over the past few decades that were designed to for hip young people (or hip anybody) to buy - and use the heck out of - including: skateboards, surfboards, Walkmans, home video game systems, pagers, mobile phones and iPods. Just like all of these other mega-popular items, PSP consoles are even more appealing when users can customize them in some way. Downloading a fresh new theme for your PSP unit is another way to show your own style and uniqueness via an item that you love to use.

FAQ #3: Do I have to pay for a new theme?

A: No! You can find themes for free on the Internet. One of the best ways to do this is to subscribe to any number of online PSP download Web sites, where you can find not only free themes, but also free games, music, and videos for your PSP unit. Of course, you pay a low, one-time fee, but then you are literally set for life. All available existing themes, as well as new ones that will be created sometime in the future, can be downloaded directly from these sites.

FAQ #4: Can I build my own theme?

A: Yes! For example, Sony has released its own PSP Theme Creation Utility software. It is free to use and it lets you customize your own themes and icons. You can find the software by searching for it on Google. Before you go this route, realize that unless you are personally a gifted designer or just want a relatively plain and simple theme for your console, it is hard to compete with some of the mind-blowing themes available from professional designers. Still, it is definitely worth checking out the free Sony software.

FAQ #5: How do I change the theme on my PSP console?

A: Once you have downloaded a new theme or created your own, you will need to go through the process of transferring the theme to your PSP console. From a high-level view, the process involves: 1. downloading or creating the theme; 2. finding the proper theme folder on your computer; and 3. initiating the transfer from your PSP unit. You can find some great tutorial videos for this process on YouTube.

Your PSP console is like a portable entertainment mega-center, offering videos, music, and games. Now, you can make it even cooler by having fun changing up your theme now and then so that you can better match your own style.


