Title: 
Free Prepaid Cell Phones Advice - Should You Really Sign Up For A Prepaid Cell Phone Plan?

Word Count:
346

Summary:
Cell phones are as common place as anything else in this day and age, however there are some circumstances where it may be impossible (due to poor credit) or simply not prudent (your 14 year old) for you to enter into a traditional cell phone contract. In many cases, a prepaid cell phone is an excellent and much wiser substitute.

In this article, I’ll give you a brief overview of how prepaid cell phones work, what advantages they offer, as well as the disadvantages. Hopefu...


Keywords:
Free Prepaid Cell Phones Advice


Article Body:
Cell phones are as common place as anything else in this day and age, however there are some circumstances where it may be impossible (due to poor credit) or simply not prudent (your 14 year old) for you to enter into a traditional cell phone contract. In many cases, a prepaid cell phone is an excellent and much wiser substitute.

In this article, I’ll give you a brief overview of how prepaid cell phones work, what advantages they offer, as well as the disadvantages. Hopefully by the time you’re done reading this, you’ll have a better idea of whether or not you should sign up for a prepaid cell phone plan.

As far as advantages go, prepaid cellular phones have many. For one, they don’t require a long-term contract (or any contract for that matter). With prepaid plans, you don’t have to be concerned with getting locked into a contract and having to pay excessive fees in order to break it.

Another advantage to prepaid mobile phones is that there are no deposits or service fees. Because you pay for everything up front, you don’t have to worry about plucking down a fat deposit just to get service.

Lastly, prepaid cell phones offer an easy way to limit talk time and activity. If you have a teenage daughter on your family plan, you’ll know exactly where I’m coming from here. With prepaid plans, there are no surprises when the monthly bill arrives in the mail and you’ll never have to worry about punishing your kids because they ran over your minutes limit!

As far as disadvantages go, calls tend to be a bit more expensive than traditional cell phone plans and you always run the risk of getting cut off in the middle of an important call because you ran out of minutes.

Despite these few downsides, I really am a firm believer that prepaid cell phones are an excellent choice for many people and I highly recommend them if you have children or a poor credit history.


