Title: 
Get Multiple Virtual Desktops On Your Pc

Word Count:
527

Summary:
Too many opened windows crowded on your desktop? Cannot find the window you want? Get rid of the problems on your desktop with Virtual Desk.

Your desktop computer becomes more and more powerful and faster, the monitor - bigger, and you have more and more job to do. you work on a specific task that involves several application windows: two draft documents, the one that you work on, a mail message, couple of network browser windows... You need a Virtual Desktop Software help...


Keywords:
virtual desktop


Article Body:
Too many opened windows crowded on your desktop? Cannot find the window you want? Get rid of the problems on your desktop with Virtual Desk.

Your desktop computer becomes more and more powerful and faster, the monitor - bigger, and you have more and more job to do. you work on a specific task that involves several application windows: two draft documents, the one that you work on, a mail message, couple of network browser windows... You need a Virtual Desktop Software help you. 

Lets you have multiple virtual desktops (just like many screens) and you can have different windows and applications running in each desktop. You can switch among them quickly and easily with just a single mouse click or press hotkey. 

DesktopX 3.2 completely change the Windows desktop into anything you want it to be. Enhance your desktop by giving Windows the capability to have real objects on the desktop. Objects include clocks, stock tickers, calendars, weather monitors, living creatures, and thousands of other objects or widgets. Developers can use Javascript or VBScript to make their objects fully scriptable. DesktopX can even make your existing desktop look better by allowing you to have icons sized independently from the rest of the system as well as add mouse event effects.

ManageDesk 2.45.19 is a Virtual Desktop product from managedesk.com, get 4 Stars SoftSea Rating, ManageDesk enables you to organize a busy desktop by creating up virtual desktops that you can quickly switch to from the system tray. Each desktop can have its individual wallpaper and resolution and the taskbar only shows the applications open on the current desktop. You can switch between desktops from the system tray, via keyboard shortcut or middle mouse button. You can also hide windows and the taskbar and access reboot options from the tray icon menu. The software works well and maintains the correct icon layout between desktops, even if the resolution is different. ManageDesk also includes a process viewer, a DLL viewer, memory manager.

Chimera Virtual Desktop create up to nine separate virtual desktops and move applications between desktops. Use tabs, hotkeys, mouse gestures, drag-and-drop interface and other methods to manage your desktops and windows. Distinct wallpapers, desktop and quicklaunch icon sets can be setup per desktop.

XDESK 4.30.973 is powerful & stable Virtual Desktop Manager / Desktop Assistant - features QuickView, AppBar, strong rules, Reminders & Alarms, CPU meter, Applications AutoRestart, Memory Cleaner, TaskList, HotKeys, HotMouse, Mouse-Scrolling, Mouse-Knocking, HotCorners, windows roll-up and more!

Dexpot 1.4 is allows you to create multiple, virtual desktops to increase the work area of your screen by up to 20 times. Each virtual desktop is independent from the others and can have its individual wallpaper, resolution, and icons (or no icons at all). You can easily switch between desktops from the tray icon, or via hotkey, or even use an automatic desktop slideshow that rotates all virtual desktops. In addition, you can move and copy windows from one desktop to another among the desktops, set up rules to automatically move, copy or close windows and more. Dexpot is one of the most advanced desktop managers out there, that is easy enough for beginners, but offers some great flexibility for more demanding users as well.


