Title: 
Getting Rid Of Spam

Word Count:
446

Summary:
Spam mavens are original, indeed. Just as all of us try to find and develop new software and technology to block the annoying content spammers send to our e-mail addresses, they have found an equally novel way to bring spam to us without having to enter our inboxes.

They have started to attack blogs and other Web sites that have comments functions within them.

Before, spammers can be detected and eliminated using spam blocking software or spam blocking features in the e...


Keywords:
spam blocking,software block spam,blocking spam tips,spam filter tips,get rid spam,remove spam


Article Body:
Spam mavens are original, indeed. Just as all of us try to find and develop new software and technology to block the annoying content spammers send to our e-mail addresses, they have found an equally novel way to bring spam to us without having to enter our inboxes.

They have started to attack blogs and other Web sites that have comments functions within them.

Before, spammers can be detected and eliminated using spam blocking software or spam blocking features in the email provider. Though users were not really able to eradicate spam 100%, these software were helpful in reducing the volume of nonsense that gets in. And with the growing number of spam blocking devices, come the also growing number of spamming geniuses who find new ways to annoy us.

Bloggers are the newest victims. Their comments boxes are flooded with special offers of all sorts, from Viagra to salary loans. Their impact has also compounded that of email spam content because they can only be taken out one by one, as opposed to email spam where we can just click several at a time to delete. On blogs, the blog owner has to do the erasing on a piecemeal basis, or has to contact the administrator to do it for him or her. What a hassle!

Spammers started off by individually posting their advertisements on blogs. As they got wiser, somebody eventually thought of a way of automating the procedure so that weblogs are tricked into thinking that a comment has been entered for a particular entry, when, in fact, they were just adverts. The genius that spammers are have developed an HTML tool that would bypass the software used by blogs to make them believe that the content it is distributing is valid and substantial.

The result, flooded comments boxes of blogs. If you have a personal blog, you might have already experienced this. Just when you thought somebody was stirred by an entry you wrote, you find out that it was just spam. How annoying is that?

However, since most blogs are publicly available for viewing, ultimately avoiding the onslaught of spammers is next to impossible. You will also not be able to file complaints against the spammers because of the nature of your blog's availability. The best way to combat spam is to ask readers to log in first before they can comment on your site. But this still isn't 100% sure-fire.

In truth, the technology that has yet to totally eliminate spam has yet to be created. And it might be a long time to infinity before that happens, because as new spam blocking methods are made, spam creating tools are also born.


