Title: 
Gps Mapping – A Whole New Way Of Looking At Things

Word Count:
316

Summary:
The Internet has opened up a whole new world for us – bringing places we may never normally see into full view right on our computer screen. Now, like never before, any computer user – regardless of where they are – has instant access to a location that may even be thousands of miles away. Web cams can broadcast live images in a matter of seconds and the Global Positioning System – or GPS - can pinpoint an address down to the street and house through GPS mapping.

GPS is a ...


Keywords:
GPS Mapping


Article Body:
The Internet has opened up a whole new world for us – bringing places we may never normally see into full view right on our computer screen. Now, like never before, any computer user – regardless of where they are – has instant access to a location that may even be thousands of miles away. Web cams can broadcast live images in a matter of seconds and the Global Positioning System – or GPS - can pinpoint an address down to the street and house through GPS mapping.

GPS is a system of 24 satellites that continually circle the earth. The system as we know it today originally began in the 1960s as the United States Navy implemented a system to help submarines pinpoint their location. The United States Department of Defense – taking this initial work a step forward – designed and implemented GPS. The first satellite was launched in 1978. The 24 satellites of today were not all in operation until well into the 1990’s. Today, we can pinpoint any location based upon the signal of the satellite closest to the location.

GPS mapping was a natural byproduct of such advancements, allowing us to harness the information provided by the satellite system. GPS mapping can find an address and instantly bring you there; some footage is so crystal clear that you can see shrubbery in the front yard and cars in the street.

Specific websites will allow you to simply enter an address or point of reference and information is instantaneously gathered from satellites in space. In a matter of seconds, a photo image appears on our computer screen; it’s almost hard to believe.

Clearly, GPS has brought us into a new world of information; GPS mapping is only part of this process. It’s difficult to know what lies around the corner in the form of satellite information and what role GPS will play in our future. But the possibilities are endless.


