Title: 
Halo 3 Review

Word Count:
432

Summary:
Halo 3 is the newly released Microsoft Xbox 360 video game that has the network of gamers on the internet all abuzz. Halo 3 is a first-person shooter developed by Bungie Studios exclusively for the Xbox 360. It is the final game in the Halo trilogy that has followed protagonist Master Chief's enduring efforts to save the world. Halo 3 is generally expected to be the top-selling game of the year for Microsoft’s Xbox 360 console, the only machine on which the game can be run. H...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Halo 3 is the newly released Microsoft Xbox 360 video game that has the network of gamers on the internet all abuzz. Halo 3 is a first-person shooter developed by Bungie Studios exclusively for the Xbox 360. It is the final game in the Halo trilogy that has followed protagonist Master Chief's enduring efforts to save the world. Halo 3 is generally expected to be the top-selling game of the year for Microsoft’s Xbox 360 console, the only machine on which the game can be run. Halo 3 is the final chapter of the video game that has been vital to sales of Microsoft's Xbox. Many who love it feel that Halo 3 is the best Halo that has ever been made; others feel that Halo 3 can be fantastically exciting when played against other gamers since it has well-designed multiplayer scenarios stocked with exotic weapons and riddled with passageways. Still others feel that Halo 3 is challenging in single-player mode, where all of the bad guys and some of the good are computer-controlled. Halo 3 is the first game in the series to feature custom soundtracks, allowing players to replace in-game music with their own choices. Halo 3 is unique in that almost anyone can easily pick up and play. It is the last game in this trilogy. Rumor has it that there are two new Halo games in development, one from filmmaker Peter Jackson, whose Halo film is on hold.

Critics of Halo 3

Like most products, Halo 3 has its critics. Some say that Halo 3 is just Halo 2 with somewhat better graphics. Others feel it has not lived up to the hype and that Halo 3 is far from the most beautiful game ever, but it is definitely better than Halo 2 in significant ways. More specifically, Halo 3 HDTV players are finding that there is a lot of wasted space in the left- and right-hand margins of their screens.

Halo 3 Premise and Profit

Halo 3 picks up shortly after Halo 2 ends, depositing you as Master Chief on Earth in the midst of a full-scale Covenant invasion. The game Halo 3 is set in the year 2553 where a bitter struggle between humanity and a collective of alien races known as the Covenant is rife. Halo 3 follows super-soldier Master Chief as he battles for humankind against alien species Covenant and Flood. Halo 3 has the production standards of a Hollywood blockbuster and is expected to generate multiplex-style profits. Halo 3 is well on its way to becoming a top-selling game, and retailers pushed more than $170 million in copies on its very first day. Halo 3 is also expected to drive users toward the company's Xbox Live web service.
Author Resource Box


