Title: 
Help! My Email Is Driving Me Crazy! Part 2

Word Count:
417

Summary:
Create Folders
Once you delete emails you do not need and deal with the spam, you will still no doubt have a lot of email left to deal with. Instead of letting hundreds of emails build up in your box, it is important that you find a filing system to allow you to get them organized. Start building email folders that you can file specific emails in. You may want to create a folder for work related email, email from friends and family, financial or shopping email, and maybe eve...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Create Folders
Once you delete emails you do not need and deal with the spam, you will still no doubt have a lot of email left to deal with. Instead of letting hundreds of emails build up in your box, it is important that you find a filing system to allow you to get them organized. Start building email folders that you can file specific emails in. You may want to create a folder for work related email, email from friends and family, financial or shopping email, and maybe even a folder designated to travel. Having specific folders to file emails in can help you keep your inbox nice and clean, and it will be easier to deal with incoming email as well.

Archive Folders
While creating folders can greatly help you control your inbox, if you receive a few hundred emails a day, these folders may be filling up quickly and you may need to organize your email even more. One thing that you can do is to set up archive folders that will hold your email that was received before a certain date. You can actually set up these folders just like your inbox so everything will be filed appropriately. You may even want to set up an archive folder for each month so it is easy to find older emails. This will help you make sure that only more current emails are stored in the folders in your email inbox. 

Organize Your Address Book
While you want to keep your email inbox organized, you will also want to make sure that it is easy for you to send out emails as well. One way that you can make it easier to send out emails is to make sure that your address book is organized as well. While many email programs will organize your address book alphabetically, you may find that this is not the most effective way for you. You can choose to organize your addresses in groups that will make them easy for you to find and this type of organization will also make it easier for you to send out group messages as well. 

When it comes to your email inbox problems, organization is the key to success. Keeping everything organized on a regular basis will help take the craziness out of checking your email. Start using these tips and you will be amazed at how much time you can save and how much easier it becomes to deal with your email.


