Title: 
Here's Why You Need Data Insurance ...

Word Count:
522

Summary:
My friend Bob called me the other day. He was frantic...
"Albert" he cried, "My computer just crashed. I think it was my hard drive, but I am not sure. 
It won't turn on or boot up. It just keeps making this weird sound. I think I lost everything. All my pictures, and
my taxes, totally completed and ready to file. 
Also, all of my email addresses and email that I had saved. Plus lots of other important data. The worst thing is I don't know if I 
will ever be able to get ...


Keywords:
back up, data, save data, loose data,


Article Body:
My friend Bob called me the other day. He was frantic...
"Albert" he cried, "My computer just crashed. I think it was my hard drive, but I am not sure. 
It won't turn on or boot up. It just keeps making this weird sound. I think I lost everything. All my pictures, and
my taxes, totally completed and ready to file. 
Also, all of my email addresses and email that I had saved. Plus lots of other important data. The worst thing is I don't know if I 
will ever be able to get my computer running again."

"No problem," I replied. “Just use your back-up drive to restore your data."
"Back-up drive?" he asked, "What's that?"

"Bob, Bob, Bob," I lectured.

"You wouldn't think about driving your car without insurance. If you own a house or apartment, 
you absolutely need insurance. You probably have some type of life insurance. Why is your computer any different?
If you have a computer: you need insurance. Data Insurance.
You need to have a back-up drive to save all of your important data!"

Do you have insurance for the important information on your computer? On my computer I have all of my 
websites, personal emails and essential documents. I also have software and e-books I purchased. 
I even have the beginning of the Great American Novel.

I purchased a back up drive for my computer. 
You need one, too!
What do you have on your own computer? Think about the important files, 
pictures, programs and other priceless information...
Some of the stuff you have may be irreplaceable.
Sure you can use a jump drive to save and move data. The biggest jump drives will 
not back up your entire system, however.
You invested hundreds of dollars in your computer. For Bob, the data he lost was priceless. 
Don't be like my friend, Bob. You need to invest in a total back up system. 
You need a back-up drive.
  
Here's what I did:

I was able to find a Back Up Drive on-sale for a little over $100 The back up drive is 300 GB. That's way more than I need. Since I installed it, I have much more peace of mind. The great thing is, once I installed the software, it continuously makes new back-ups of all my recent data.You should be able to find a back-up drive at a reasonable price as well. Check out big box computer stores as well as Office Supply stores.

So don't be like Bob. He lost everything. Remember, it's not if your computer will crash, it's when.
So take out some Data Insurance by purchasing a back drive for your computer. Remember to back up all of your data.
Here's why:
 You will be prepared if your hard drive crashes
 You will have another copy of all of your important files and programs
 You will have total peace of mind
 Most back up drives come with software, which will back up you data automatically. So you will be able to "Set it and forget it".
Be well. Stay well.
And don't forget to back up all of your data!


