Title: 
Hidden Spy Cameras: All-seeing Eyes

Word Count:
556

Summary:
With the advent of reality shows, more and more people are becoming aware of the possibility of using hidden cameras to spy on other people for different reasons. Seeing people in their most unguarded moments can be fascinating. Camera manufacturers have taken advantage of the fact that people want to have hidden spy cameras similar to that of James Bond or the popular prank shows of television. This has since contributed to the steady rise of the hidden spy cameras industry....


Keywords:
hidden spy cameras, hidden spy camera


Article Body:
With the advent of reality shows, more and more people are becoming aware of the possibility of using hidden cameras to spy on other people for different reasons. Seeing people in their most unguarded moments can be fascinating. Camera manufacturers have taken advantage of the fact that people want to have hidden spy cameras similar to that of James Bond or the popular prank shows of television. This has since contributed to the steady rise of the hidden spy cameras industry. 

While most hidden spy cameras are used to capture harmless pranks on video, there are other uses that are not as wholesome. Voyeurs spying on their neighbors and secretly filming other people having sexual intercourse shamelessly utilize hidden spy cameras. Hidden spy cameras, however, are not just for people with nefarious plans. Hidden spy cameras are also great tools to keep watch over your home and loved ones, thereby ensuring peace of mind. They can be used to make sure that your children are treated well by their nannies and babysitters. Similarly, they can also be used to catch criminals or philandering spouses. Hidden spy cameras are so effective and handy, in fact, that they are even used by law enforcement agencies, such as the police and the FBI.

 Strings or No Strings Attached 
Hidden spy cameras can either be wireless or wired. Wireless hidden spy cameras have concealed transmitters that send captured images to a remote recording equipment. Wired hidden spy cameras, on the other hand, are connected to recording equipment, like VCRs and PCs, through a physical cable. Wireless cameras rely on battery power, while the wired sort has the advantage of a ready power supply.

 Its Hidden for a Reason 
As the name suggests, hidden spy cameras are always concealed. They are usually hidden in everyday, nondescript objects, such as clocks, calculators, radios, teddy bears, and even plants. 

Recent breakthroughs in wireless technology now allow hidden spy cameras to transmit videos real-time. So, not only can you see the action as it unfolds, you can take the necessary action as well. All you would need is a PC or laptop with an Internet access to view your hidden spy cameras. You can even do online surveillance, if you wish. You can also set up your hidden spy cameras in such a way that they trigger alarms or send emails to you when suspicious activities are captured. 

If you don't have this technology, however, don't fret. Most hidden spy cameras can be set up to work unattended. They can record hours of video and can be plugged into your VCR or PC directly for review. This way, you don't miss anything and can gather solid proof of misbehavior.

 Hidden Or Not, You Still Want the Best 
There are a few things to consider when investing on hidden spy cameras. You have to take into consideration the range of the video you wish to capture. Wide-angle viewing is also a nifty feature to consider. It allows you to view the captured video from several vantage points. 

For image quality, you need to consider your hidden spy cameras' resolution. Invest on hidden spy cameras that can automatically adjust to varying lighting conditions so you can get the clearest images possible. This way, you don't miss what happens in your home or office when you're out.


