Title: 
Home Security-Hidden Cameras-Who Needs Them?

Word Count:
329

Summary:
It is clear to me that NOT everyone needs a hidden camera or a surveillance camera!

Only those people who have any earthly possessions that they cherish (including children) should have one.

You do want to know what is going on when you are not there don't you? What is that smell from the last time we had a babysitter?

Or those who are married or have a significant other-they should get one too!

You do want to know what is going on when you are not there don't you...


Keywords:
Hidden cameras, surveillance cameras, spy cameras, Home security, home security system, home securit


Article Body:
It is clear to me that NOT everyone needs a hidden camera or a surveillance camera!

Only those people who have any earthly possessions that they cherish (including children) should have one.

You do want to know what is going on when you are not there don't you? What is that smell from the last time we had a babysitter?

Or those who are married or have a significant other-they should get one too!

You do want to know what is going on when you are not there don't you. Cheating spouses is one of the fastest growing areas in the Private Investigation field. But your spouse wouldn't do that now would he/she?

And those who have a place to live: an apartment or home-well they should probably have one too.

You do want to know what is going on when you are not there don't you? You do want to make sure your stuff stays your stuff and not being fenced downtown somewhere don't you?

And those folks who happen to own a business: well I guess they ought to have one too!

You do want to know what is going on when you are not there don't you? Why do we have so many under rings and over rings on the register when I am not around? And last week our inventory seemed to just disappear? And the shoplifters they all hang out at other stores right?

Or college students or apartment dwellers who have roommates-well they might need one!

You do want to know what is going on when you are not there don't you? College students are honest aren't they? That is why they are in college. I mean your roommate wouldn't steal from you now would he?

I guess that about covers it. They are probably they only ones who need a spy camera to find out what is going on when you are not there. Did I forget someone? Let me know.


