Title: 
How To Cheat In A Computer Game

Word Count:
481

Summary:
The definition of a cheat is pretty easy to figure out. If you have an affair with someone other than your lover, you can be called a cheat. If you copy answers from another person during an exam, you can also be called a cheat. In sports, if you try to win or get an advantage by disregarding the rules you are cheating but in computer games this definition become hard to follow. Taking advantage or lying to your fellow game players does not automatically mean you are cheating...


Keywords:
games,  computer games, cheat codes


Article Body:
The definition of a cheat is pretty easy to figure out. If you have an affair with someone other than your lover, you can be called a cheat. If you copy answers from another person during an exam, you can also be called a cheat. In sports, if you try to win or get an advantage by disregarding the rules you are cheating but in computer games this definition become hard to follow. Taking advantage or lying to your fellow game players does not automatically mean you are cheating.

Cheating in a computer game is defined by the game and the people who are playing it.A lot of computer games come with a “cheat code”. This is usually to help a person get started and makes the game a little easier. They are usually designed for a single player. If you use these cheat codes you are cheating technically but it doesn’t mean you have an advantage.

The most common occurrence of cheating is when there are multiplayer and mass multiplayer games through the internet. In this instance, the players are not known to each other so they don’t have the restrictive influence of being seen by their opponents.

There are two main areas of cheating in computer games. You can change your settings through the use of exploits, bugs and external software or cheesing.

If you alter your computer settings, the layout of the computer’s hardware or the computer game to fit your gaming style you are cheating in a sense and this can be alright. But if you went even further and changed the brightness or the color of the screen in order to see better in shadow areas it becomes questionable.

Exploits are termed as errors in the game itself that give an advantage to one person or another. If someone deliberately uses those it a game, it could be considered cheating but it also could add to the excitement of the game.

There are software programs you can purchase that modify a program that runs computer game. This is a more serious form of cheating. Other software programs study the status of the game through the computer’s RAM

Another form of cheating is called cheesing. This is when the players do things that cannot happen in real life or are not allowed in real life.

The most common of game cheats these days find ways to change the game’s software. Even if the game developers try to encrypt or protect the files, there are software programs that will be able to change the game’s code without changing the main program. Cheats of this kind may be detected using programs that are installed on a server.

Preventing computer game cheaters is not easy. There are a lot of grey areas to agree on and consider before you term someone a cheat.


