Title: 
How A PDA With GPS Capabilities Saved Christmas

Word Count:
503

Summary:
Being stranded at the airport for the holidays is no fun at all. Especially when you have a suitcase full of toys for your kids and the next flight isn't for another twelve hours! You have two options. You can either spend the rest of the day in the terminal, or you could rent a car and drive home, which will only take you seven hours. You have your PDA which has a GPS navigation system built-in and your laptop.

You rent the car and get to spend the next day with your fami...


Keywords:
PDA, GPS, Holiday, Christmas, xmas, travel, lost


Article Body:
Being stranded at the airport for the holidays is no fun at all. Especially when you have a suitcase full of toys for your kids and the next flight isn't for another twelve hours! You have two options. You can either spend the rest of the day in the terminal, or you could rent a car and drive home, which will only take you seven hours. You have your PDA which has a GPS navigation system built-in and your laptop.

You rent the car and get to spend the next day with your family, thanks to accurate directions provided by your palm GPS. The Garmin IQUE 3000 PDA/GPS is great for business travelers and for those who need an electronic day planner. With full mapping capabilities, you will be able to find the fastest and shortest directions quickly and easily. If you make a wrong turn, you will be redirected without incident. Finding your way in strange cities and towns has never been easier.

In addition to providing all the regular services of a PDA including address retrieval, note taking, and calendar options, this PDA can also give you six million points of interest that you will find convenient when looking for a hotel, gas station, ATM, or restaurant. You will be able to retrieve addresses from your address book or you can download maps from the CD that comes standard with the GPS system.

Complete with headphone jack, memory card, and rechargeable lithium battery, you will be able to travel all over the world and download directions that will be needed for safe travel.

If you are looking for a little more in your PDA/GPS navigational system, why not try the Garmin IQUE M3 Pocket PC. This device is perfect for the home office or when driving. You will be able to find driving directions for most of the highways in North America and you will also be able to download additional maps when necessary.

With Microsoft Outlook, Excel, Word, and Explorer, you will be able to use this GPS as a PC. Enjoy sending instant messages, listening to music, or writing notes with ease. There are many office functions that you can do from your car or while traveling.

When driving, you can use the turn-by-turn voice system that gives you accurate driving directions every time. This unit also has six million points of interest that will help you out if you need it or you can create your own list of interesting locations by using the POI loader software. This will make finding your favorite restaurant much easier. You will never have to write down directions or location names again.

So rather than being stranded in the airport or stuck in traffic during the holidays, you can use your PDA/GPS navigational system to tell family and friends you are on your way. Whether you are twenty minutes away or five hours, you not have to miss another holiday ever again due to inclimate weather, traffic, or poor directions.


