Title: 
How To Use Your iPod With Your Car Stereo

Word Count:
508

Summary:
As a music lover it is only natural for you to wish that you could listen to it no matter where you are or what you are doing. The car is especially where this wish comes out most strongly. It is unthinkable to get into the car and consider a drive in silence.

Well, you now have the option to iPod your car. This means you do not have to spend huge amounts of money to get your car wired for audio and you do not have to rely on someone else choosing the music for you. Your f...


Keywords:
iPod, car, iPod adapter, car stereo


Article Body:
As a music lover it is only natural for you to wish that you could listen to it no matter where you are or what you are doing. The car is especially where this wish comes out most strongly. It is unthinkable to get into the car and consider a drive in silence.

Well, you now have the option to iPod your car. This means you do not have to spend huge amounts of money to get your car wired for audio and you do not have to rely on someone else choosing the music for you. Your favorite music is with you wherever you go.

If you already have an audio system in your car then things are even better because you can hook in the iPod to the audio system and do away with the headphones. In some states it is illegal to wear headphones when you are driving so using the iPod with an audio system becomes a good way to enjoy music without running the risk of getting a ticket.

Newer cars are now coming out with all the necessary tools to help you plug in the iPod. BMW, Nissan, Mercedes-Benz, and Volvo are just some of the names that you will recognize who are now making cars with iPod integration options. If you do not have one of those new cars then all you need to buy is an iPod adapter.

The iPod adapters from companies like Monster or Peripheral can be installed behind the dashboard. There will be two prongs one of which will connect to the back of your car stereo and the other will connect to the iPod holding space near the front seat. The iPod adapter is a clever little device that pretends to be a CD changer. You car stereo will never know the difference. You can use the stereo track buttons to select the songs you wish to hear.

If you are not the mechanical type then it may be a good idea to get a professional mechanic to do the installation for you. It will make a lesser mess and work better. In case your car is a bit too old then the factory installed car stereo from way back then may not be compatible with the iPod adapter. If this happens to be the case then unfortunately the only remaining option for you is to first install a newer car stereo.

Sound quality is another touchy thing. While some people are happy as long as something is playing others want perfect sound quality. If you are the second type then do not go in for iPod cassette adapters because the sound quality is not good and they do not recharge the iPod. An FM modulator works better than a cassette adapter and it also recharges the iPod. However, neither of these options is as good as the iPod adapter.

To check the adaptability of your car stereo you should go through the online catalog of your car to check whether recent updates feature iPod compatibility.


