Title: 
How To Be More Specific In Blocking Spam

Word Count:
438

Summary:
Spam is oftenly thought to be such a difficult subject. But actually, it is not as difficult to comprehend as much as you think it is. But to correct any wrong perceptions regarding spam, spam is any form of junk mail that contains nothing else but advertisements. These advertisements are not ones that you asked for. They are ones that advertise products that you do not even know were invented. See just how bad and evil spam is?

Spam fills your inbox even when it is so not...


Keywords:
spam blocking,software block spam,blocking spam tips,spam filter tips,get rid spam,remove spam


Article Body:
Spam is oftenly thought to be such a difficult subject. But actually, it is not as difficult to comprehend as much as you think it is. But to correct any wrong perceptions regarding spam, spam is any form of junk mail that contains nothing else but advertisements. These advertisements are not ones that you asked for. They are ones that advertise products that you do not even know were invented. See just how bad and evil spam is?

Spam fills your inbox even when it is so not supposed to. Your inbox space is reserved for those messages that you want to receive, or electronic mails that you have long been waiting for. Or at least so you thought. If you do not protect your email address from the evilness of spam, then you must prepare yourself for the worst cyber scenarios.

Spam Assassin is a product of TCH. It is such an effective tool when it comes to blocking spam mail, especially if it is a product of a particular domain. Putting it in its default mode is the same as disabling it when a certain site is setup by TCH. If you are going to install this spam blocking gift, there is going to be absolutely no need for you to worry about receiving the mail you hate then.

If you want to be more specific in blocking spam, do not fret for that is not so hard to do. You can specify which spam mail you want to be blocked by being more particular on the subject line. 

To do that, just click on Filtering. Once you have done that, click Add Filter. A drop down box will, of course, drop down, and then you will have to click Subject. After clicking Subject, a second drop down box will show and there, you are supposed to click Contains. And as you have probably predicted, there is still a third drop down box. In the third one, you are supposed to type whatever word or words it is or are that you want to be filtered.

Once the words have been entered, the software will be blocking any sort of mail that is related to what you have typed. For instance, you typed sex. Spam Assassin will block electronic mail that is related, in any way, to sex in its subject line. However, this field is case sensitive. Typing sex will not filter or block sEx. Therefore, you have to be quite careful in this field.

It is as easy as that. No need for you to worry about those messages that you hate ever again!


