Title: 
How To Choose A Monitor That Compliments Your Computer

Word Count:
464

Summary:
Due to the many choices that we now have when it comes to computer monitors, choosing a monitor that compliments our computer has become quite a challenge. Unlike before when we only have very limited choices and we have to choose between 2 or three types of computer monitors only, we are not faced with so many choices that could make our heads reel especially if we are not really very familiar with these things. If you are one of those people who are at loss as to what crite...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Due to the many choices that we now have when it comes to computer monitors, choosing a monitor that compliments our computer has become quite a challenge. Unlike before when we only have very limited choices and we have to choose between 2 or three types of computer monitors only, we are not faced with so many choices that could make our heads reel especially if we are not really very familiar with these things. If you are one of those people who are at loss as to what criteria to follow when choosing a computer monitor, do not worry. It’s not really as bad as you think it is. If you can’t seem to make up your mind as to what type of monitors you want, here are some points for you to consider.

The Traditional Monitors (CTR) v the LCD Monitor

The monitor of your computer provides instant feedback by giving you an image of the text that you types of the keyboards or the image that you created or uploaded into your computer thus it is very important that you get a good computer monitor so that you will be able to see correctly the texts and images on the screen. The traditional monitor, much like that screen being on your computer, uses the cathode-ray tubes (CTRs). The traditional monitors give you greater viewing angle so you can look at it at a much wider angle compared to most other types of computer monitors. However, this type of monitor comes with a deep picture tube which can take up a lot of space. If you only have limited space in your working area, this type of monitor may prove to be such a space hog and will leave your little space to work on. If you are using a Hewlett-Packard (HP) computer, a traditional monitor will probably look awkward with it. Note that the Home and Home Office Notebook PCs of HP are state of the art equipments so it would be a good idea to use one of the latest designs of computer monitors with them.

Compared to the traditional monitors, the liquid crystal display (LCD) takes up lesser amount of space. The LCD monitors are designed as flat panel monitors that can easily fit into a small area. If you are using an HP pavilion slimline, this type of monitor with look great with your HP computer. Note that the LCD monitor will compliment the slim feature of your HP pavilion.  Since the LCD uses digital technology, this type of computer monitor provides you with greater viewing compared to the traditional monitor. Furthermore, this type of monitor does not react to interference from high-power magnetic fields so there is lesser possibility for you to get disturbed while working.


