Title: 
How To Avoid Spending A Fortune Recovering Lost Data

Word Count:
445

Summary:
Most people today are using computers at work and in their home. At work the computers are used as a professional tool to run the company and all its different processes. Whether you are in working in the sales department, product development or production section or the management of parts or the whole company you will spend a lot of time in front of a computer.

Computers are used to store the data that we put into them. Data covers everything from the little junk email t...


Keywords:
data,recovery,data recovery,internet,computer


Article Body:
Most people today are using computers at work and in their home. At work the computers are used as a professional tool to run the company and all its different processes. Whether you are in working in the sales department, product development or production section or the management of parts or the whole company you will spend a lot of time in front of a computer.

Computers are used to store the data that we put into them. Data covers everything from the little junk email that you pass on to a friend to the top secret analysis or test result of the company’s newest product that will revolutionize the market and put competitors out of business. Everything is stored in the form of data at a hard drive or on some other storage media (or even several different storage media).

From time to time we hear stories of companies that have gone bankrupt due to loss of their entire storage of data. Companies like Banks, Real Estate Agents, Money Lenders and in fact most companies that in one way or another are related to finances are extremely vulnerable to the loss of data. If a bank doesn’t know what customers have in their account (they’ve “lost” peoples money), then they are out of business almost instantly.

Because data is SO important, we are constantly seeing new companies appearing in the market offering services and tools to recover lost data. Some companies are so good at recovering data that HDDs that were lost at see and has been at the buttom of the ocean for years can be restored to almost full state. Now the harder the task the more you’ll have to pay to have it recovered.

Because companies like banks or other financial institutions are dealing with billions and billions of dollars, then a lost of data could easily trigger large bills for the data recovery specialists of hundreds of thousands or even millions of dollars. But even though expensive the company will still be able to continue and avoid bankruptcy. 

So how to you avoid paying these large data recovery bills? You make sure that you do frequent backups of all your data and that you test its validity and that you store it some place safe. If your company doesn’t already have a backup plan and even more important a plan to test the data, then you better get your stuff together very soon.

Don’t be one of those that cry when the bad luck strikes you. Play it safe and do your backups. Both when you are working and when you are at home.


