Title: 
How Can You Find The Best Flat Screen Tv Option For You

Word Count:
401

Summary:
The age of the cathode ray television is nearing its end.  Technology is rapidly defining your best flat screen TV options and they are fast gaining in popularity due to their slim profiles and exceptional picture qualities.  While conventional TVs did have crisp images, their weight and bulk increased right along with screen size.  The 21st Century brings new options for large televisions that are only a few inches deep.  

The term “Flat screen TV” encompasses both plasma...


Keywords:
Flat Screen, TV, Television, HDTV, LCD, Plasma, Flat Panel


Article Body:
The age of the cathode ray television is nearing its end.  Technology is rapidly defining your best flat screen TV options and they are fast gaining in popularity due to their slim profiles and exceptional picture qualities.  While conventional TVs did have crisp images, their weight and bulk increased right along with screen size.  The 21st Century brings new options for large televisions that are only a few inches deep.  

The term “Flat screen TV” encompasses both plasma and LCD technologies.  Advances in both technologies have resulted in thin and relatively lightweight screens that have sharp pictures.  That is where the similarities stop—beneath the screen, each technology works differently.  Before purchasing, try to determine what your best flat screen TV options might be, these elements should be considered.

Plasma TVs consist of tiny cells of gas that when charged create a picture.  Liquid crystal display (or LCD) screens two plates that contain liquid crystals.  The image is created by varying an electrical charge through the crystals. Both offer extraordinary picture quality compared to the cathode ray TV, but each has its advantages and disadvantages.

Screens on plasma TVs show better contrast and details due to the fact that blacks are more accurately displayed.  In dark scenes this can make a big difference.  Plasma brightness and colors remain solid regardless of where the viewer sits in relation to the screen.  LCD TVs seem to have a narrower range of viewing angles as brightness and color can change at certain viewing points.  Light leakages in LCD screens can result in lower color saturation that that produced by plasmas.  In addition, plasma TVs seem to offer larger sizes that LCDs and are currently priced lower.
  
On the other hand, LCD has higher resolution than similarly-sized plasma screens.  The resulting sharper images make it better for HDTV.  LCD TVs are lighter and use less electricity than plasma.  In addition, they also have a significantly longer life than plasma (60,000 hours rather than 30,000-60,000 hours) and are less susceptible to screen burn-in.  

Before buying what you think might be your best flat screen TV option, you  should first determine which elements are the most important.  For those that want a larger TV for less money, then plasma is the better value.  However, those that want sharper images should choose a smaller LCD screen.  These distinctions will begin to disappear as innovations and improvements in both technologies continue.


