Title: 
How You Can Take Control Of Your Inbox

Word Count:
410

Summary:
As you navigate the ins and outs of your Inbox, unsolicited emails and irritating viruses disguised as attachments may plague your Internet correspondences. To ensure the safety of emails you receive, as well as make sure your Inbox doesn’t become a cluttered mess, a few suggestions on how to make life much easier can be found below: 

Inbox Protection

To avoid an accumulation of unwanted emails, spam protection is a common way to reduce the amount of irritating solicita...


Keywords:



Article Body:
As you navigate the ins and outs of your Inbox, unsolicited emails and irritating viruses disguised as attachments may plague your Internet correspondences. To ensure the safety of emails you receive, as well as make sure your Inbox doesn’t become a cluttered mess, a few suggestions on how to make life much easier can be found below: 

Inbox Protection

To avoid an accumulation of unwanted emails, spam protection is a common way to reduce the amount of irritating solicitations you receive. Some mail systems allow users to identify spam that has infiltrated their Inbox, making sure specific email addresses don’t pass through in the future.  Other systems simply filter incoming mail and deposit them in a Bulk folder for later sorting. Today, Bulk folders can fill with close to 1,000 unwanted messages in one day. Also, if you are prone to receiving malicious links or images, some systems allow image blocking for further protection. 

How to Sort Emails

Sometimes, users need to find specific correspondences that could have occurred months ago. Instead of scanning page after page of emails they have already read, sorting emails through specific term searches is a great way to save time and energy. For example, in Yahoo Mail, enter the word "dogs" as a search term and any email in your Inbox containing the word or a form of the word will appear. The same works when entering first and last names of senders. 

How to Easily Sift Through Unread Emails

As you receive emails throughout the month, they can pile up. While some may take first priority in reading, others can wait until later, sometimes sitting in the Inbox for quite a long time before they are eventually forgotten. To keep up with Unread messages, you can easily find them all by filtering out all of the items you have already read. Most email systems provide this option and once clicked, all Unread emails appear in order for you to view or delete. 

Inbox Management

Besides controlling what comes in, you may also customize numerous details regarding your Inbox. Many email systems allow their users to choose a color scheme for their Inbox. You may add Vacation responses that instantly alert those who send an email that you are away. Address books can be created, which makes responding to Inbox messages much easier. Shortcuts and nicknames for senders also make navigating your Inbox easier as you are better able to locate personal contacts.


