Title: 
How Gotomypc Can Ease Your Daily Commute

Word Count:
581

Summary:
Have you ever stopped to think how much time you waste commuting, or stuck in traffic? Wouldn't it be nice if there were a way to obtain PC Remote access, allowing you to work from home and still access your files at the office? For anyone who is away from the workplace on a regular basis, having the ability to access your files can make a huge difference in your productivity level.

GoToMyPC is the answer to easing your daily commute. The software is installed on the host ...


Keywords:
GoToMyPC,Go To My PC,PC remote access


Article Body:
Have you ever stopped to think how much time you waste commuting, or stuck in traffic? Wouldn't it be nice if there were a way to obtain PC Remote access, allowing you to work from home and still access your files at the office? For anyone who is away from the workplace on a regular basis, having the ability to access your files can make a huge difference in your productivity level.

GoToMyPC is the answer to easing your daily commute. The software is installed on the host PC only, and it allows remote access from anywhere with an Internet connection. There is no reason to be concerned with security. GoToMyPC is pre-configured for maximum security AES 128-bit end-to-end encryption. Installation is easy and the software will work with most firewalls.

Be More Competitive.
In today's highly competitive world it is no secret that having more time to focus on the important tasks can give you a competitive advantage. If your job requires you to travel and work while you're on the road, you should not spend time transferring files from your office PC to a portable storage device, rather use GoToMyPC for remote access? The time you spend transferring files (and hoping you remember everything) can be better spent working from your remote location, giving you an edge over the competition.

Be More Productive.
Do you often have to bring work home with you? Have you ever driven all the way home from your office only to discover you forgot to copy one of your computer files? With GoToMyPC you will never again have to be concerned about forgetting to copy an important file. You will be able to access all the files on your work PC from any computer with an Internet connection.

Be a Better Road Warrior.
Traveling salesmen and small business owners who travel around excessively understand that time is money! If you're spending hours a week on a commuter train, or a bus, why not make use of that otherwise wasted time and become a better road warrior? With PC remote access you can log into your office PC from a wireless Internet enabled laptop and get some work done while traveling. Remote access is even available for Pocket PC wireless devices. If you find yourself in hotels in between meetings you can use your GoToMyPC account to turn your travel time into productivity time.

Be Home More.
With PC Remote Access to your office computer, gone are the days of going into work early or staying late. There is no reason to do so when you can use GoToMyPC to access all your important files on your PC! Spend more time at home and less time commuting. Work a day or two per week from home.

GoToMyPC has a free trial that will give you thirty days to discover how PC remote access and control can increase your productivity, give you the competitive edge and help you be home more. GoToMyPC is the fastest, easiest, most secure way to access your PC from anywhere.

You only need a Web browser to access all your programs, files, emails and network resources in real time, just as if you were at your desk! No extra software or hardware is needed. Be smart, don't hesitate. This is a limited-time offer, so act now.

GoToMyPC's automatic setup takes just 2 minutes to complete. Since it works with firewalls, you don't need to be an IT wizard to figure it out.


