Title: 
How To Make Your Cellphone Cooler Than Your Friends

Word Count:
326

Summary:
The time when cell phones were used just for making calls and keeping in touch seems like another era altogether. For the new-age cell phone user, a cell phone is more than just another phone or a techno-gadget. It’s a whole new way of life! Cell phones can be used for e-mailing friends, touch-to-talk communication, playing games and even managing personal information. 

Owing a cell phone that does nothing but helps you make calls, is passé. To be considered hip and happen...


Keywords:



Article Body:
The time when cell phones were used just for making calls and keeping in touch seems like another era altogether. For the new-age cell phone user, a cell phone is more than just another phone or a techno-gadget. It’s a whole new way of life! Cell phones can be used for e-mailing friends, touch-to-talk communication, playing games and even managing personal information. 

Owing a cell phone that does nothing but helps you make calls, is passé. To be considered hip and happening, cell phone users are continuously upgrading their phones and enhancing them with gizmos and accessories just so that they can be one-up on the other cell phone users. 

Cell phones can also be used to make a style statement. There are plenty of accessories available with which cell phones can be dressed up and made to look sleek and stylish or snazzy and glitzy. Faceplates and keypads are available that add personality and flair to any cell phone with jewel-like keys and  flashing lights. You can even buy tattoos and jewelry for your cell phone and or if you have a tiny model, you can use it as a pendant hanging from a chain. 

Looking for ways to make your cell phone cooler than your friends? Here are just two of many ways you can do that. 

If your phone supports custom ring tones and plays MP3, it is fairly easy to turn your favorite MP3 into your own personal ring tone. If you do a search on the internet, you will find quite a few good sites that show how to do this. So go ahead and impress your friends with a new ring tone every day. 

Use your cell phone camera to click those unforgettable moments such as the Janet Jackson wardrobe malfunction. Then upload the video on to your computer and share it with the world. It’ll make all your friends wish they had a camera cell phone too.


