Title: 
How Video Email Is Revolutionizing Communication

Word Count:
604

Summary:
No matter who you are, there is a good chance that you use email as one of your primary modes of communication. This holds true not only at work, but also for personal communication with friends and family as well. And even though simple text emails will never go “out of style” there is another option that has begun to surface all over the world. Video email has a lot to offer, and will definitely become more popular as the months go by. While you may not think that you have ...


Keywords:



Article Body:
No matter who you are, there is a good chance that you use email as one of your primary modes of communication. This holds true not only at work, but also for personal communication with friends and family as well. And even though simple text emails will never go “out of style” there is another option that has begun to surface all over the world. Video email has a lot to offer, and will definitely become more popular as the months go by. While you may not think that you have a use for video email at this point in time, once the bug hits you, it is safe to say that you will not be able to get rid of it.

Here are five ways that video email is revolutionizing the way that people communicate.

1. Video email in the workplace is already becoming common place for some companies. While this has yet to take in all industries, the time is coming when that will happen. The nice thing about video email at work is that you can more or less communicate with co-workers, clients, or potential clients in a personal manner. This type of personalization makes the workplace much more efficient and enjoyable.

2. Just like regular text emails, video email has a lot to offer personal communication. Have you ever wanted to send a video of yourself to a friend or family, but had to settle for something less? If so, video email is probably right for you. This allows you to send videos via email to anybody who has a valid address.

3. With video email, travel time is being cut out by many people. Since video email allows you to show your recipient your face, it can often time replace having to see them in person. Even though there will still be a place and time for face to face visits, video email is definitely closing this gap.

4. Getting your point across is much easier when using video email as opposed to simple text. What is the reason for this, you may ask? Well, when the recipient can see you they will be able to read your facial expressions, body language, and much more. To go along with this, video email will help to cut down on misunderstandings as well. It is commonplace for somebody to misunderstand an email message because they are not exactly sure what the sender is saying. But with video email this will be more or less a thing of the past.

5. If you are simply dying to see somebody’s face, video email will make this possible without having to travel. For instance, do you have a relative that lives hundreds of miles away? If so, you can now use video email to see them instead of only being able to talk on the phone or by text emails. This is one of the biggest benefits that video email has to offer. Video email will be just as popular for personal use as in the business world.

Overall, video email is most definitely changing the way that people communicate. If you have yet to look into this mode of communication, do so today. Even though video email is still in its infancy, you may be able to find a way to make it work to your advantage. As soon as you begin to use video email on a regular basis you will more than likely get hooked to the benefits that it has to offer. Who knows, there may come a time when video email is more popular than any other way of communicating!

Copyright Paul Majestyck


