Title: 
I Bought My Laptop, Now What?

Word Count:
351

Summary:
You just purchased that new, used, or refurbished laptop and are ready to get into the thick of things. Just where do you start?

Get used to the features of your notebook

Each laptop has specific features based on manufacurer, model, and year. Make sure you know the basics such as how to "suspend" your laptop,(or get it out of suspension) - how to adjust brightness and volume etc. This will be time well spent as you continue to use your laptop.

In the case of a refur...


Keywords:
laptops, laptop computers, free software,


Article Body:
You just purchased that new, used, or refurbished laptop and are ready to get into the thick of things. Just where do you start?

Get used to the features of your notebook

Each laptop has specific features based on manufacurer, model, and year. Make sure you know the basics such as how to "suspend" your laptop,(or get it out of suspension) - how to adjust brightness and volume etc. This will be time well spent as you continue to use your laptop.

In the case of a refurbished laptop computer, many experts recommend charging and then totally discharging the battery. This will help "condition" the battery for use and gives you an idea of what kind of battery life your machine will get. The jury is still out on this, but it may be worthwile.

Register any necessary warranties

Make doubly sure that you place all warranty information, receipts, and manuals in a safe place just in case you'll need them. Make sure you understand the warranty terms and how to return the notebook if found defective. Many warranties, especially third party warranties need to be registered within 30 days for you to be able to file a claim.

Download all the latest "freebees"

Download.Com is a godsend for those of us who don't like to pay for things that make computing easier. There are many free and inexpensive programs here that will help keep your laptop free of viruses, spyware, and other malicious problems. In addition, There are some excellent productivity programs that are 100% free. Here are some must have programs for your laptop.

Adobe Acrobat Reader

There is a possibility that this came with a program on your laptop computer, but it never hurts to check their website at www.adobe.com to ensure that you have the latest version.

AVG Antivirus

This is a totally free antivirus program that continually updates itself. It scans drives and emails and the personal edition is free.

Filezilla

This is a very full-featured FTP program that assists those performing website development and services. It also helps for uploading or downloading large files.


