Title: 
If I Am Going To Get A New Cell-phone What Features Are Important To Have

Word Count:
465

Summary:
When choosing a new cell-phone the options can seem quite overwhelming.  Besides the endless options of phones on the market, new phones with all kinds of new features and extras seem to be launched daily.  With the constant novelties arriving on the scene, how can you possibly know which phone is the right one for you?  Understanding a few of these features and what exactly they help you with will help you choose the phone that is right for you.  There are many different pho...


Keywords:
cell phones


Article Body:
When choosing a new cell-phone the options can seem quite overwhelming.  Besides the endless options of phones on the market, new phones with all kinds of new features and extras seem to be launched daily.  With the constant novelties arriving on the scene, how can you possibly know which phone is the right one for you?  Understanding a few of these features and what exactly they help you with will help you choose the phone that is right for you.  There are many different phones on the market, and undoubtedly there is one made to fit your needs and wants perfectly.  

If you want a camera phone, look for the following: first of all, check into the phone’s memory capacity.  A phone that has internal memory, but no expansion slot for a memory card, will hardly fit any pictures; if you plan on using your camera feature, be sure to look for a phone that accepts memory cards.  Another important feature on the camera will be the flash or other lighting mechanism; since the main idea of the camera on your phone is for the practicality of it, you will probably be whipping it out in some dark situations such as nightclubs, etc – without a lighting feature – the camera won’t do much good.  Last item on the camera issue is quality; look for a camera with at least a 1.3 mega-pixel resolution, lower than that will not render you very nice pictures.

Another popular feature in cell phones the ability to play music.  This comes in two different features, radio and mp3s.  A phone with a radio is simple enough, but if you want a phone that plays mp3s, be sure to look for a phone with a memory expansion slot, or you won’t be able to fit many mp3s in your phone.

Many phones can connect with computers through different ways, USB cables, Bluetooth, and infrared are the most common.  Having these features allows you to pass data between the phone and your computer.  If you have memory in your phone it can also act as a USB drive.

Check out the connectivity features of a phone you are interested in, many phones are capable of accessing the internet, allowing you to check email and sign into messenger programs.  Although the speed of writing text on a phone is often slow, except in the case of phones with a full keyboard, this is a very handy feature for trips and other situations when you need to communicate with someone via internet.  Prices for accessing the internet vary between phone companies, so be sure to check with your local service for details.

Other small details to think about include screen size and color, warranty extensions, ringtone formats, gaming options, etc.


