Title: 
Importance Of Cell Phone Accessories

Word Count:
403

Summary:
It is difficult to find a person who doesn’t have cell phone these days. Cell phones have spread rapidly with maintenance costs reducing due to liberalization of telecom sector in most countries of the world. Cell phone market has in fact generated huge revenue in the last 5 years. A number of mobile service providers have also come up in all the countries and they have created a thriving business for themselves.

Recently, one more issue came to into the limelight. It is t...


Keywords:



Article Body:
It is difficult to find a person who doesn’t have cell phone these days. Cell phones have spread rapidly with maintenance costs reducing due to liberalization of telecom sector in most countries of the world. Cell phone market has in fact generated huge revenue in the last 5 years. A number of mobile service providers have also come up in all the countries and they have created a thriving business for themselves.

Recently, one more issue came to into the limelight. It is the safety of the mobile phone devices and the safety of the users while using them. The main purpose of buying cell phone accessories is safety. They also help you take full advantage of your cell phone. It can either perform at a higher level after addition of these accessories and might even look better than before. By adding proper accessories of your requirement, you can even use your cell phone as a multipurpose device.

As stated above, cell phone accessories have different functions. Some of them are designed for security, some for safety, and some just for looks. There are a number of companies in the market which produce cell phone accessories. Some of the most popular cell phone accessories producing companies are Panasonic, Nokia, Motorola, Siemens, Kyocera, Philips, Samsung, Sony-Ericsson, and Bosch.

Some of the most popular cell phone accessories are:

Hands-free car kit – This enables a person to talk on his cell phone while keeping his hands rested on the car steering. Hence, it helps in ensuring the safety of the user. Main points to be observed when buying a hands free kit are the comfort, design, and sound quality of the kit.

Travel charger – A travel charger can help you recharge your cell phone if the battery runs low during any time of the travel.

Bluetooth – This is a device which can add additional capability to your cell phone. A cell phone with a bluetooth device can establish a wireless connection with some other specific devices with the same capability. Hence, it eliminates the need to use physical cables.

Antenna booster – This can help in increasing the signal reception of your mobile phone. It is very helpful when used during travel in hills and mountains.

Data cable – This accessory helps you in transfer of files and data between your mobile phone and your personal computer.

Other popular accessories are face plate, phone strap and belt clip.


