Title: 
Increasing Navigation Safety

Word Count:
437

Summary:
It is in fact a horrifying moment the one when a computer user realizes that a virus has managed to penetrate his or her CPU system and destroyed years of data and hard work. In an effort to minimize the probability of having to experience such a stressful moment, most computer users have now installed in their computer's memory, software programs that act as shields against such malicious threats. These system defenders, generally known as antivirus software programs are des...


Keywords:
Computers, software programs, antivirus program, navigation


Article Body:
It is in fact a horrifying moment the one when a computer user realizes that a virus has managed to penetrate his or her CPU system and destroyed years of data and hard work. In an effort to minimize the probability of having to experience such a stressful moment, most computer users have now installed in their computer's memory, software programs that act as shields against such malicious threats. These system defenders, generally known as antivirus software programs are designed to recognize and prevent malicious computer code from being executed without the user's knowledge or permission. According to experts, most of today's computer users have at least one antivirus system installed in their computer's hard disk.

Just like mothers advise their children to dress warmly and drink lots of fluids, like orange juices which contain high quantities of Vitamin C, in order to protect their health during the cold winter season, so should a computer user take good care of his or her personal CPU. First, it is important to be aware of the different types of viruses that exist and also to know how they work. But most importantly, one has to keep his or her computer current with the latest updates and antivirus tools. Knowing which the recent threats are is not enough. It is of immense significance to frequently update the antivirus program installed and to follow some simple basic rules when surfing the Internet, downloading files, and opening attachments. According to those who had suffered from malicious code, it does not matter what is the type of virus that your computer has been infected with, or through which method it was led to your computer's hard-disk, as it is critical for you to be able to remove it and to prevent any further damage from taking place.

Towards that direction, computer developers have developed antivirus software systems, Internet firewalls, and antispyware programs. Each of these methods can decrease the possibility of a computer being affected by a dangerous virus, but nothing can guarantee 100 percent that a computer will stay virus-free forever. The only thing one can do towards that direction, is to continue improving his or her computer's security by keeping the firewall system up-to-date and maintaining a current antivirus software subscription. Following the generally accepted guidelines, of never opening an email attachment coming from an unknown sender or avoid downloading programs from not-trusted sources, can lead to a safer online navigation. These simple rules, along with the performing frequent system updates and keeping backup data files, might be the only methods computer users have so as to continue enjoying a virus-free life.


