Title: 
Increase Business Profits With Goldmine Software

Word Count:
430

Summary:
If the time has come to increase business profits and you aren’t sure which tool is right to increase customer sales and customer service through a more cohesive system then you need to be looking at GoldMine Software.

It’s simple enough that the average user can take it out of the box, install, at start to use but if you really want to use the full power of GoldMine Software you should really take part in the training that GoldMine provides. It will let you tap into the p...


Keywords:



Article Body:
If the time has come to increase business profits and you aren’t sure which tool is right to increase customer sales and customer service through a more cohesive system then you need to be looking at GoldMine Software.

It’s simple enough that the average user can take it out of the box, install, at start to use but if you really want to use the full power of GoldMine Software you should really take part in the training that GoldMine provides. It will let you tap into the powers of this impressive software.

GoldMine’s power comes from the Dbase database engine and it integrates with either MS-SQL or Oracle. You can import your database so that there’s no need for staff to retype all your existing data which can take up a great deal of time.

This software was designed for small to medium size call centers and there is no other contact manager that has as much functionality as GoldMine.

GoldMine has the power to keep things organized between departments, synchronizing information using various routes. It will run standalone or networked through the internet and the intranet.

You can share information calendar information, appointments, customer sales records all over the internet, through your local intranet, or via email. You can even use the design wizard to customize the program to your exact needs such as customizing forms.

You can use it with MS-Word, WordPerfect, or with the built in word processor. And of course the information that is stored in the database is designed for staff of all levels and departments to access. That means your sales staff, your secretary, your marketing people, and management can all access the data and all at the same time.

You can control who sees what simply by utilizing the security module that lets you assign different levels of access to different employees.

It also combines contact management, sales automation, sales forecasting, day and time planning, workflow automation, and analysis, and mail list management with group calendaring, database design, data synchronization and e-mail messaging. This is a powerful package that has the ability to help your organization increase efficiency and profits.

It’s ease of use means you won’t get the resistance often seen with programs that are difficult and intimidating to staff. It’s ability to reduce workloads because of the central location of data makes staff want to use it. That’s a win-win for everyone.

If your small to medium size business is looking for a boost GoldMine software is a great place to start!


