Title: 
Initial GPS, Where Do You Find Them

Word Count:
517

Summary:
Does a GPS unit need a Garmin logo on its back to be considered an efficient device? The answer is of course not. In fact, when it comes to the retail industry, ‘name’ can often just be an excuse to add hundreds maybe even thousands more to a product’s price tag. Many consumers get caught up in the hype simply because through the television, Internet and magazines they’ve had a chance to become more familiar with the brand names. Well, there are plenty of GPS brands that are ...


Keywords:
Initial GPS,GPS,


Article Body:
Does a GPS unit need a Garmin logo on its back to be considered an efficient device? The answer is of course not. In fact, when it comes to the retail industry, ‘name’ can often just be an excuse to add hundreds maybe even thousands more to a product’s price tag. Many consumers get caught up in the hype simply because through the television, Internet and magazines they’ve had a chance to become more familiar with the brand names. Well, there are plenty of GPS brands that are not as well-known that are still wonderful devices. This article will talk about one of them, the Initial GPS models.

Initial GPSes are some of the most hard-to-find GPS brands in the market. Perhaps this might be due to the fact that Initial Technology, the company making them, is actually a business geared towards making entertainment devices. This seems to show in a couple of Initial GPS devices, but in a good way. These models, the Initial GPS GD-72, (which costs $449.99), the Initial GPS GD-71, (which costs $469.99), and the Initial GPS GM-410, (which costs $229.99), are the only GPS units that actually offer built-in DVD players. The Initial GPS GD-72 and the Initial GPS GD-71 even look like portable DVD players. The Initial GPS GM-410, on the other hand, has an appearance typical to most GPS units.

As far as navigational capabilities, Initial GPSes are no different than any other type of GPS. The above-mentioned Initial GPS GD-72 and Initial GPS GD-71 along with the other non-DVD Initial GPSes, (including the $199.99 GM-350 GPS Receiver and the $379.99 GM-501 GPS Receiver), are pretty much the same when it comes to navigation. Their interface consists of colorized touch screens and Bluetooth technology for hands-free telephone calls. The devices include preloaded U.S. maps and 2 million points of interest. As far as directions, they are voiced, a feature common in many famous brands available on the market.

Initial GPS models offer a unique choice for those looking for more affordable GPS options. Not only are they pretty much standard when it comes to GPS navigation, but many of them even have DVD players. Such a feature allows one to save even more money, since portable DVD players by themselves can be hundreds of dollars. Truly, these types of Initial GPS models can almost be considered an all-in-one device, since they provide both GPS capabilities as well as DVD capabilities. The only challenge one will face if they do want to purchase an Initial GPS is where to buy one. The Initial Technology site doesn’t even offer the products for sale, and of the few sites that do, the more interesting Initial GPS GD-71 and Initial GPS GD-72 models tend to not be in stock. Even the average shopping comparison site seems barren when one tries to search for Initial GPSes. However, you will find that Target stores carry a full line of Initial GPS receivers. Another good source is the Internet and auction sites like eBay. No matter where you find them Initial GPS systems are easy to use and reliable.


