Title: 
Insane Aquarium: The Craziest And Addicting Fish Game Online

Word Count:
444

Summary:
Have you ever experienced collecting coins while at the same time fighting the aliens and feeding the fish? You may think that such thing does not exist, but it does. It is the game that would really make you go insane. People who know it call it the insane aquarium.

Insane aquarium is an action puzzle game. It allows you to feed your fishes, watch the aquarium and captivates the underworld. You can use your funds when you needed to buy for new fishes, unlock the secrets o...


Keywords:
aquarium


Article Body:
Have you ever experienced collecting coins while at the same time fighting the aliens and feeding the fish? You may think that such thing does not exist, but it does. It is the game that would really make you go insane. People who know it call it the insane aquarium.

Insane aquarium is an action puzzle game. It allows you to feed your fishes, watch the aquarium and captivates the underworld. You can use your funds when you needed to buy for new fishes, unlock the secrets of the pets or upgrade your aquarium.

However, you have to be careful and alert. There are aliens that love seafood which might destroy your aquarium. Meaning, you really have to watch out for them. It is all up to you on how you will defend your fishes and your aquarium from the aliens.

•Insane Aquarium Features

1.Four types of game. They are: Trial, Adventure, Time, Virtual Tank and the Challenge.
2.Amazing sounds and graphics
3.Defeat terrifying aliens
4.Supply your aquarium or virtual tank with new fishes
5.Make your own customized aquarium screensaver

•In playing the insane aquarium…

The game usually starts with only 2 fishes in the aquarium. You should take care of the fishes. You should also keep the aliens away from the fishes which appear from time to time to eat them.

Take care of your fish and you will earn coins or money from them. Collect the coins and use them to buy supplies or upgrades for any of the following:


•Buy Fish – a button will allow you to buy more fishes.
•Food – you can upgrade the food for you not to feed your pets very often.
•Food Quantity – you can upgrade the amount of food pellets which you can give to your fish.
•Buy Carnivore – some of your fish will not consume the food that you drop, so you must feed them with other alternative.
•Weapon Upgrade – you will have the chance to upgrade your weapon which will allow you to destroy the terrifying aliens more quickly.
•Purchase Egg Piece – The objective of each stage is to be able to obtain the 3 egg pieces before you proceed to the next stage.

Insane aquarium is really an enjoyable fish game which has new pet, fishes and extraterrestrial aliens as you proceed and complete the game. The idea of the insane aquarium sound stupid but it is addicting and amusing. It has different levels and a replay ability which is excellent.

Insane aquarium is not really a crazy game. It is just insane, which make it the most played fish game online. Surely, your entire family will enjoy playing this game like many people do.


