Title: 
Instructions On How To Refill An Ink Cartridge

Word Count:
531

Summary:
While cartridges differ depending on the manufacturer, technology, and so on, the ink cartridge refill instructions are fairly similar between all of them. Some brands will be easier or more difficult to refill, but they all can be refilled if you know what you’re doing. Without further ado, below are the instructions for refilling your ink cartridge:

1. You will need an ink refill kit, which can be purchased from a variety of companies, both online and even in some office...


Keywords:
Ink cartridge refill instructions


Article Body:
While cartridges differ depending on the manufacturer, technology, and so on, the ink cartridge refill instructions are fairly similar between all of them. Some brands will be easier or more difficult to refill, but they all can be refilled if you know what you’re doing. Without further ado, below are the instructions for refilling your ink cartridge:

1. You will need an ink refill kit, which can be purchased from a variety of companies, both online and even in some office supply chains. One thing you need to make sure is that the refill kit is the right one for your specific cartridge, as the results are far from guaranteed if you get one designed for a different cartridge. The kits will cost less than new cartridges, but the price depends on which printer you use and which company you buy from.

2. Depending on the cartridge you will be refilling and whether it is black or color, your kit will contain ink containers, syringes and needles, unless the containers come with built-in syringes, and refilling instructions that will likely have specific instructions for your specific cartridge. Some kits include latex gloves and cartridge holder. Even if you’ve read these instructions, you should at least skim the instructions provided in the kit, since they will likely be more specific.

3. Now that you’re all ready to start, you should clear some area at your table and cover it to prevent any damage to your furniture from ink spills. Several layers of newspaper or a flat piece of cardboard should do the trick. Also have some paper towels handy, just in case.

4. If your kit came with a syringe and a needle, assemble those. It’s best to have separate syringe and needle for each color or at the very least clean and them thoroughly before introducing any new colors.

5. Put on latex gloves, which will likely come with the kit, or buy some separately.

6. Draw the ink from the bottle into the syringe, unless, of course, the bottle came with built-in needle, in which case you can skip this step.

7. The cartridge should have a hole at the top that will need to be pushed through with a needle of some sort. Don’t use the syringe needle, since it may bent. The exact location of the hole depends on the cartridge.

8. Insert the needle into the hole you just created all the way and begin slowly filling the chamber. It’s very important to do it in a slow, steady pace to avoid creating foam and introducing air into the cartridge.

9. Once you have filled the ink chamber, remove the needle and return any unused ink into the ink bottle, then clean the syringe with water and dry it in open air for later use.

10. Let the cartridge sit for a few hours before placing it into the printer.

11. Put the cartridge into the printer and run the cleaning cycle a few times to ensure the best performance.

That’s all there is to ink cartridge refill instructions. Once again, these are general steps and you should consult the instructions that came with the kit to ensure best possible results.


