Title: 
Instant LAN Messaging Software - LAN Messenger

Word Count:
409

Summary:
LAN Messenger, a instant LAN messaging software for home or office users, can be very useful for your work, One LAN instant messenger enables you to communicate with other users connected across the same LAN, allows you to chat with one or more users, or to send an alert message that will show as a small pop-up window on the users desktop. some Land messenger includes many features like auto-reply text, file transfers, multi-user chat, online status, alert messages to all use...


Keywords:
software,downloads,reviews


Article Body:
LAN Messenger, a instant LAN messaging software for home or office users, can be very useful for your work, One LAN instant messenger enables you to communicate with other users connected across the same LAN, allows you to chat with one or more users, or to send an alert message that will show as a small pop-up window on the users desktop. some Land messenger includes many features like auto-reply text, file transfers, multi-user chat, online status, alert messages to all users and more.

This article will help you find one land messenger for your business. These freeware or sharewares combine ease-of-use, power and flexibility.

Bopup Messenger, it is from blabsoft, this instant messenger enables you to communicate with other users connected across the same LAN. It is compatible with standard messengers like WinPopup and Net Send. It has extended message support, scans users and computers on a local network, and supports 10 languages. It includes an ignore list, file transfer, message logging, command line support and group support.

Softros LAN Messenger is another network messenger for your company office with support for file transfers, message broadcasting and encrypted conversations. It does not require a server or Internet connection and will automatically detect any clients that are currently connected to the network. Other features include group messages, message history log, sound notifications, away/busy status and more. Softros LAN Messenger is easy-to-use and can be used immediately without any further configuration.

Bopup Messenger, This instant messenger enables you to communicate with other users connected across the same LAN. It is compatible with standard messengers like WinPopup and Net Send. It has extended message support, scans users and computers on a local network, and supports 10 languages. It includes an ignore list, file transfer, message logging, command line support and group support.

PcMessenger is an easy to use instant messaging software for office communication. It does not require a server or an internet connection and is easy to install. Required .Net Framework 2.0 is included in Setup. Utilizes a small memory footprint; 3,000K. Includes features such as Group messaging, User defined Presets for fast response, Spell Check, Attachment option, capability to insert, cut and paste graphic images and much more.

All these software are easy to setup and does not require a dedicated server or Internet connection. The client is feature rich with chat, notification, conferencing, and file transfer. One business IM system designed for your local area network can help you more.


