Title: 
Integrating ACT! With Other Office Software

Word Count:
533

Summary:
ACT! is a diverse CRM software solution that will keep excellent track of your customer data. On top of that integrating ACT! with other office software is no problem at all.

Most of us use either Microsoft Outlook as our email package because it is more than that. Microsoft Outlook as a calendar, contact list, and to do list attached to it but it’s not the greatest for managing customer relationships. That’s the reason why ACT! delivers a very robust integration with outl...


Keywords:



Article Body:
ACT! is a diverse CRM software solution that will keep excellent track of your customer data. On top of that integrating ACT! with other office software is no problem at all.

Most of us use either Microsoft Outlook as our email package because it is more than that. Microsoft Outlook as a calendar, contact list, and to do list attached to it but it’s not the greatest for managing customer relationships. That’s the reason why ACT! delivers a very robust integration with outlook.

ACT! and Microsoft Outlook work hand with ACT! allowing you to integrate your calendars, contacts, and email capturing all of your information to be captured in ACT!. You can readily and easily use information between these programs which creates a seamless system for book appointments, scheduling call backs, or replying to emails with data stored in the ACT! database.

ACT! also integrates nicely with other office programs such as Microsoft Word and Excel. That means that you can quickly pull information into word. For example perhaps you are doing up a Christmas newsletter, you could incorporate all the mailing addresses stored in ACT! in minutes. No laborious work here.

Same goes for Excel. We often use Excel to deal with financial information, perhaps projections, or markup scenarios. What ever you reason for pulling data into Excel ACT! does it seamlessly.

For your sales staff ACT! allows them to tract not just sales that have occurred but sales opportunities and all from that initial inquiry. You can filter this information by what products they were interest in, what date they purchased, the order status, the amount of the sales, and a host of other variables. Basically you can pull what ever information your criteria sets. If you collect it you can request it back in a very usable format.

If you’d like to see what’s going on at a glance you can pull your information into Excel and use the graphing capabilities. There are also some graphing capabilities in the ACT! report writer.

If you have critical data that you need to be able to have staff access remotely then you’ll want the mobile solutions which will let them hook up with their cellular phone, Blackberry, or PDF. What they can remotely access can be determined by management or the IT department and then it can be configured accordingly.

You might also want to explore the ACT! accounting integration options which give you real time access to your customers and vendors. You can effortlessly find the information you need in seconds.

Integrating ACT! with other office software is not that difficult. It comes ready to integrate with many of the Microsoft Office programs. It also has several of its own add on modules.

Some of the add on modules that are available include addressing, shipping, document management project management, sales management, email, direct mail marketing, and a host of others.

What are you waiting for? Isn’t the time to ACT! now? After all it’s a competitive world out there and you want to stay ahead of your pact don’t you? Whatever you need to do this is a program that can do it.


