Title: 
Investing In A Big Screen TV

Word Count:
453

Summary:
A decade ago buying a 29” TV was a big deal and we were very excited when we got ours. My husband and I had just gotten married and we wanted to buy one for our first apartment. We were thrilled with our home entertainment center and all if offered with various accessories. We have that same TV today but when you compare it to the size of the new TV’s on the market, it is very small. It also doesn’t offer much in the way of features.

My sister bought a 42” plasma screen a ...


Keywords:
hdtv accessories


Article Body:
A decade ago buying a 29” TV was a big deal and we were very excited when we got ours. My husband and I had just gotten married and we wanted to buy one for our first apartment. We were thrilled with our home entertainment center and all if offered with various accessories. We have that same TV today but when you compare it to the size of the new TV’s on the market, it is very small. It also doesn’t offer much in the way of features.

My sister bought a 42” plasma screen a while back, and I can really tell a difference in our TV after I have been watching hers for a while. Yet my sister wasn’t very impressed with the big screen TV. She was disappointed that she had spent so much money on it. She really didn’t feel that the size of the picture or the quality of it was really worth it. She decided to take it back to the store for a refund and she was happy to buy a smaller TV that featured surround sound.

It wasn’t long after that when my parents took the same leap with their TV choice. They invested in the 42” Sony plasma model. My mother has always had the belief that a TV should be hidden when it isn’t in use. She didn’t like the fact that they had a 32” monitor that sat in plain site. She agreed to buy the larger TV only if my dad would agree to buy a cabinet with doors to close when the TV wasn’t being watched.

My father was accepting of this deal, and headed right out to buy the 42” plasma before my mother changed her mind or added more negotiations to the deal. Yet my dad didn’t invest in the cabinet and opted for a bamboo blind to cover it when it wasn’t being watched. People who visit my parents always ask about this odd feature in their living room.

I do want to buy a larger screen TV for our own home but I am waiting for the prices to come down. There are also some bugs with various plasma TV’s so I want to wait for them to be worked out as well. I have found in the past that is better to sit back and watch for a while than to jump on board when the latest item hits the market. It gives you the chance to find out what works well and what doesn’t. In the mean time we can go lift up the bamboo blind and watch the big plasma TV at my parent’s house.


