Title: 
iPhone News Never Fail To Excite

Word Count:
432

Summary:
Not even three months after its monumental release, Apple’s iphone is making really big news not only in the traditional media but also in the World Wide Web. iphone news have recently become more than just about features of the touchscreen-phone iPod. In fact, a person around the world search for iphone news even before the phone was launched last June.

When the rumors first came out that Steve Jobs’ Apple will be issuing an iPod with call and SMS capabilities, a lot of p...


Keywords:
Iphone News


Article Body:
Not even three months after its monumental release, Apple’s iphone is making really big news not only in the traditional media but also in the World Wide Web. iphone news have recently become more than just about features of the touchscreen-phone iPod. In fact, a person around the world search for iphone news even before the phone was launched last June.

When the rumors first came out that Steve Jobs’ Apple will be issuing an iPod with call and SMS capabilities, a lot of people have started calling it an iphone. With no official iphone news from Apple, many bloggers and tech enthusiasts have started discussing about the then-to-be-launched iphone. Soon, more iphone news was published in the Internet.

Truth be told, when Apple made the iphone available to public that very historic Friday in June, iphone news was indeed big news! Customers lined up for the iphone launch. The earliest was Monday, 4-days before the official launch. iphone news has it that many were excited with the product that combines an iPod, amobile phone, and even a wireless Internet device into one.

Apple Fans Love the Latest iphone News

Until today, Apple has never failed to give the Apple lovers and even those who think the cellphone is just hype with all the iphone news they want. The first week of September saw the release of Apple’s newest iPod models: the clip-on shuffle in new colors, the new fatty iPod Nano, the iPod classic, and the iPod Touch. The announcement proved to bring another Apple sensation in the media and the world. Just like iphone news, reports on the newest iPods are taking the world by storm.

However, early iphone adapters are disappointed with Steve Job’s statement that the iPone’s price will go down by almost $200, 3 months after they bought the $599 Apple phone. The change in price came with the release of iPod touch---an iphone without the phone. But 2 days after the announcement during Apple’s The Special Event, Steve Job’s sent out an open letter to the iphone owners that they will be receiving a $100 store credit reward. Now, the iphone owners are more than happy with the rebate after crying foul over the price cut.

Over the past few months of iphone news history, it is easy to note that Apple iphone is not just hype nor hysteria. It can be considered as a breakthrough gadget because it paved the way for many new hi-tech gadgets such as touchscreen phones, touchscreen MP3 players, and of course, the new iPods. http://www.the-iphone.biz


