Title: 
Ipod Shuffle As The Proud Possession Of Music Enthusiasts

Word Count:
784

Summary:
It is said that creation follows recreation and vice versa. Entertainment is really an indispensable means of relaxing and refreshing yourself especially after a hectic schedule. There are numerous ways of unwinding yourself. However, music has always been and will always remain the prime source of entertainment for most of the people in the world. 

With the advancement in technologies around the world, new kind of gadgets are being manufactured to cater to the needs of th...


Keywords:
ipod, mp3 player, mp4 player, podcast, podcasting


Article Body:
It is said that creation follows recreation and vice versa. Entertainment is really an indispensable means of relaxing and refreshing yourself especially after a hectic schedule. There are numerous ways of unwinding yourself. However, music has always been and will always remain the prime source of entertainment for most of the people in the world. 

With the advancement in technologies around the world, new kind of gadgets are being manufactured to cater to the needs of the millions of music-lovers thereby, tapping the potentiality of this growing music industry. This process has brought a revolution in the electronic-gadget industry as we have been witnessing a phenomenal rise in the sales of different music-related gadgets across the globe. 

Among all types of music-related electronic gizmos, iPod Shuffles have become a roaring success ever since they were invented. iPod Shuffles are regarded as the most easy, convenient and comfortable means of listening to your favorite music on the move all the time. iPod Shuffles are actually an advanced and improved versions of MP3 players and they offer a number of additional features that enhance the quality of sound providing a whole new meaning to the concept of music-listening. It is no wonder then why iPod stands as the best selling MP3/MP4 players in the world market today. Its success can be largely attributed to its sleek design, unique user-interface, elegant look, and superlative sound quality.

The concept of iPod came into being in October 23, 2001 when Apple Corporation first released its iPod Shuffle. At present, we are on the 5th generation of iPod. This high-end MP4 player boasts of 60 to 80 GB memory storage, video capability and a host of other attractive features that can potentially entice millions of music enthusiasts, gizmo geeks and techno junkies around the world. So, if you are one of those die-hard music lovers and have been pondering over buying yourself an iPod Shuffle, be aware of its pro and cons. The following are a few very useful facts that you should know about iPods before you settle for one. Take a peek:

Internal Memory: 

Internal Memory of an iPod can vary from 512MB to 80 GB depending upon the size as well as price factor. The latest edition of iPod Shuffle from Apple comes in two different versions, one with 512MB that offers storage of about 120 songs and, the other with 1GB allowing the users to store up to 240 songs. iPods having higher storage facility will cost you more. So, choose the one according to your need.

Battery Life: 

It is extremely important to check the battery life of the iPods while buying one. Usually, most iPods come with a built-in rechargeable battery. However, you should ensure that the iPod Shuffle you are buying has an AC/DV adaptor for quick battery charge. The current edition from Apple includes a 12-hour rechargeable battery.

Size: 

iPods can be found in a wide-range of sizes. When it comes to the size of an iPod, more often than not, it depends on the features of a particular player. For instance, iPods featuring large screen, video capability, and hard drive facility can be big in size. As a result, they cost more. Be specific about your need; know what you want from an MP3 player, and then pick the one that suits you the best.

USB: 

Universal Serial Bus or USB is a standard feature of all iPods. This helps you plug and connect the player to your PC enabling you to drag and drop music files from your PC into your iPod. The latest model of iPod supports USB 2.0 transfer. 

Audio Format: 

Make it a point to check whether the iPod you are buying supports some specific audio formats. Typically, all iPods, MP3 and MP4 players invariably support MP3 format. However, some players do not support all audio formats. For Instance, you may not be able to listen to a downloaded track just because your player does not support that particular music file which is in WMA format. Check the player`s specifications before buying it and make sure that your iPod supports most standard audio formats. 

Additional Features: 

Most MP3 players, MP4 players and iPod Shuffles are now available with a host of additional features like FM tuner and audio recording facility. Some players might cost you more just because they include these additional features. There is no point in paying more if these features are not of much interest to you. So, just look before you leap!!!

This article is under GNU FDL license and can be distributed without any previous authorization from the author. However the author's name and all the URLs (links) mentioned in the article and biography must be kept.


