Title: 
Joomla! CMS For Cutting Edge Content Management

Word Count:
447

Summary:
Joomla is an award-winning Content Management System (CMS) that will help you build websites and other powerful online applications. Best of all, Joomla is an open source solution that is freely available to everybody

Joomla in Action:

Joomla is one of the most powerful Open Source Content Management Systems on the planet. It is used all over the world for everything from simple websites to complex corporate applications. Joomla is easy to install, simple to manage, and...


Keywords:
freehost. free web site hosting, webhost, internet, webdesign, website design, hosting


Article Body:
Joomla is an award-winning Content Management System (CMS) that will help you build websites and other powerful online applications. Best of all, Joomla is an open source solution that is freely available to everybody

Joomla in Action:

Joomla is one of the most powerful Open Source Content Management Systems on the planet. It is used all over the world for everything from simple websites to complex corporate applications. Joomla is easy to install, simple to manage, and reliable.

Joomla! Features:

1) Completely database driven site engines
2) News, products or services sections fully editable and manageable

3) Topics sections can be added to by contributing authors
4) Fully customisable layouts including left, center and right menu boxes

5) Browser upload of images to your own library for use anywhere in the site
6) Dynamic Forum/Poll/Voting booth for on-the-spot results
7) Runs on Linux, FreeBSD, MacOSX server, Solaris and AIX

Extensive Administration:

Change order of objects including news, FAQs, articles etc.
Random Newsflash generator
Remote author submission module for News, Articles, FAQs and Links
Object hierarchy - as many sections, departments, divisions and pages as you want
Image library - store all your PNGs, PDFs, DOCs, XLSs, GIFs and JPEGs online for easy use
Automatic Path-Finder. Place a picture and let Joomla! fix the link
News feed manager. Choose from over 360 news feeds from around the world
Archive manager. Put your old articles into cold storage rather than throw them out
Email-a-friend and Print-format for every story and article
In-line Text editor similar to Word Pad
User editable look and feel
Polls/Surveys - Now put a different one on each page
Custom Page Modules. Download custom page modules to spice up your site
Template Manager. Download templates and implement them in seconds
Layout preview. See how it looks before going live
Banner manager. Make money out of your site

Is a Joomla! CMS web site difficult to maintain:?

Once Joomla! is installed and running, it is simple for even non-technical users to add or edit content, update images, and to manage the critical data that makes your company or organization go. Anybody with basic word processing skills can easily learn to manage a Joomla site. Via a simple, browser-based interface you will be able to easily add new press releases or news items, manage staff pages, job listings, product images, and create an unlimited amount of sections or content pages on your site.

Where do you see Joomla in the future?

I see Joomla as an extremely robust and attractive CMS for businesses and people who just want to run a website. If we can get the documentation issues sorted out, Mambo will be a market leading CMS, and I have no doubt about that


