Title: 
Knowing More About The Adobe Photoshop

Word Count:
562

Summary:
In 1987, brothers John and Thomas Knoll started developing a computer program that would focus mainly on imaging and photography using the computer. Little did the brothers knew by that time that they would come to develop one of the computer world's most sought after software---the Adobe Photoshop.

When the program was initially developed, the Knolls established a firm called the Adobe Systems. The history of the company is equally interesting as the Photoshop itself. You...


Keywords:
photo shop tutorial,adobe photo shop tutorial,free photo shop tutorial


Article Body:
In 1987, brothers John and Thomas Knoll started developing a computer program that would focus mainly on imaging and photography using the computer. Little did the brothers knew by that time that they would come to develop one of the computer world's most sought after software---the Adobe Photoshop.

When the program was initially developed, the Knolls established a firm called the Adobe Systems. The history of the company is equally interesting as the Photoshop itself. You might be wondering where the name Adobe was derived. 

The word is obviously not a family name of the company's founders, but is a name of a creek located at the back of the house of the Knolls. There must be something special about that creek, perhaps good photographic scenery that helped the brothers take inspiration in developing the Photoshop.

The first version of the Adobe Photoshop was released in 1990. Since then, many modifications have been made. Now, Adobe Photoshop is the market pioneer and leader in image manipulation using the computer. The software is very great help to newspaper layout people and photographers, who strive to create good packaging of content products.

The Adobe Photoshop has become an industry standard when it comes to tasks involving visual elements. The program combines the genuine beauty of real pictures with the original and awesome creative features modern computer technology has to offer.

Photoshop's impact to the industry

Because everything is turning digital in the computer age, Photoshop is considered one of the most basic software any corporate firm must invest in. Digital image manipulation is the thing of the modern times. That is why the popularity of Photoshop is truly rapidly rising.

Now, photographers and even aspiring photographers are in equal footing when it comes to image manipulation. Imaging tasks that used to be done by professionals over about two to three days, would certainly be accomplished using the Photoshop for just a couple of hours, if not minutes.

Now, no photographic image would be good without passing the digital process manipulation under Photoshop. In every photograph, there is always a bit of flaw, and it is the job of Adobe Photoshop to help photography editors to modify and conceal those irritating little flows.

The Creative Suite

The most commonly used versions of the Adobe Photoshop are the Adobe versions 3 to 7. But if you encounter Adobe Photoshop CS versions, do not fret. These software are actually the more modern versions, or modifications, of the same old reliable Photoshop.

Of course, as time went on, many features of the Photoshop had to be adjusted and made better to cope up with users' ever expanding and demanding requirements. The Adobe Photoshop CS is the customized software for those demands.

Adobe has rebranded its modern Photoshop products with the CS brand so that users and software buyers would easily identify which products carry Adobe's most excellent and latest features. There is not much difference though.

However, it is an accepted fact that like the advanced Photoshop versions in the past, Adobe Photoshop CS products are expensively priced. But the company is now coming up with sub-versions that do not completely offer all the usual features of the Adobe CS Photoshop. These sub-versions are usually less priced.

If you are into photography or computer layouting, be sure to get your own copy of the Adobe Photoshop or Adobe Photoshop CS software.


