Title: 
Latest Psp Mp4 Ipod Video Converter

Word Count:
721

Summary:
Some video software on the internet help you to convert your DVD file to iPod/PSP/MP4 format! You can convert any video DVD, commercial or not, original or copy, and also ISO files or DVDs copied on your hard-disk (VIDEO_TS folders). Some converter supports all major formats (NTSC, PAL). No matter where the DVDs are published (US, Europe or Asia) – the 99bytes tool converts them all! 

Personal PSP MP4 iPod Video Converter Software helps you watch music video and movies on ...


Keywords:
iPod,PSP,MP4,Movie Converter,Video Converter


Article Body:
Some video software on the internet help you to convert your DVD file to iPod/PSP/MP4 format! You can convert any video DVD, commercial or not, original or copy, and also ISO files or DVDs copied on your hard-disk (VIDEO_TS folders). Some converter supports all major formats (NTSC, PAL). No matter where the DVDs are published (US, Europe or Asia) – the 99bytes tool converts them all! 

Personal PSP MP4 iPod Video Converter Software helps you watch music video and movies on your IPod or PSP Player with easy. With variable settings and fast converting speed to convert IPod and PSP movies, with high quality, which enables you to enjoy your favorite movie on your IPod/PSP anywhere and anyway. 

Ultra iPod Movie Converter enables you to convert most popular video formats to iPod Movie MP4 (MPEG4/H264) format. It supports a wide variety of input formats, including DivX, XviD, AVI, WMV, MPG, MPEG, MP4, M4V, FLV, 3GP, ASF, RM, RMVB, MOV, ASX, MKV, OGM, SVCD, VCD, and VOB. The program also allows you to pick a specific scene from the video, using the built-in video editor that allows you to select a custom start and end time. Ultra iPod Movie Converter offers several conversion profiles based on the desired quality of the output as well as the option to customize frame rate, audio/video bit rate and resolution. The trial version adds a watermark and is limited to 5 minutes per video.

Moyea 3GP PSP iPod Video Converter is a media converter that allows you to convert video and audio files to 3GP (Cell Phones), MP4 (iPod and PlayStation Portable) and MP3 format. It offers ready-to-use profiles based on the device type, and also allows you to preview and customize output settings, including aspect ratio, start/end frames, contrast and brightness. You can convert a single file or batch process multiple files, and optionally join them into a single output file. The program supports most popular video formats including AVI, MPEG, MPG, WMV, MOV, RM, RMVB, MP4, DV and more.

A-one iPod PSP 3GP Converter is the most powerful Video to MP4 All Converter software. It automatically converts almost all formats of video files that are already on your computer such as DivX , XviD , AVI , WMV , MPG, MPEG , ASF , MOV , ASX , SVCD , VCD stream formats into iPod mp4 format. 

Aplus Video to iPod PSP 3GP Converter is able to convert almost all kinds of video files such as rm, divx, xvid, avi, wmv, asf, mpg, mpeg, vob, mov, qt, vcd, svcd to Apple iPod MP4 files,Sony PSP MP4 files,Cell Phones 3GP files,X-box MPEG2 files,PMP files ,PDA files, SD Video ASF files etc. with quick speed and hight quality.

MadZ DVD to iPod-PSP Video Converter will automatically convert your DVD into the appropriate format for uploading and viewing on your Apple iPod Video or Sony PSP, Just press one button. Once the files are converted, just connect your iPod Video or PSP to your computer as you normally do, and instantly the converted files will be uploaded to your player. It's that simple! Convert commercial DVDs, original DVDs, DVD copies, even downloaded DVDs. Also convert encrypted DVDs for personal use. CSS encryption is no problem for Madz DVD to iPod / PSP Video Converter. Input video can be in either NTSC or Pal format. For multilanguage DVDs, you can even choose which soundtrack language to convert. Choose and preview which titles and chapters to convert. Full control over the output format -- custom sample rate for audio, custom resolution and bit rate (quality vrs. size) for video.

Ultra PSP Movie Converter is the best PSP video converter software which can convert almost all popular video formats to PSP Movie and PSP Video (MP4/MPEG4) formats. No other program can convert so many video formats including DivX, XviD, AVI, WMV, MPG, MPEG, MP4, M4V, FLV, 3GP, ASF, RM, RMVB, MOV, ASX, MKV, OGM, SVCD, VCD, VOB to PSP Movie / PSPVideo format.

Today, You can convert movie and video clip on your iPod/PSP as a portable DVD Player. All these Video Converter, with variable settings and fast converting speed to convert, offers a powerful way to convert all popular video files to iPod & PSP movies, helps you watch music video and movies on your video iPod with easy.


