Title: 
Learning Photoshop 7 Using Online Tutorials

Word Count:
588

Summary:
Photoshop 7 is not the granddaddy of Adobe's image editing programs, but it's considered as a jump-off point by many.  In fact, if you learned Photoshop through version 7, you probably have all the skills you need to master higher versions such as the CS series.  

Since much of the attention these days is focused on CS2 and CS3, you might find some Photoshop 7 tutorials a little hard to come by.  But don’t worry, there are still sites that have kept Photoshop 7 tutorials a...


Keywords:
photo shop tutorial,adobe photo shop tutorial,free photo shop tutorial


Article Body:
Photoshop 7 is not the granddaddy of Adobe's image editing programs, but it's considered as a jump-off point by many.  In fact, if you learned Photoshop through version 7, you probably have all the skills you need to master higher versions such as the CS series.  

Since much of the attention these days is focused on CS2 and CS3, you might find some Photoshop 7 tutorials a little hard to come by.  But don’t worry, there are still sites that have kept Photoshop 7 tutorials available.  Here are some you might want to check for reference:

www.idigitalemotion.com

This site does not only feature Photoshop 7 tutorials but also includes tips on using Image Ready and higher versions like Photoshop CS.  While Photoshop 7 is a great program to start learning image editing with, this site also includes helpful tips for advanced users.  

For beginners, there are a lot of tutorials you'll find very helpful.  You just need to search for the tutorials that are marked Photoshop v.7 or 'Beginner' if you wish to start at that level.  This site features tutorials on the basics of Photoshop 7 including using texts and buttons, image manipulation and composition, using texture and backgrounds, digital creation and coloring.  It also includes video tutorials if you want more than textual tips.

Learn about overflow blending, embossing and using studio backdrops to improve the look of your photographs.  The lessons are easy to read and learning Photoshop 7 is painless.

www.computer-training-software.com
If you like learning Photoshop 7 at your own pace (and get a free certificate as well), this is a site you might want to check out.  Provided of course, that you don’t mind paying for lessons.  But at only $30 for unlimited online access, you probably have nothing to complain about.  Get more than 35,000 tutorials anytime you like.  If you're unsure, you can sign up for a free demo of the lessons to see for yourself.

www.arraich.com
This site is quite helpful if you want to learn Photoshop 7 as an inexperienced user.  You'll be guided by online tutorials every step of the way, although it's recommended you try to learn the basics first before anything else.  The tips can be deceptively tempting to jump to and you might miss out on certain key points.  You'll find it a lot easier to advance your Photoshop learning if you went slowly, starting with the basic techniques first.

Tutorials are quite easy to find because they are grouped into general topics.  Learn about Photoshop 7 tools, palettes, filters and effects.  Find out how important layers are and how color management works.  If you're a little confused, go to the Tips Index to find a more organized listing of tutorials.

On the homepage, you'll find a Photoshop 7 window showing you an overview of the main features and some menus.  The textual tips will walk you through a sample Photoshop 7 window so you'll get to know which tool goes where, what it's called and how it's used.

www.yellowpipe.com
Photoshop 7 tricks and techniques work as well on the CS series and the tutorials featured on this site are free, so you have nothing to lose.  Many of the tutorials are straightforward techniques so you might want to brush up on your Photoshop 7 basics before going in.

You can check the site from time to time for updates or subscribe to their newsletter if you want the newest info on Photoshop 7.  If you have questions about a tutorial, you can send them an e-mail through a link on their site.


