Title: 
Learn The Newest Photoshop Cs Using Tutorials

Word Count:
567

Summary:
Just when you think Photoshop has performed enough amazing feats to keep you interested, along comes its newest baby:  Photoshop CS.  If you've been using Photoshop for some time or are new to image editing software, you're probably wondering whether you should be getting the CS series.  Well, you should.  Adobe is known for making each version of Photoshop bigger and better than its predecessor and if you want to learn Photoshop CS today, here are some tutorial sites you can...


Keywords:
photo shop tutorial,adobe photo shop tutorial,free photo shop tutorial


Article Body:
Just when you think Photoshop has performed enough amazing feats to keep you interested, along comes its newest baby:  Photoshop CS.  If you've been using Photoshop for some time or are new to image editing software, you're probably wondering whether you should be getting the CS series.  Well, you should.  Adobe is known for making each version of Photoshop bigger and better than its predecessor and if you want to learn Photoshop CS today, here are some tutorial sites you can check out:

ProPhotoshopSecrets.com
The new Photoshop CS (Creative Suite) is the result of Adobe's re-branding.  What's great about this new version is that it makes the job a lot easier for both amateur and professional digital photographers.  This is why you should check out http://ProPhotoshopSecrets.com.  

Learn to make your photographs stand out and aim for perfection using the online Photoshop CS tutorials.  From CS1 to CS3, you'll find exactly what you need here.  Basic membership is free and you can log on to the site each time to access the tutorials.  You can also check out the site for DVD titles, manuals and books.  Once you're more confident about your Photoshop CS skills, join online competitions or simply show off your killer artwork.

PhotoshopSupport.com
This is one of the sites that have the most comprehensive tutorials on Photoshop materials.  From the most basic to the advanced, this is a site has it all.  Check out the CS series' new features and learn more with the Resource Center.  You can even check the page that features Photoshop CS tutorials on video.

The tutorials are also available on DVD and you can check the site for reviews and features on the products.  If you're serious about learning Photoshop CS, the videos can provide solid training on the software.  Learn the basics and the tricks and simply expand your knowledge and skills by checking out the other tutorials offered online.

PhotoshopSupport.com also contains links to the roughly 160,000 Photoshop tutorials online.  These links let you access some of the brightest sites, many of which offer Photoshop CS tricks you can't find anywhere else.  You can also use PhotoshopSupport's FAQ section and send inquiries of your own.  Another great feature of this site is that you can access the Photoshop help center.  For those times when you absolutely can't make it on your own, this is a great tool to have.

If you prefer to learn Photoshop CS from the pros but don’t want to spend a lot, why not get Andrew Hathaway's Adobe Photoshop CS Tutorial, available on CD-ROM.  The tutorial features 12 hours of lessons and is perfect for beginners.  Hathaway himself hosts the tutorials and he will walk you through the basics, explaining the tools set, selections and masks, color collection and editing.  You'll learn to use Photoshop CS the way the pros do.

Another Photoshop CS video tutorial you might want to try is Total Training for Adobe Photoshop CS2 by Deke McClelland.  This tutorial package is in DVD format and features 21.8 hours of lessons.  You'll be looking at all the lessons you need to progress from beginner to advanced user.  Learn from McClelland himself, who lets you in on how to address the most common problems and challenges when using Photoshop CS.  What he will show you is how the pros do it and you'll learn the techniques in no time.


