Title: 
Learning Photoshop Through Video Tutorials

Word Count:
606

Summary:
If the thought of learning Photoshop through textual tutorials make you snore, you might find tutorial videos more interesting.  There are lots of tutorials available on CD-ROM and DVD formats and thousands of single-lesson video clips you can view online or download to watch later.  Many of these videos are taught by a human trainer and while the videos are designed to guide you step-by-step, you can always skip lessons and jump from one clip to the next.

Here are a few y...


Keywords:
photo shop tutorial,adobe photo shop tutorial,free photo shop tutorial


Article Body:
If the thought of learning Photoshop through textual tutorials make you snore, you might find tutorial videos more interesting.  There are lots of tutorials available on CD-ROM and DVD formats and thousands of single-lesson video clips you can view online or download to watch later.  Many of these videos are taught by a human trainer and while the videos are designed to guide you step-by-step, you can always skip lessons and jump from one clip to the next.

Here are a few you might want to take home:

PhotoshopSecrets for Wacom Tablets & Photoshop
This is a great Photoshop video tutorial if you are a tablet user.  Currently, this is probably the most comprehensive, allowing you to learn how to use all the tools and features available with Adobe Photoshop.  This tutorial video is authored and taught by Colin Smith and Weston Maggio of Photoshopcafe and Wacom Technology, respectively.  Both are experienced trainers so you'll find the lessons well-paced and relevant.

This DVD ROM tutorial has more than 120 minutes of 800x600 video.  It's easy to navigate and you can click on any lesson you like without any trouble while still controlling the playback.  If you prefer to learn on your own, just click on the lesson files and play the video clip of your choice on your own free time.

PhotoshopSecrets Special FX
This tutorial video contains 19 lessons packed in approximately 2 hours of fast-loading CD-ROM.  If 'cool!' is the one word that you want to hear to feel validated for your Photoshop efforts, this video tutorial will teach you exactly how to use special effects like the pros.  Learn about 3D lathing, liquid splashes, CS branding, pixel stretching, thermal vision, toxic waste and lots more.  These are cutting-edge effects, the kind you find in more advanced Photoshop users' works so you might want to try it out for yourself.

Photoshopsupport.com
This site features some of the best and latest Photoshop tutorials, including those in video.  Use Photoshop confidently in no time with the free video tutorials.  You can even click on the links provided to find out about Photoshop products for more detailed tutorials.  If you're using Photoshop to come up with a cooler, meaner website, you'll like the short tutorials on SiteGrinder 2, an Adobe Photoshop Plugin.  

Graphicsoft.about.com
If you like free online tutorials, check out this site.  All tutorial video clips are taught by Deke McClelland, who is also the trainer for several Adobe Photoshop CS2 training CDs.  He's offering a free sample of his lessons on this site – you won't have everything you need, but the tutorials are enough to teach you some very important things and get you started.

Included in the tutorial video clips are: learning about Vanishing Point, Camera Raw, Image Warp, Smart Sharpen Filter, Smart Objects, Adobe Bridge, Match Color and Shadow Highlight Filter.  If you want to buy his tutorial videos, you'll get an exclusive 20% discount if you use the promotion code.

PhotoshopSecrets – CS2 for Digital Photographers
If you want to learn how to maximize your digital photos with the use of CS2, this video tutorial is for you.  Learn how professional photographers produce better-looking photographs and use their tricks to turn your photos from blah to blast.  This tutorial video is a CD-ROM format, has 43 lessons and runs approximately 3.5 hours.

Lessons include: using Camera Raw, image adjustment, red eye removal, grain and color noise reduction, changing perspective, using image sharpening techniques, using vanishing point, image extraction and many more.  If those lessons aren’t enough to get you interested, here are two of the most popular tools you absolutely must learn: face swapping and image retouching.


