Title: 
LED Strip Light Bulbs

Word Count:
448

Summary:
LED strip lighting replaces soon-to-be antiquated lighting sources of fluorescent and halogen light bulbs. Linear strip lights that utilize LED lamps employ semiconductor technology to generate illumination. This reduces the risk of fire hazards that result from overheated lighting equipment and cuts cost on energy consumption. Phantom LED strip lighting delivers value to both commercial and residential lighting arenas and is sweeping the technology world as the wave of the f...


Keywords:
LED strip light bulbs, LED strip lights, led lighting, LED lighting strips, led lamps, led, led bulb


Article Body:
LED strip lighting replaces soon-to-be antiquated lighting sources of fluorescent and halogen light bulbs. Linear strip lights that utilize LED lamps employ semiconductor technology to generate illumination. This reduces the risk of fire hazards that result from overheated lighting equipment and cuts cost on energy consumption. Phantom LED strip lighting delivers value to both commercial and residential lighting arenas and is sweeping the technology world as the wave of the future.

LED strip lighting lends itself perfectly to commercial applications where energy saving and maintenance costs are a concern. Both gas and filament bulbs consume a great deal of power and become very hot if burned too long. Commercial entities must pay close attention to lighting to regulate overhead and often must limited the use of their lighting systems to ensure minimized overhead. This is not a concern with LED strip lighting. The average lamp life of LED strip lights is 50,000 hours—the longest lamp life of the industry. LED lamps generate very little heat and no ultraviolet radiation. For commercial entities in need of task and aesthetic strip lighting, LED technology offers a low-voltage, cost effective solution with minimized maintenance and dramatically reduced replacement costs.

The aesthetics of an LED strip light are equally impressive to its performance. The small low profile design of Phantom strips combines with custom shielding to allow designers to use LED lighting strips in many unique and creative ways. LED linear strips may be field cut to any size. Designers highly value the flexibility that our products deliver to them any time they work with round coves or radius applications. Phantom LED strip lights also deliver a level of task lighting unsurpassed by fluorescent and halogen lights. Because they use only minimal low voltage power and do not burn hot, they can subsequently be left on for longer periods without risk of overheating and damaging their environment.

LED lamps have evolved far beyond the red, green, and blue diodes of their early prototypes. LED lamps are now able to generate millions of colors and degrees of illuminations. Many proprietary LED strip lights are fully dimmable, and can even be used in conjunction with automated home lighting and other sophisticated aesthetic methodologies. Cool white LED lamps serve ideally in commercial arenas as sources of lighting for watches, necklaces, and diamonds in jewelry stores. The brilliant white light adds a sparkle to jewelry that maximizes retail showcasing of high-end merchandise. Warm white LED lamps produce a soft, pleasant light source conducive to both commercial and residential display applications. Fine art lighting, cove lighting, and even cabinet lighting normally call for this type of LED strip light to create a mystical aura around the piece


