Title: 
Led Light Bulbs & Led Lamps

Word Count:
585

Summary:
Led light bulbs will one day become the dominant source of lighting on the planet—if not the exclusive source. They solve a multitude of economic and environmental problems that have plagued and continue to plague users of other types of lamps. The reason for this lies in the manner in which a led bulb generates light. Unlike incandescents and fluorescent bulbs, a led light does not utilize a filament or any type of luminary gas. Instead, led lighting bulb technology is based...


Keywords:
led light bulb, led lamps, led linear lghting strips, led strip lighting lamps, led, diode, led bulb


Article Body:
Led light bulbs will one day become the dominant source of lighting on the planet—if not the exclusive source. They solve a multitude of economic and environmental problems that have plagued and continue to plague users of other types of lamps. The reason for this lies in the manner in which a led bulb generates light. Unlike incandescents and fluorescent bulbs, a led light does not utilize a filament or any type of luminary gas. Instead, led lighting bulb technology is based on something completely different—a semi conductive component known as a “diode.” By passing a low voltage current through a diode, one can agitate electrons within its composite substances, causing light to radiate into the surroundings. This light is cool burning and will not cause heat pollution in work and living areas. Because these bulbs do not rely on inert gases of any kind, they pose no threat to the environment, and the substances of which they are composed are virtually unbreakable compared to standard lamps.

Led light bulbs offer every color in the rainbow now to both home and commercial users. A led’s color directly results from the chemical composition of the diode itself. The most recent breakthrough came a few short years ago, when Chinese scientists learned to mix blue and yellow in the precise combination necessary to create a white LED. Previous to this advancement, led light bulbs always represented a primary color, and as such were very useful for display, indicator, and instrument lighting, but not yet ready to replace incandescents whose bright white light established them long ago as the world’s primary source of artificial lighting. When white led bulbs entered the lighting market, an explosion in size, design, modification, and engineering followed as lighting manufacturers immediately saw the benefits of creating alternatives to previous technologies and seizing the opportunity of the moment to pass on both green technology and cost-conscious savings to corporate and individual clients. Not long after these developments occurred, California passed a law that now requires all incandescent lights be replaced no later than 2010, making retrofitting a legal matter at this point for West Coast residents as well as a cost and earth conscious decision.

Linear strip lights utilize a bulb type known as “festoon,” and many high-end resorts, casinos, and country clubs in California use festoon bulbs for both seasonal and year round decorations. With a ban on incandescents now pending, corporations and individuals alike in California will now have to look for retrofitted alternatives if they are currently using any type of incandescent festoon light source. This is not as big a problem as it may sound, nor is it expensive when one considers ROI beyond up front procurement costs.

In an era where concern over global warming is approaching the level of worldwide alarm, now more than ever is a time to consider going “green,” not necessarily in terms of the color of a led light bulb, but in terms of its innate quality and value. It never hurts a company’s public image to promote itself as a leader in newer, more efficient forms of non-destructive power. Furthermore, led lights feature a bulb life that ranges from 30,000 bulb hours to over 100,000 bulb hours. Replacements are very rare, and therefore, seldom a cost factor to consider when forecasting budget. Immediate return on the front-end investment one makes in begins to accrue monthly on every subsequent power bill post retrofitting date. This is truly a win-win scenario for anyone.


