Title: 
Lg Kg800 Chocolate - Iconic Design

Word Count:
391

Summary:
Naming a phone "Chocolate" is a great marketing tool. I mean really, who doesn't like chocolate? The name alone conjures up good thoughts. But as the saying goes, "What's in a name?". This phone is more than just a name; it is an inventive, well thought out mobile phone. 

First of all the design itself is outstanding; it is a sleek, streamlined phone. It is lightweight so carrying it with you at all times is no problem. It is also a smaller mobile phone so you can fit it i...


Keywords:
free line rental,mobile phones,mobile phone deals,mobile phone contracts,UK,KG800,LG Chocolate


Article Body:
Naming a phone "Chocolate" is a great marketing tool. I mean really, who doesn't like chocolate? The name alone conjures up good thoughts. But as the saying goes, "What's in a name?". This phone is more than just a name; it is an inventive, well thought out mobile phone. 

First of all the design itself is outstanding; it is a sleek, streamlined phone. It is lightweight so carrying it with you at all times is no problem. It is also a smaller mobile phone so you can fit it in your pocket or purse without any worries. The LCD screen is actually protected by the slider cover.

The picture quality is great on the LCD screen; it is in color and has a pixel resolution of 176 X 220. With this type of resolution you can do a lot of imaging options. You have a built in camera with 1.3 mega-pixels.

The video functions give you the options of recording video and playing back video. You can also customize your video settings. In the video program you can really add some unique effects to your videos. The video gallery is an accessible feature making it easy to store and organize your clips.

If you need messaging options the LG KG 800 Chocolate mobile phone offers a good variety of options for you. You can text message (SMS), you can have enhanced messaging (EMS), and there is the added option of multimedia messaging (MMS). You can also send and retrieve emails on the Chocolate. 

The sound quality on this phone is excellent. The music player allows you to play a variety of music formats like, MP3 and ACC+ to name a few. The touch pad has a separate key for the music options. For ringtones you have two options - you can get them in either MP3 and polyphonic. 

Some of the more technical features on the phone are the ability to use both Bluetooth and USB connections. You have access to the Internet through the WAP browser. On a charged battery you get six hours of talk time and a standby time of 200 hours.

The LG KG 800 Chocolate mobile Phone is a sleek modern looking phone.  LG has made a highly functional, easy to use phone and put in a great looking design that is sure to be remembered as an icon in mobile phone history.


