Title: 
LG KE850 Prada – Where Style Meets Functionality

Word Count:
453

Summary:
Over the last couple of years, there have been many mobile phones that have looked as well as they've performed. Some that spring to mind are the Nokia 8800 series, and the LG Chocolate models. Not only did they offer a host of features to compete with the best mobile phones already on the market, but they also looked beautiful into the bargain. Now, one of these companies has done it again, and that company is LG, with its stunning new KE850 Prada mobile phone.

Not for th...


Keywords:
free line rental,mobile phones,mobile phone deals,12 months free,UK,LG,Prada,KE950,mobile contracts


Article Body:
Over the last couple of years, there have been many mobile phones that have looked as well as they've performed. Some that spring to mind are the Nokia 8800 series, and the LG Chocolate models. Not only did they offer a host of features to compete with the best mobile phones already on the market, but they also looked beautiful into the bargain. Now, one of these companies has done it again, and that company is LG, with its stunning new KE850 Prada mobile phone.

Not for the first time has a mobile phone company collaborated with an external source to design a phone (as was seen by the Motorola Red series, among others). However, this is surely one of the first times that such a high-profile name like Prada has been involved, and the results speak for themselves. Sleek, sexy, sophisticated and elegant; these are all words that are bandied about whenever the name Prada is mentioned, and the LG KE850 mobile phone follows suit.

With absolutely no buttons on the fascia (unless you count two miniscule options for calling) to speak of, this allows the screen to almost cover the whole length of the front of the phone. The reason this is possible? Touch screen technology. Although Ericsson may claim that they had this first with their stylus operated mobile communicator, that company certainly never had the sheer aesthetic stylings of LG's latest masterpiece. And the icing on the cake surely has to be when the display fades when not in use, leaving you with a sheer screen and a phone not too dissimilar in looks to Sony's wonderfully designed PSP handheld.

However, if you think the phone's design is impressive, wait until you see the features it manages to incorporate into its slim case. As well as the usual 2.0 mega pixel camera, it also features:

·MPEG4 video player for the latest and sharpest video compression
·Music multitasking for messaging, allowing file downloads and transfers
·Document viewer, including Excel and Word doc support
·Bluetooth 2.0, the latest version of this excellent transfer tool

As well as this, the LG KE850 Prada mobile phone also allows you to upgrade the memory capacity via its USB slot, so that even if its already generous internal memory is not enough, it can be easily increased.

Indeed, if there's one drawback to the phone, it's that it is only tri-band whereas most phones are now quad-band. Although this won't affect its use in its home and desired customer territories, it will mean it won't work in the US. However, if you're looking for both a stylish and feature-filled phone and you're not in that part of the world, you can't do much better than LG's new superstar.


