Title: 
Lg Ke800 Chocolate Platinum - Martin's Quick Review

Word Count:
424

Summary:
Not satisfied with the success of the KG800, also known as the Chocolate, LG had to try and go one better. They succeeded when they announced the Chocolate Platinum/II, also known as the LG KE800. You get the same basic features as the Chocolate provides but with a few extra twists to enhance your phone user experience.

The KE800 picks up where the KG800 left off, with the same touch sensitive keypad and great functionality. I have to say that I am not a fan of the former....


Keywords:
12 months free line rental,ke800,lg chocolate,cash back deals,mobile phones,mobiles,uk,phones,deals


Article Body:
Not satisfied with the success of the KG800, also known as the Chocolate, LG had to try and go one better. They succeeded when they announced the Chocolate Platinum/II, also known as the LG KE800. You get the same basic features as the Chocolate provides but with a few extra twists to enhance your phone user experience.

The KE800 picks up where the KG800 left off, with the same touch sensitive keypad and great functionality. I have to say that I am not a fan of the former. It is difficult to get used to either model when it is so easy to misdial, mistext and set off on a journey navigating through the entire menu without realising. However, LG have learned from the feedback they received from Chocolate customers and built a bigger and better version that shows exactly whet the brand can do.

The KE800 looks similar to the Chocolate, with the same slider and simplistic colour combination of grey, black and red. It does have a new outer casing though, and this one doesn’t pick up as many fingerprints as its predecessor. The navigation is just as easy and the menu is virtually a carbon copy of the Chocolate’s. However, the features in that menu are new and improved.

The camera is 2MP and delivers excellent images thanks to the useful auto focus that LG have incorporate to make taking photos less time consuming and more spontaneous. The KG800 gave you the choice of resolution and quality, but that is not necessary with the KE800 because the phone does the work for you.

You can store plenty of images on the KE800’s 256MB memory, which can also be supplemented with a memory expansion card. This model actually has a slot for it! The memory is excellent in itself for such a small phone, but the card option takes it to another level.

You are also given a further sound option with the KE800 because it has FM radio, something that the Chocolate surprisingly lacked. It has great digital capabilities in MP3, WAV and AAC software, which make it a great phone for music lovers. The sound quality, dare I say it, also appears to be slightly better.

If you liked the KG800 Chocolate, the chances are that you will love the KE800 even more. There are less niggles that apply to the phone on the whole simply because it is bigger and better LG have learnt from their mistakes and this phone is the better for it.


