Title: 
LG Viewty Ku990 - Fortus Mobile Phone Review

Word Count:
552

Summary:
Everything Mobile Users Need and More

A quality digital camera, a personal organizer, an mp3 player, and an internet browser, all in one small, mobile package only begins to describe the LG Viewty KU990. This stylish handset looks great and has all the latest mobile features, including a trendy touch screen and 3G technology, as well as a few surprises.

Touch screen phones have quickly become the most popular trend in mobile technology and LG perfected the feature with ...


Keywords:
12 months free line rental,ku990,cash back deals,mobile phones,viewty,phones,mobile phone contracts


Article Body:
Everything Mobile Users Need and More

A quality digital camera, a personal organizer, an mp3 player, and an internet browser, all in one small, mobile package only begins to describe the LG Viewty KU990. This stylish handset looks great and has all the latest mobile features, including a trendy touch screen and 3G technology, as well as a few surprises.

Touch screen phones have quickly become the most popular trend in mobile technology and LG perfected the feature with the superb Prada. The Viewty boasts this same amazing touch sensitive display screen with just three simple buttons along the bottom of the phone to send and receive calls. The large, vivid screen looks great but makes up most of the phone’s face so it is difficult to keep the display free of scratches, dust, and fingerprints.

While the touch screen of the LG Viewty KU990 may slow down those who have mastered texting with a traditional keypad, it opens a number of new options for sending texts. The included stylus can make operation of the touch screen more precise and can also be used with a handwriting recognition application for convenient messaging. The predictive text feature also makes it simple to send texts with the Viewty, even without a traditional keypad.

If you turn the LG Viewty over, it may be mistaken for a digital camera rather than a mobile phone. The top quality Schneider-Kreuznach lens is located on the backside of the handset, along with a Xenon flash for one of the best camera phone experiences available. Dedicated camera keys on the side of the Viewty make operation simple and QVGA quality video can be captured, viewed, and even uploaded to YouTube from the handset. The only downfall of the first class, 5 megapixel camera is the lack of a lens cover.

The trendy touch screen and high quality camera are not the only amazing features found on the LG Viewty KU990. The Viewty features both EDGE and 3G technology with HSDPA for internet surfing almost as efficient as a home internet connection. Support for all types of messaging and a convenient document viewer make it easy to stay productive on the go. Unfortunately, the Viewty does not offer wi-fi capabilities so a data plan is a must if you plan to take advantage of all the phone’s features.

The music player is just as pleasing, with integrated FM radio and support for all common media formats. Bluetooth technology allows you to enjoy the high quality audio features through an optional stereo headset or you can use the included stereo headphones for the same superb sound. The Viewty includes a number of multimedia entertainment features that rival those of a standalone mp3 player.

The LG Viewty KU990 is a truly amazing mobile phone and quite a work of technological art for LG. The touch screen is fun and functional, with excellent resolution, and the media features are unsurpassed. The 5 megapixel camera is one of the best available in the mobile market and the Smartlight feature makes the Xenon flash almost as admirable as a dedicated camera’s flash function. The LG Viewty is a great looking, stylish mobile phone with all the best features and then some. With minimal flaws, this touch screen mobile is destined to be a favourite.


