Title: 
Liven Up Your Dull Computer With Free Animated Cursors

Word Count:
456

Summary:
If you want something beyond the typical, dull cursor, you can add excitement to your computer with a cute animated cursor. Several sites offer these animated cursors at no charge. Animated cursors are available in a wide variety of themes, from stars and flowers to anime characters to nostalgic cartoon characters.

My favourite animated cursor is one of Homer Simpson. I grew up watching The Simpsons, so having an animated Homer floating around my desktop is a great way to ...


Keywords:
computer,cursor,animated


Article Body:
If you want something beyond the typical, dull cursor, you can add excitement to your computer with a cute animated cursor. Several sites offer these animated cursors at no charge. Animated cursors are available in a wide variety of themes, from stars and flowers to anime characters to nostalgic cartoon characters.

My favourite animated cursor is one of Homer Simpson. I grew up watching The Simpsons, so having an animated Homer floating around my desktop is a great way to remember how much I loved the show when I was little. Even when I’ve had a horrible day, getting on my computer and seeing Homer dance as I browse the Internet never fails to make me smile. Finding the perfect animated cursor was as easy as a quick visit to an animated cursor website and downloading the cursor I wanted. Installation was fast and simple. Some sites that offer animated cursors also have programs available that allow you to design your own animated cursors. If you can’t find the perfect cursor for you, you can use the software and design the exact cursor that is right for you.

With all the animated cursors available, finding the right one should be a cinch. Many sites feature animated cursors from classic television shows, cartoon and movies, like Winnie the Pooh, Mickey Mouse, 101 Dalmatians, The Little Mermaid or Harry Potter. For the sci-fi or computer geek, there are a huge amount of cursors with a science fiction theme. You can get Star Trek, Red Dwarf, Stargate SG-1, Star Wars or Battlestar Gallatica animated cursors, or just about any other popular science fiction television show or movie. Computer geeks can choose from a variety of animated cursors featuring characters and items from EverQuest II, World of Warcraft, and other massively multi-player online role-playing games. Comic book geeks would enjoy X-Men, Spiderman or Batman animated cursors. Just for fun, you can even get an animated light saber cursor. Whatever you like, there’s bound to be a cursor that can help you express your devotion to your favourite cartoon, television show, movie or game.

Even if there isn’t a particular television show or movie that you like, you can still find an animated cursor that suits your style. You can get a seasonal or holiday-themed cursor to get you in the mood for the holidays. You can express your patriotism with an animated flag or a soaring bald eagle. Show off your mystical side with a flying dragon or a wand-waving wizard. You can get delicate flowers to get in touch with your feminine side. So many options are available that there’s something for everyone. All you need to do is search for free animated cursors online.


