Title: 
London Web Design

Word Count:
660

Summary:
London is a great place to live and work. Being the capital of England there are many businesses thriving in the area and all competing for your business. More and more businesses are realising the real benefits from having a professional website on the internet. There are so many web designers these days it can be daunting choosing the one right for you. If you live in the London or surrounding areas and have a business and are thinking having a website designed for your com...


Keywords:
london web design


Article Body:
London is a great place to live and work. Being the capital of England there are many businesses thriving in the area and all competing for your business. More and more businesses are realising the real benefits from having a professional website on the internet. There are so many web designers these days it can be daunting choosing the one right for you. If you live in the London or surrounding areas and have a business and are thinking having a website designed for your company then you need think about a few important factors:

Do you have a domain name?
Do you need hosting?
So you need a web designer
Do you need an ecommerce website with a shopping trolley to sell products?
Will you need to update your site yourself in the future or do you have enough website design knowledge to do this yourself?

Well if you need all of these then it is a lot easier if you can find a company that can do everything for you. There are some companies that can sell you the domain names as well as the hosting, design your site and even offer search optimization solutions. Dealing with the same company for your domain name, hosting, email, and web design makes the whole process a lot easier. For one you only need one contact telephone number. A company with good customer support is a must. Not all companies offer this and this and it can be very frustrating. You want to know that if you have any trouble you can just call for customer support or technical support.

The company doesn’t have to be London based so it is worth finding the best company that suits your needs. As anyone who knows anything about computers, it makes no difference where you website is hosted it only matters that the people or company in charge of it are competent.

So how can you tell if a site is designed well? Well if it is performing well, as in coming up in search engines it is certainly doing something right. For a good design your site needs to be pleasant to the eye without any bright flashing coloured text. If the site loads quickly then this is a good sign, you will loose a great deal of customers if your pages take over 5 seconds to load. An experienced web designer will know what works and what doesn’t and should advice you before going ahead with any design. If you want your site to be search engine friendly then a good company should be able to design your site around some key search terms so as to make it perform better in the search engines.

Another must is the ongoing work you might need to maintain your website. Or maybe you have a great website that is not showing up well on some keywords. Search engine optimisation is big business and a lot of companies claim they can offer this but as there are no guarantees it’s hard to know the cowboys from the professionals. Lots of companies in London start up and then in a year or two fail and you are left to sort out your site. You need to find a company that has been around for some time and has a proven track record. Any professional SEO (Search engine optimizer) will know that it can take months of hard work to achieve really great results, and they should be able to prove that they can do it, ie. if they put a search term in Google and their site comes up first. So finding a company that has built it self up from nothing and is still thriving on the net today is one to go for.

So what are you waiting for, branch out of the net, get a website designed professionally and optimized and then enjoy all the benefits from the extra income.


