Title: 
Long-Range Wireless Phone Extender, Cost-effective Rural Voice And Internet Solution For Remote Area Home-Based Biz Work

Word Count:
530

Summary:
This article on Long-Range Phone Extender is devoted for the purpose of discussing the method of extending a phone, fax and internet (low-speed access) connection up to a distance of 10 to 200 km. A scenario: businessman-supplier is doing business supplying raw materials found only in a place where communication service is hard to establish. His business requires that he establish contact with his buyers to check on prices, etc. What is the most cost-effective solution in ord...


Keywords:



Article Body:
This article on Long-Range Phone Extender is devoted for the purpose of discussing the method of extending a phone, fax and internet (low-speed access) connection up to a distance of 10 to 200 km. A scenario: businessman-supplier is doing business supplying raw materials found only in a place where communication service is hard to establish. His business requires that he establish contact with his buyers to check on prices, etc. What is the most cost-effective solution in order to have access to communication- voice and data or fas/internet.

Consider also the case of a mother yearning to establish a home-based internet business. Home-based workers can take advantage long-range phone extender to work from the comfort of their homes like submitting articles or doing email marketing on-line. Basically, a home-based worker will need a broadband internet connection, but there are some type home-based business activities that can be served using phone extenders for internet access.

In cases where using Outdoor Long-Range WLAN and other wireless broadband technology is not a feasible communication option owing to terrain and distance from source (Pt A) to remote village (Pt B), an appropriate solution would be to use a Wireless Long-Range Phone Extender.

A Wireless Long-Range Phone Extender is a fixed-wireless radio equipment capable of extending or hauling a fixed-line (analog landline) dial tone wirelessly to very long-distances. For it to work, you will need a pair (two units) of radio called a base station radio and remote station. It is not the traditional two-way radio but its operation is very similar.

Long Range Phone Extender base and remote station units work in tandem. The only difference is that phone-extenders utilizes full-duplex function so that users in both ends can hear each other simultaneously while talking unlike a normal push-to-talk two radio. Just like two-way radios the phone extender's radio antenna must be elevated via an antenna tower.

The secret to its long-distance transmission capability is on its power output and frequency. Phone extenders use VHF and UHF frequency, the level capable of reaching very long-distance. The lower the frequency and the higher the power output, the higher will be the transmission range.

A phone extender with an output power of 25Watts can reach as much as 200Km on point-to-point communication. Added functionality is fax and modem compatibility such that you can receive fax messages and use dial-up internet access on the remote site.

Internet speed can reach up to 56Kbps or lower depending on the quality of the communication line. Some long-range phone equipment offers reliable data speed even beyond a distance of 100Km.

Wireless Long-Range Phone Extender is very ideal for remote islands, jungles, remote resorts and villages. It is widely used in remote places in the world owing to its reliability and simple operation. Big savings on long-distance call can be derived since you're using an extended local line. You can call such local area even if its 100 km away free at no extra long-distance charges.

In the case above, the businessman can save much on communication cost by having to call his buyer via an extended local phone with un-limited calling instead of using a service that charges per minute long-distance call.


