Title: 
Looking Out For The Personal Touch

Word Count:
445

Summary:
We can no longer hope to stay away from technology. In fact, the other day I read an article that talked about the setting up of video conferencing facilities in a hospital thus allowing doctors to talk to their patients. The rise of technology has frequently been associated with the rise of a certain robotic-ness in our outlook on things. Are we really turning into robots in human skin thanks to the rise of technology? That is the question we must answer.

Yet, as the abov...


Keywords:
Conference calls


Article Body:
We can no longer hope to stay away from technology. In fact, the other day I read an article that talked about the setting up of video conferencing facilities in a hospital thus allowing doctors to talk to their patients. The rise of technology has frequently been associated with the rise of a certain robotic-ness in our outlook on things. Are we really turning into robots in human skin thanks to the rise of technology? That is the question we must answer.

Yet, as the above-mentioned article suggested, perhaps technology simply lets us be human. In the advanced world of ours, we should easily be able to develop infallible robots to act as doctors. Despite that, we prefer to talk to our docs via video conference. That is only because we like a certain amount of personal touch in our dealings. Even if the doctor is far away, being able to speak to another human being with emotions, feelings, and some failings, somewhat reassures patients and their family members anywhere in the world.

Let us move out of the field of medicine and into the world of profits. One might say that business is a far more heartless area than that of health. However, such a statement does not take into consideration the fact that people do the jobs that make the organization run -- people; not robots.

That is why, even today, business organizations conduct important meetings in conference rooms. Sometimes delegates and employees jet across countries to attend the meeting. However, that can be a drain on the company's pocket. The need to constantly cut costs may not agree with the need to fly in people from different continents. That is why as a business, one should to go in for toll free conference calling.

A conference call is very similar to a meeting. However, this is frequently a better bet than a meeting at times. It is a very useful mode of conducting meetings especially when the persons required to be present are based in various parts of the world. Airfare does not come too cheap and neither does accommodating the participants of the meeting. Toll free audio conferencing, for instance, might be a better deal. Moreover, with the various facilities that are offered by conference call providers, such as the star teleconferencing service, an organization can add a great deal of value to the meeting.

Previously, conference calls could only be audio. However, audio-visual conference calls have been rising up the popularity charts. Even today, when emails can have been working hard to resolve glitches, people continue to hanker for the personal touch. And technology advancements are letting us avail of it.


