Title: 
Looking For A Cell Phone?

Word Count:
542

Summary:
Are you thinking of buying a cell phone, without an idea of what exact model you want? You aren’t alone. Many people think that a cell phone should be a good communication tool. They make the purchase hastily, only to find out that the actual model that they have does not necessarily cover their needs.

If you plan on buying a cell phone purely for communication purposes, you aren’t exactly free from this sort of impediment. You would still need to think about a few things ...


Keywords:
compare cell phone plans, compare cell phone companies


Article Body:
Are you thinking of buying a cell phone, without an idea of what exact model you want? You aren’t alone. Many people think that a cell phone should be a good communication tool. They make the purchase hastily, only to find out that the actual model that they have does not necessarily cover their needs.

If you plan on buying a cell phone purely for communication purposes, you aren’t exactly free from this sort of impediment. You would still need to think about a few things before buying a cell phone.

What things, do you ask? Well, this article does not necessarily answer your exact questions. However, it serves as a simple guideline for you to determine what you should consider.

First of all, you would want to think about where you will be using that cell phone most of the time. Do you frequently leave the country? You may want to go for phones with higher-end technology in the sense that it could pick up a signal offered by your destination country; a safe bet will be a Quad Signal Phone which can receive the four most common signal types in Cellular technology.

If you go for a phone with a good number of additional features, you should expect a pricey tag to go with it. Here you can have a camera phone, music phone an internet capable phone and other gadgets they can think of.

Speaking of camera phones, don’t expect too much from the camera of your phone. If you are looking for a little bit more of quality in your shots, you’re better off buying a separate digital camera. These integrated camera phone are for point-and-shoot images only. They’re more for those candid moments that you may encounter on the go instead of serious and more professional shots.

Don’t expect your phone to be an iPod right away. The memory capabilities of a phone fresh out of the box are enough to hold a good number of pictures while containing an average of two or three audio CDs’ worth of tracks. Consider buying a separate gadget if you are the true audiophile who needs a good bulk of tracks on the mobile file. Besides, you may not want your cell phone to be swinging in your pocket while you are on the treadmill.

Recently, there has been a lot of talk about cell phones and their accessibility to the internet. It is true that many new cell phones launch out of the market are capable of detecting a wireless signal from a wifi source.

However, don’t expect to surf into all of the websites as you conveniently can on a desktop PC. It would all depend on the software enhancements that your cell phone allows you to install. Some cell phones are quite restrictive in this regard for security purposes.

Bottom line is, the cell phone you plan on buying may have these capabilities and more, but you should not really expect the same quality results from these enhancements, compared to the actual gadgets they ‘replace’. So make that extra research on what that particular phone has to offer, if you think it suits you, then by all means, get it.


