Title: 
Looking For An Adobe Photoshop 7.0 Tutorial?

Word Count:
540

Summary:
Do you own the program Adobe Photoshop 7.0? Have you been looking for new ways to use it? Have you been searching all over the internet for Adobe Photoshop 7.0 tutorials but can't find any? Well, this is probably because many of the Photoshop tutorials today are for version 9, which is the latest release of the program from Adobe. Here are some tips you can use to look for Adobe Photoshop 7.0 tutorials.

1) Use your program help guide – every program has a help guide. This ...


Keywords:
photo shop tutorial,adobe photo shop tutorial,free photo shop tutorial


Article Body:
Do you own the program Adobe Photoshop 7.0? Have you been looking for new ways to use it? Have you been searching all over the internet for Adobe Photoshop 7.0 tutorials but can't find any? Well, this is probably because many of the Photoshop tutorials today are for version 9, which is the latest release of the program from Adobe. Here are some tips you can use to look for Adobe Photoshop 7.0 tutorials.

1) Use your program help guide – every program has a help guide. This is because manufacturers want to make their programs easy to use. However, many people tend to ignore these guides, opting to look for easier-to-absorb Adobe Photoshop 7.0 tutorials. 

What you need to know is that most Adobe Photoshop 7.0 tutorials in the internet today are actually based on the help guide found on your program. The guide contains the basic principles of operating Adobe Photoshop. This means that in the guide, you will find the basic knowledge you need to manipulate your images. After you have this basic knowledge, then you can progress to more complex manipulations.

2) Visit a bookstore – Because of the internet, most people today tend to underestimate the usefulness of books. However, you should realize that different types of tutorials are written as books. The advantage to looking for Adobe Photoshop 7.0 tutorials in a bookstore is that you would be likely to find one that's cheap. This is because not many people are looking for such books anymore. 

Although this type of Adobe Photoshop 7.0 tutorial cannot give you the information as fast as other media, books often have much broader content. In an Adobe Photoshop 7.0 tutorial book, you will be able top find everything you need to know about the program, from the most basic concepts to tips even experts would want to know about. You will have to turn pages and search the index for the topic you want but the knowledge you gain will be worth the effort.

3) Talk to an expert – although old Adobe Photoshop 7.0 tutorials may be deleted, you can be sure that there are people who still know how to work the program. Instead of looking for a tutorial, why don't you just ask someone to teach you how to work the program? Sure, it can be a bit more time consuming and may seem to be pretty inconvenient compared to getting a tutorial, but this is probably the best way you can learn how to use Adobe Photoshop 7.0. 

You will be able to ask questions and clarify certain points about the program that may seem unclear. The best thing about this is that the person who gives you the Adobe Photoshop 7.0 tutorial will actually be able to demonstrate the things that he or she teaches. You will be able to see and understand the lessons more quickly. You can also jump to more advanced lessons by asking the person about specific things that you want to do with the program. 

As you can see, there are a lot of things that you can do to get Adobe Photoshop 7.0 tutorials. What you just need to do is to take what resources you have and make the most of them. Try to think outside the box and the answer will come to you.


