Title: 
Main Features Of Digital Cameras

Word Count:
561

Summary:
With the introduction of Digital cameras, now you don’t have to spend on buying rolls after rolls when you are traveling or while on a holiday, this magic gadget can not only take hundreds of pictures and store them for you but you can also edit the pictures you do not like according to your choice. Digital cameras have changed the technology of photography. Digital photography begins with capturing images in a digital format.

Important factors of a Digital Camera:

You ...


Keywords:
digital,cameras


Article Body:
With the introduction of Digital cameras, now you don’t have to spend on buying rolls after rolls when you are traveling or while on a holiday, this magic gadget can not only take hundreds of pictures and store them for you but you can also edit the pictures you do not like according to your choice. Digital cameras have changed the technology of photography. Digital photography begins with capturing images in a digital format.

Important factors of a Digital Camera:

You would find different models of these Digital cameras in the market of different price ranges and so if buying a the camera for the first time, there are basically three factors that you should keep in mind – Resolution, Storage capacity and Special features for taking a picture and storing it.

Digital photographs are made up of hundreds of thousands or millions of tiny squares called picture elements-or just pixels. The quality of a digital image, whether printed or displayed on a screen, depends in part on the number of pixels used to create the image called as Resolution. More pixels add detail and sharpen edges. The greater number of pixels or dots per inch, the higher the resolution of the finished photograph will be. Digital cameras generally range from 2.0 megapixels to 8 and even above. Consumers today are looking for higher resolution as they want more detail and color accuracy in their images. Older digital technology used under 2.0 megapixels.

Storage space in your Digital Camera:

Here in Digital cameras, the images are stored on internal disks in the camera. As most mid-priced digital cameras do not contain very much storage space hence this would require you to download your pictures to your computer once the space is full .But then of course more memory can be added to the interior of the camera, just like in a computer. A less expensive method is to add memory by using a small card that pops into the camera. These disks can be purchased with capacities between 64MB all the way up to 2 gigabytes. Larger disks can hold hundreds of pictures at their highest quality.

Once you store the image in your computer your printer can use these tiny pixels and give you your printed pictures. When you enlarge these digital images, the pixels will begin to show-an effect called pixelization. This is not unlike traditional silver-based prints where grain begins to show when prints are enlarged past a certain point. The more pixels there are in an image, the more it can be enlarged before pixelization occurs. The size of a photograph is specified in one of two ways-by its dimensions in pixels or by the total number of pixels it contains. For example, the same image can be said to have 1800 x 1600 pixels or to contain 2.88-million pixels i.e.1800 multiplied by 1600.

We can say that a digital camera is better quality than a film camera in some respects! Probably if you check the resolution, a 35mm film-based camera, it may crush any digital camera if you see the number of good pixels. But when it comes to color balancing under mixed lighting a digital camera has a better advantage than a film camera and even when you check the scale, the ability of the camera to capture detail in the brightest highlights and darkest shadows of a scene is marvelous.


