Title: 
Make One Person Responsible For Data Storage Management

Word Count:
399

Summary:
It is not that difficult to store computer data, and it does not take a lot of space. On the other hand, data storage management can offer challenges beyond where it is stored. Information in the business world is a valuable commodity and secure storage is extremely important, however picking the right company or person to oversee your data storage management may be even more critical.

Deciding how to store your information, as well as where, are important decisions, as is...


Keywords:



Article Body:
It is not that difficult to store computer data, and it does not take a lot of space. On the other hand, data storage management can offer challenges beyond where it is stored. Information in the business world is a valuable commodity and secure storage is extremely important, however picking the right company or person to oversee your data storage management may be even more critical.

Deciding how to store your information, as well as where, are important decisions, as is who will have access to the information. Regardless of how sensitive the information may be, you will have to trust someone with your data storage management because at some point you will likely need to recover something in storage. It is always best to keep base information, daily information and securely stored information in different realms, with different people overseeing each phase.

Typically, system administrators have access to everything, but when placing critical information in storage, the person responsible for data storage management should be the only person with access to it. This can be explained as being for the administrator’s own protection in the event of data loss.

Let Business Owner Plus One Have Access

Consider it tantamount to having a secret code that only the business owner and one other person has access to. The code can be written down, sealed in an envelope and placed in a safe or bank storage box. If something happens to both people, someone will be able to obtain the code and access the information. This type of data storage management may be needed only for confidential business information and not for operating processes.

It will be up to you to decide the type of information that gets the full confidentiality treatment and which has more relaxed accessibility. But once you place a person in charge of data storage management, do not undermine their authority of maintaining the classified records. Once you make the person accountable, allow them to be responsible.

Remember, the person in charge of data storage management may be needed to leave the premises occasionally, especially if the informational is stored offsite. While most access may be available remotely, a physical visit to the offsite location may be necessary. The person in charge will obviously need to be trustworthy and dedicated to the business and is someone you can trust with your business information and files.


