Title: 
Making Your Digital Camera Battery Last Longer

Word Count:
350

Summary:
With all the features digital cameras have these days, you may find keeping batteries a problem. This could well be your biggest expense, but there are some things you can do to increase the length of time your batteries stay charged. Let’s start with the three biggest sources of power drain.

The LCD screen takes up the most power. It is possible to turn this feature off unless you really feel the need for it. Using the camera’s viewfinder will conserve power. Another big ...


Keywords:
Digital Camera


Article Body:
With all the features digital cameras have these days, you may find keeping batteries a problem. This could well be your biggest expense, but there are some things you can do to increase the length of time your batteries stay charged. Let’s start with the three biggest sources of power drain.

The LCD screen takes up the most power. It is possible to turn this feature off unless you really feel the need for it. Using the camera’s viewfinder will conserve power. Another big power drain is the flash. Whenever you can, use natural lighting to take your photos and turn off the flash. This will help save your battery for times when you absolutely need the flash. A third drain on your battery is constantly using your zoom. It takes more power zooming in and out than it does keeping your zoom at a steady place. Try to find a setting you like and sticking with it as much as possible..
Some other things you can do to make your battery last longer are:: http://www.review5.info

* Make sure Power Saving mode is on, or simply switch off your camera when you're not using it.

* In cold weather, keep your camera and batteries warm in your jacket until you are ready to use them. The cold drains batteries very quickly.

* Store batteries in a cool, dry location away from sunlight and other heat sources.

* Avoid unnecessary playback of your already taken images. Try to decide when you take the picture if it is a “keeper” or needs deleted and then refrain from reviewing until the pictures are downloaded to your computer.

* Use the AC adapter. Most digital cameras have an adapter that allows you to plug directly into a power point. If you don’t plan on moving around a lot and are near an outlet, the AC adapter will increase the life of your batteries.

Needing to buy more or recharge your battery is something you won’t be able to avoid completely, but with a few precautions this won’t be needed as often.


