Title: 
Making Money With Digital Photographs And Images

Word Count:
537

Summary:
Amateur photography has always been a popular hobby, but the development of the easy-to-use digital camera has helped this pastime become bigger than ever.  Millions of people own digital cameras and a high percentage of them also use photo editing software and picture sharing websites.  Some of the advanced editing capabilities included with these products were once reserved only for those enthusiasts with deep pockets.  But now anyone who takes the time to study can produce...


Keywords:
photography,pictures,digital,images,freelance


Article Body:
Amateur photography has always been a popular hobby, but the development of the easy-to-use digital camera has helped this pastime become bigger than ever.  Millions of people own digital cameras and a high percentage of them also use photo editing software and picture sharing websites.  Some of the advanced editing capabilities included with these products were once reserved only for those enthusiasts with deep pockets.  But now anyone who takes the time to study can produce professional quality images on their home computer.  This reality has opened a new market for amateurs who are looking to earn money by doing what they love.

Savvy photographers are starting to notice the high demand across the internet for digital photographs.  Webmasters, small businesses, and even professional agencies are turning to amateur photographers to fill their needs for rates that are much cheaper than professional outfits.  By identifying the key markets and learning a few tricks of the trade, almost anyone can build an additional revenue stream with their digital camera.  The key is to know what the customer wants.

Stock photographs are one of the hottest markets for selling pictures.  Webmasters in particular are always looking for quality stock photos to accent their websites.  This niche is not only growing rapidly, but it offers the opportunity to resell the same picture hundreds of times over.  The key to selling stock images is to focus on a topic and saturate it with hundreds of images.  Nature pictures and business images are some of the best-sellers, but keep in mind that you never know what shot will catch your customer’s eye.  Thus, you should shoot many different angles and poses to provide an adequate variety to choose from.  Make sure all of your images are crystal clear and free from background distractions.

Those people who have a passion for digital image editing will also find their skills in high demand.  In this case, customers are looking for a particular effect transposed on their images.  Orders like these can come from word-of-mouth, or by posting your services on a classified website or freelance photography database.  Unlike stock photos, edited images are generally only good for one sale, but in some cases they can be reused in other applications.  Most people who sell digital editing services begin by selling stock photos.  This is where they build their client base before moving on to special orders.

Because there appears to be no slowdown in the demand for digital images, the time is right for anyone to start making extra money from their photography hobby.  The only necessities for starting your own operation are access to a decent digital camera, computer, and editing software.  From there it is just a matter of building your inventory.  

Begin by taking pictures of the subjects that interest you.  Think of everything in terms of what the picture could be used for.  Analyze the photos used on websites or magazine ads and try to replicate their quality.  Slowly but surely you build a nice collection of images that you can market online.  As the number of pictures you post increase, so will the potential for sales.  Eventually, you will have built a nice business selling your digital photographs.


