Title: 
Managing Your Customer Database

Word Count:
650

Summary:
Managing your customer relationships is vital to the success of your business; you neglect your customers at your peril.  With a small customer base and a simple sales process in a relatively static market a business may operate an effective Customer Relationship Management (CRM) solution based on index cards or a simple Microsoft Excel spreadsheet to keep client data.  In such an instance, a small business owner may be able to keep client information such as address and tele...


Keywords:
Microsoft CRM


Article Body:
Managing your customer relationships is vital to the success of your business; you neglect your customers at your peril.  With a small customer base and a simple sales process in a relatively static market a business may operate an effective Customer Relationship Management (CRM) solution based on index cards or a simple Microsoft Excel spreadsheet to keep client data.  In such an instance, a small business owner may be able to keep client information such as address and telephone numbers in their heads and know intuitively the value of a particular client to their business.

Once we move away from such a simple scenario, matters become far more complicated and require a more effective tool to control and utilize customer information and Microsoft Dynamics CRM recognizes this.   The reality of today’s business environment is that we operate in fast moving dynamic markets where customer needs and demands change frequently.  Businesses tend to serve a broader clientele while the potential market for products and services has grown geographically as the internet allows businesses to reach out to potential customers and prospects seek a supplier for their needs from greater distances than before.

Microsoft Dynamics CRM software is designed to allow any business to manage customer relationships in today’s modern world which requires business managers to be far more organized than before if they are to obtain the most effective results from sales and marketing activities.  Arranging contact information into contacts, identifying viable prospects from that database and managing marketing and sales campaigns tailored to those prospects while retaining control over the process is not possible using simple paper based or spreadsheet methods without a great deal of expensive employee time.
 
Generating new business has always been the most difficult part of the sales cycle, so organizing contact information in a formalized manner allows businesses to target their business generation activities to where they are most likely to maximize sales revenue.  Turning a contact into a prospect and from there to a customer is also the most expensive part of the sales cycle.  Once a sale has been generated, that customer is far more likely to buy from you in future.  Customer relationship management software empowers a business to effectively manage and control the sales cycle as a client base is established and repeat sales are made.  Microsoft Dynamics Suite recognizes that customers become a very valuable asset for any business and managing the after sales relationship becomes a major factor in business success.

Microsoft Dynamics Suite provides an effective CRM solution that allows any business to capture and maintain customer data beyond the basic address and telephone information; examples of the information a Microsoft Dynamics CRM system will manage include a client’s sales history, particular customer requirements, and when it is to be expected that a customer will order in the future.   

The benefits of implementing an effective Microsoft Dynamics Suite CRM system can be readily seen when a business starts planning and forecasting for future sales and business growth as capturing and maintaining customer information is not a static process.

With a Microsoft Dynamics CRM solution your business will be able to manipulate customer information so your business can see what is actually happening in the sales cycle.  Taking a step back from the sales process and looking at the “Big Picture” may allow you to assess the overall health of your business, but it does not necessarily explain how you are getting the results.  While diving into the detail may mean you can see what is happening with a particular customer, it may also mean you are not going to see the wood for the trees.   

Microsoft CRM solutions provide you with the ability to assess at a glance the overall business picture and how that is being produced which becomes an invaluable management tool and is a key benefit of a Microsoft Dynamics CRM solution.


