Title: 
Many Types Of Various Voip Equipment

Word Count:
540

Summary:
As VOIP phone service and technology becomes more and more popular among both individuals and businesses, the demand for VOIP equipment rises as well.  To individuals who aren't familiar with VOIP or how VOIP works, and especially those who aren't especially familiar with technology in general, VOIP can sound intimidating.  Using a computer as a phone?  Downloading software?  How does this all work?  

Don’t worry: it is much simpler than easier than it may first sound, sin...


Keywords:
VOIP, VOIP Equipment


Article Body:
As VOIP phone service and technology becomes more and more popular among both individuals and businesses, the demand for VOIP equipment rises as well.  To individuals who aren't familiar with VOIP or how VOIP works, and especially those who aren't especially familiar with technology in general, VOIP can sound intimidating.  Using a computer as a phone?  Downloading software?  How does this all work?  

Don’t worry: it is much simpler than easier than it may first sound, since it is in the interest of VOIP service providers to make it that way.  While businesses may be another matter, getting the right VOIP equipment for a residential switch is simple and painless, so relax and prepare to enjoy the benefits of VOIP phone service.

For home VOIP phone service, you have a few options as to what equipment you want and/or need.  Starting with the computer, you will want a more modern computer that has the ability to run broadband Internet.  This is very important.  You do not want to use VOIP with dial up because the quality will be terrible, and it just doesn’t make a lot of sense.  You want a solid broadband connection, and a computer that can handle it.

Second, you will want to make sure your computer has a sound card.  Since most VOIP systems go through a computer, then you will want a good sound card to clearly hear what people are saying.  While an IP phone or phone adapter is also an option, it's still a good idea to have a good sound card to insure maximum sound quality.  Most newer computers will already come with a good one.  In addition to this, you will want a microphone.  VOIP phone service doesn't need an actual phone to work: your microphone can work to dial and talk.

Third, you will want to decide who you want as your VOIP provider.  The software that allows VOIP phone service to work is usually downloaded from the Internet, and is very easy to install, but you want to make sure that you are installing the software of the company that you feel most comfortable with.  Once you make that decision, you can usually just download the technology off of a web site from the comfort and security of your own home.

If you still want the comfort of a regular phone, and IP phone is a consideration.  An IP phone is a regular phone, but it hooks directly up to the computer instead of a telephone jack for a land based line.  You can also look at buying an adapter.  An adapter is a piece of equipment that allows you to take a regular phone that is normally used with a land line, and to connect it to your computer so that same phone still functions, but it uses the VOIP phone services from the computer instead of the landline, making it, in effect, a VOIP phone without any need of buying a new model.

There are several options for the interested consumers, and something to make everyone happy.  Don’t feel intimidated; VOIP phone service is a quality way for many people to save money, and managing a VOIP phone is no problem at all.


