Title: 
Metal Detectors Are Used For So Many Purposes

Word Count:
504

Summary:
The main part of metal detectors is the control box, shaft, and search coil. Control box which has speaker, batteries, and microprocessor coordinates all activities. To protect the food source many companies use metal detectors to check for metal contaminates in the food, and some drug companies use the metal detectors to check for the same thing in drugs.

Besides metal detection, a walk-through metal detector includes and interface for an operator and a control unit plus ...


Keywords:
metal detectors,gold finder,airport metal detectors,handheld metal detectors,portable metal detector


Article Body:
The main part of metal detectors is the control box, shaft, and search coil. Control box which has speaker, batteries, and microprocessor coordinates all activities. To protect the food source many companies use metal detectors to check for metal contaminates in the food, and some drug companies use the metal detectors to check for the same thing in drugs.

Besides metal detection, a walk-through metal detector includes and interface for an operator and a control unit plus environmental tolerance, electro magnetic compatibility, and the assurance of quality control. The control box is the brain of a metal detector. The magnetized metallic objects under the ground send a signal to the control box. Metal detectors that are used in mining need to be compact because of the space restrictions so the control unit and the search coil are integrated into a single unit.

This disk comes off the shaft at an angle, which allows it to be held parallel to the ground. Hand held detectors come in various types, professional, commercial, all-purpose, gold metal, beach and metal that is a relic. Many people use metal detectors to comb the beach for treasures, people are looking for coins, or any other type of metals that might produce a wealth of income. If you are walking along a beach you might come across many people with their instruments looking for these treasures. Since 911 security has gotten tougher and many airports and schools have turned to metal detectors, as well and government buildings, hand held metal detectors are often an important part of security procedures.

A great method of locating and preventing the use of dangerous items such as handguns or knives is the hand held metal detector. They are hand held security metal detectors and walk through metal detectors. Walk over or hand held models of metal detectors are normally used in airports.

Best rated walk through metal detectors have high target selection, low rate of false alarm, consistent detection, and a two way directional system. Cheap metal detectors are available in hand held, waterproof, and walk through models. Walk through metal detectors offer quick and effective processing.

Underwater metal detectors can cost around $400-$600. Underwater metal detectors are widely used to locate metallic objects under water. Underwater construction companies use underwater metal detectors for pipeline or cable locating functions. Some of the underwater metal detectors can adjust the search depth.

Advanced security metal detectors use low radiation x-rays for screening. Many metal detectors have microprocessor technology to check for coarse grained food in cornflakes, popcorn and noodles. Advanced gold detectors can also resist dust and moisture. Some of the advanced gold metal detectors have three modes for speed tracking.

Usually, the price of a metal detector starts from $65. Some sites offer price discounts.
Most sites provide a price list for metal detectors. The price of metal detectors may vary, based on features and functions. If you are just starting out it is a good idea to purchase an inexpensive model before sinking the dollars into the hobby.


