Title: 
Microsoft’s Dynamics Software Brings Enterprise Class Crm To Your Business

Word Count:
505

Summary:
The idea that customer relationship software is just for enterprise class businesses has long gone.  Ask your CRM software provider for details of the developments in customer relationship software for businesses of all sizes and you will be met with a barrage of color brochures giving you the lowdown on the market as it stands today.

Microsoft Dynamics Suite has evolved from MS Great Plains, and MS CRM recognizes that there is a market for customer relationship software f...


Keywords:
Microsoft CRM


Article Body:
The idea that customer relationship software is just for enterprise class businesses has long gone.  Ask your CRM software provider for details of the developments in customer relationship software for businesses of all sizes and you will be met with a barrage of color brochures giving you the lowdown on the market as it stands today.

Microsoft Dynamics Suite has evolved from MS Great Plains, and MS CRM recognizes that there is a market for customer relationship software for mid-range and small businesses.  No longer is there a barrier to implementing a MS CRM solution due to cost, with a range of solutions to fit the all business budgets.

Microsoft Dynamics Suite integrates seamlessly to provide your employees with information on demand concerning customers and prospect at their fingertips.  The benefits of having customer information centralized in one place for everyone in your company to utilize are obvious and self-evident.  The idea of being able to capture, organize and disseminate customer and prospect information at the touch of a button is now a reality. 

Microsoft Dynamics Suite provides small and mid-range businesses with the ability to centralize all client and prospect contact throughout the sales cycle, from intial enquiry, pre-sales meeting, order, despatch and after-sales customer support.  More than this, Microsoft Dynamics Software delivers information to everyone in your business the information they need on business activity when they need it and presented in a format that is understandable and tailored to meet the individual needs of your business.

Microsoft CRM provides mobile and remote workers with the up-to-date information on the status of prospect and customer enquiries far faster and more accurately than any traditional methods currently employed by businesses today.  Using Microsoft Dynamics Suite any business is able to deploy the benefits of customer relationship management software to provide the benefits of enhanced customer service, avoidance of non-productive activity and concentration of resources on maximizing revenues.

Microsoft Dynamics Suite is implementated with minimal business disruption to existing business practices, and quickly adopted by users familiar with Microsoft applications such as Word, Excel and Publisher.  Customer and prospect information collected by a MS Dynamics solution is available at your employee’s fingertips and intuitively adopted as it has been designed to integrate seamlessly with existing Microsoft applications.

Importing client information from the Microsoft Dynamics Suite to applications such as Word and Excel for marketing and sales campaigns is child’s play, while mobile and remote workers can continue to be supported from their base by accessing Microsoft Dynamics Software information by using their Outlook email client. 

Small and mid-range businesses are now in a position to recover the competitive advantage in delivering customer service that has been eroded by enterprise class customer relationship software, without the need to allocate the enterprise class budgets previously required and with no loss in functionality.  The idea that customer relationship software is solely for enterprise class businesses no longer applies, you need only consult with your Microsoft CRM software provider to learn what is available for your business.


