Title: 
Microsoft Certified Professional Free Online Training

Word Count:
615

Summary:
The Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) credential (certification) is for professionals who have the skills to successfully implement a Microsoft product or technology as part of a business solution in an organization. Hands-on experience with a product is necessary to effectively achieve certification. There are many Microsoft certifications that one may acquire and many free online training centers that also have pay certification tutoring, free study guides and free pra...


Keywords:
Microsoft Certified Professional, MCP, free online training, free certification training, Microsoft


Article Body:
The Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) credential (certification) is for professionals who have the skills to successfully implement a Microsoft product or technology as part of a business solution in an organization. Hands-on experience with a product is necessary to effectively achieve certification. There are many Microsoft certifications that one may acquire and many free online training centers that also have pay certification tutoring, free study guides and free practice exam questions to help you pass your IT certification exam.

The Microsoft Certified Professional has many different certifications that represent specialized fields of information technology such as: Microsoft Certified Technology Specialist (MCTS) and Microsoft Certified IT Professional (MCITP) credentials provide IT professionals with a simpler and more targeted structure to display their technical and professional skills. The new Microsoft Certified Technology Specialist (MCTS) credential highlights your skills using a precise Microsoft technology. You can demonstrate your abilities as an IT professional or developer with in-depth knowledge of the Microsoft technology that you use today or are planning to deploy. The Microsoft Certified IT Professional (MCITP) credential lets you highlight your field of expertise. Now you can distinguish yourself as an IT professional with the current skills and proven job-role capabilities to work efficiently with a comprehensive set of Microsoft technologies.

Other Microsoft certifications include: Microsoft Certified Database Administrator Demonstrate that you have the skills to lead organizations in the successful design, implementation, and administration of Microsoft SQL Server 2000 databases with the following Microsoft Certified Database Administrator (MCDBA) credential. The Microsoft Certified Desktop Support Technician (MCDST) credential proves that you have the skills to support users who run Windows XP. It also proves that you can troubleshoot desktop environments that run on the Windows XP operating system. The pay scale with this position ranges from $35,000 to $55,000 per year. With all of these Microsoft certifications excellent training is obtainable online or classroom. To some degree you will find free Microsoft online certification training along with pay training.

There is also the Microsoft Certified Systems Administrator (MCSA) certification will advance your career by ensuring that you have the skills to successfully manage and troubleshoot system environments that run on the Microsoft Windows operating system. The MCSA: Messaging credential identifies systems administrators who implement, manage, and maintain a messaging infrastructure by using Microsoft Exchange Server. The MCSA: Security credential identifies systems administrators who specialize in managing, maintaining, and implementing security on the Windows operating system and as part of a secure computing environment. Receive the Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer (MCSE) certification and prove your expertise in designing and implementing the infrastructure for business solutions that are based on the Windows 2000 operating system and the Windows Server system. The MCSE: Messaging credential identifies systems engineers who design, plan, implement, manage, and maintain a messaging infrastructure by using Microsoft Exchange Server. The MCSE: Security credential identifies systems engineers who specialize in managing, maintaining, and implementing security on the Windows operating system and as part of a secure computing environment. The pay scale on this job ranges from $50,000 to $80,000 per year.

Free Microsoft certification online training is always limited in the amount of study material that is given. In order for you to be adequately prepared for your certification exam you will need to pay some for complete training so you will be able to pass your information technology certification exam. Many online training centers offer some free Microsoft certification training as a draw to get you to purchase the more in-depth material that will fully prepare you for your final certification exam. You will also need special training in test taking to prepare you to pass your information technology certification exam. All of this information is online ready for you to access.


