Title: 
Microsoft Dynamic CRM And Automatic Processes

Word Count:
448

Summary:
Microsoft Dynamic CRM software puts many sales, marketing, and customer service processes on virtual autopilot, freeing up much more time and energy for the sales and marketing forces in your company to focus on what they need to do to open and close more sales for more money for your company. Telephone sales certainly get super-streamlined by the Microsoft Dynamic CRM, because all of the things that typically distract an agent from being on the telephone or cut into her tele...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Microsoft Dynamic CRM software puts many sales, marketing, and customer service processes on virtual autopilot, freeing up much more time and energy for the sales and marketing forces in your company to focus on what they need to do to open and close more sales for more money for your company. Telephone sales certainly get super-streamlined by the Microsoft Dynamic CRM, because all of the things that typically distract an agent from being on the telephone or cut into her telephone time are minimized or vaporized altogether. The automated processes that are set up and facilitated by Microsoft CRM are symbolic of a series of repetitive sales and marketing activities that, while vitally necessary, have typically fallen all too easily through the fissures.

There is a wide array of “mundane” activities that the automated processes take care of. These include following up with “uninterested” prospects, contacting clients who have a record of buying at strategic, well-time intervals in order to keep your company in front of their face, getting more out of “underachieving” customers, and maintaining precise, detailed records on every call, even a call that resulted in a “no one answered” note. In short the Microsoft Dynamic CRM acts like a virtual administrative assistant and a virtual sales assistant. A single sales or marketing rep now becomes three or four people all merged into one.

One of the most powerful of all of the Microsoft CRM automated features has to do with the sending of email. Instantaneous emailing of pertinent and up-to-the-minute information that a client or prospect should know about is merely a click of the mouse away. Another benefit of this capability is that one gets extremely effective and accurate targeted marketing. Every last drop of the stored information in the CRM database can be converted into targeted groups of prospects or clients or a mixture of the two. These groups can be set up for all kinds of parameters, from demographics to type of industry to kinds of products bought and used and even beyond. Inside sales forces can aim targeted communications at any one of these groups at any time. Furthermore, follow up telephone calls can be immediately schedule for the salesmen, and the calendar set to pop up and “ding” on the day, even if it was months away at the time of setting, when the rep needs to make the call. Field sales rep also benefit from Microsoft Dynamic CRM. It’s equipped with synchronized remote abilities and direct access to a Net connection when a salesman is in the field. They can be much more focused, organized, and discerning in who they should stop to see and for what purpose.


