Title: 
Minding The Old Folks With A Digital Video Surveillance Systems

Word Count:
519

Summary:
Always on the go and worrying too much about your old folks at home? With digital video surveillance systems, you are right on target with real time surveillance. Easily.

You need not worry no longer

If your job takes you away from home most of the time, you must worry a lot about the security of your elderly parents. You call them several times a day to check if your Dad has taken his meds and if your Mom is okay. You remind them to keep the doors locked at all times. ...


Keywords:
digital video surveillance systems


Article Body:
Always on the go and worrying too much about your old folks at home? With digital video surveillance systems, you are right on target with real time surveillance. Easily.

You need not worry no longer

If your job takes you away from home most of the time, you must worry a lot about the security of your elderly parents. You call them several times a day to check if your Dad has taken his meds and if your Mom is okay. You remind them to keep the doors locked at all times. It isn’t easy knowing they are alone and you just want a little peace of mind.

The latest in digital video surveillance systems will provide you the bandwidth to care for your parents even when you’re on the road often. You can view live action on your computer and retrieve previous action without putting a halt to the present recording. You will always know what went on and what is going on. Neat.

Buying digital video surveillance systems?

It pays to know beforehand the things to consider before going digital. Ask questions before purchasing any digital video surveillance systems like:

• Hard Drive Space- Can you store 40 days worth of video recording? Get a system that can store up to 600GB.

• Resolution - Are the images larger, clearer and more detailed? Inquire if the resolution is at 640 x 480.

• Frames Per Second – Is movement recorded at higher speeds? You don’t want to miss any action that may have sinister undertones.

• Audio recording  – Does the system allow for audio recording?

• Remote monitoring - Does the system allow for distance monitoring?

• CD ROM Recording - Can you transfer parts of the recording to a CD?

• Motion Detection– Can the system detect movement?

• PC Based Software – Is this user friendly? Will you need expensive future upgrades?

Your digital video surveillance systems will work efficiently with 4 to 16 camera inputs. Simply run the camera wires to the back of the digital recorder and connect to a computer recorder. Topnotch surveillance has never been this easy.

Understanding digital video surveillance systems

When you are aware of the operating system, you can appreciate what is going on. To skim off the technical jargon, digital operation is simple. The images captured by the cameras are transmitted to the digital video recorder and runs to the LAN to be distributed to your PC and to the main monitor. The transmission runs real time. The movements are more fluid instead of jerky and delayed. It’s like viewing real action on-screen, as opposed to non-digital video surveillance systems where actions are on the slow motion mode. The digital video surveillance systems are also easy to install. You can get a professional installation service just the same to be sure that everything goes right the moment you launch it.

Watch over Mom and Dad online

With digital video surveillance systems, you can check if your folks have locked the doors, taken their meds, and have taken their meals on time. At their age, they need a lot of care – and you can do this even if you are miles away.


