Title: 
Mini Spy Camera: Smaller Can Be Better

Word Count:
592

Summary:
We buy mansions with rooms that we never enter. We buy SUVs that guzzle more fuel than an armored tank. We buy pizzas big enough for use as manhole covers. But if you think bigger is always better, think again.

In the field of technology, bigger is seldom better. In fact, modern production has focused on miniaturization. Where the first computers once filled up a room, today's versions have shrunk to the size of a matchbox. While telephones were once machines that included...


Keywords:
mini spy camera, mini spy cameras


Article Body:
We buy mansions with rooms that we never enter. We buy SUVs that guzzle more fuel than an armored tank. We buy pizzas big enough for use as manhole covers. But if you think bigger is always better, think again.

In the field of technology, bigger is seldom better. In fact, modern production has focused on miniaturization. Where the first computers once filled up a room, today's versions have shrunk to the size of a matchbox. While telephones were once machines that included two lengthy horns and a large box, today's cell phones fit into pockets. Clearly, technology is one area where smaller is better. Enter the mini spy camera. 

How Small Is Mini? 
Once upon a time, spy cameras were as big as bags. They had to be to fit the right components for certain features. Today, however, more features are being crammed into tinier phones. The "mini" in mini spy camera refers to a small security camera, which includes several hidden camera types, such as covert, pinhole, or spy. "Mini" does not stand for a particular size standard, however. As a matter of fact, today's cameras are shrinking year after year, innovation by innovation. So the mini spy camera may range in size from a handbag to a wallet. 

Fine Or Fineable? 
Before you start shopping for a mini spy camera, find out whether or not it is legal to use one in the place you want to put it up on. The general principal is that in areas where the public expects privacy, filming is not permitted. To avoid legal problems, do your homework.  to learn if your proposed filming area is good to go, legally speaking.

A Mini for You
It is always a good idea to familiarize yourself with the endless mini spy cameras that various companies manufacture. These cameras are frequently used as a nanny cam, or for hidden surveillance in a home or retail store. The functions of the cameras are often for hidden or covert surveillance using video, with their size being ideal for such applications. To find the right camera for yourself, make a list of features that you need. Some questions you could ask yourself include:

* Do you need to make adjustment to the camera from a remote location?
* Do you require a wireless camera?
* Do you want to use the Internet to watch the recorded video?

From Theory to Practice
After determining what type of mini spy camera you need, think of how you want your camera to look. Your options are limitless!

Wearable Sunglasses Camera:  What you see is what you record with these high-tech shades with UV protection. A tiny camera in the sunglasses records what you view. 

Cigarette Lighter Spy Camera:  Do you want to play James Bond for a day? This mini spy camera may look like a cigarette lighter, but it's as covert a means for video surveillance as they come. It is so small it fits into a purse or pocket. The camera can store over 100 standard-sized pictures, which can be downloaded to your PC. 

CCD Button Lens Camera Set:  Spy in style with this mini spy camera that fits into a button the size of a quarter! The features of this model include adjustable focus, low consumption of power, and a 92 degree field of view. If you lose this button, fear not because five replacements are included. 

Mini spy cameras are revolutionizing the way we gather information covertly, and if there's anything these mini spy cameras prove, it's this: sometimes, the smaller, the better.


