Title: 
Misspelled Search On Ebay Items

Word Count:
538

Summary:
If you've figured out that eBay items get entered incorrectly many times, you may not have realized that misspelled search on eBay doesn't have to be a matter of trying to determine all the possible ways to misspell and item and enter them in one at a time, in the hopes that someone would have misspelled the item in exactly that way.  A misspelled search conducted in this way could take hours and you may not be able to imagine all the possible ways in which a word could be mi...


Keywords:
ebay misspelled, bargainchecker, ebay, misspelled auction tool


Article Body:
If you've figured out that eBay items get entered incorrectly many times, you may not have realized that misspelled search on eBay doesn't have to be a matter of trying to determine all the possible ways to misspell and item and enter them in one at a time, in the hopes that someone would have misspelled the item in exactly that way.  A misspelled search conducted in this way could take hours and you may not be able to imagine all the possible ways in which a word could be misspelled. 

If you want to facilitate your misspelled search on eBay, go to http://www.bargainchecker.com and use this handy search tool to find not only common ways to misspell a word, but all instances of the misspelled word in items listed on eBay.  You can even misspell the word in the search field and get results in your misspelled search results. 

The concept behind Bargain Checker is to enable you to locate and bid on items that would not show up on a standard eBay or web search.  In this way, since you're the only one bidding, chances are good that you will get the item at your opening bid.  You can develop a nice little business by finding such valuable items and reselling them at a more realistic price. Even if you're just using the misspelled search to find individual items that you want or need, BargainChecker provides a useful and innovative service.  

A misspelled search with BargainChecker can also be used to find common ways in which people might misspell product names.  This could be easily used for pay per click advertising and similar revenue producing methods with Google and MSN.  After all, if it's been misspelled several times on eBay, you can safely assume that people will misspell it in other venues as well. 

For example, if you were to search eBay for items of jewelry to purchase at a bargain price, you would find nearly 60,000 items listed that came under the category of jewelry or had the word 'jewelry' in the title. There are probably many bargains in that group of 60,000 items.  However, the real bargains will probably by recognized by many bidders who will compete against one another in order to get the winning bid.  For a truly valuable item, the winning bid price probably would be similar to the real world price.  

However, if you used the same term 'jewelry' on BargainChecker you would find about 1600 instances where the word had been misspelled in the item listing.  This means that there are nearly 1600 pieces of jewelry on eBay which will probably not sell because they haven't shown up on a standard eBay search. This is unfortunate for the seller, but it's definitely fortunate for the buyer who knows how to find a bargain that no one else has discovered. 

Misspelling of common words occur for several reasons.  It could be carelessness in typing or entering the word resulting in a typographical error.  It could be that the seller doesn't know how to spell the word correctly, such as in the hundreds of 'bargins' on eBay listings.  Or, it's also possible that there are variant spellings which could each be correct.


