Title: 
MMOBay.net Replaces Ebay for Online Auctions

Word Count:
485

Summary:
It is an auction site for MMORPG players that opened sometime ago. It seems quite good as an Ebay replacement since they stopped permitting auctions for MMORPG games.


Keywords:
mmobay, online,auction,web


Article Body:
It is an auction site for MMORPG players that opened sometime ago. It seems quite good as an Ebay replacement since they stopped permitting auctions for MMORPG games. The No.1 auction site to purchase or sell your online virtual gaming items. World of Warcraft WOW Gold, City of Heros,Everquest and many more. Buy or Sell your characters, gold,items, gaming guides or anything else related to MMORPG.
Once you have registered just login to your account and click on the "Sell" link. The first step to do is choose a general category for your item, remember that you can choose a more specific description further into the listing process. You can then select your chosen settings and item description. You can keep a check on everything you are selling by visiting your members area and selecting the page "selling" .

Upon first lookMMOBay sounds and looks like eBay. It is actually attempting to eBay of the MMORPG Auctions space. MMOBay is an all in one hub for your online gaming wants. It main focus is for persons who want to sell.
Once a game sale has been completed, both the buyer and the seller will be able to drop feedbacks for each other. The rating for feedback starts from one point to five points, and even a personal comment can also be left. The responses can be left from the “Feedback” tab from the Area for Members. The personal feedback can only be left once, and it cannot be altered thereafter.The admin of the site will reserve its right to remove untrue or malicious feedbacks.
Members Area(for buying WOW account)
a. Selling-There are three fields available on this topic.The “My Opened Auctions” part, where you will view details of auctions you currently have opened; The “My Closed Auctions” part, where you will view the auctions given by yourself, and that were frozen or closed. You can select to change, remove or re-list a auction that is closed.On the “Sold Items” category, you will see the items you have sold, and by clicking on the “View Details” link, you will be moved to a page where you will see the information of the buyer. If, after the seller has talked to the bidder, and no sale has been made, you can take the end of auction fee back. By clicking on the “Claim back end of auction fee”, a claim back petition will be sent to the site’s administrator, and will be estimated for refunding of fee.c. Feedback -From this heading, you can view the responses you have received, and leave feedbacks to other users. d. Personal Info-You can alter your personal data using this option, except for your userID. You can also alter the password for the account. If the confirm password and password fields are left blank, and then the password will be left the as it is.


