Title: 
Mobile Phones: Making The World Smaller

Word Count:
417

Summary:
The field of communication is experiencing a great deal of innovative changes that are creating a global village. Before the invention of the telephone, it was unimaginable that one could ever actually talk to somebody even twenty miles away. In the world of today, we can't even bring ourselves to picture what life would be like if we could not speak across oceans and continents.

Less than twenty years ago a telephone was attached to a wall and could move only as far as th...


Keywords:
mobile phone


Article Body:
The field of communication is experiencing a great deal of innovative changes that are creating a global village. Before the invention of the telephone, it was unimaginable that one could ever actually talk to somebody even twenty miles away. In the world of today, we can't even bring ourselves to picture what life would be like if we could not speak across oceans and continents.

Less than twenty years ago a telephone was attached to a wall and could move only as far as the telephone cord. Today, even in our homes we are able to discuss about about the weather and everything else under the sun from not just the drawing rooms, but also from the kitchen, the bathroom, the attic, or any other place you can picture. The credit for all this went to the cordless phone.

There was a time when the car phone was seen as being a major advance. Who would have imagined that there would come a time when you could talk while you were going from one place to another. Yet, even with cordless phones and car phones, we continued to be attached to something – in this case, the house and the car respectively.

Then the big boom happened! We saw the invention of something that heralded great changes in the way in which the world carried out its communication. The age of the mobile phone had now begun. The contrast was great between this era and the era when letters had to be posted whenever some message of great importance was involved. Back in the days when post was the only way to communicate quickly, one could never have imagined receiving an instant response. But now, as mobile phones continue to boss over our lives, the buzzword is instant communication.

We are the children of the communication era, and are able to watch the rise of newer and newer modes of communication. Certainly, the most deserving representative of this global village is the mobile phone. We are no longer tied down by telephone cords. We are able to talk to our near and dear ones, our colleagues and mentors, and whoever else we would like to even while going from one place to another.

Gone are the days of trying to recall important phone numbers. We have passed the days of looking for a pay phone if we want to make a call. The good old mobile phone is ever ready to make whatever call we want it to!


