Title: 
Mobile Phone Buyer’s Guide: Know The Basis

Word Count:
481

Summary:
You may have thought of shopping for a new mobile phone when you want to get rid of the old one. But you need to be sure of few things before and choosing your service provider should be the first. As your service provider utters the technology he uses, choosing your mobile phone is simply based on that. GSM is the technology most utilized by providers and is becoming more vogue in the UK. CDMA is a technology also adopted but by few providers and is common in the US.

The ...


Keywords:
Mobile, Phone, Mobile Phones, Cell Phones, GSM, Phone Plan, Purchase


Article Body:
You may have thought of shopping for a new mobile phone when you want to get rid of the old one. But you need to be sure of few things before and choosing your service provider should be the first. As your service provider utters the technology he uses, choosing your mobile phone is simply based on that. GSM is the technology most utilized by providers and is becoming more vogue in the UK. CDMA is a technology also adopted but by few providers and is common in the US.

The Mobile Phone Plans

So, once you have decided your provider, spent few minutes to estimate how frequent you use your mobile phone and obviously, where. Be clear to what extend of coverage limit you are signing for. The low-rate plans are usually meant for local calls and only cover your region of living, but are right one if you travel less. If you are one that spend a lot of time outside your region, take a regional or a nationwide plan, and make sure of the roaming charges.

To get the best value out of a plan, check whether your plan includes free long distance call option. Variation with the standard plans can possibly save your money. You can consider family and/or sharing plans if you want take in your family and friends. Opt for prepaid plans if you do not want to commit to a monthly plan. Finally, while calculating for your model monthly phone bill include extra fees that comprise cost of activation, taxes, number portability cost, extra charges for sending text messages, charges for multimedia and picture messaging etc with it.

Picking Your Mobile Phone

You can start your mobile phone search now. Here you need to decide the features you want in your mobile phone. How you pass your daily life and what all are important to you? Make sure, whether you are looking for sleek design. Would you want features like cameras, picture messaging, and text messaging keyboards in your mobile phone? All this highly depend on your lifestyle, whether you need it for your classy business, habitual of multimedia usage, or looking only for plain communication. Features that may attract you are a camera or videophone, picture-messaging phone, or possibly with Bluetooth technology to connect to your computer. Some users may like push-to-talk option for quick, one-touch communication.

Business users may favor smart phones, which club in cell phone and PDA features in one. These phones are comparably big in size and are high-priced than of standard cell phones but eliminate the need for two separate devices. Most users may not need comprehensive features and few others may need features like PDA with their mobile phones. So when you have decided buying a mobile phone, make undisputed about the features you want with it and a plan that exquisitely suit your phoning habit.


