Title: 
Motorcycle Software, Inventory Control For Your Dealership

Word Count:
484

Summary:
Most auto dealers get into the business because of the lucrative money-making opportunity in the car industry. Yet, the majority of motorcycle dealership owners start their own dealership due to their life-long passion for motorcycles.

When you walk into a motorcycle dealership, it's more like walking into a comfortable place where you feel like you fit right in. It's not the same as an auto dealership where you have 10 salesmen walk up to you, vying for your business in t...


Keywords:
motorcycle software,motorcycle repair software,motorcycle dealer management software


Article Body:
Most auto dealers get into the business because of the lucrative money-making opportunity in the car industry. Yet, the majority of motorcycle dealership owners start their own dealership due to their life-long passion for motorcycles.

When you walk into a motorcycle dealership, it's more like walking into a comfortable place where you feel like you fit right in. It's not the same as an auto dealership where you have 10 salesmen walk up to you, vying for your business in the first 5 seconds. You can kick back, relax, and decide on the right bike, helmet, or motorcycle accessory you've been wanting to buy.

When you decide on your purchase, the last thing you want to worry about is how long you will have to wait in line. After all, you want to get out there and take a nice, long ride with your new purchase.

The only time you would even pay attention to the problems at any motorcycle dealership is when you get to the cashier, or you wait for a customer service representative to come help you find the right helmet or part for your bike, right?

Have you ever wondered WHY it's so backed up; there's a long line; the prices aren't correct when the register rings up the product; or they are short on help?

That's where we come in and streamline everything on the business side, so the customer never waits. How do we ensure this process is fulfilled and your satisfaction is guaranteed?

By having over 16 years of experience with the best, most automated motorcycle software inventory control system on the market.

I'll bet you didn't even think about that aspect of the business, right? Good. Because if you go to your local motorcycle dealership and have a great experience, chances are, the owner thought of his business and customers right from the start.

If you know of a local motorcycle dealership that has any of the problems mentioned here, you might want to let them know that we have excellent support staff and training.

How about walking up to an open spot at the cashier the next time you're there, because we set up the latest motorcycle software in their store that offers PartSmart integration, inventory control with serial numbers, unit tracking, automatic purchase orders, repair history by unit or customer, warranty claim tracking, floor plan tracking and due dates, and best of all, a very satisfied customer who will be shopping there again and again.

Maybe the motorcycle store owner will be so grateful you told him or her about us, that they'll give you a discount on your next purchase.

There is help out there for their business and valued customers. All the store owner needs to do is ask us for our free demo CD and information packet. Ideal Computer Systems will send out the information for our motorcycle software inventory control system right away.


