Title: 
Motorola Bluetooth: Discover The Phenomenon

Word Count:
529

Summary:
We've all heard the term, 'Bluetooth'. We see more and more electronic gizmos and gadgets that support Bluetooth technology, but what, exactly is this Bluetooth phenomenon? Motorola seems to have the leading edge on this nifty bit of technology, and the Motorola Bluetooth is the most popular brand among those who support the technology. Basically, Motorola Bluetooth technology is a wireless, short-range communication system that does away with cords and cables in telephones, ...


Keywords:
motorola bluetooth


Article Body:
We've all heard the term, 'Bluetooth'. We see more and more electronic gizmos and gadgets that support Bluetooth technology, but what, exactly is this Bluetooth phenomenon? Motorola seems to have the leading edge on this nifty bit of technology, and the Motorola Bluetooth is the most popular brand among those who support the technology. Basically, Motorola Bluetooth technology is a wireless, short-range communication system that does away with cords and cables in telephones, computers and music stereo systems. Several important features of the Motorola Bluetooth are its low power and low cost, making it affordable, secure, and safe for users of all ages and technical capabilities. A Motorola Bluetooth headset can handle data and phone calls with hands free convenience. In short, a Motorola Bluetooth will work with printers, faxes, PC's, laptops, stereo systems, iPods, faxing and PDA's. What else is there?

The range of a Bluetooth is limited to about thirty feet of another wireless source, making it ideal for office and vehicle use. No more driving and fumbling with the cell phone at the same time. Technology in Motorola Bluetooth design continues to move forward at a breakneck speed, and advances and new versions of current products currently available are replacing items that have been on the market only a short period of time. Bugs are also being worked out as the Bluetooth technology advances, and such as issues regarding range and echoing are being addressed. By far however, most consumers are happy with the Motorola Bluetooth and warn others not to accept rip-off designs. Motorola Bluetooth uses low power consumption, is small and the reasonable cost of the chip offers compatibility with a growing number of devices.

Motorola Bluetooth has made driving safe again with Bluetooth products for your car. A speaker that can fit in the palm of your hand clips onto the visor, allowing hand-free, clear communication and voice dialing. This handy gadget offers up to fourteen hours of talk time. A variety of Motorola Bluetooth car kits are available for just about every need and desired price range. Motorola Bluetooth users state how user friendly the device is. A Motorola Bluetooth needs no supporting software or degree in rocket science to use. Beyond that, the Motorola Bluetooth is a secure device that utilizes adaptive frequency hopping, more commonly known as AFH, which causes signals to literally hop from one device to another, limiting interference from other signals. In addition, the Motorola Bluetooth incorporates built in security for the Motorola device encryption and PIN code authentication methods.

Motorola Bluetooth offers headsets, adaptors, stereo headsets and wearable technology and PC connectivity products designed to make life easier and more portable. Experts estimate that Bluetooth devices bought and used by consumers will reach into the billions by the end of 2007. For outdoor fitness enthusiasts, Motorola Bluetooth technology offers helmets that allow users to listen to music and take calls whether you're skiing the slopes or bicycling through the desert. Speakers fit into an earflap in the helmet and can also be removed to insert back into the Bluetooth headphones. So what are you waiting for? Motorola Bluetooth products are top of the line, sleek and affordable.


