Title: 
Motorola V3i - Martin's Quick Review

Word Count:
471

Summary:
The Motorola V3i is an updated version of the tremendously popular Razr V3.  The V3i keeps the same sleek and compact design the original Razr was so loved for, but this version is offered in a classy metallic graphite finish.  While the color is the only change in the appearance of the V31, all the features of the Razr have been improved, although some changes are very subtle.

The caller ID screen on the outside is rather small, leaving the shiny casing to become easily s...


Keywords:
free line rental,mobile phones,mobile phone deals,mobile phone contracts,UK,Motorola,v3i,vodafone


Article Body:
The Motorola V3i is an updated version of the tremendously popular Razr V3.  The V3i keeps the same sleek and compact design the original Razr was so loved for, but this version is offered in a classy metallic graphite finish.  While the color is the only change in the appearance of the V31, all the features of the Razr have been improved, although some changes are very subtle.

The caller ID screen on the outside is rather small, leaving the shiny casing to become easily smudged from fingerprints, but the V3i is an overall gorgeous phone.  The clamshell design flips open easily to answer calls without touching a button, and snaps shut to end them.  Users do have to remember to end their calls manually if they are using the speakerphone mode, however.

The buttons and switches around the exterior of the phone all fit smoothly into the design of the V3i and are very easy to use.  The keypad is similar to that of the V3, with easy to distinguish keys and great responsiveness.  Also like the original, the V3i is a quad band mobile phone, making it ideal for international usage.

The low resolution camera of the Razr V3 has been improved to a 1.2 megapixel camera that features an 8x digital zoom and is capable of video as well.  The V3i’s camera is still very poor quality compared to other camera phones on the market, but it is great for occasional usage or for picture messaging.  

Another greatly appreciated upgrade seen in the V3i is the addition of a music player.  Though the version that includes iTunes software is not available in the UK, the V3i features an easy to use MP3 player that can be controlled through the phone’s exterior keys.  Musical playback is available in flight mode and can be used with headsets or played through the phone’s speaker, which provides fairly good quality.  The music player also allows users to create play lists for more convenience.

The internal memory features of the V3i are not very impressive, with only 12 MB of storage.  MicroSD cards can be used to expand the memory and to store music for play lists, but the card slots are located under the battery cover, making them difficult to access.  The 64 MB memory card included with the V3i can easily hold about 150 tunes, but anyone desiring more file storage will have to remove the battery cover.

Although the features of the Motorola V3i are rather outdated compared to other mobile phones, it is a great improvement over the original Razr.  If you’re looking for a sleek and trendy clamshell Razr phone, but want the added convenience of a functional camera and MP3 player, the V3i is perfect.


