Title: 
Motorola Razor Phone

Word Count:
365

Summary:
There is a new cell phone on the market that's slicing the competition to ribbons.  

The Motorola Razor phone is a hot commodity on the cell phone market.  You've probably seen the TV campaign, with an image of the slender Razor form sliding effortlessly through the air and slicing through its own brand name.  It's minimal design makes typical flip phones seem chunky and outdated.

Leave it to a cutting-edge manufacturer like Motorola to come out with such an invention. ...


Keywords:



Article Body:
There is a new cell phone on the market that's slicing the competition to ribbons.  

The Motorola Razor phone is a hot commodity on the cell phone market.  You've probably seen the TV campaign, with an image of the slender Razor form sliding effortlessly through the air and slicing through its own brand name.  It's minimal design makes typical flip phones seem chunky and outdated.

Leave it to a cutting-edge manufacturer like Motorola to come out with such an invention. The cell phone manufacturer has been barraging the North American market with imaginative commercials featuring young urbanites that are able to fend of hooligans with only their phone game skills.  Maybe you've seen the commercials and not realized it's for Motorola, but there's no doubt you're familiar with their slogan:  "Hello, Moto!"

The Motorola Razor phone really is second to none in design.  Folded together, it's an unassuming phone that's slender than most but has typical flip phone looks. Open it up, however, and you'll see that the technology is part art, part science.  You can turn it over again and again, and you still won't get over the fact that so much ingenious technology can fit into such a diminutive form.

Inside the Razor, there is Bluetooth wireless access and full e-mail support, making it a great choice for professionals on the go.  There is a speakerphone for hands-free audio.  You can watch videos on the Motorola Razor phone, however it doesn't have video recording capabilities.  However, if you want to send messages, surf the web or shoot digital photos of whatever crosses your path, you can't beat the Motorola Razor phone.

Of course, the exquisite design and trendiness are the real reasons most people choose a Razor.  It's become a real fashion accessory, and when Razor users put their phones to their ears, no one will say "Look at that old clunker" or "is that a cordless handset or a cell phone?"  The Motorola Razor phone brings 'oohs' and 'aahs', rather than smirks and sneers.

If you're in the market for a great looking cell phone that delivers state-of-the-art performance, cut through the rest and go for the best: a Motorola Razor phone.


