Title: 
Mp3 Player Buying Advice

Word Count:
621

Summary:
Music is one of the best sources of entertainment. It is music that can work wonders at times. Even medical science believes in the miracle of music, and incidents are not very rare where the so-called `music therapy` has cured diseases that medical therapy has failed to do. Hence, the popular propensity towards music has improved considerably. 

However, this interest for music has increased in an unprecedented fashion ever since the market was flooded with gadgets like MP...


Keywords:
ipod, mp3 player, mp4 player, podcast, podcasting


Article Body:
Music is one of the best sources of entertainment. It is music that can work wonders at times. Even medical science believes in the miracle of music, and incidents are not very rare where the so-called `music therapy` has cured diseases that medical therapy has failed to do. Hence, the popular propensity towards music has improved considerably. 

However, this interest for music has increased in an unprecedented fashion ever since the market was flooded with gadgets like MP3/MP4 players and iPods. These gadgets are widely popular due to their portability. But, portability is not the only deciding factor that you should consider while buying an MP3 player. There are several other elements that have to be taken into consideration before buying an MP3 player.

1. What do you want an MP3 player for? Choose according to your needs, listening to music in your bedroom is different from doing so in the kitchen or living room. In such cases, go for an MP3 player with an optional stereo dock. If you want to listen to tunes during work-out, then opting for a flash-based MP3 player is a wonderful idea. 

2. It is always a good idea to spend some time with the MP3 player in person instead of assuming that it would be as good as it is shown in the ads. Incase, you want to buy it online, visit an electronics store to physically handle it and see if it is suitable in all circumstances of your day-to-day activities.

3. Always make a research before by an MP3 player. You can read magazines such as CE Lifestyles or take the opinions of your friends, colleagues, acquaintances and relatives who may have used it before. It will save you a great deal of time and after-buy regret.

4. It always pays off if you carry a small notebook to compare different shops before buying an MP3 player. Note down the standard features of each edition or brand and take the decision on the basis of that.

5. Though buying an MP3 player online has its own advantages such discount, but when it comes to possibility of return and exchange, it is actually difficult doing so online. On the other hand, if you buy the same from an actual electronics store then you are most likely to get the exact model you want.

6. Check out the earphones to find if they are really compatible with your need or if you are feeling comfortable using them. Check the battery back-up capacity and other features as well. Besides, it is worth spending some time playing the MP3 player to get used to the functions and applications of player to prevent any possible future damage due to mishandling. 

Tip 1 - Know your music files.

MP3 players can play music of different formats. Some popular digital formats are WMA, ATRAC3, OGG and AAC. However, not all MP3 players can play all formats. For example, if you buy songs from an iTunes store, they are in AAC file and your MP3 won`t play them unless its software favors these formats. Hence, knowing about this will avoid future tense and disappointments. 

Tip 2 - Keep your music organized with ID3 tags: 

ID3 tags enable you to store data along with your MP3 files such as title, artist, album, and track number. It also allows you to edit your PM3 ID3 tags using Windows XP or any other music software such as iTunes or Musicmatch Jukebox. ID3 tags are the best way to keep your music organized. 

Tip 3 - Back up your digital music: 

Be on the safer side by having a back-up of your purchased tunes against any unforeseen computer crash. Most online music store including iTunes do not allow redownload facilities to the purchased files.


