Title: 
MP3 Ringtone: A Trendy Feature For Free

Word Count:
561

Summary:
Music has always been around since time immemorial. It has been a part of every individual’s life. Music, to some can bring glee to their day. To others, it is therapeutic, where all worries and pain are temporarily put to an end whenever they hear music.

There are a lot of electronic gadgets where music has been incorporated. One such is the MP3.

MP3 is the common name of MPEG-1 Audio Layer 3. It is designed to decrease the quantity of data being stored in audio form. ...


Keywords:
ringtone, mp3 ringtone


Article Body:
Music has always been around since time immemorial. It has been a part of every individual’s life. Music, to some can bring glee to their day. To others, it is therapeutic, where all worries and pain are temporarily put to an end whenever they hear music.

There are a lot of electronic gadgets where music has been incorporated. One such is the MP3.

MP3 is the common name of MPEG-1 Audio Layer 3. It is designed to decrease the quantity of data being stored in audio form. Though there the quantity of data is being compressed, the original sound quality is preserved.

Commonly, MP3 is being utilized only with computers and MP3 players. However with mobile phones gaining fame all over the world, most mobile phone companies to integrate MP3 as a mobile feature in the form of a ringtone.

MP3 set as mobile ringtone does not only bring new alternatives to mobile users. It creates a bubblier environment whenever a person on the other line is calling. At least you need not hear the same old, boring ringtone.

Ringtones out of MP3 comes in numerous selections. Thus you will have the opportunity to select from different types of music genre that will suit personality as well as your mood.

If you are into classical then you can opt for a classical MP3 ringtone. There is also tribal music when you want your ringtone to be natural, full of emotions and groovy. On the other hand if you are the type who is funky, try a hip-hop MP3 ringtone. The jazz and blues MP3 ringtones are for people who enjoy a sexy, solitude moment. However, if you are in the mood for some hard music, then include a rock MP3 ringtone in your tone lists. You can also try alternative music as an MP3 ringtone to balance your mood.

You can see that whatever form of music you desire, you can have it as your MP3 ringtone. It is not only music that you can obtain as an MP3 ringtone. Some of the common non-musical MP3 ringtones are the following:

•A crying baby.
•Animal sounds such as the moo of a cow or a dog’s bark.
•Funny punch lines.

There are still countless non-musical ringtones. You can even record and personalize an MP3 ringtone.

Most musical MP3 ringtones can be costly. This is commonly true when you subscribe from your mobile phone company. However there are some means for you to obtain free MP3 ringtones.

One avenue is via the Internet. You can browse different websites which offers free MP3 ringtones. Commonly, it will take you less than ten minutes to download your favorite song and turn it into an MP3 ringtone. However, you should be cautious once you decide to grab the opportunity of getting free ringtones.

Another alternative for a free MP3 ringtone are your non-musical MP3’s. Normally all you need to do for non-musical MP3 ringtones is record and personalize it. Though there are non-musical MP3 ringtones which can be purchased but personalizing it will not only save you money but it will also give you sense of ownership.

Now it is time for you to bid goodbye to your old and boring ringtone. You must give way for your MP3 ringtone – a tone which may give you the chance to reveal your personality and mood.


