Title: 
My Son Could Have Been Alive If I Had A Wireless Hidden Camera

Word Count:
524

Summary:
A wireless hidden camera is such a vital product for every parent to possess these days. You want to know what is going on in your home when you are away. Whether it is a nanny-hidden camera (one of those that look like a toy, radio, motion detector or baby monitor), it will give you the security of knowing that you can look at how your child is being cared for. I wish I had one in 1989. My son may be alive today if I did.

I hired my babysitter as a live-in nanny to take c...


Keywords:
hidden camera, wireless hidden camera, security camera, nanny camera, wireless hidden camera, camera


Article Body:
A wireless hidden camera is such a vital product for every parent to possess these days. You want to know what is going on in your home when you are away. Whether it is a nanny-hidden camera (one of those that look like a toy, radio, motion detector or baby monitor), it will give you the security of knowing that you can look at how your child is being cared for. I wish I had one in 1989. My son may be alive today if I did.

I hired my babysitter as a live-in nanny to take care of our son in my home. Our son was 2 years old at the time. She bonded with our son quite nicely and I was very impressed with how the baby would still want to be around her even when I came home from work.

I had no reason to think twice that this nanny loved our son and was competent to do the job. It made me feel much more secure to go to work and leave my son in her care.

However, that dreaded night came when I got the news that our son had died; drowned in a lake nearby. After further investigation, we found out that she had left the baby on the porch by himself while she was in the house. What happened after that, I still want to know.

Had I owned one of these wireless hidden security cameras, I would have my answer today and may have some closure. I always go back over the events of that day wondering what I could have done differently. A hidden spy camera would have been the only way I could have seen the exact activities of the nanny that day.

I can’t change the past, but if I could, I would certainly have a wireless hidden camera to watch what goes on in my house. A mother or father of a young baby always considers the importance to have a sense of security in knowing what their nanny is doing while they are not at home.

A hidden security camera provides relief and the watchful eyes that will supply the answers to any question that you may have about your nanny or anyone in your home. You can even use it to watch your pets that may be alone during the day. You can use the hidden wireless camera to see if there are any intruders in and around your home. It truly will give a sense of reassurance. Things can still happen, but at least having the answers in case anything happens is better than not knowing.

I was fortunate to have two more sons, but I made sure I was there to take care of them myself until they reached school age. My experience put so much fear in me in allowing someone else to take care of my children. I am still trying to find closure about knowing the exact events that took place that day. I will never know, but I hope someone else in my situation is afforded that chance by owning a wireless hidden security camera.


