Title: 
MySpace - The Onlince Community

Word Count:
291

Summary:
MySpace is the probably biggest online community and social network worldwide.  Originally it was founded as a platform for musicians and bands to communicate with their fans and inform them about the latest news and events. MySpace quickly turned into a platform for all young people.


Keywords:
mypsace,layouts


Article Body:
MySpace is the probably biggest online community and social network worldwide.  Originally it was founded as a platform for musicians and bands to communicate with their fans and inform them about the latest news and events. MySpace quickly turned into a platform for all young people.

With MySpace you can create your personal profile including a selection of standard elements like  blogs and buddy lists. You may also change the appearance of your profile by adding css styles and html code to the enconding of your MySpace profile. 
It's not required to know anything about html or web programming - there are  many <a href="http://www.all4myspace.com">MySpace Layouts</a> websites out. These site offer premade layouts and a lot of background grpahics. Usually they provide a html code snippet. You just have to copy this snippet into the appropriate field of your myspace profile.

Most of the layouts are related with to a specific topic. You can find layouts for almost all the famous and current rock and pop musicians and a lot of celebrity styled layouts as well. Additionally there are a lot of sports-related myspace layouts available.

Currently MySpace has more than 200 million registered users worldwide and there are about the same number of different profile layouts. This turned into one of the key features of MySpace. 

MySpace is a great place to express yourself and meet some new friends or find people with similar interests. You may also seek for potential business partners or music partnes. MySpace is used as a dating platform by many younger people. There are lots of internet sites available which copied the basic concept of MySpace, but these sites are not as successful as the inventor of social networking communities.


