Title: 
New Adobe Dreamweaver CS3

Word Count:
435

Summary:
Adobe Dreamweaver (Check a review at http://www.small-software-utilities.com/software/web-tools/30/adobe-dreamweaver/) has been a solid Web design tool for years. Each new version has consistently made Dreamweaver up to date with the latest and greatest tools.

The new CS3 version integrates the program with the Adobe Creative Suite, (that's the CS in the name) . You can also buy only this component to use Dreamweaver, but Adobe would appreciate it if you did. This latest v...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Adobe Dreamweaver (Check a review at http://www.small-software-utilities.com/software/web-tools/30/adobe-dreamweaver/) has been a solid Web design tool for years. Each new version has consistently made Dreamweaver up to date with the latest and greatest tools.

The new CS3 version integrates the program with the Adobe Creative Suite, (that's the CS in the name) . You can also buy only this component to use Dreamweaver, but Adobe would appreciate it if you did. This latest version of Dreamweaver stands on its own as an integrated Web development tool, and even casual Web geeks may find it irresistible. It's not that cheao: $399.00 for the complete version the upgrade for only $199, while the student discount is about 50%. Dreamweaver CS3 has an even easier GUI than the previous versions, and of course has more options built in. The casual Web developer may never use all the tools available in this program, but on the other hand, you may need just the one tool that is in this newer version that wasn't in the version that you have.

Many web developers are not too eager to change their software often, but this new tool will be the one that will change their minds! They'll be running to get their new shiny copy of Adobe Dreamweaver CS3! Among the flashy (pun intended) new features is a very neatly integrated flash tool. The info page at http://adobemax06.com/?page_id=30 has a little video that gives you not only some instruction on how to put flash into your page, but the video also gives you a good view of the GUI and how it works. It may be worth a few viewings if you want to see everything. A trial version of the software is also available: trials are a good way to check out the features without putting cash on the line. The other benefit, besides checking out the S/W is checking if it is time to buy a new computer.

Your old PC might be good enough for browsing the Web, but may fall short of what you need to produce the Web pages you, or your customer, wants/needs. Dealing with thousands of pages, and using templates to change them all, can be a resource.consuming task, but also a great way to change completely the structure of your site without modifying all the pages manually. The look and feel of Dreamweaver has also been improved, which makes this tool one of my favourite in the web design field!

Create website and CSS templates (look at http://www.sagrantinoict.it/) with the new Dreamweaver version!


