Title: 
New Improvements On Video Security – Out Now!

Word Count:
506

Summary:
Tired of the slow motion movement and the silence of your surveillance system? Upgrade your video security system for your home and business now with the latest video security gadgets. You can rest easy while at work and play.

Go Incognito, Go Wireless 

If you are already fed up with those regular surveillance cameras, it is about time to spice up your electronic spying. Park newer items around the house and nobody would be none the wiser. Nobody would also suspect that...


Keywords:
video security


Article Body:
Tired of the slow motion movement and the silence of your surveillance system? Upgrade your video security system for your home and business now with the latest video security gadgets. You can rest easy while at work and play.

Go Incognito, Go Wireless 

If you are already fed up with those regular surveillance cameras, it is about time to spice up your electronic spying. Park newer items around the house and nobody would be none the wiser. Nobody would also suspect that the new clock on the mantelpiece is a camera or the black ballpoint pen perched innocently on your breast pocket is recording all movement in quality color.  

Video security has gone a notch higher with digital video recording or DVR. The newcomer is eclipsing the VCR in so many ways. You can now eliminate fast-forwarding through lengths of tapes and save frames in hard disks for long periods of time without risk to the quality of the recording. This way, you can easily pull up recordings when needed. 

Start with the cameras

When upgrading your video security, start with the cameras. There are different types for different purposes. To deter pranksters, mount fake security cameras outdoors. The hitch? You have nothing to show when something really happens.
 
Covert cameras like the wall clock or rag doll in the kid’s playroom are great ideas for monitoring the nanny’s care of the children. It will take a lot of quick thinking on your part where to place the hidden cameras for maximum recording. You can also get those wireless security cameras. These are easy to set up and can be moved or transported easily because these do not have obvious wires. Be sure to get wired surveillance cameras for permanent sites. This would be best for the baby’s room and the play room, depending on your priority. For the porch and the kitchen, night vision cameras are ideal when lights are off after you have retired to bed.

These cameras provide the surveillance and protection you need to keep your family and property safe. The video security setup in your home will allow you to monitor the activities in the different parts of the house while you are at work. Video security should not be limited for home surveillance. This should be used in your car and in your office. You can check for suspicious movements, bombs under the car, and other threats to your life.  

Go digital

A DVR will save you a lot of time from searching for particular frames or video footages. It automatically retrieves data of a particular time and date. You can also record and play previous recordings simultaneously, which can’t be done with a CR. A VCR only takes pictures by a picture per second.
 
It may cost a bit more to go digital, though. You can upgrade to DVR if you already have multiplexer and IP-ready paraphernalia. When it comes to your safety, get the best video security. There is no best time like now.


