Title: 
Nice Website, Shame No-One Can Find It!

Word Count:
516

Summary:
Have you paid lots of money for a cool website design? Is your site looking all flashy and professional? Has it got cool a cool flash intro with lots of images? Have you spent lots of money developing a new site only to realise that you’re not getting any extra hits or business. It is hardly surprising with the amount of websites on the internet; this number could be in the region of 300 billion. So it is hardly surprising when you do a search on Google for something and you ...


Keywords:
seo, search engine marketing, optimisation,


Article Body:
Have you paid lots of money for a cool website design? Is your site looking all flashy and professional? Has it got cool a cool flash intro with lots of images? Have you spent lots of money developing a new site only to realise that you’re not getting any extra hits or business. It is hardly surprising with the amount of websites on the internet; this number could be in the region of 300 billion. So it is hardly surprising when you do a search on Google for something and you get thousands of results and you spend ages looking through the sites.

So how can I get more visitors by coming up on the first page on Google?

Well for a start this takes time which is why some businesses pay for an SEO to do the work for you but it can be done yourself. There are a few points to remember and you can’t really go wrong. The first thing to remember is that Google searches for the key words in the body of the text, so you you want people to find a ‘baby’s travel cot’ your site better have those words written clearly on the home page a few times and also in the title. Also people tend to like to have flashy button effects but Google doe’s not recognise them so even if you have used the keys words in the flash, Google won’t find them.  Links to the other pages in your site needs to be straight forward text written hyperlinks.

As for flash intro’s, big mistake, it may look nice but it does absolutely nothing to help your site, in fact the flash is not recognised by the search engines at all. Search engines like clear hyperlinks using the keywords. Unique relevant text is also the key to scoring high.

Heard of page ranking? What is it? Well basically PageRank is a “vote”, by all the other pages on the Web. So if your site’s address or hyperlink is on another site which has a good authority (lots of important in links from good rated sites) then this gives weight to your site. Adding your site to many different sites is very important to improve PageRank.

Writing articles like this is good, and submitting them to relevant categories in article directories like articlealley.com helps give a lot of weight as long as the article sites are ranked high themselves. Google have a toolbar which shows the ranking of each page, if the rank is high then it would be useful to have a link to your site on there. But any sites that take you link will help.

Once your site comes up on the first page of Google you will be seen by thousands of visitors and can enjoy all the extra possible business. So what are you waiting for, get writing and publishing, and don’t forget to put a link to your site at the bottom of the article or this will be a totally waste of time.


