Title: 
Nintendo WII Accessories Make Your WII A Complete Gaming System

Word Count:
577

Summary:
So you have decided to purchase the hottest new thing in video gaming; the Nintendo Wii. When you purchase your Wii system you will have everything you need to plug in and start playing, including Wii Sports, a game that provides a great way to learn how to use the Wii system’s revolutionary, motion sensing, controllers. However, the Nintendo Wii does not include everything you need to maximize your gaming experience, and that is why there are several must-have Nintendo Wii a...


Keywords:
Nintendo Wii Accessories


Article Body:
So you have decided to purchase the hottest new thing in video gaming; the Nintendo Wii. When you purchase your Wii system you will have everything you need to plug in and start playing, including Wii Sports, a game that provides a great way to learn how to use the Wii system’s revolutionary, motion sensing, controllers. However, the Nintendo Wii does not include everything you need to maximize your gaming experience, and that is why there are several must-have Nintendo Wii accessories.

The Nintendo Wii comes with one remote controller – the Wiimote – and one Nunchuk, which is a motion sensing analog controller that attaches to the wireless Wiimote. If you want to enjoy the head-to-head action of the great games included with Wii Sports, then the first of the Nintendo Wii accessories that you should consider is an extra controller. The Wii can accommodate four controllers, so fitting a second into the system is not a problem.

The Nintendo Wii is compatible not only with games designed for the Wii, but for Nintendo GameCube titles as well. If you do not have a GameCube controller already – your existing GameCube controllers are compatible – then one of the more useful Nintendo Wii accessories is a GameCube controller. Not only will that allow you to play a wider variety of games, you can also play the classic games that are downloadable to your Wii system. However, you need more than the GameCube controller to fully replicate the features of the GameCube games. Without a GameCube memory card, your progress through many of the games will be lost each time you shut down your Wii. A GameCube memory card will allow you to save your progress and play at your leisure. Again, if you have existing GameCube memory cards they are compatible with the Wii.

Speaking of classic Nintendo games, the Wii system’s Internet capabilities make it possible to download those classic games of Nintendo’s past. Downloads are not free, however, and Wii Points are the currency of choice. Therefore, one of the more useful Nintendo Wii accessories is a prepaid Wii Points card that will allow you to easily browse and purchase many of your favorite games from all of the Nintendo predecessors. However, if you plan to purchase many of these classic games it is only a matter of time before you fill the 512mb memory of your Wii system. Purchase a 1 gigabyte SD memory card and you will have all the room you need with plenty to spare!

In order to take advantage of the game downloading abilities, as well as other aspects of the Wii system’s menu functions, you need access to the Internet. That makes the Nintendo Wi-Fi USB connector one of the most important Nintendo Wii accessories. With wireless Internet access in place, you can use your Wii to play games, surf the Web, and coming soon: head to head virtual play!

All of these Nintendo Wii accessories add up to form an impressive array of gaming and entertainment capabilities, but without a component video adapter the picture quality of the Wii might fail to reach its potential, especially if you have a High Definition television. With the adapter in place you will enjoy a crystal clear picture which will enhance your Wii - and your Nintendo Wii accessories - so much more. And one more thing: invest in some rechargeable batteries in order to keep those wireless remote controls at peak performance!


