Title: 
Nintendo

Word Count:
1054

Summary:
The park of entertainments superb of Nintendo, also known under the name of superb Nintendo, BORN superb or SNES, is a console of 16 bits of video game released by Nintendo in North America, in Brazil, Europe, and in Australia. 

In Japan one knows it like superb Famicom (computer of family). In South Korea, one knows it like superb Comboy and was distributed by Hyundai Electronics. The superb park of entertainments of Nintendo was the console of the second home of Nintendo...


Keywords:
nintendo


Article Body:
The park of entertainments superb of Nintendo, also known under the name of superb Nintendo, BORN superb or SNES, is a console of 16 bits of video game released by Nintendo in North America, in Brazil, Europe, and in Australia. 

In Japan one knows it like superb Famicom (computer of family). In South Korea, one knows it like superb Comboy and was distributed by Hyundai Electronics. The superb park of entertainments of Nintendo was the console of the second home of Nintendo, according to the park of entertainments of Nintendo (often shortened with BORN, released like Famicom in Japan).

Considering that the system earlier had fought in Europe and great areas of Asia the SNES proven to be a total success, though one which could not match the popularity of its predecessor in South-East Asia and the north America-due partly of the increased competition of the console of drive of the méga of Sega (released in North America like genesis). In spite of its late beginning relatively, the SNES became the best console of sale of the era of 16 bits but only after its Sega competitor had withdrawn from the market of 16 bits to concentrate on its console of 32 bits of next generation. 

History Even while original NES/Famicom was with the size of its popularity, several companies launched their own consoles. In 1987 and 1988 respectively, NEC and Sega launched their candidates, the engine of PC and the order of méga, one of the first systems at the house of 16 bits of play. Although the BORN ones continues to dominate the industry of video game during years to come, the material of Nintendo started to show its age, and although the executives of Nintendo have at the beginning shown little interest by developing a new system, Sega and share of market growing of NEC with consoles as the order of méga (genesis of Sega) and the engine of PC forced Nintendo soon to reconsider. 

Masayuki Uemura, the responsible man to conceive Famicom earlier several years, was put responsible for the design of the console and superb Famicom was released in Japan on November 21, 1990 for ¥25,000. A bomb of large gauges instantaneous, the initial forwarding of Nintendo of 300.000 units was quickly sold outside in hours. The system was so popular that one said that draws the attention of Yakuza, driving to the decision to embark the devices the night in order to avoid the flight. 

In Japan, superb Famicom is effortlessly sold in greater quantity than its rival in chief, the order of méga, and Nintendo maintained control roughly of 85% of Japanese mercies of the market of console, partly, with the conservation of Nintendo of the majority of its principal realizers of third of Famicom, including Capcom, Konami, Tecmo, Co. square, Ltd, Koei, and Enix. For nine months later, on August 13, 1991, Nintendo released superb Famicom in North America with a new case reorganized like superb park of entertainments of Nintendo. 

At the beginning sold for a price of the $199 USA, the North-American package included the superb world of Mario of play. The SNES was released the United Kingdom and Ireland in April 1992 for £150, with a German release after a few weeks later. The versions of stake of the console seemed identical to Japanese superb Famicom, except marking. The Japanese predominance of the market of Nintendo was not however repeated on the American and European markets. 

Before launching the order/genesis of méga of Sega already firmly became indélogeable at the USA and the market of European, helped by the lower cost of the order of méga/the console and the plays of genesis, the aggressive marketing of Sega in North America, and of the total popularity only of the console. Moreover much of gamers of the USA were enus ven to be expected backwards the compatibility of the realizers of console (as that was the case for Atari 2600 and 7800), but the SNES was not conceived to play of the cartridges of BORN. 

The competition between Nintendo and Sega has product what is probably the most notorious war of the console in the history of play. Nintendo would never carry out the control of the market in Europe and did not manage it to make thus in the United States until 1994, tie benefit to withdraw from Sega of the market and its continuous production of SNES and its plays after the era of 32 bits of the play had started well. 

During the time of the beginning of the Nineties, a feeling manual anti-Japanese had become maturity. While the BORN ones was shown shoddy construction and poor planning, the SNES was widespread to be a tool of pure economic war. The SNES was incompatible with several American-mark TV, making jump to bell-foot screen 3-5 times one second, or (in very rare cases) even the pure light-back on the whole of TV. Nintendo fixed all the market of the accessories of units free, but the theory held above during years. 

From here 1996, the era of 16 bits of the play had finished, and a new generation of the consoles, including proper Nintendo 64 of Nintendo, made weaken the popularity of the SNES. In October 1997, Nintendo released a SNES reorganized 2 in North America for $99 USD (which included pack-in the superb world 2 of Mario of play: The island of Yoshi). Like BORN earlier the 2, the new model was designed to be meaner and lighter that its predecessor but missed S-Video and output of RVB, and would prove to be among the last releases SNES-related principal in America. 

Jr. superb reorganized similar from Famicom was released in Japan around the same time. All cases of American of BORN the original with the SNES 2 were conceived by Lance Barr. Nintendo of America ceased the production of the SNES in 1999. In Japan, superb Famicom continued to be produced until at September 2003 (also some new plays were produced until the year 2000). 

These last years, much of titles of SNES were put in communication in advance held in the hand of boy of play, which has the similar visual possibilities. Some criticisms of video game consider the era of SNES “the golden age of the video games,” quoting the many plays and traditional of inauguration made for the system, while others call into question this romanticism. See the player of video game for more.


