Title: 
Nokia And Yahoo! Team Up

Word Count:
306

Summary:
Well, it was only a matter of time until web search became a hit on cell phones. Yahoo! and Nokia have been working together over the past year to get web and image search results on your cell pone.

This feature is now available in 10 languages on a variety of Nokia phones including the N80, N70, N93, N71, and a number of other phones.

There are many great features on the Nokia N-series that it is hard to know where to start. There's the 3 mega pixel camera for starters...


Keywords:
ringtones, music, mp3


Article Body:
Well, it was only a matter of time until web search became a hit on cell phones. Yahoo! and Nokia have been working together over the past year to get web and image search results on your cell pone.

This feature is now available in 10 languages on a variety of Nokia phones including the N80, N70, N93, N71, and a number of other phones.

There are many great features on the Nokia N-series that it is hard to know where to start. There's the 3 mega pixel camera for starters which is really powerful for a phone camera combining fun, functionality and style in one, being one of the best-looking smart phones on the market today. Supporting Email client, internet browser, and Wi-Fi makes it a powerful business device as well. The sliding keyboard reveals the dial pad when opened which keeps the overall size of the N-series down. Yahoo’s mobile search software for Nokia cell phones is a simple, convenient, and easy way to find and connect to local internet services, web sites, images, mobile content and ringtones. Partnership has already started to drive customers’ usage of mobile search. The Nokia mobile search also increases consumer discoverability of search on mobile devices as in many cases search will be accessible directly from the menu screen. This pact is an expansion of an already strong cooperation between leading players in their fields.

"Nokia is extremely focused on providing the multimedia computer user the easiest route to explore the Internet and find what they need while they are on the go, such as images, facts, restaurants and addresses," commented Ralph Eric Kunz, vice president, Multimedia Experiences, at Nokia. "Combining Yahoo!'s proven expertise in search on the web with Nokia's understanding of mobile user interfaces, makes the Nokia Mobile Search experience unrivalled in the industry of ringtones."


