Title: 
Nothing Lasts Forever Except Bi-Xenon HID

Word Count:
526

Summary:
If anybody can offer a life guarantee for a car headlamp, then something great is really going on. The product’s superiority can back up such an outrageous offer. Why would you hesitate to take it up?

Great Product or Just A Great Offer?

A product guaranteed for life?  Nobody can resist this kind of offer for a Bi-Xenon HID lamp, not when it is about great lighting for a car’s headlamp. But it does not hurt to find out if the product is all hype or really worth the trou...


Keywords:
bi-xenon HID


Article Body:
If anybody can offer a life guarantee for a car headlamp, then something great is really going on. The product’s superiority can back up such an outrageous offer. Why would you hesitate to take it up?

Great Product or Just A Great Offer?

A product guaranteed for life?  Nobody can resist this kind of offer for a Bi-Xenon HID lamp, not when it is about great lighting for a car’s headlamp. But it does not hurt to find out if the product is all hype or really worth the trouble to check out.  

The High Intensity Discharge, or HID, is the latest in lighting technology that changed how everybody viewed car headlamps. Car headlamps have gone from so-so to uber cool. High-end cars have been showing off headlights that emit a greenish white, bluish white, or a purple haze light.  

It’s not just the colors that are catching on. The Bi-Xenon HID lamps are brighter and covers more ground area sideways and long distance views when the high beam is on. For the regular guys, this simply means they can see road signs farther ahead. This convenience adds to their night driving confidence.  
 
The Bi-Xenon HID kits have separate halogen lamps for the flash-to-pass signals. The combination of the Xenon and the halogen lamps produce HID low and high beam. With better high beams and halogens for flash signals, the Bi-Xenon is an improvement on the low beam Xenon. As a bonus, the Bi-Xenon HID lamps do not draw too much car battery power. With all these features plus being street legal, the lifetime guarantee is indeed the icing on the cake. 

What is Xenon Technology? 

Xenon is an inert, colorless, and tasteless gas. This is often used in photography flashbulbs. The white light produced by the flash bulb is the output of the Xenon gas. In relation to headlamps, the Bi-Xenon HID systems create light differently from halogen lamps.

Inside the Bi-Xenon HID bulbs is a small capsule that contains Xenon gas and halide salts. Together, these combine to create that powerful light three times brighter than your old halogen bulbs. Halogen bulbs rely on the car’s 12 V system but the HID lamps need ballast to provide the higher voltage. If the halogen bulbs depend on a filament to create light, HID produces light when an electrical discharge between two electrodes is ignited. These electrodes are encased in a little quartz capsule filled with Xenon gas. When you hear Xenon, it refers to the gas. This is the same with HID technology because HID bulbs use Xenon gas.  

Why Should You Drop that Halogen Lamp?

Whenever you hit the road with your car, the vibrations damage the halogen filament, so this will have you running back to the car shop to get new halogen headlamps. Vibrations and other shock effects will not damage your Bi-Xenon HID lamps because nothing is breakable inside the bulb. During long distance traveling at nighttime, your BI-Xenon HID will not generate that much heat because it consumes less power from your car’s voltage system. With that lifetime guarantee for a hard working headlamp, why hesitate?


