Title: 
Off Site Data Storage

Word Count:
542

Summary:
Why in this day and age of enormous hard drives and portable storage drives that can be carried in your pocket without even realizing it’s there would anyone want to trust an off site data storage site?

Well, for one thing, let’s say you’re on vacation and you don’t have a laptop. But you do have access to a computer via the hotel or an internet café or something like that. You may want to check up on some documents and so what do you do? You sign in to your off site data ...


Keywords:
computer, software, utilities, data, data storage, offsite


Article Body:
Why in this day and age of enormous hard drives and portable storage drives that can be carried in your pocket without even realizing it’s there would anyone want to trust an off site data storage site?

Well, for one thing, let’s say you’re on vacation and you don’t have a laptop. But you do have access to a computer via the hotel or an internet café or something like that. You may want to check up on some documents and so what do you do? You sign in to your off site data storage holder and check up on the document.

Are these places safe? Secure? Free from prying eyes? Well, you know it is the internet after all, where anything can and probably will happen at some point. But, yes, for the most part off site data storage is safe. The files are compressed and encrypted before they make the journey from your computer to your safe place in cyberspace. Of course, as we all know, there is no such thing as a 100% truly safe place in cyberspace. Is there a chance that the files you save at an off site data storage company could be illegally retrieved? Of course. Should you stay up nights fretting over it? Probably not.

Typically, the way these off site data storage methodologies work is that you get an encryption key that allows you to open the lock, if you will, to the storage bin containing your files. The encryption key is not stored on the site, only you have access to it. As long as you keep a tight hold on who has access to that key, your data is probably safer than if it were on your own computer.

This is especially true if your computer is prone to crashing. If you’ve ever lost important files because Mr. Gates’ gift to the world of computing came crashing down all around you, chances are you’ll want to investigate the whole idea of off line data storage.

For one thing, it saves you hard drive space. That may not be such a big deal if you’ve got just documents, but if you’re storing vast amounts of multimedia files not only will you want to save space if you can, but protect all that work from being lost. An off site data storage company can do both. Not that you won’t want to save your files to your own computer as extra insurance, but the feeling of knowing all your long, hard hours of work are safely stored somewhere after you do experience a major computer failure can not only save your sanity, but your life.

Right off the bat I can think of several thousands of people who would have benefited from backing up files with an off site data storage company. Just think of how many computers were damaged or destroyed during Hurricane Katrina. And all the backup files made at home wouldn’t matter a bit if those files were themselves left behind. Don’t wait for a catastrophe to catch you off guard. If you’ve got files you can’t afford to lose, contact an off site data storage company today.


