Title: 
One Full-Features Data Recovery Utility - File Scavenger

Word Count:
316

Summary:
If your files or important data were ever accidentally deleted and reformatted or damaged by virus? Don’t worry about it! In this article I will recommend one software – File Scavenger, this is one latest full-features data recovery software for Windows Platform. This review is form SoftSea.com – it provided the latest software reviews with downloads for free trial. All software are safe and friendly.

File Scavenger that designed by QueTek Consulting Corporation is an idea...


Keywords:
data recovery,software,downloads,reviews


Article Body:
If your files or important data were ever accidentally deleted and reformatted or damaged by virus? Don’t worry about it! In this article I will recommend one software – File Scavenger, this is one latest full-features data recovery software for Windows Platform. This review is form SoftSea.com – it provided the latest software reviews with downloads for free trial. All software are safe and friendly.

File Scavenger that designed by QueTek Consulting Corporation is an ideal solution for you! File Scavenger is a Windows file undelete and data recovery utility for NTFS and FAT/FAT32 volumes. The simple and powerful tool suits for beginners and experienced users. File Scavenger’s size is only 772 KB.

File Scavenger applies a friendly and easy-to-use interface and works with Win2000/XP/2003/Vista. No external hardware or software requirements. It can recover files that were damaged by virus or accidentally deleted from Windows Explorer, the Recycled Bin, command line window, or a network share along with original folder names and file Create and Modified dates. It supports reformatted volumes or broken hardware/software RAID volumes as well as file compression, dynamic disks, alternate data streams, sparse files, Unicode filenames and more.

File Scavenger applies a free trial and ensures that doesn’t contain any adware or spyware but with the trial only 64kb or smaller files can be recovered. File Scavenger offers 3 different search modes, one for quick access to recently deleted files, one for exhaustive search and also a defunct volume search that can even recover files from compromised striped and RAID volumes. I tested the product on a machine that was reformatted a few days ago, and safely recovered some of the files, old desktop shortcuts and more.

File Scavenger’s current version is 3.1 and you can own the registration for only $49.00. What are you waiting for? Download the trial hurry up and buy license for full functions now.


