Title: 
Online Faxing: A Communication Innovation

Word Count:
436

Summary:
Technology is truly growing by leaps and bounds these days. Every day sees the emergence of some new-fangled gadget that is destined to make our lives easier and easier and easier.

It is quite a stretch to have to imagine that the telephone is not even a hundred years old. Just look at the number of innovations that have been made as far as phones are concerned. We have moved from needing operators to connect us to various numbers, to being able to do it ourselves. We have...


Keywords:
Online fax


Article Body:
Technology is truly growing by leaps and bounds these days. Every day sees the emergence of some new-fangled gadget that is destined to make our lives easier and easier and easier.

It is quite a stretch to have to imagine that the telephone is not even a hundred years old. Just look at the number of innovations that have been made as far as phones are concerned. We have moved from needing operators to connect us to various numbers, to being able to do it ourselves. We have shifted our places quite literally from a telephone that was latched to a wall or switchboard, to one that can actually be carried everywhere. The world really seems to be progressing at a dizzying pace. And nobody wants to slow it down.

Instant gratification is what we look for these days. We no longer want to visit the bank to stand in long queues. We tell ourselves that we will spare ourselves the headache by doing a bank transfer or checking our whether the salary came in online. Instant noodles started off this whole craze for instant gratification, and now everything has to be instant. Buying travel tickets, booking hotels, getting movie tickets, everything has been simplified today.

But what about the good old fax machine? The fax machine was always instant was it not? Yes, it certainly was, but then, how many people actually own a fax machine? Find the number and compare it the number of people that own computers with an Internet connection. The second is definitely higher. So it does make sense to use the Internet to send out faxes.

Online faxing is labeled as being as easy as email, and all you need to do to use this facility, is to have an email address. Find an online fax service and  you will be able to send and receive faxes, even without a fax machine, and you don't even need a second phone line. The service allows you to be mobile as you access your faxes from wherever you are. If you hope to have a certain flexibility in your work schedule, the mode of online faxing would be a great boon to you.

Moreover, internet faxing is relatively inexpensive as well. Your faxes will remain private as they will go into your mailbox instead of into the common fax tray. In addition to all these benefits, you no longer have to worry about missing a fax because your phone line was busy. So you can breathe easy without feeling anxious about the status of that fax. It's probably already in your mailbox.


