Title: 
Online Dvd Rentals - How Computer Internet Technology Has Revolutionized The Way People Rent Dvds

Word Count:
543

Summary:
If you thought that the only way to rent DVDs was to head down to the local Blockbuster or Hollywood Video, you’ll be in for a nice surprise. Thanks to the ease and comfort of the Internet, you can now rent DVDs online from companies such as Netflix, Intelliflix and even Blockbuster Online. 

One of the features of renting DVDs online is the pricing structure.  If you rent a DVD from a popular brick-and-mortar store, you can expect to pay about $6 per movie, including taxes...


Keywords:
online dvd rentals,renting dvds online,online dvd movie rentals,dvd rentals by mail,on line dvd rent


Article Body:
If you thought that the only way to rent DVDs was to head down to the local Blockbuster or Hollywood Video, you’ll be in for a nice surprise. Thanks to the ease and comfort of the Internet, you can now rent DVDs online from companies such as Netflix, Intelliflix and even Blockbuster Online. 

One of the features of renting DVDs online is the pricing structure.  If you rent a DVD from a popular brick-and-mortar store, you can expect to pay about $6 per movie, including taxes.  One of the most popular plans offered by these online DVDs rental services is a $17.99 plan which lets you rent out 3 DVD’s at a time with no limits on how many you rent per month.

Consider the fact that if you rent just 3 DVDs per month, then you already get your full money's worth, but the reality is that you can rent as many movies as you want for the same flat rate. Plus, with no extra fees such as shipping, and the time and gas you save, it’s almost a no-brainer to set up an account with one of these online DVD rental services. As an added bonus, all of these services offer a free trial where you can give it a try.  If you don’t like it, then simply cancel your account within the trial period, and it won’t cost you a cent.  

Renting DVDs online is very easy to do. Just use your home computer and Internet connection: log onto your account and browse through all the available movies. All of the online DVD rental services make the navigation simple to use and understand. Most of the movies are grouped into categories such as Drama, Comedy, Action, Foreign and New Releases so you can browse through hundreds of titles within minutes. There’s usually a review of each film also so you can get a preview of what the plot is about.  Then all you do is simply place every movie you want to watch into your "to view" list. Within a couple business days, they will ship the DVDs at the top of the list to your home.

Another convenience is that there are no late fees associated with these online DVD rental services. You keep each DVD for as long as you want, until . Once you return the DVD back in the return envelope, simply wait a day or two for it to clear your queue and the next movie on your list will be delivered.  

I have tried both Netflix and Blockbuster Online and I can honestly testify that these online DVD rental services are a great deal (though I give Blockbuster a slight edge). I have caught up on hundreds of movies in the past couple of years.  Also, they rent TV show DVD’s so I’ve been able to catch up on many TV shows as well. The $14.99 I currently pay per month for my service is simply an outstanding value. 

Give it a chance and I bet you'll also find it superior to the old way of renting DVDs.  Remember, if you’re not feeling sure about online DVD rentals, there's usually a free trial where you can check it out risk free.


