Title: 
Online Video Game Rental Service Review

Word Count:
455

Summary:
Online video game rental services allow you to rent video games, which are sent to the subscriber through the mail after you’ve placed the order on the video game rental service website. Owing to the development in technology which allows the storage of data using high capacity storage Medias such as CD-ROMs and DVDs, and pioneered by the online DVD rental giant, http://Netflix.com, many online video game rental services came up and have now dominated the online rental market...


Keywords:
video, games, rental, online, gamefly, gottaplay, intelliflix, dvd


Article Body:
Online video game rental services allow you to rent video games, which are sent to the subscriber through the mail after you’ve placed the order on the video game rental service website. Owing to the development in technology which allows the storage of data using high capacity storage Medias such as CD-ROMs and DVDs, and pioneered by the online DVD rental giant, http://Netflix.com, many online video game rental services came up and have now dominated the online rental market.

In addition to the PC platform, most online video game rental services also give out games for consoles such as the Microsoft Xbox, Xbox 360; Nintendo GameCube; Sony PSP, PS2, Playstation; and GameBoy Advance.

How Do Online Video Game Rental Services Work?

Most online video game rental services charge a flat monthly fee to subscribers, with which you can rent any number of video game titles as long as you remain a paid member. For example, with a $20/month plan, you are allowed to rent two game titles at once. When you return one of them, the next game is shipped out to you. Members can also cancel their subscription any time they choose, and there are typically no cancellation charges. However, you need to return all the rented games to the online video game rental service before you cancel.

When you join a an online video game rental service, you’ll be provided with a number of video game titles from which you can make your selection by adding preferred titles to your list. Depending on your membership plan, the online video game rental service sends you a certain number of video games. The rest is queued up, and when you return (usually with a prepaid mailer) any of the rented games, the next title(s) in your list is sent to you. If it is not available, the next game is sent out. You also have the option of shuffling or adding new selections in your list whenever you want. Shipping, both ways, is usually free with all online video game rental services.

Advantages of Online Video Game Rental Services

1. More title options – most online video game rentals have thousands of titles in different categories and genres, etc.

2. More economical- you usually don’t have to pay for shipping charges, due dates, or late fees.

3. A convenient monthly fee - which allows you choose from a wide range of titles, as many as you want

4. If you find you didn't really enjoy a game, or finish the objectives too quickly, you can always return it in exchange for another, which is not possible when you purchase.

5. Online video game rental services allow you to rent games from the comfort of your own home.


