Title: 
Organic Baby Clothing

Word Count:
342

Summary:
In this day and age when people are looking for new and better ways to optimize their health, there has been a growing movement towards going organic. Organic food is naturally raised and grown and therefore free of additives and preservatives. Research has shown that the eating of organic food is far healthier for the human body – and supports a healthier environment. It stands to reason, therefore, that organic clothing does its part for the environment as well as a service...


Keywords:
Organic Baby Clothing


Article Body:
In this day and age when people are looking for new and better ways to optimize their health, there has been a growing movement towards going organic. Organic food is naturally raised and grown and therefore free of additives and preservatives. Research has shown that the eating of organic food is far healthier for the human body – and supports a healthier environment. It stands to reason, therefore, that organic clothing does its part for the environment as well as a service to those who wear it. And no other organic clothing is as popular as organic baby clothing.

Just as organic produce and agricultural farmers raise their product with a commitment to using no pesticides, additives, or chemicals of any kind, organic cotton farmers are equally committed to their products and the environment at large. It has been reported that traditional cotton farming is responsible for using nearly a quarter of the world’s insecticides and more than ten percent of the world’s pesticides, making the growth of cotton an environmental crisis. Not only do these chemicals pollute the ground, air, and water in our environment but they embed themselves in the fabrics that we wear. Organic cotton farming ensures that no such chemicals are used and nothing could be more important than that when it comes to organic baby clothing.

As parents we are continually looking for ways to protect our baby’s sensitive skin. We do everything from using dye-free laundry detergent to hypoallergenic soaps and creams. But when we slip an ordinary cotton fabric over their heads, we may be exposing them to unseen irritants. Organic baby clothing uses only natural fabrics free of dyes and other chemicals so that parents can rest assured that only the simplest and most natural of fabrics is touching their baby’s skin.

Organic baby clothing can help reduce exposure to allergens and other irritants and keep babies comfortable. You can find organic baby clothing in many online locations as well as smaller specialty boutiques committed to the use of natural materials.


