Title: 
P2p, Limeware And Utorrent

Word Count:
373

Summary:
The internet has been very useful in today’s times. You can send email to someone across the world. You can do business with someone in a different language. You can even have net meetings online today. One of the things that make the internet a great tool is the P2P or the Peer to Peer systems. There are many things that can be done through P2P systems. First, you can share photos when you have peer to peer systems installed on your computer. Second, you can share videos wit...


Keywords:
p2p,utorrent,limeware


Article Body:
The internet has been very useful in today’s times. You can send email to someone across the world. You can do business with someone in a different language. You can even have net meetings online today. One of the things that make the internet a great tool is the P2P or the Peer to Peer systems. There are many things that can be done through P2P systems. First, you can share photos when you have peer to peer systems installed on your computer. Second, you can share videos with other people on the internet. Third, you can even share other files like documents or even spreadsheets. There are a lot of Peer to Peer systems on the internet today. To name a few, there is Limewire and uTorrent. If you are the type of person that loves music and that loves watching videos then you should certainly try to get hold of peer to peer software today.

How does a peer to peer system work anyway? In a peer to peer system, you are going to have a shared directory in your hard drive. This shared directory will be open to other peer to peer users. You can also access the shared directories of the other people that are online the peer to peer system. If you want to share videos then you simply put the video files in your shared directory. If you want to obtain videos then you should simply access the shared directory of the other users.

There are a lot of issues surrounding the use of peer to peer systems. One of the main issues that surround this kind of software is the copyrighting issue. If you are going to share a file with other people then there will be no way of stopping the spread of that file. If this file is a copyrighted file then it will be spread throughout the internet without any control. Companies certainly do not want things like this to happen. If you are a music company then you wouldn’t want all your copyrighted files to be all over the internet for free, right? You should use peer  to peer systems like Limewire and uTorrent on your own discretion.


