Title: 
Paint Like Monet Using Photoshop Paintbrush Tool

Word Count:
305

Summary:
Learning to use the paintbrush in Photoshop is easy with Photoshop Fast Track. You will be creating original works of art within minutes.

The Photoshop paintbrush has more uses than you might imagine. When you get good with the paintbrush you will be able to create some awesome graphics.

Photoshop has two types of paintbrushes you will be using.

Airbrush:
The first type of paintbrush available in Photoshop is the airbrush. This paintbrush tool is very much like usin...


Keywords:
photoshop,adobe,tutorials,paint,computers,design,websites,internet,business,services


Article Body:
Learning to use the paintbrush in Photoshop is easy with Photoshop Fast Track. You will be creating original works of art within minutes.

The Photoshop paintbrush has more uses than you might imagine. When you get good with the paintbrush you will be able to create some awesome graphics.

Photoshop has two types of paintbrushes you will be using.

Airbrush:
The first type of paintbrush available in Photoshop is the airbrush. This paintbrush tool is very much like using a can of spray paint. It virtually sprays the paint onto the image or canvas.

Photoshop gives the user maximum control by allowing you to adjust the diffusion or amount of pain being applied as well as the speed with which it is applied to the canvas. There are also many different brush sizes and shapes you can use.

Paintbrush:
The paintbrush tool is more like using an actual paintbrush and applying paint by hand. Much like using a real paintbrush the virtual paintbrush in Photoshop applies paint in much more even distribution compared with the airbrush tool.

You will have fun experimenting with the different options available for creating digital works of art using the paintbrush in Photoshop.

The best thing about it is that you don’t have to worry about mistakes as you would on a traditional canvas using real paint.

This is especially true if you are working in layers. If you don’t like your results simply delete that layer and try something else.

Check out Photoshop Newbie video Tutorials and learn how
to master the basics of Photoshop in just 2 hours with David Peters.

Sign up today and receive Free daily email tips on mastering Photoshop and also view a Free video photoshop tutorial online.

This is a a short video shows you how to remove "red-eye" from a photo.


