Title: 
Palm Software Revolutionized Handhelds

Word Count:
472

Summary:
PalmSource has developed Palm software, which is most suited for handhelds, an d continues to upgrade it constantly. Software is available to perform a variety of functions ranging from running Web browsers, calculators, address books, date books, picture files, video files, smart phones, digital cameras, or pretty much any other function that can be imagined for a portable computing solution.

Jeff Hawkins developed the first Palm operating system, called Version 1.0, for ...


Keywords:



Article Body:
PalmSource has developed Palm software, which is most suited for handhelds, an d continues to upgrade it constantly. Software is available to perform a variety of functions ranging from running Web browsers, calculators, address books, date books, picture files, video files, smart phones, digital cameras, or pretty much any other function that can be imagined for a portable computing solution.

Jeff Hawkins developed the first Palm operating system, called Version 1.0, for use on the original PalmPilot 1000 and 5000 series. The PalmPilot Personal and Professional editions introduced the soon upgraded version 2.0. Later, version 3.0 was introduced with the launch of the Palm III series. Support for color, multiple expansion ports, new processors and other valuable services were added in versions 3.1, 3.3 and 3.5 to provide.

The introduction of Tungsten T, a PalmPilot designed for business applications, saw the launch of Palm OS version 5.0. This was the first Palm software that could be loaded on ARM devices. A significant feature with Palm software is that the newer versions are not radically altered from the older ones. In fact, a great deal of backward compatibility is required, as all new Palm applications are developed under the aegis of Palm Application Compatibility Environment (PACE).

PalmSource re-branded its operating systems in 2004. The Palm OS 5 was renamed to become Palm OS Garnet, and Palm OS 6 became Palm OS Cobalt. The dedication to constant improvement of its operating systems has made PalmSource the market leader in handheld software. PalmSource software now supports a wide selection of LCD panel resolutions, one-handed navigation, and telephony components.

Just a few examples of the most common applications that are included with the Palm OS are:

1. Address Book/Contacts: This versatile software allows personal information to be entered in several user-definable categories, providing several slots for phone or e-mail entries.

2. Blazer: This is a Web browser, providing access to the Internet for the new model smart phones and handhelds launched by Palm.

3. Date Book/Calendar: The date book and calendar software functions not only as a standard organizer, but can help the user maintain daily, weekly or monthly schedules through the application's alarm facility to alert the user.

4. Calculator: This gives Palm users the functionality of a standard 4-function pocket calculator. In the advanced mode, it will help the user can use perform specific jobs related to math, finance, statistics, logic, weight, length, area, and volume.

5. Expense: This application allows common business expenses to be easily tracked by the user.

6. HotSync: This is a very important software function that allows communication between the PalmPilot and the user's PC. It can be used for any number of functions, such as installing new software or backing up important data.

Of course these are not the only applications that come with Palm OS. Some of the most popular other programs are notepad, digital photo album, to do list, and video files.


