Title: 
Panasonic Lcd Tvs Running The Gamut Of Features

Word Count:
485

Summary:
For television purchasers in the United Kingdom, Panasonic offers a wide range of features for their brand of LCD sets.  LCD, or liquid crystal display, is a new kind of television set that has revolutionized the way we watch TV.

Some aficionados will claim plasma screens, using tiny pockets of gas to project light on the screen, are superior in overall picture quality.  However, plasma screens are much more expensive, sometimes running twice as much as LCD and very few pe...


Keywords:
plasma tvs, panasonic tvs, LCD tvs, tv advice,plasma reviews


Article Body:
For television purchasers in the United Kingdom, Panasonic offers a wide range of features for their brand of LCD sets.  LCD, or liquid crystal display, is a new kind of television set that has revolutionized the way we watch TV.

Some aficionados will claim plasma screens, using tiny pockets of gas to project light on the screen, are superior in overall picture quality.  However, plasma screens are much more expensive, sometimes running twice as much as LCD and very few people can tell much of a difference between pictures.  

LCD screens do not suffer picture burn-in as some of the older plasma screens did.  LCD screens are affordable, thin (some as thin as 4 inch deep) and have outstanding realistic clarity to the picture.

Panasonic offers many different LCD TVs.  Take the TX-32LXD600 for example.  This set is around 1400 pounds and has great features like High Definition compatibility.  This 32” diagonal screen comes with an amazing 1366X768 pixel resolution.  

If you are looking for something a little less expensive, try the TX-26LXD60.  This wonderful 26” screen sales for 859 pounds and comes with 3D colour management and is ready for HD programming.  This is an excellent middle of the pack set.  Large enough to produce a great viewing experience, but easier on the pocket book.

Want to go even less expensive but still get a quality set?  Look no further than the TX-20LX6.  This retails for around 500 pounds.  It has stereo sound and a built-in front speaker.  

One of the most enjoyable aspects of owning a flat-screen TV is displaying it on your wall.  Getting the proper wall bracket is essential when determining where and how to mount your tv set.
We found that http://www.tv-wall-brackets.co.uk was full of information on wall mounting your TV and had a variety of brackets.  

There are several different types of wall mounts.  Flat wall mount allows you to maximize the amount of space in any room by placing the screen as close as possible to the wall.  Tilting wall mounts allow the viewing area to change whenever you desire.  It takes up a bit more space on the wall but is perfect for bedrooms or above certain pieces of furniture.  

Another option is mounting it on a table stand.  Very often, the set itself comes with a stand to place it on.  This is a more traditional way of displaying your television and takes up the most space.  

Articulating mounts are the most complicated and usually the most expensive due to their wider range of maneuverability.  These mounts allow the TV to be put back out of the way when not in use.  Pulling it out from whatever nook or cranny it is placed in is a snap.  It is like having a storage area up and out of the way.  This creates a very user friendly situation for viewing and storing your Panasonic LCD TV.


