Title: 
PDAs Even Come With GPs

Word Count:
387

Summary:
GPS is a system that's used by the military, companies, and individuals to plot locations on the surface of the earth. These devices are mainly used commercially as high-end maps which offer detailed directions to a plethora of locations in the country. The Garmin Nuvi 350 is an example of such a GPS device. Finding accommodation, food outlets, gas stations, and more is very easy with this device because it contains maps and points of interest.

A PDA is a Personal Digital ...


Keywords:
pda, gps pda


Article Body:
GPS is a system that's used by the military, companies, and individuals to plot locations on the surface of the earth. These devices are mainly used commercially as high-end maps which offer detailed directions to a plethora of locations in the country. The Garmin Nuvi 350 is an example of such a GPS device. Finding accommodation, food outlets, gas stations, and more is very easy with this device because it contains maps and points of interest.

A PDA is a Personal Digital Assistant or a "pocket computer" in layman's terms. The RIM Blackberry is a perfect example of a PDA that's developed into a cell phone as well, with its advanced audio capabilities. This phone has been dominating the PDA market over many years and continues to gain popularity due to celebrities such as Paris Hilton using them.

Therefore, GPS PDAs are PDAs which have the added function of being GPS enabled. For finding maps and direction you can just turn on your PDA. An example of this device may be the Garmin iQue300 which holds the honor of being the first PDA to include GPS technology. Its GPS system was a Garmin and its PDA Operating System was that of Palm OS 5. An added feature of this device was that you could call up contact information through voice commands.

However, the debate rages on as to which is better? Is it better to have one PDA with GPS, or have your GPS as a separate device?

Regardless of your choice, there are always benefits and drawbacks. Two separate devices will definitely work out to be more expensive. Some of the GPS devices can be quite bulky and can be a problem if you need to carry them around with you. In such situations you will be best suited with a GPS PDA phone. With a single device it's rather difficult and inconvenient to use both the phone and GPS at the same time. A PDA also have a tiny screen, which could make reading the map quite cumbersome.

All in all, it depends on your needs. If your primary use of the PDA is as a phone and organizer, then two separate devices would be better. If you want to save some money and don't mind a little inconvenience, the combined device would be a better choice.


