Title: 
Personal Review For Microsoft Digital Image

Word Count:
530

Summary:
With the developing of digital technology, more and more digital products are used universally in our life. Digital camera are widely used all over the world especially today. We often take large numbers of photos in various occasions with our digital camera and store them on our hard disk in different directories. But edit and manage these photos later are not a easy work for us. I usually edit my photos with PhotoShop and manage them with AcdSee previously. It is a long and...


Keywords:
software,review,download


Article Body:
With the developing of digital technology, more and more digital products are used universally in our life. Digital camera are widely used all over the world especially today. We often take large numbers of photos in various occasions with our digital camera and store them on our hard disk in different directories. But edit and manage these photos later are not a easy work for us. I usually edit my photos with PhotoShop and manage them with AcdSee previously. It is a long and rebarbative work, So I have to give up some photos which are unimportant. But how can I improve my work efficiency? Fortunately, I catch sight of a software which can edit and manage photos in batch over the Internet when I am surfing on-line. This is Microsoft Digital Image which is designed by Microsoft Corp, do you know that? I have used it for a long time and I can make sure that it would be very helpful for you as well.

Here are some basic characters and features about this software. Microsoft Digital Image is a complete digital imaging suite that combines image management and photo editing along with the ability to create narrated Photo Stories that can be viewed as video clip on our computer or portable device. We need not to use several softwares to edit and manage our photos any longer. Due to the narrated Photo Stories are very small, we can also send it to our friends and families by email or upload on our websites. The image library allows we to import and organize our photos with keywords and labels, assign personal ratings, mark photos for touch-up or further processing, send resized versions by email, and more. The included photo editor offers a wide range of easy-to-use image editing functions to improve and enhance our photos, remove red-eye effects, adjust colors and resize our images.

With the friendly interface of Microsoft Digital Image, all the functions are easy completed with a few click only. It also includes photo repair and touch-up tools that enables we to remove wrinkles, blemishes, spots and other imperfections. Other features include sharpening, levels and curve adjustments, text insertion, panorama stitching, camera phone auto-fix, noise reduction and more.

Overall, Microsoft Digital Image provides a straightforward interface that is easy to use even for novice users, yet powerful enough to accommodate advanced users as well. This all-in-one image tools suite is an ideal solution for shutterbug.

Microsoft Digital Image provides a free trial for us, but only can be free used 30 days and some features of this software are disabled. It is a standalone software and does not need any extra software and hardware requirement. Microsoft Digital Image does not contain any adware or spyware and we can use it safely and undisturbedly. It works with Win2000/XP/2003/Vista and its current version is 2006 Starter Edition.

Microsoft Digital Image is the most powerful tools with such more functions we need to edit and manage our photos and its size is smaller than similar tools I have used. What are you waiting for? Download the free trial now and experience what powerful and effective it is at once!


