Title: 
Personal Tracking Devices

Word Count:
520

Summary:
Personal tracking devices have been widely popularized in James Bond and other spy movies where the bad guy usually sticks a detachable gadget to a vehicle or person so he would be able to track down where it is by looking at his map or monitor. You would usually recognize this when you see the blinking gadget moving to and fro in the bad guy’s digital map. But nowadays, you don’t need to watch a Bond movie to know what a personal tracking device is. You can even see it in ev...


Keywords:
Personal Tracking Devices,GPS Personal Tracking Devices


Article Body:
Personal tracking devices have been widely popularized in James Bond and other spy movies where the bad guy usually sticks a detachable gadget to a vehicle or person so he would be able to track down where it is by looking at his map or monitor. You would usually recognize this when you see the blinking gadget moving to and fro in the bad guy’s digital map. But nowadays, you don’t need to watch a Bond movie to know what a personal tracking device is. You can even see it in everyday objects. This has been an indispensable tool for tracking vehicles, vulnerable adults or children’s whereabouts and other important stuff, which we feel the need to track and monitor.

There are a lot of personal tracking devices in the market that you need only to choose what size or color you want. This has become the best solution for worrying moms who are having second thoughts of sending their children to camping trips or excursions. Parents are now rest assured because they know where their children are at all times. These are also used for vehicles. Should valuable property be stolen, you can easily locate them and work hand in hand with the authorities to arrest the perpetrators.

Personal tracking devices have been made possible through the GPS or global positioning system technology. With many gadgets in the market, such as the smallest phones or the smallest mp3 players where the most number of songs can fit, there are also personal tracking devices that are being sold for everyday use. Sooner or later, personal tracking devices would become a common product that people can attach to each of their loved ones and prized possessions so as to monitor their location and safety. But right now, the world is still being introduced to the many benefits that it can contribute, not to mention in times of tragic incidents or accidents.

The most common gadgets, which are easily turned into personal tracking devices, are cell and mobile phones. We may not own any thing with a tracking device, but we can surely be tracked through our mobile phones without our knowledge. Cell and mobile phones frequently have the ability to act as real time tracking devices that can give almost up to the minutes location and travel information just like a dedicated real time tracking device. Cell and mobile phones can send information about our location because depending on the mobile phone service, the GPS service can be availed and in some cases tracking information can be made available to anyone with the same mobile phone service.

The newest editions of personal GPS tracking devices can even be as small as key chains. Passive personal tracking devices are much smaller than real time devices. Real time tracking devices have added creative features, which allows GPS tracking or locating, emergency features for 911 similar incidents or two-way speakerphones, which have programmable buttons for phone dialing. For the meantime, we can only observe how these personal tracking devices can change people’s lives for the better and not for the worse.


