Title: 
Photoshop Tools - Take Control And Start Doing Professional Level Graphics

Word Count:
370

Summary:
If you are learning Photoshop you are in for a treat. The capabilities of Adobe Photoshop are unlimited. There is virtually nothing you cannot do if you are familiar with all of the available tools, features and functions.

Some of the tools and features available in Photoshop include: text tool, paint bucket, lasso, magic wand, crop tool, gradient fill, layers, effects, history brush, and the clone tool. This is only a small sample of the functions available to Photoshop u...


Keywords:
photoshop,adobe,tutorials,paint,computers,design,websites,internet,business,services


Article Body:
If you are learning Photoshop you are in for a treat. The capabilities of Adobe Photoshop are unlimited. There is virtually nothing you cannot do if you are familiar with all of the available tools, features and functions.

Some of the tools and features available in Photoshop include: text tool, paint bucket, lasso, magic wand, crop tool, gradient fill, layers, effects, history brush, and the clone tool. This is only a small sample of the functions available to Photoshop users for creating professional quality digital images and graphic designs.

The following are just a small sample of the cool things you will be able to do when you have learned how to use the basic tools available in Photoshop. Please note that these functions are available regardless of whether you are using Photoshop 7.0, Photoshop CS or Photoshop CS 2.

Color to Black & White

Now you can see how those photos will look black and white. There is no need to use expensive black and white film. You can easily convert any color image to black and white in Photoshop with just a few clicks. In fact, you can even apply various filters to adjust the contrast for truly professional results.

Color and Black and White

Everyone loves mixing a little color into an otherwise black and white image. For example, a close up of a bride and groom’s hands with everything black and white except the gold wedding bands. Creating this effect is simply when you have learned the tools available in Photoshop.

Restore Damaged Photographs

You can renew and restore old or damaged photos in minutes with Photoshop. Your family and friends will all be sending you’re their old photographs for restoration. You could even start a business providing this service.

Create Cool Effects

You will be able to add fancy borders to your photographs or create photos that look like a paintings and much more.

Crop and Resize

Crop photos to remove unwanted objects or resize for printing.

Learn Photoshop and master the tools available and these are only a few of the things you will be able to do. Photoshop is the only tool you will ever need for digital photo editing or graphic art design.


