Title: 
Photoshop CS2 Tutorials

Word Count:
642

Summary:
The Photoshop CS2 program is one perfect utility that you can explore. It provides a whole new perspective to any creative endeavors. Many people will attest to the benefits and advantages of Photoshop CS2.

Photoshop CS2 may sound really good. However, for beginners, this will still all be Greek to their ears. Thus, tutorials will really play a big role to expose one to the many possibilities of CS2.

The Photoshop CS2 Program

Photoshop CS2 is the upgraded version of ...


Keywords:
photo shop tutorial,adobe photo shop tutorial,free photo shop tutorial


Article Body:
The Photoshop CS2 program is one perfect utility that you can explore. It provides a whole new perspective to any creative endeavors. Many people will attest to the benefits and advantages of Photoshop CS2.

Photoshop CS2 may sound really good. However, for beginners, this will still all be Greek to their ears. Thus, tutorials will really play a big role to expose one to the many possibilities of CS2.

The Photoshop CS2 Program

Photoshop CS2 is the upgraded version of the basic Photoshop program. This now showcases a number of features that you cannot find in the old version. It provides more options to the user and makes creative work an easier task to do.

However, it takes more than just owning and installing the program. You have to learn the various aspects of Photoshop CS2 so you can maximize it. This way, you can also be more productive with your purchase. Here are some of the features that you can enjoy.

1.Adobe Bridge

Adobe Bridge is one convenient feature that makes Photoshop CS2 a very fine companion. With this option, you can easily look at the detail of your artworks and photos even before you open the file.

This is definitely a good tool for organizing your works. It is even user-friendly so you can easily maximize your time and effort.

2.Font Preview

The font preview option is also very desirable. Before, it will take you a lot of guessing game and trials before you can put a good font in your work.

With Photoshop CS2, you can easily choose the right font from the drop-down menu as it showcases the actual font from the preview.

3.Spot Healing Brush

Any imperfections in your graphics can be easily cured by the Spot Healing Brush. You do not need to find any source points anymore. All you have to do is point your mouse to the area and with just a click, you can resolve the problem.

4.Vanishing Point

This aspect lets you cut and paste a photograph in a proper perspective. This is like making a virtual art gallery out of your graphics. This will let you move and skew any windows in places that you deem proper.

5.Preview Video Graphics

For people who are into making videos, they know that coming up with a good graphic will not always translate to a good video output. There are certain qualities that are not retained when the video option is utilized.

Photoshop CS2 will allow you to preview your graphics as to how they will appear in video. Thus, you will never have to spend more time in modifying as you can make your graphics the way you need them to come out.

Photoshop CS2 Tutorials

Now that you have a good idea of the great things about Photoshop CS2, then taking tutorials will help you make the most out of the program in your computer.

There are many options for you to get the right Photoshop CS2 tutorial. Here are some of the things that you can consider.

1. Web Tutorial

There are many web tutorials that you can use. You can search for the right web site and get tutorials for a fee. There are even options for you to view the Photoshop CS2 tutorials in video so you will be guided in every step of the way.

2. PDF Format

Some tutorial services can give you a PDF format option. This is perfect for people who can learn better when reading a printout of the lesson.

3. CD Package

You can also purchase a CD tutorial course. For less than $100, you can have everything you need to learn in your hands.

Conclusion

Photoshop CS2 tutorials are perfect for beginners. You will be taught step-by-step on how to maximize the use of the program. With this, you will surely become more productive and creative.


