Title: 
Physical Benefits Of Using A Wireless Telephone Headset

Word Count:
410

Summary:
The use of wireless headsets has increased significantly over the past several years. Whether you are operating a radio, and Ipod, a cellular phone, or just a standard telephone, there are great advantages to using them. First, they are convenient. The elimination of a cord allows you to move about freely, and the signal range is constantly increasing with advancements in technology.

Many businesses are even beginning to use them for various customer service positions that...


Keywords:
Wireless Headset


Article Body:
The use of wireless headsets has increased significantly over the past several years. Whether you are operating a radio, and Ipod, a cellular phone, or just a standard telephone, there are great advantages to using them. First, they are convenient. The elimination of a cord allows you to move about freely, and the signal range is constantly increasing with advancements in technology.

Many businesses are even beginning to use them for various customer service positions that require employees to use the phone frequently. This allows both hands to be free so that representatives can enter the necessary information into the computer without the hindrance of a telephone receiver or the obstacle of unwanted cables. While these advantages are more for convenience, there are physical benefits of using a wireless telephone headset that can actually a significantly positive impact on one’s overall health.

In recent years, studies have shown that the use of certain wireless headsets has been shown to reduce muscle tension up to 41 percent when used with a telephone. This means that by not holding an actual telephone receiver, you are enabling freer movement of your head, neck, and even shoulders. It also frees both hands so that it is not necessary to hold the phone receiver between your head and shoulder, which significantly reduces muscle tension and allows longer job performance. This is especially important in today’s computer age where workers must often enter a wealth of information into a computer during numerous telephone calls that can last several minutes and are conducted many times throughout the day.

Using a wireless headset for telephone work also deceases the strain placed on your hands that is caused from holding them in the same position for a long period of time. A wireless headset, in particular, allows you to move about more freely, which makes it easier for you to type on a computer keyboard, then turn and consult paperwork without the hassle of a cord. It also allows you to get up from your desk and walk over to check files without having to put the caller on hold. This makes it easier to do your job seamlessly, and can help establish a better rapport with customers because there will be fewer interruptions. In addition, you aren’t stuck in the same position all day, and are able to stretch your arms and legs as needed. This alleviates all-around muscle tension, and promotes a better working environment.


