Title: 
Pink: The Reigning Queen Of Ring Tones

Word Count:
355

Summary:
With advent of real tones or MP3 ring tones, ring tone market has witnessed a great surge and various artists have been incorporated into this global business of ring tones. Musical ring tones created after editing favorite musical numbers of popular pop or rock stars have become order of the day. A good number of artists are competing to top the charts that do not hail from the world of music. Instead it hails from the world of ring tones. Some artists have even geared up to...


Keywords:
funny ring tones, crazy ring tones, ring tones fun


Article Body:
With advent of real tones or MP3 ring tones, ring tone market has witnessed a great surge and various artists have been incorporated into this global business of ring tones. Musical ring tones created after editing favorite musical numbers of popular pop or rock stars have become order of the day. A good number of artists are competing to top the charts that do not hail from the world of music. Instead it hails from the world of ring tones. Some artists have even geared up to grab this opportunity to popularize their songs.

But right now I am going to talk about the artist that has left a good number of her superior rivals from the music world behind the ongoing MP3 ring tone battle and clearly seems to capture the imagination of a great chunk of mobile phone users in America. Folks! I am talking about Pink, the artist whose ring tones have set the world of ring tone on fire. An increasing number of Americans and Western people are seeking her numbers as ring tones.

This twenty seven year old lass from Doylestown tasted the success with her debut album “Can't Take Me Home” way back in 2000 and her second consecutive album “Get the Party Started” gave her the recognition, she truly deserved.

Her numbers like ‘You make me sick’ and ‘There you go’ became instant hits. And even now she is encashing on these numbers. These numbers are most sought after as ring tones. Right now it is ‘Stupid Girl’ which is high on ring tone chart. Pink’s other numbers like God id a DJ, Respect and Family Portrait are among popular choices by ring tone users.

Don’t Let Me Get Me and Misery are the other two popular ring tones by Pink. Pink could be truly considered as reigning queen of ring tones in United States.

Don't miss on this Pink rage and be a part of it. Even if you haven't heard Pink's music, I am sure her ring tones would make you buy some of her albums as she is a distinct voice in music world.


