Title: 
Pinnacle PCTV Rave

Word Count:
510

Summary:
What is pinnacle PCTV rave? What do we need to know about this and what are the advantages of it?

Pinnacle PCTV Rave, a sufficiently sported TV Tuner board that is used for viewing TV on the computer and will be able to display ultimate quality images.

If you want to view live TV broadcast on your pc, and you don't want to miss the game matches and classic daytime movies, then you should get Pinnacle PCTV Rave. It helps your computer to become a completely functional TV...


Keywords:
Pinnacle PCTV Rave


Article Body:
What is pinnacle PCTV rave? What do we need to know about this and what are the advantages of it?

Pinnacle PCTV Rave, a sufficiently sported TV Tuner board that is used for viewing TV on the computer and will be able to display ultimate quality images.

If you want to view live TV broadcast on your pc, and you don't want to miss the game matches and classic daytime movies, then you should get Pinnacle PCTV Rave. It helps your computer to become a completely functional TV that can receive top quality reception, and easy channel navigation. Also included in this TV Tuner board is a well-informed search engine used for Teletext.

When you avail of a Pinnacle PCTV Rave you will get an excellent quality of TV tuner that you can use with hyper band cable and also terrestrial antenna reception. You will have digital VCR for the television and record video from the camcorder, VCR or even DVD player. You could also capture still images with its digital image improvement coming from the TV and linked analogue video sources through PCTV Vision and through TWAIN interface. Also it features multi-channel matrix as well as automatic channel recognization. The PCTV Installation assistant lets you do an easy to follow setup in a few moments. You will have easy navigation with its visceral Pinnacle Vision interface. It also has Webtext, which is a combined Teletext with Internet that allows you to have instant access to the entire Teletext pages including commodious search engine as well as TOP-Text support. Also included is the Pinnacle Studio that is used for video editing and the Pinnacle T-Rex multimedia file converter.

The TV Tuner board installation is direct and if you are already familiar of how to install PCI cards then installing the product won't be a hassle. Software installation and drivers are easy and also accompanied with "assistant" which will affirm if the board is functioning properly.

The Pinnacle PCTV Vision interface is a bundled software used for video capture or TV viewing which is known as PCTV Vision. It includes a simple window and has video preview and some controls similar to VCR located at the lower side of the window. It contains some configuration selections for video capture and you can manipulate the color, interlacing and audio. When capturing videos, the gallery window usually appears beside the Vision Window then displays thumbnails of captured video clips. Video capture using this TV tuner board is very limited because you can just capture a video in format of MPEG 1 or either miro XL codecs and also it only has 352x288 resolution.

If you want to uninstall the program it will run smoothly though it won't remove that entire installed files and won't delete the entire applicable registry entries. The card is related to Brooktree BT878A/Conexant card, you could acquire a driver for this board that will allow you to capture video clips at greater resolutions. This might be utilized in combination with other public domain application in providing video capture.


