Title: 
Place Important Information In Secure Data Storage

Word Count:
399

Summary:
No matter how you decide to backup your computer files secure data storage is always high on everyone’s list. How you choose to accomplish that will depend on the type of data you are backing up as well as the type of files. Business and personal users have different secure data storage needs and the type of files will determine the type of capacity they need.

For many personal user, between five and 10 giga-bytes will usually be enough storage for your family pictures, fa...


Keywords:



Article Body:
No matter how you decide to backup your computer files secure data storage is always high on everyone’s list. How you choose to accomplish that will depend on the type of data you are backing up as well as the type of files. Business and personal users have different secure data storage needs and the type of files will determine the type of capacity they need.

For many personal user, between five and 10 giga-bytes will usually be enough storage for your family pictures, favorite music and financial files. Your software files typically can be reloaded fairly easy and do not necessarily require backup, however for those who buy a lot of downloadable software online, information regarding your user ID and passwords may be something you want to store in a separate file and place in secure data storage.

There are sources online offering the opportunity to utilize their servers for safe and secure data storage of your important files, typically at a monthly fee, which are easily searchable and recoverable at any time, day or night. While a dedicated server for secure data storage is more expensive than sharing a server with other people or companies, it is also more expensive.

Business Security Needs Differ From Personal

Businesses will usually require more secure data storage space and may need access to the information much more often than those with personal files in storage. Retail businesses, for example, may want to back up their daily sales information and general business correspondence in secure data storage in case of fire, flood or other natural disaster. Computer crashes can also wreak havoc on business and while software can be re-loaded the merchandise listings will take a long time to input.

For most businesses being comfortable with secure data storage involves having total control over the access to this information and typically larger businesses will not want to share this access. In this event, they may own their own secure data storage server offsite with access to the encrypted files limited to one or two people. 

While many people may have access to the main files, access to the backup information is usually strictly controlled in the event a rogue employee wants to alter business records. Several do not even allow the system administrator access to the backup files in secure data storage as a means of protecting them from potential liability.


