Title: 
Plasma Televisions: To Buy Or Not To Buy

Word Count:
303

Summary:
As any other product or equipment, plasma TV screens have its own advantages and disadvantages and these are viewed in this article accompanying a few useful tips on buying a plasma TV.

The Advantages of Plasma Screen TVs

One of the key advantages of the plasma TV is its slim and light weight design often only inches thick. The space saving designs of the plasma screen TV allows for easy mobility and can be placed in areas where rear projection TVs would never fit.

P...


Keywords:
Plasma TV, Television, shop


Article Body:
As any other product or equipment, plasma TV screens have its own advantages and disadvantages and these are viewed in this article accompanying a few useful tips on buying a plasma TV.

The Advantages of Plasma Screen TVs

One of the key advantages of the plasma TV is its slim and light weight design often only inches thick. The space saving designs of the plasma screen TV allows for easy mobility and can be placed in areas where rear projection TVs would never fit.

Plasma TV screens provide highly accurate pictures displaying different contrast of colours. They have a larger viewing area effective for watching movies.

Plasma Screens comes in varied sizes from 21 inches to 103 inches, the largest plasma screen in the world. It is easy to purchase plasma screens up to about 65 inches.

The Disadvantages of Plasma Screen TVs

When compared with other rear projection TVs, plasma screen TVs generally has shorter longevity and lose their brightness after 2000 hours of use. The tube burns out faster than other television technologies and proves difficult to repair. The latest model plasma TV begins losing its brightness after 60,000 hours of use.

Plasma screen TVs has a very fragile technology and extreme care should be taken on installing and shipping them. Any mishandling may possibly damage the TV.

Plasma screens emit a humming noise in about 6000 feet elevation. It is of course a considerable issue for people living above 6000 feet elevation.

Tips for Shopping a Plasma Screen TV

It is essential to shop any electronic product by checking the online reviews and comparing the online shopping sites. The awareness of advertised contrast ratios is required. It is not easy to compare and contrast the ratios between manufacturers as there is no standardized measurement method. Reading consumer reviews will help you decide on which TV to buy.


