Title: 
Podcasting – Beginners Can Do It Too!

Word Count:
445

Summary:
In this fast evolving world of technology, new devices and inventions can be a little overwhelming for many of us and podcasting is one of the latest in a long line of technical wizardry. Even if you’re still trying to get your head around RSS feeds, podcasting should definitely be next on your list of things to learn. It really isn’t difficult and is the next big thing to hit our interactive music, audio and video experiences. 

So what exactly is podcasting?

Put simply...


Keywords:
podcast, mp3, rss


Article Body:
In this fast evolving world of technology, new devices and inventions can be a little overwhelming for many of us and podcasting is one of the latest in a long line of technical wizardry. Even if you’re still trying to get your head around RSS feeds, podcasting should definitely be next on your list of things to learn. It really isn’t difficult and is the next big thing to hit our interactive music, audio and video experiences. 

So what exactly is podcasting?

Put simply, podcasting is a way of receiving personalized radio, TV or internet broadcasts when you want them. National or local news, for example, could be streamed to your PC for you to watch or listen to when it suits you. You can download your favorite music program or television show as it goes out live and catch up with it later on, making sure you don’t miss anything while you’re out or busy.

How does podcasting work?

Similar to RSS feeds, podcasting is syndicated to your PC through an audio or video file. RSS (Really Simple Syndication) already exists for text based files where you can receive up to date information automatically throughout the day. The only difference with podcasting is the way audio or video files are viewed. You have to subscribe to the content you want to receive, and use a podcasting friendly feed reader to watch or listen to the music, audio file or TV show.

What do I need to view or listen to podcasting feeds? 

To watch a podcasting download, or listen to music or audio content, you only require a digital media player on your PC – Windows Media Player, iTunes or similar. You can also view podcasts on your web browser, or listen to podcasting content on your MP3 player or iPod. 

What else could podcasting be used for?

There are many ways to use podcasting content, other than for simply listening to music or watching TV shows. Business users, schools and colleges, and even travel companies can make podcasting into a handy tool for various needs such as:

Training manuals

Learning tutorials

Travel guides

Video based demonstrations

Live interviews.

There is a multitude of excellent reasons for using podcasting in business as well as for personal pleasure, and the best advantage is that the information will be as up to date as a few minutes ago. Once you’ve got the basics set up, it’s easy to receive live feeds and watch or listen to them when you like. You can even create your own podcasting content and make your music, audio or video files available to share with others!


