Title: 
Powerful Music Collection Software -  OrangeCD Suite

Word Count:
396

Summary:
Orange CD Suite consists of two parts: OrangeCD Catalog and OrangeCD Player. OrangeCD Catalog is the comprehensive music database program for cataloging our music in any format: CDs, DVDs, records, MP3 files or tapes. OrangeCD Player is a compact freeware program that allows us to listen audio CDs through our computer CD-ROM and audio card and integrates with the music catalog software.

With the OrangeCD Catalog, if we want to add a new CD to the dtabase, we just need to i...


Keywords:
music,software,cd,download,review


Article Body:
Orange CD Suite consists of two parts: OrangeCD Catalog and OrangeCD Player. OrangeCD Catalog is the comprehensive music database program for cataloging our music in any format: CDs, DVDs, records, MP3 files or tapes. OrangeCD Player is a compact freeware program that allows us to listen audio CDs through our computer CD-ROM and audio card and integrates with the music catalog software.

With the OrangeCD Catalog, if we want to add a new CD to the dtabase, we just need to insert the CD in our computer or scan barcode form jewel case, then the OrangeCD will download all information from FreeDB and Amazon databasesquickly and easily, including cover image and album reviews. That will fomr a resulting database which can be used for browsing, searching, prnting or exporting to any of the suported formats. According to this, if we own specific album or song, we can find its exact location on CD shelf, print CD changer index sheet or calculate our total CD library value for insurance quickly. I think it’s very convenient. In OrangeCD, we can publish our music collection catalog on MyGenres.com, share it with friends, and browse our music inventory from work or school computer.

Otherwise, we can sort our albums alphabetically, chronilogically, or by any field; display albums in folders grouped by any field; view database statistics; backup our data automatically or by request.

OrangeCD Player integrates well with music catalog software, so evry time we paly a new album, it downloads track titles and other information form Internet and automatically catalogs the album in our music databse.

Now, there are many Players, these are some reasons why we choose OrangeCD Player: it is compact and does not occupy our screen space; we can hide menu commmands that we don’t need and put those that we use frequently on top; it offers various playback modes, play lists and direct track access; if we restart our computer frequently, we don’t have to listen to the first song of the CD again and again; it supports multiple CD-ROMs or CD changers; it ‘s free and has no advertising spyware in it and so on.

In summary, after I had used this software, I felt it very good. Among so many kinds of Players, more and more people will choose this software as music Player because of its own advantage.


