Title: 
Priming A Printer Cartridge

Word Count:
450

Summary:
There are a number of different problems that might occur to a person when they are in the process of using their printer to print and the unfortunate truth of the matter is that a number of them are quire common. Regardless of what type of ink cartridges you are using, the printer cartridges that you currently have in your printer can experience a number of different problems. Now, different problems might cause the same symptom and one of the biggest symptoms of a problem w...


Keywords:



Article Body:
There are a number of different problems that might occur to a person when they are in the process of using their printer to print and the unfortunate truth of the matter is that a number of them are quire common. Regardless of what type of ink cartridges you are using, the printer cartridges that you currently have in your printer can experience a number of different problems. Now, different problems might cause the same symptom and one of the biggest symptoms of a problem when it comes right down to it in the printing world is the printer cartridge head being clogged. There are many things that might be able to cause it, but it is the clogging that you are eventually going to have to deal with if you want to print well again.

Now, there are a few strategies that a person can use in order to clear the head and start printing again. The most common strategy for performing this kind of procedure involves putting the printer head in warm water to release some of the clogging and then cleaning it out partially through the use of a cotton swab and partially through the use of the cleaning utility software that comes with the printer.

Now, sometimes this doesn’t work. There is no solution that is the be all and end all of printer handymen and therefore another solution might be needed at times. It is perfectly okay if you try this solution and you find not only that the printing is still faded but also that the head still seems to be clogged. If you are still having problems along this line, then one strategy that you might be able to accomplish is priming the printer cartridge itself.

Priming is a strategy that not that many people are aware of simply because it is a strategy that not many people have to use at times. Usually, clogs are not bad enough that they warrant priming the cartridge, but if you want to prime your printer cartridge to get rid of the clog then here is what you should do.

First of all, get a damp cloth or paper towel. The damp part is important; otherwise the priming will not have a single chance of working. Once you have that damp cloth or towel, press the towel against the print head and hold it there for about half a minute. The dampness draws the ink to it and therefore brings the ink towards the surface of the print head. You can then run it through the cleaning utility again in order to make sure that everything is fine before going ahead with your print job.


