Title: 
Printer Cartridges - Tips For Buying Discount Cartridges Online

Word Count:
364

Summary:
A printer has become a necessity for many homes and small businesses these days. No matter whether you use it to print documents, charts or photos, chances are you need to buy replacement cartridges frequently.

Purchasing printer cartridges online is a great way to save on your printing cost. Here are some simple tips that can improve your shopping experience:

1) Types of printer cartridges. Printer cartridges can be divided into 3 main types: OEM cartridges, remanufact...


Keywords:
printer cartridges, ink cartridges, toner cartridges


Article Body:
A printer has become a necessity for many homes and small businesses these days. No matter whether you use it to print documents, charts or photos, chances are you need to buy replacement cartridges frequently.

Purchasing printer cartridges online is a great way to save on your printing cost. Here are some simple tips that can improve your shopping experience:

1) Types of printer cartridges. Printer cartridges can be divided into 3 main types: OEM cartridges, remanufactured cartridges and compatible cartridges. Some stores only sell OEM cartridges while others sell all three types. Choose a store that sells the type of cartridges you want.

2) Price. Comparing price is simple but make sure you are comparing an apple to an apple. In general, OEM cartridges are the most expensive, followed by remanufactured cartridges and then compatible cartridges. 100% compatible cartridges are also more expensive than compatible cartridges that may not have all the new components (such as printer smart chips) installed.

Although genuine OEM cartridges usually produce high quality printout, their price is often largely inflated. Due to keen competition and sharp drop in printer price, most printer manufacturers mark up the price of OEM cartridges dramatically to compensate for the loss of profit in printer sale. In comparison, compatible cartridges and remanufactured cartridges are more reasonably priced.

3) Product quality. OEM cartridges are generally considered as the highest quality cartridges but the quality of remanufactured or compatible cartridges is catching up. In fact, many third party manufacturers are producing these cartridges in ISO 9001 facilities following the same specifications of OEM cartridges.

4) Yield of printer cartridges. Comparing the quantity of ink (how many ml) and the print output of toner cartridges (number of pages) can give you a better idea whether you are truly getting a bargain.

5) Fast delivery. Compare the shipping policy of individual vendors. How long does it take for them to ship out your order? Do they provide free shipping?

6) Money back guarantee. Most reliable vendors provide 90 days to 1 year warranty. Many customers do not open their package and use the new cartridges immediately after the purchase. An extended warranty period ensures that you can return the product and get a refund at a later date.


