Title: 
Printer Rental: Do Business Need Them?

Word Count:
616

Summary:
Printer rental is not the most economical option for a small home office or a small business entrepreneur whose printing is limited. If a business requires occasional printing tasks, with one or a few copies than it’s far better to buy a printer, or even an all-in-one that combines printer, fax, scanner and copier tasks. These retail for just a little over $100. A printer that is used primarily for word processing business task such as reports, speeches, in house documents an...


Keywords:
printers,printer,laser,inkjet,toner,hp,software,printing,hardware,internet


Article Body:
Printer rental is not the most economical option for a small home office or a small business entrepreneur whose printing is limited. If a business requires occasional printing tasks, with one or a few copies than it’s far better to buy a printer, or even an all-in-one that combines printer, fax, scanner and copier tasks. These retail for just a little over $100. A printer that is used primarily for word processing business task such as reports, speeches, in house documents and so forth need not even use the color copy function to any great extent. These are economical printers and a printer rental for these would be a waste of money.

Where printer rental is an economically advantageous idea is for firms that produce multiple copies day in and day out, that provide printed copy to clients, that use their company printer to product marketing materials, and so forth. If the tasks that will be undertaken by the company printer are extensive, especially if they require graphics, collating and batches of 100 or more, a printer rental is generally a more sound decision than a printer purchase. One of the advantages of a printer rental or lease is the service and on site repair that come with the business printer rental.

Here is a typical printer rental offer.

This company specializes in the powerful Hewlett Packard 4600 color laser printer rental although it also offers many makes and models of both laser and inkjet printers.

The printer rental firm has a large inventory of printers both black and white as well as color. You can have your printer rental directly connected to your firm’s business computer or you can rent printers that are network enabled. If you know your company’s network settings, this printer rental vendor can configure the printer with the IP you’ll need and the gateway information.

One thing to keep in mind, however, is that you may have to update your printer drivers whether your operating system is Windows or Mac. This firm will help you get that accomplished.

Another option you may want to consider when you get your printer rental is the rental of a wireless server for your later printer. If you’re using a temporary wireless business computer network, or you are in any way constrained from having additional cables in your location this would resolve that issue. This printer rental vendor can rent the wireless server to you and can also integrate all the hardware into your network. They can even set it up for a situation such as a trade show, where you’ll need to network from the exhibit hall of a convention center and so forth.

This printer rental provides a 100 percent satisfaction guarantee. Included in the printer rental are the firm’s assurance of sales experts with printer and other rental equipment expertise, and a huge inventory of top of the line products that include Hewlett Packard, NEC, Apple; Compaq, Pioneer and Fujitsu, and others.

Printer rental includes software loading and configuration prior to delivery. This includes your firm’s proprietary imaging. Your printer rental equipment is tested for quality assurance, to ensure that the equipment you are renting works as it should. The rental guarantee also includes delivery and installation by technicians who are both certified and in uniform.

Technical support of the printer rental equipment is 24 hours a day, seven days a week. The response time for on-site delivery, service and support is short, and the technicians all carry two way radios for instant communication with clients.
Replacement service is guaranteed on printer rental equipment that is faulty, and help desk support is unlimited and available via toll free number.


