Title: 
Problem Solved In Ergonomics

Word Count:
398

Summary:
Ergonomists have made attempts to define the various postures which diminish irrelevant tasks and minimize the different forces that strain the body. As far as posture is concerned, every one of us can—without question— lower injury risk if we could just adhere to a particular set of ergonomic principles:

· Various work activities should be accomplished with the joints approximately mid-point of movement range; especially to the upper limbs, head and trunk.

· The exerti...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Ergonomists have made attempts to define the various postures which diminish irrelevant tasks and minimize the different forces that strain the body. As far as posture is concerned, every one of us can—without question— lower injury risk if we could just adhere to a particular set of ergonomic principles:

· Various work activities should be accomplished with the joints approximately mid-point of movement range; especially to the upper limbs, head and trunk.

· The exerting of muscular force should be achieved by the largest appropriate groups of muscles possible.

· Every work task should afford the laborer to adopt an assortment of postures that are safe and healthy.

Like all other human studies, Ergonomics doesn’t go without its flaws. A challenge to routine thinking in Ergonomics, the dilemma is that an individual would have to observe with deft skill his own muscle functions and joints, as well as be capable of altering his posture to a much healthier one at his own will. Naturally, not one individual can develop this type of extremely-refined awareness of the senses without exclusive training and experience. So in order to derive the ergonomic benefits via research, we have to learn how to study and observe our own bodies in an innovative, sophisticated way. If this issue is downright ignored, then all attempts to better the conditions of the workplace can have just very limited success.

A remedy to this oft-serious dilemma is a practice known as the Alexander Technique. The technique has an expansive history in aiding individuals to develop thought of restrained coordination and physical action necessary to alter lethal posture patterns and movement. Basically, this means in a nutshell that men and women will be able to put principles of ergonomics into practice; furthermore, aids them to reduce the risk of enduring a repetitive strain injury.

Developed in the first half of the last century, the Alexander Technique has become a renowned science as it has been applied since the advent by individuals of every age and profession. The Alexander Technique can simply and practically be described as a science to make people aware that they could be possibly misusing their bodies. The technique teaches individuals how to escape disproportionate work habits and how to decrease unnecessary force of muscle applied to the bodies. The Alexander Technique instructs us on the use of suitable quantities of effort for a specific task.


