Title: 
Professional Styles And Techniques During Wedding Using Art Digital Photography

Word Count:
390

Summary:
When photographers are hired to do a wedding, these professionals know what it takes to get the right shot. These people may not always tell the client to strike a pose and shoot but wait patiently to be able to catch that memorable shot. 

There are a lot of great shots that can be taken during a wedding. Here are a few basic styles and techniques for those who also want to capture the event using a digital camera. 

1. The individual should take these pictures with a go...


Keywords:
digital photography,digital mastering mastering photography slr,camera digital dummy photography slr


Article Body:
When photographers are hired to do a wedding, these professionals know what it takes to get the right shot. These people may not always tell the client to strike a pose and shoot but wait patiently to be able to catch that memorable shot. 

There are a lot of great shots that can be taken during a wedding. Here are a few basic styles and techniques for those who also want to capture the event using a digital camera. 

1. The individual should take these pictures with a good background or in a not so crowded place so the attention will focus on the newly weds or those who are the intended targets in the shot. 

2. If there is a nice background in the back and it is hard to get both, the photographer should shoot the couple from shoulder up. Everyone will be happy and pleased when the pictures come out.  

3. If some of the guests are wearing classes, these people can be advised to stand sideways or tilt the head down a little to avoid the reflection that usually occurs when the flash is used. 

4. The individual should zoom in or out if there are only two or a group of people in the picture. This will also catch everyone in the shot instead of only getting half of person’s body when the print comes out. This will be embarrassing so the image has to be reviewed at once and deleted so another one can be taken. 

5. Proper lighting must be observed at all times. The person must not shoot the couple or the gusts against the light because only a dark image will appear after the picture has been taken. 

6. The photographer should also get some stolen moment shots. This should be done when the husband or wife is doing something else or is not looking. This is the trademark of many professionals that is done during the ceremony or the reception. 

People will enjoy shots such as the cutting of the cake, the toast and the first kiss or dance. The pictures taken can’t be done again so the individual must be alert and present to get these images on camera.  

Photography is truly an art. The person must practice the basics and learn from others to be able to do well in a wedding.


