Title: 
Protecting Your Computer From Adware And Spyware

Word Count:
442

Summary:
As the computer continues to reign in today’s society, more and more people have come to depend on the services it provides – working, communicating, learning, and being entertained from the comfort of their own homes. But along with technological advancement often comes a host of issues. While reputable companies have harnessed the power of the computer to provide legitimate services, other disreputable groups use the computer to find their newest victims and invade our pers...


Keywords:
Adware And Spyware


Article Body:
As the computer continues to reign in today’s society, more and more people have come to depend on the services it provides – working, communicating, learning, and being entertained from the comfort of their own homes. But along with technological advancement often comes a host of issues. While reputable companies have harnessed the power of the computer to provide legitimate services, other disreputable groups use the computer to find their newest victims and invade our personal space. Adware and spyware are two common components that are often found on today’s computers and if not protected against, can leave commotion in its wake.

Adware and spyware while different entities, are similar in their widespread infiltration of today’s computer systems; and subsequently, they are often referred to within the same breath. Adware is responsible for the “pop-ups” that invade our space – both online and off - advertising a number of different products. Adware, having permeated our computers, can be extremely difficult to eradicate. Spyware – much as it name suggests – links into our personal files that we keep on our computers and manages to capture and distribute private information. 

The existence of adware and spyware on your computer will often result in computer programs running slower than normal or crashing on a frequent basis. Adware is significantly easier to detect because of the frequent advertising pop-up windows on the computer. Spyware can be at work taking vital pieces of your personal information long before you are even aware that it is at work.

In order to protect your computer against adware and spyware, be wary of any software that you install or download on your computer. Most programs such as adware and spyware find their way into your computer via a variety of free downloads so be extremely fickle about what you choose to install into your system.

And ironically enough, you should also be wary of those pop-ups that offer to clean your system of adware and spyware. These disreputable programs actually do the opposite – allowing this dangerous software to download into your system. You should hold to a hard and fast rule of never clicking on any pop-up windows and giving the opportunity for any programs to infiltrate your system.

Also be selective about what information you keep on your computer. Use your credit card sparingly online and only give personal information to online resources that you know are reputable. Adware and spyware – once present on your computer – can cause quite a bit of damage. But if you are preventative and measured in your actions online and proceed with caution, you can be sure to keep your computer adware and spyware free.


