Title: 
PS3 Prices Are Getting Ridiculous So What Can You Do

Word Count:
492

Summary:
Even though the new Sony ps3 does not hit shelves until mid November, consumers have known about the price for quite some time. The fact of the matter is that since Playstation has been such a big hit among consumers, Sony knows that they can charge an arm and a leg each time that they release a new console. For this reason, ps3 prices are among the highest in the gaming industry. You will have to shell out $499 at the very least if you want to buy a new ps3 when it is releas...


Keywords:
ps3,video games,games,sony,playstation 3


Article Body:
Even though the new Sony ps3 does not hit shelves until mid November, consumers have known about the price for quite some time. The fact of the matter is that since Playstation has been such a big hit among consumers, Sony knows that they can charge an arm and a leg each time that they release a new console. For this reason, ps3 prices are among the highest in the gaming industry. You will have to shell out $499 at the very least if you want to buy a new ps3 when it is released in November. This is several hundred dollars more than what the competition is charging.

There is one very good reason as to why ps3 prices are so high. The simple explanation for this is that Sony can get away with it. As long as there is a huge demand for the new system and the hype is just as high, there will always be people who are willing to pay high prices for the new ps3. Does this mean that ps3 prices are legitimate? Well, this depends on who you ask. If you speak with somebody who only buys and plays on the Playstation systems, they will tell you that you have to pay big time money if you want to get the best of the best. But on the other side of things, if you speak with somebody who has a more open mind (or a smaller budget), they will tell you that ps3 prices are way out of hand. After all, you can buy the new Nintendo Wii for $250. This is half of what you will have to pay for a ps3.

In addition to ps3 prices being high at retail locations, the second hand market will also be booming. Do you remember what happened with the Microsoft Xbox in 2005? Since there was such a high demand for these units they began to surface on eBay for twice as much as the suggested retail price. Is this going to happen with ps3 prices? There is no way of saying for sure, but the fact of the matter is that there is a very good chance that this is going to happen. So as you can see, if you are not lucky enough to pay $500 at the store, you may have to expand your wallet a bit and splurge on the second hand market.

ps3 prices are among the highest in the industry. But with that being said you do get a high level of benefits for the money that you spend. Sure, ps3 prices are much higher than the competition, but you need to decide if this is something you are willing to deal with. If it is, you might as well get started and be in position to get a unit when they are released in stores. And if this does not work out for you, you can always pay a bit more on eBay.


