Title: 
Purchasing A Magellan Gps

Word Count:
431

Summary:
The Global Positioning System – or GPS – has taken the world by storm. What was once a proprietary item used only by the government, is now in demand by retail consumers worldwide. Those who have become used to GPS rely upon its accurate directional services; and the word continues to spread. A Magellan GPS is one of the more popular brands of GPS.

GPS utilizes the government’s network of 24 satellites that consistently circle the earth, providing timely and accurate logis...


Keywords:
Magellan GPS


Article Body:
The Global Positioning System – or GPS – has taken the world by storm. What was once a proprietary item used only by the government, is now in demand by retail consumers worldwide. Those who have become used to GPS rely upon its accurate directional services; and the word continues to spread. A Magellan GPS is one of the more popular brands of GPS.

GPS utilizes the government’s network of 24 satellites that consistently circle the earth, providing timely and accurate logistical information. It was designed in the late 1970’s by the United States Department of Defense to be used as a reliable navigational tool for the military. But today, GPS has become mainstream, finding its way to consumers through a variety of convenient systems. GPS receivers are hand-held units that literally fit into the palm of your hand. This portable system has the ability to connect to the Global Positioning Satellites which, through a series of calculations based on longitude and latitude can instantly and accurately pinpoint the user’s location. The screen of the GPS receiver illustrates a map of the area, including roads, terrain, and landmarks, and places the user’s location relative to these points of reference. Travelers and outdoor enthusiasts who take to the mountains every weekend have found the GPS receivers to be invaluable in providing accurate navigation and ensuring safety.

Magellan GPS, a brand of GPS receivers, is one of the more popular systems on the market today. While some users prefer to use the Magellan GPS as a hand-held device, others use it as a permanent navigational device that is mounted in their vehicles. In this role, the Magellan GPS uses a destination address supplied by the driver to efficiently navigate the driving route. Further, if your vehicle becomes the victim of theft, it can be effectively tracked by the signals sent by the Magellan GPS.

In other cases, parents use the Magellan GPS as a tracking device to monitor their teenage drivers. The system will ensure that fledgling drivers are not left disoriented in unfamiliar territory and can alert parents to any suspicious activity.

The Magellan GPS, because of its increasing popularity, can be purchased in most retail outlets. Prices vary depending on number of features offered in each system. There is also comprehensive information provided online detailing the different Magellan GPS systems, including features, price, and user experiences. Take the time to research any GPS before you purchase to ensure that it meets your needs with regard to the manner in which you will use the system, frequency of use, and budgetary guidelines.


