Title: 
Questions And Answers About Ultraviolet Water Filter Systems

Word Count:
404

Summary:
Whenever you purchase an ultraviolet water filter system you should know that has been designed in such a way as to protect your drinking water from the occasional intrusion of microbiological contamination. These filters are becoming a lot more popular today than ever before. This is whya lot of people have a lot of questions about these filters.

Answers To Your Questions About Using An Ultraviolet Water Filter

There are some very common questions that people ask whene...


Keywords:
water filter,whole house water filter,uv water filter,amway water filter,


Article Body:
Whenever you purchase an ultraviolet water filter system you should know that has been designed in such a way as to protect your drinking water from the occasional intrusion of microbiological contamination. These filters are becoming a lot more popular today than ever before. This is whya lot of people have a lot of questions about these filters.

Answers To Your Questions About Using An Ultraviolet Water Filter

There are some very common questions that people ask whenever they are thinking about purchasing an ultraviolet water filter. These questions include:

Are any chemicals required by this system? Or is there anything else that I will need to add?: It is recommended by most manufacturers that you use a 5 micron sediment filter because large particles act as a haven for microorganisms, which is what you are trying to destroy.

Sometimes multiple sediment filters are required because of the water's turbidity. This is because color and suspended particles will diminish the transmission quality of any UV light. In these cases, a quality carbon filter is used to filter the sediment first.

Should I do anything before I install an ultraviolet water filter system?: You should make sure that your system (water lines, water heater, etc.) is clean first. In order to do this, you should disinfect the entire downstream system with chlorine.

How long does the UV bulb last?: You will need to replace the ultraviolet light bulb once every 10 to 12 months. While the bulb will last a lot longer then that, its capacity for neutralizing microbes will be diminished after this length of time and so you will want to make sure that it is changed at this point so that it can work as effectively as possible.

Why is the water cloudy/white after a new filter cartridge is installed?: This is because the water needs to be ran for a few minutes once a new ultraviolet water filter cartridge is installed. The water's cloudiness indicates that there is air in your line, housing and cartridge. This is normal whenever you replace a cartridge.

After you run the water for a few minutes the cloudy conditions will go away unless your water is VERY cold. In this case the oxygen in the water is what is making your water look cloudy. Either way, it is always a good idea to run the water for a few minutes after you install a new filter cartridge.


