Title: 
Raising The Bar: Continuing Advances In Voip Technology

Word Count:
502

Summary:
VOIP technology has advanced to a stage where VOIP is no longer an interesting start up, but a strong and valid technological force that offers so many benefits, not the least of which is huge savings in long distance phone calls.  Many businesses have gone from expensive and complicated intra-office phone systems to switching to a VOIP system because of the increase in efficiency and strong decrease in cost.  The continuing advancement of VOIP technology is what makes this p...


Keywords:
VOIP Technology, VOIP


Article Body:
VOIP technology has advanced to a stage where VOIP is no longer an interesting start up, but a strong and valid technological force that offers so many benefits, not the least of which is huge savings in long distance phone calls.  Many businesses have gone from expensive and complicated intra-office phone systems to switching to a VOIP system because of the increase in efficiency and strong decrease in cost.  The continuing advancement of VOIP technology is what makes this possible.

Residential VOIP refers to the software that allows you to download the technology onto your computer and then communicate with family, friends, and acquaintances in the same way you would on the telephone, but your computer is used as a telephone instead.  Because the technology is based on phone communication through the Internet, anyone you want to contact will also need to download the same technological software on their computers, but don't worry, this is actually very easy!

What if you still want to call people who don't have VOIP?  One of the smartest technological advances by the companies encouraging the development of VOIP technology was creating an adaptor.  An adaptor hooks up to a regular phone, and hooks it up to your VOIP so you can still use the residential VOIP to call any phone, whether it is a VOIP phone, a landline, or even a cell phone!  This little piece of equipment allows you all the benefits of VOIP without any of the potential restrictions that could make people hesitant to invest in this service.

With the advancement of portable VOIP phones (Vonage is perhaps the best known company that provides this service), the question has been brought up of whether or not VOIP phones will be able to ever replace cell phones, and what would the difference be?  While the technology is there for this to happen, the infrastructure isn't there yet; though it is getting closer with each passing day.  

The advantage of this would be that VOIP would be far cheaper, since long distance wouldn't cost nearly anything and there would be no restriction on minutes.  A wireless VOIP phone is also referred to as a "Wi-Fi VOIP phone," and needs networks in the same way wireless internet needs networks, to work, but more are popping up every day, and many cities plan to increase the number of hot spots, which would make this a more and more viable option.

Many cell phone companies, sensing ahead of time what this could mean for them if they refuse to adapt, now design phones that not only work as regular cell phones, but also have features that allow the user to switch to their VOIP account if they are close enough to a hot spot.  While complete VOIP is a long ways off, the beginning structures are there, and as the VOIP technology improves, it would not be surprising to head towards the day where VOIP isn't a side game, but the main choice available to all phone users.


