Title: 
Ready To Make Photo Magic Tricks?  Learn Adobe Photoshop 7

Word Count:
566

Summary:
Adobe Photoshop 7 has certainly been one of the most effective catalysts in media, entertainment and popular culture.  It's no wonder people are flocking to learn how to use it.  Adobe has already released several higher versions of Photoshop (the latest being CS3) but Photoshop 7 remains popular with many users.  This 'old version' of Photoshop doesn’t have the extras of the new releases but it can still kick up some magic fairy dust.  Here are some online resources to help ...


Keywords:
photo shop tutorial,adobe photo shop tutorial,free photo shop tutorial


Article Body:
Adobe Photoshop 7 has certainly been one of the most effective catalysts in media, entertainment and popular culture.  It's no wonder people are flocking to learn how to use it.  Adobe has already released several higher versions of Photoshop (the latest being CS3) but Photoshop 7 remains popular with many users.  This 'old version' of Photoshop doesn’t have the extras of the new releases but it can still kick up some magic fairy dust.  Here are some online resources to help you learn Adobe Photoshop 7 quickly and easily:

Go to http://CBTcafe.com, where you'll find free tutorials for Adobe Photoshop 7.  There are some tutorials that feature higher versions, but the Photoshop 7 tips and tricks should give you a good headstart.

Another site that Photoshop beginners will be thankful for is Jay Arraich's (http://Arraich.com).  This is purely Adobe Photoshop 7 so you don’t get derailed by some very tempting bits offering to teach you CS2 or CS3.  The site will look plain to you but the lessons are basic – exactly what you would need if you're a beginner.

A screen capture illustrates the tutorial clearly so you don’t get stuck in the mystery of the textual instructions.  Arraich walks you through an overview of Adobe Photoshop 7's window with its main features and the all-important menu section.  The opening screen is numbered to help you identify which feature is which so you know exactly where to look when you take Arraich's tutorial.

Photoshop 7 has some hidden features that you might have missed.  If you want to learn them all, go to http://Creativemac.com.  It features a guide written by Julieanne Kost that will let you in on the little Photoshop 7 secrets that will make image editing even easier.  If the first brush you have with Photoshop is with 6.0, this article will make the transition very rewarding.

If you have little patience with texts, we suggest you find Andrew Hathaway's Adobe Photoshop 7, available in both CD and DVD formats.  This video tutorial will walk you through the whole Photoshop 7 operation, which makes it ideal for people who have never used an image editing software before.  Getting started includes the introduction to Photoshop 7, interface basics, using palettes, image window, imaging process, everything you need to get started.  

The basics part of the tutorial lets you manipulate image size, color settings, resolution and teaches you the tricks in navigating.  Once you've mastered the basics, the fun part begins.  Selection and masks give you access to the marquee tools and options, letting you use masking and transforming tools.  You'll also learn to use the magic wand, cropping, lasso, color and brush tools.

This video tutorial features 11 hours of 151 video lessons.  It's compatible with both PC and Mac and you can learn at your own pace or skip lessons if you want to.

Another site that offers free Adobe PhotoShop tutorial is http://IDigitalEmotion.com.  If you're a Photoshop 7 planning to become a CS user someday, this site is perfect for you because the tutorials are designed for advanced users.  There are some very helpful stuff for beginners and experienced users will have plenty to like about this site.

Choose from text Photoshop 7 tutorials that include text effects, playing with texture and backgrounds, creating interface, perfecting coloring techniques and manipulating photos.  There are also numerous video tutorials on site so you get to see exactly what goes on.


