Title: 
Readying The Emergency Action Plan

Word Count:
439

Summary:
We are familiar with the old line "bad things happen to good people". Well, bad things can happen to good business as well, and in this day and age one is far more ready to meet problems than ever before. We may not consider the possibility of emergencies or disasters, but the reality is they can happen. What might be a disaster for one business could be a simple hiccup for another and vice versa. The bottom line is: if you and your business have not put in place an action pl...


Keywords:
emergency notification, email reminders, voice broadcasting


Article Body:
We are familiar with the old line "bad things happen to good people". Well, bad things can happen to good business as well, and in this day and age one is far more ready to meet problems than ever before. We may not consider the possibility of emergencies or disasters, but the reality is they can happen. What might be a disaster for one business could be a simple hiccup for another and vice versa. The bottom line is: if you and your business have not put in place an action plan for emergencies, your business could crash harder and faster than a car off a cliff. This is not the time to play Boy Scouts. But you should make use of their motto to guarantee that emergencies in your business place have an action plan - Be Prepared.

Mass notification is one of the first steps that you can take towards getting your organization ready for emergencies. You need to have a mass notification system in place to make certain that your employees, partners, and affiliates, have easy access to all the required data as and when emergencies arise. It ensures that the information does not get delayed, so that people can react and respond accordingly.

Email and SMS messaging should be included in any emergency backup plan. Ensure that your workforce and affiliates are listed in one group for both your email and SMS service. When an emergency arises, one could just send a group email and a group SMS simultaneously. This will ensure that irrespective of the locations of your workforce, they will receive your urgent message immediately. In situations where urgent messages must be sent out, it is not considered inappropriate to be repetitive. You may want to send out one or two messages within a short time frame to ensure that your entire staff and affiliate base are aware of your message.

You should also consider using a voice broadcasting system into your mass notification plan. Here you will be using the telephone to contact each member of your workforce by the telephone. This is very similar to email and SMS messaging, in that each member you send the message to will get your message at the very same time on his/her phone. This will be a voice message stating your situation and how you think the people should react. This is a very effective and user-friendly tool that allows you to communicate instructions for emergencies within limited time.

It is never too late to start thinking about your emergency system. Allow technology to assist you in dealing with all kinds of work crises.


