Title: 
Reasons Why People Offer Free Photo Shop CS2 Tutorials

Word Count:
561

Summary:
We all know how hard life is today. Because of the expenses that each person faces during the day, we all feel the weight of the cost of living. This is the reason why we tend to be a bit wary when people approach us offering free products. Probably the first thing that enters your mind when someone approaches you with an offer of free Photo Shop CS2 tutorials is the question of "what's the catch?"

There are actually many reasons why people offer free Photo Shop CS2 tutori...


Keywords:
photo shop tutorial,adobe photo shop tutorial,free photo shop tutorial


Article Body:
We all know how hard life is today. Because of the expenses that each person faces during the day, we all feel the weight of the cost of living. This is the reason why we tend to be a bit wary when people approach us offering free products. Probably the first thing that enters your mind when someone approaches you with an offer of free Photo Shop CS2 tutorials is the question of "what's the catch?"

There are actually many reasons why people offer free Photo Shop CS2 tutorials. One of these reasons is the fact that free Photo Shop CS2 tutorials create product awareness. Let's say that you are someone who has never heard of a program called Adobe Photo Shop CS2. When someone approaches you with an offer of free Photo Shop CS2 tutorials, your reaction would be curiosity. What exactly is this program and what could it do for you?

Since you are now aware of the product's existence and capabilities, it would follow that you would want the product. As you can see, free Photo Shop CS2 tutorials can be just another form of advertising, benefiting both the consumer and the producer.

It also makes the program more user-friendly. People judge the quality of a tool by how easy it is to use. Although Photo Shop CS2 is capable of many things, people still need to know how to use it properly in order to want it. By offering free Photo Shop CS2 tutorials, a company increases the number of people who know how to use the program. This means that the demand for the program will greatly increase. As you can see, this also benefits the producer.

Some free Photo Shop CS2 tutorials are offered in order to discover various bugs with a program. People who make tutorials often expect the program to behave in a certain manner. When what is written on the tutorial does not reflect what happens in the program, software developers can go back and either make changes in the tutorial or correct the program itself.

Some people offer free Photo Shop CS2 tutorials on order to show people the full capacity of the program. So many new techniques for editing images have been developed because of the program. People who are able to find new ways of using the different tools found in Photo Shop CS2 share the knowledge with other people. This way, the full potential of the program is explored.

There are also those people who offer free Photo Shop CS2 tutorials just because they think that it will bring them prestige. Put yourself in this situation: you have just discovered a whole new way to remove pet-eyes from your pictures without having to paint over the eye. What would you do? Of course, the first thing that you would think about would be to tell someone.
In a sense, you would be giving out free Photo Shop CS2 tutorials not just because you want to share information but also because you want to get credit for that technique.

That's why in different websites today you can find as much as ten different tutorials for the same program.

Now that you understand the benefits that free Photo Shop CS2 tutorials have for those who give them, you might find it a bit easier to accept the help being offered.


