Title: 
Reasons For Making Telescopes

Word Count:
405

Summary:
Ever since man could wonder, he turned his face to wonder towards the stars. This is something that everyone knows, and something that everyone has probably seen at one time or another. With the invention of telescopes, man was able to actually get a big closer of a look at the things that have held him in such wonderment.

Now, of course, the idea of making telescopes is something that can be considered as an art form, something that only few can do, but something that can...


Keywords:
child telescope,making telescopes,hubble space telescope,astronomical telescope,digital telescope,


Article Body:
Ever since man could wonder, he turned his face to wonder towards the stars. This is something that everyone knows, and something that everyone has probably seen at one time or another. With the invention of telescopes, man was able to actually get a big closer of a look at the things that have held him in such wonderment.

Now, of course, the idea of making telescopes is something that can be considered as an art form, something that only few can do, but something that can give wonderment to plenty. In reality, making telescopes has become something of an art form. Not many people can do it, and even though telescopes are mass produced, they are done so by machinery and computers that can make the best lens, and put it at the best angle, with the best kinds of eyepieces so that you can see the furthers and the clearest.

This is not something that many people know how to do, because the computers can much more easily compute what type of lens should be used and where each part should go so that you are able to find yourself with the best telescope possible.

Art Form

However, in the difficulty of making telescopes lies the actual art form. Those that began to make these devices a long time ago passed on the wisdom to their children, and to their children’s children. This is the kind of art form that is something which will last for a lifetime, and these children have never forgotten it.

Even today there are people who build telescopes by hand, using just the right types of wood and just the right sizes of wooden pipes to make the telescope. The art of making telescopes is something that is much alive today.

Of course, making telescopes is an art form that does not result in telescopes that can see the farthest and the clearest. It is, in fact, something that is not done because these telescopes are going to be the best ever made. It is something that is done to preserve the original idea of exploration that these craftsmen had.

If you have a homemade telescope, it will not see the farthest and the clearest. It will, instead, give you a glimpse into history and what it meant to truly be the first to discover something. You might just be impressed at what you come up with.


