Title: 
Reasons To Consider A Nokia Cellular Phone

Word Count:
488

Summary:
There's one name that almost anyone looking to buy a cell phone will run into time and time again. The Nokia cellular phone has practically defined the industry, leading the mobile charge practically from day one.

Offering a lot of benefits for users, these phones are different from others on the market for a number of reasons. They generally are chosen by cell phone provider companies as their standard models because of their all around good performance.

With more than...


Keywords:
cell phone, nokia cell phone, nokia cellular phone, nokia, nokia phone


Article Body:
There's one name that almost anyone looking to buy a cell phone will run into time and time again. The Nokia cellular phone has practically defined the industry, leading the mobile charge practically from day one.

Offering a lot of benefits for users, these phones are different from others on the market for a number of reasons. They generally are chosen by cell phone provider companies as their standard models because of their all around good performance.

With more than a billion cellular phone models sold worldwide to date, there's no denying this company is a major player in the industry. But, what is it exactly about a Nokia cellular phone that makes it stand out from the pack?

There are a host of reasons people choose this particular company over others. The reasons include:

* History. The Nokia company has been around for more than 100 years. Although it didn't start in the cell phone trade, it jumped on the bandwagon early. The company's roots lie in the paper, rubber and cable industry, but by the 1960s, they were involved in pioneering mobile phone technology. It has been involved ever since, helping lead the charge into this new way of staying in touch.

* Quality. The phones are known for their quality performance. From the most basic of models to the highest end phones, quality design tends to go along with these phones.

* Affordability. These phones are known for their affordable pricing. In fact, many cell phone service providers offer these as the "free" models for new plan holders. Even on the higher end, these phones tend to be a little more affordable than others.

* Features. Although these phones are sold in abundance at their lower end, that doesn't equate to "stripped down." The company's phones come in a variety of models, with many having all the top end features other phones are famous for. From personal secretary abilities to music playing, photo taking and more. There's no reason to think a purchase of one of these phones means a need to skip on desired features.

* Durability. Most phone models are fairly durable. They can generally take a few hits and drops and still come out working well. As with almost all cell phones, however, they are not generally submersion friendly!

* Availability. Just about every major cell phone provider service supports the use of these phones. These models are some of the favorites on the worldwide market for their overall qualities that make them stand out. They can also be found in most major stores that sell cellular phones and online, as well.

The Nokia cellular phone is considered a mainstay on the market for a host of reasons. From affordable pricing to many optional features, these phones offer users a solid choice that is within reach for almost anyone. With more than a billion phones sold, Nokia doesn't seem to be showing signs of slowing down any time soon.


