Title: 
Reseller Web Hosting: The Perfect Way To Start A Web Hosting Business

Word Count:
370

Summary:
Hosting web sites on the internet can be a lucrative business venture.  However trying to setup a web hosting company from scratch can be quite a bit of work and also quite a bit of money.  

One of the biggest problems of trying to start a web hosting company right now is that much of the address space on the internet has already been taken.  If you own a company and you need to buy an IP address block, then you might have a chance of getting a few IP addresses, but gettin...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Hosting web sites on the internet can be a lucrative business venture.  However trying to setup a web hosting company from scratch can be quite a bit of work and also quite a bit of money.  

One of the biggest problems of trying to start a web hosting company right now is that much of the address space on the internet has already been taken.  If you own a company and you need to buy an IP address block, then you might have a chance of getting a few IP addresses, but getting enough space to create a web hosting company on your own is very hard to do.  

One alternative to trying to start a web hosting company from scratch is to become a reseller web hosting company.  Many companies on the internet offer to resell address space to companies so they can become a reseller web hosting company.  Becoming a reseller web hosting company has many advantages including the availability of address space, specialized tools, and built-in control panel support.

Many reseller web hosting companies offer quite a bit of space so that you can host many different web sites on your own.  Most of the time this space is very hard to come by if you are not buying the space from a reseller web hosting company.  Also these companies usually offer many tools to help your clients build their web sites.  Some of these companies offer Front Page extensions so that your clients can use Front Page to build their web sites.  Other companies offer different pre-made PHP scripts to help your clients build their web sites as well.  

Another important tool is the ability for your clients to use a MySQL database to store information and authenticate against on their web site.  The best advantage of using a reseller web hosting company is the built-in control panel support that is supplied by many of these companies.  You usually have a management control panel to help create different web sites for your clients, and then your clients also have a control panel to help administer their web sites.  This makes it much easier for anyone, even someone with limited technical knowledge, to create a web site.


