Title: 
Reviewing Different Netgear Wireless Network Adapters

Word Count:
553

Summary:
If you are thinking about buying a Netgear wireless network adapter, then you have to know which products to stick with and which to get away from. After all, you do need to make sure that you get the best possible value from your money. Here are a few of the Netgear wireless network adapters available in the market today and some advice regarding each.

WPN311 – Netgear actually designed a new model out of this, and for good reason. This Netgear wireless network adapter is...


Keywords:
wireless networks , wireless networks cards


Article Body:
If you are thinking about buying a Netgear wireless network adapter, then you have to know which products to stick with and which to get away from. After all, you do need to make sure that you get the best possible value from your money. Here are a few of the Netgear wireless network adapters available in the market today and some advice regarding each.

WPN311 – Netgear actually designed a new model out of this, and for good reason. This Netgear wireless network adapter is just flat-out horrible. The best performance you can get out of it is 10 feet –if you are lucky. Unfortunately, not every one of us is, right? When you consider the distance, you might just prefer using wires instead of going wireless.

Another issue with the Netgear wireless network adapter is the fact that the installation can be very difficult. In fact, the process is so tedious and complicated that a lot of people end up thinking if the product is even worth it. Of course, the signal strength can be quite excellent –but that's about it. Since you can get the signal quality from other Netgear wireless network adapters, you should just seek them out and forget this one.

WG111 – This is the best that Netgear has come up with so far. This Netgear wireless network adapter actually connects to your computer via USB port. This means you will be able to easily attach and detach it quite easily. While a PCI adapter may be cheaper, this USB Netgear wireless network adapter gives back in terms of performance. 

The WG111 actually allows quick data transfers. Another plus is the fact that it can actually be installed in under 2 minutes' time. This, of course, is thanks to the clear installation guide provided with the product –something that other wireless adapters lack. 

This Netgear wireless network adapter is also great because of its design. With the stick gum –size common to many USB devices, the WG111 can fit into your purse, your pocket and other carrying places. One disadvantage is that, unlike other USB devices, the WG111 does not have a slot to admit a key chain or ID tag –the common way of carrying USB devices around today.

This Netgear wireless network adapter also comes with a USB cable. If you want, you can attach the device directly to your computer. However, if you want to save yourself the trouble of having to reach into the back every time you have to connect or disconnect the adapter, then the cable is available for your use. Another advantage of this is that you won't be pressed for space with the adapter sticking out.

WG511T – This Netgear wireless network adapter is actually pretty decent. It can be very fast if you use it with other Netgear products. If not, the speed kind of plummets. This means that the product will perform excellently for you if you are an avid supporter of the Netgear line. 

The fact that it is easy to install and configure makes this Netgear wireless network adapter a winner with people. Add this to the fact that support can be easily reached and you have got quite an excellent device on your hand. Of course, the fact that it has a short warranty can turn people off.


