Title: 
Review Of Scarface On The Sony Playstation 2

Word Count:
1388

Summary:
Tony Montana, aka Scarface, is probably the only one who rose on top of the cocaine drug trade industry and built his own empire. It seems like almost humanly impossible to do and yet he did this with enough ambition, determination and balls. Making sure that he lives by some strict principles in life, Tony sees to it that he does not hurt anyone who don't deserve it. But he is faced with the ultimate challenge of rebuilding an empire he has worked so hard to build. As you pl...


Keywords:
ps2 scarface, scarface ps2 cheats, ps2 cheats for scarface, playstation2 scarface cheats


Article Body:
Tony Montana, aka Scarface, is probably the only one who rose on top of the cocaine drug trade industry and built his own empire. It seems like almost humanly impossible to do and yet he did this with enough ambition, determination and balls. Making sure that he lives by some strict principles in life, Tony sees to it that he does not hurt anyone who don't deserve it. But he is faced with the ultimate challenge of rebuilding an empire he has worked so hard to build. As you play this game, whether Tony eventually succeeds or not will be up to you.

Scarface – The World is Yours is based on the Scarface movie, which was released on 1983 but with a whole lot of exciting new twists. Although it is a single player action/adventure game, you've got enough thrills and action to help make your solo gaming efforts worth all your time. Set in Miami, the game starts off with Tony's escape from the hands of Sosa's men. This has fueled his desire to take revenge and regain his empire. 

You have two focus on this game: managing your empire and setting up fronts for your all your drug trades. But to be able to do this, you have complete certain missions, eliminate your opponents, and build your reputation. By selling cocaine, you can earn quite a lot of money. But this won't be an easy ride, as you have to start of selling to street dealers. Eventually, you'd seal some great deals with large suppliers and money should come easy for you. 

Since reputation is what you need to re-establish Tony's empire, you must work on building that up by completing your missions, buying fronts for your drug deals or exotic items. If you have made enough great deals, you should have the money you need to buy these items and fronts. When you have more power, you'll reputation will grow as well. And aside from allowing you to have access to more items such as cars, boat, weapons and other exotic items, your higher reputation will also open up extra opportunities to take control over Miami. 

As they watch your front businesses and empire grow, your rival gangs will not just sit back and let you do that. They will try to disrupt your business by attacking your fronts and destroying them. So this might be the time to hire the help of a henchman or buy a surveillance to help guard your investments. 

Miami is divided into different turfs and you will start off your empire in Little Havana, and you'll eventually explore some other parts of the city. Within each turfs are fronts that you need to obtain and control from other gangs. When you have succeeded in doing this, you will find a separate island where the cocaine is being produced. Work on sealing some great deals with the large suppliers so you can start smuggling the drugs and place them on a warehouse for distribution.

The best way to control your hold on each turf is to purchase fronts in that turf. In doing business with the managers of the fronts you have purchased, the price rate and demand for the drugs you supply them will increase and this should help boost your earnings. And then the next step for you is to defend your fronts and you would need weapons for this. 

The weapons that you can use for this game range from a hand gun, to automatic rifles, to shotguns, to rocket launchers. Although you begin with quite a few choices, they will continue to expand as you build you arsenal and as you increase your reputation. And aside from more choices, a higher reputation will also enable you to upgrade your weapons to increase their accuracy and to activate the silencer. 

When you have constant gunfire and gang warfare going on, expect the police to be constantly on your guard. Although you can ease the heat of the police, you will need to pay them off or else they will chase after you. If you kill gang members, you'd have to pay that off to the police too. But stay away from being indicted, or it will cost you more than enough money you are willing to spare. At some point, you'd have police tailing you in an exciting car chase. 

Therefore, a reliable set of wheels could come in handy. You can use one of your own, but oftentimes the speed at which the chase goes on could demand something more that is built for the chase. But you should not have any problems with these when you have built enough reputation as you will be able to buy and handle faster cars. Now, you'd have no more of those run-in with police officers because you can easily speed away. And not only that, to add more excitement to the game, there is a nice variety of choices for your potential car. You'd be made to choose between the likes of a well-armored but slow running vehicles to a speedy but prone to damage cars. 

Well, Tony's deadly not just because of his cars and mansions, he is also equipped with a rage meter that builds up when performing acts using the “balls”. Because of this, fighting off multiple enemies can be quite easy so there's no need for you to worry about being outnumbered. When your rage meter is filled, Tony becomes invulnerable and he can unleash a powerful attack that will target multiple enemies at once. In the process, Tony also gains health by absorbing the health of the enemy he has killed. 

Another great way to upgrade your health, rage meter and stamina is to meet femme fatales and invite them to stay in Tony's mansion. This can be possible by gaining a certain amount of balls and soon enough, these femme fatales will start to appear on your map, so you can travel to meet them. This will absolutely fit among Tony's beautiful collection of exotic items. And speaking of exotic items, every purchase you make of these items will help increase your reputation, varying mainly on the price and rarity of each item. When you have reached a certain level of reputation, you have to go back to the mansion to unlock new turfs and weapons while also upgrading Tony's skills. 

And when it comes to Tony's skills, nothing could probably be as exciting as the intimidation meter that enables him to get away with quite many things. It is probably his most powerful weapon and has allowed him to seal great drug deals, stop aggression of gang members, get the best rates from the bank, and talk your way out after being busted by the cops. This one though requires timing for you to be able to pull this one off or you could end up ruining everything. 

Graphically, Scarface is just plain beautiful. It has obviously painstakingly paid attention to every tiny detail that would help bring this game together and recreate an entirely new world, although it was based on the film and some other specific locations taken from the movie. Some of these locations include the mansion itself, the Oakley Drive-In, the Babylon Club, the Sun Ray Motel, and even Angel Dust Donuts. 

The same could also be said for the sound which has played a major part in this game. The actors did a great job in terms of the voice acting. Aside from that, players to this game will also be treated to the movie's official soundtrack and a wide variety of artists and music genres. And to make your gaming even more exciting, you can also create a playlist via the music menu so you can listen along to your favorites tunes as you play the game. 

Every detail of this game has been rendered to deliver the best and closest Scarface experience you could possibly have outside of the movie. As you play Tony Montana, you'd have endless possibilities in terms of what you can do, knowing the power and skills that you have. This is also the closest opportunity that you can have to experiencing the lavish lifestyle of a drug kingpin. So join Tony's adventures as he works on rebuilding his empire.


