Title: 
Review Of HP, Toshiba, And Dell Computers

Word Count:
403

Summary:
Whenever you are in the market for any common consumer good, you find your self inundated with advertising slogans and marketing messages. So, how do you find out what is best for you?

Take the case of computers. With the high rate of obsolescence in computer hardware, you will find yourself in the marketplace for computers quite often. And then it all begins: You are bombarded with technical specifications as well as emotional appeals. Each manufacturer tries to tell you ...


Keywords:
dell computers, dell coupons


Article Body:
Whenever you are in the market for any common consumer good, you find your self inundated with advertising slogans and marketing messages. So, how do you find out what is best for you?

Take the case of computers. With the high rate of obsolescence in computer hardware, you will find yourself in the marketplace for computers quite often. And then it all begins: You are bombarded with technical specifications as well as emotional appeals. Each manufacturer tries to tell you why they are the best.

So that you can make an intelligent decision, I have decided to review three computers for you. For this review, I am considering the Dell Latitude C600 Laptop, the Toshiba Satellite A135-S4527, and the HP Pavilion Media Center M8120N Desktop PC. Note this is not a comparison of the three computers; rather it is like a review of three different computers.

The Dell Latitude C600 Laptop has the 850 MHz Pentium III processor, a 14.1" display, 256MB of memory, and a 10G hard drive. It serves the needs of most users. But, customers have reported that it heats up more than the usual laptop. Another shortcoming that some consumers have reported is about the fact that this machine has only 1 USB port.

The Toshiba Satellite A135-S4527 has Intel's 1.73 GHz Core Duo T2080 processor. This processor has a multithreaded architecture for improved multitasking performance. It has a 120 GB hard drive and 1 GB of installed RAM. Most uses find the machine to be great value for money. In fact, it has been occasionally labeled the College Students Computer due to its affordability.

The HP Pavilion Media Center M8120N Desktop PC, unlike the previous two is not a laptop. It has the 2.4 GHz Intel Core 2 Quad E6420 quad-core processor. This processor is really fast when it comes to multitasking applications. This machine has 2 GB of installed RAM up to 8 channels of surround sound output, and Wi-Fi connectivity.

So, when you are in the market for a computer, make sure to compare all the features between similar models and only then make your final choice. In doing so, do not forget to consider the price of the different options. Sometimes a missing feature can be added on later.

And then again, you cannot forget the all important after-sales service. There are many horror stories that one hears about service. Make sure to read around before you decide on one computer.


