Title: 
Review On Business Accounting Software By Sage And Microsoft

Word Count:
645

Summary:
Accounting is one of the most vital processes in any business. To say the least, it is even more important than manufacturing goods and selling them. Flow of revenues and expenditures ultimately decides the fate of a business as does its proper management. The requirements of every business may vary, but the general requirements of a business like collection, classification and analysis of financial data is what constitutes the crux of accounting.

Nowadays, it is becoming ...


Keywords:
sage accounting software, microsoft accounting Software, accounting software reviews


Article Body:
Accounting is one of the most vital processes in any business. To say the least, it is even more important than manufacturing goods and selling them. Flow of revenues and expenditures ultimately decides the fate of a business as does its proper management. The requirements of every business may vary, but the general requirements of a business like collection, classification and analysis of financial data is what constitutes the crux of accounting.

Nowadays, it is becoming a norm to purchase accounting software before starting a business. You can find accounting software for both small business as well as large businesses. In fact, a whole basket of accounting software programs is there to choose from. Depending on the type of business you have and how you run it, you have to choose the accounting software that compliments your business, instead of being a limiting force to it.

Before reviewing any accounting software, it is important to classify the market of accounting software in the following manner:

a) Small business/personal accounting software is targeted at home users. Such software are simple, easy to use and inexpensive. They perform simple functions such as management of budgets quite at ease.

b) Low end accounting software is known for its 'single entry' products. It serves a single national market quite easily.

c) Mid market accounting software for mid-level businesses serve multiple national accountancy standards. You can do accounting in numerous currencies.

d) High end accounting software is also known as Enterprise Resource Planning or ERP software. These expensive solutions cater to the needs of huge organizations.

Since the mid 1990s, with the entry of Microsoft and Sage, accounting software market has simply evolved. In fact, it is simply increasing at a break-neck pace. There are various good accounting software in the above categories of accounting software. Selecting the best one is not that easy.

In the small business/personal accounting section, the best accounting software would doubtlessly be the Intuit's QuickBooks Accounting Software pro edition for small business. This accounting software has all the accounting features necessary for small businesses. QuickBooks Small Business 2006/ 7, through its time-saving features and improved functionality aids management of business. By applying online accounts management of bank statements, this software easily helps in integrating bank records in a smart way. With this software, you can rule your growing business accounts effortlessly and productively.

One excellent software, targeted at the low-end accounting software market is Sage MAS 90 ERP/MAS 200 ERP. This software is also applicable in mid-market accounting software market. This software encompasses different worthy solutions. Some of them are e-commerce, payroll, financial reporting, customer relationship management, core accounting and much more. This is an award-winning accounting software. With key processes like bill of materials, inventory management and job costing, it aids in the management of business. The advanced version MAS 200 ERP has the extra function of a client/server platform. It is known for its scalability and reliability.

In the high end accounting software market, several excellent accounting software, from some well known manufacturers like Microsoft and Sage are competing with each other for the market pie. No doubt, selecting the best one is difficult. Still, I would go with the ACCPAC Advantage Series which is known for its world-class multi-tiered functionalities. ACCPAC accounting software is perfect in the sense that it allows a business to tune its functionalities according to the needs. The ACCPAC Advantage Series is available in three editions- Enterprise Edition, Corporate Edition and Small Business Edition.

The Sage ACCPAC ERP system/Enterprise edition helps you to increase the productivity of your entire enterprise with end-to-end solutions, such as CRM. This high end software provides integrated set of end-to-end business management applications. Like other Sage software, this accounting software is known for its seamless integration, reliability and high performance which a large organization desires for keeping its competitive advantage over its rivals.


