Title: 
Samsung D900i Mobile Phone Review - Hot Or Not?

Word Count:
312

Summary:
Samsung makes great mobile phones, and the Samsung D900i is no exception. Overall, this quad band GPRS/EDGE phone has a great appearance and some very nice features. Samsung has a great reputation for putting out quality, well-thought out handsets, so let’s take a closer look at the phone right now.

The D900i has a slim profile and weighs in at 85 grams and measures 103.5 x 51 x 12.9. It features a media player for listening to mp3 and other audio tracks as well as the abi...


Keywords:
Samsung D900i Mobile Phone Review


Article Body:
Samsung makes great mobile phones, and the Samsung D900i is no exception. Overall, this quad band GPRS/EDGE phone has a great appearance and some very nice features. Samsung has a great reputation for putting out quality, well-thought out handsets, so let’s take a closer look at the phone right now.

The D900i has a slim profile and weighs in at 85 grams and measures 103.5 x 51 x 12.9. It features a media player for listening to mp3 and other audio tracks as well as the ability to listen to radio stations with the onboard FM radio. The phone also has a 3.2 megapixel digital camera which produces a picture quality rivaling that of midrange cameras.

The Samsung D900i also has a 60 MB internal memory capacity and supports the use of external cards. This is really nice if storing your favorite music and photos is important to you. Overall, this phone provides users with a wide array of very usable features and is a handset that is certainly worth considering.

Last but not least, the Samsung D900i features a sliding design that protects the phone’s keypad while not in use. Phones with sliding covers are quite popular and for good reason, it's a great design.

All in all, I think that Samsung has done a good job with the D900i and I would not hesitate to recommend it. Samsung makes an excellent quality handset and you can expect their mobile phones to hold up over time. Out of the many Samsung cellular handsets that I’ve owned over the years, I’ve never really had a problem with them from a quality control or reliability standpoint. 

Hopefully this review of the Samsung D900i has given you a good overview of the features included in this handset, and will be helpful in your search for a new cell phone.


