Title: 
Samsung D600 – Smart And Stylish

Word Count:
409

Summary:
It is no wonder that Samsung D600 was chosen as phone of the year 2005 at Mobile Choice Consumer Awards. It is small, stylish and with some smart options and features, able to charm anyone. The dimensions of this phone are 96x46.5x21.5 mm and it weighs 99 g.

Samsung D600 has an integrated 2.0 megapixel camera, giving the possibility of editing, viewing, saving and sending the photos. There are some other camera features, such as: digital zoom x4, brightness x6, various pho...


Keywords:
free line rental,mobile phones,mobile phone deals,mobile phone contracts,UK deal,Samsung mobile,D600


Article Body:
It is no wonder that Samsung D600 was chosen as phone of the year 2005 at Mobile Choice Consumer Awards. It is small, stylish and with some smart options and features, able to charm anyone. The dimensions of this phone are 96x46.5x21.5 mm and it weighs 99 g.

Samsung D600 has an integrated 2.0 megapixel camera, giving the possibility of editing, viewing, saving and sending the photos. There are some other camera features, such as: digital zoom x4, brightness x6, various photo effects, LED flash, and photo quality settings. There are some other settings: Multishot, Timershot, Selfshot, and Night mode. There is an image editor PictBridge, which comes in handy with picture quality improvement, having also the possibility of sending the images direct to the printer. These are great features, helpful in various situations.

The Samsung D600 contains 81 MB of memory. The D600 also includes a TV output cable with which you can project PowerPoint pictures, photos, presentations or even movies.

Besides the features mentioned above, the Samsung D600 presents other features, such as Samsung Bluetooth stereo headset and car kit. Business features are not missing from D600 and you have the capacity of quad-band technology helpful in data transfer in all standard formats. In addition, the great PicselViewer gives the possibility of viewing documents in Word, Excel, HTML docs, and PowerPoint.

If you are interested in entertainment and personalization features, then there are some facts to be mentioned. First of all, Samsung D600 has 3D sound technology, embedded JAVA games, embedded wallpapers and screensavers messaging. Then, among other features we can mention MIDI and MP3 ring tones, vCard and vCalendar. The D600 is also available in the red version, even more stylish than the simple black.

Among the call functions of Samsung D600 there are some great features: voice clarity, dedicated key dialing, handsfree speaker, and caller ID categorized into text, photo or video and saved in the mobile phone memory. There are also the classic and well-known call functions. The talk time of this mobile phone is up to 7 hours, while the standby time up to 300 hours. Although it was considered the surprise of the year 2005, battery and memory life are not his advantageous aspects. On the other hand, the quality of the screen is impressive, and so is the camera resolution.

To sum it up, we can say that Samsung D600 is a smart and fashionable mobile phone that manages to offer both great looks and optimum functionality.


