Title: 
Samsung F700 - Fortus Mobile Phone Review

Word Count:
515

Summary:
Ultra Smart and Ultra Sleek Touch Screen Breakthrough

Making its bid for touch screen mobile phone domination is Samsung's 3G Smartphone, the F700. It may look very similar to the iPhone, but some may argue that it is much better, especially those who are used to the older Samsung phone models. What you will not find on the older models that makes the F700 so special is the large full control touch screen. Whilst the Samsung G600 or G800 will need a navigation key or a joy...


Keywords:
mobile phones,f700,samsung,free line rental,mobile phone deals,mobile phone contracts,mobiles


Article Body:
Ultra Smart and Ultra Sleek Touch Screen Breakthrough

Making its bid for touch screen mobile phone domination is Samsung's 3G Smartphone, the F700. It may look very similar to the iPhone, but some may argue that it is much better, especially those who are used to the older Samsung phone models. What you will not find on the older models that makes the F700 so special is the large full control touch screen. Whilst the Samsung G600 or G800 will need a navigation key or a joystick to scroll through your phone's menu, the F700 will only require a light tap on the screen.

Some users have complained that there are too many taps to be made on the mobile phone just to make or answer calls. There is a reason for this – the touch screen is ultra sensitive. Even if you must unlock a couple of security buttons before you can answer your incoming calls, or make outgoing ones, you'll be assured that the phone won't unlock in your pocket and start calling random people on its own.

Another unique and exciting feature of the F700 is the full-sized QWERTY keyboard that slides out on the side for easier text and email composition. There is also an on-screen QWERTY keyboard, but as the touch screen phone is a new technology, Samsung thought first-timers would like to be eased in to it and provided an alternative. Like all QWERTY keyboards, you should type in text messages and emails with both hands on the Samsung F700. This should be easy to master, as it is exactly like typing on your computer keyboard, and faster than texting on a regular mobile keypad.

The F700 is so much more than an Ultra Smart touch screen mobile phone. It runs on an HSDPA network to quickly connect you to the internet, which will be enjoyable thanks to its huge 2.78 inch-screen and HTML browser. Its 3G technology allows 3G compatible features, particularly video calling, and the phone is Java supported, which means you can download and install favourite applications, as well as enjoy a slew of available games. Its offline mode is another valuable feature; even if your phone is unusable for calls, you can still use the rest of the mobile phone's features, such as the 3 megapixel camera with auto-focus, the video recorder and the music and video player. The Samsung F700 also comes with free Bose headphones to give you an all-around better sound experience.

As it has a full colour touch screen and a full slide board with a keypad, the Samsung F700 may seem too large a phone to lug around. On the contrary, this mobile unit fits snugly in your hand and is surprisingly lightweight. This is because the casing is made of plastic. Fortunately, it doesn't look plastic, as the finish is ultra sleek and polished, so much so that the phone may even seem slippery. Some users have been terrified of having the F700 accidentally slip out of their hands. But then, this phone is too smart and sleek for that to happen.


