Title: 
Satellite TV: More Channels Than Cable And Less Expensive, Too!

Word Count:
407

Summary:
Many people have satellite TV and there’s a very good reason for it: you get almost unlimited channels and it’s a price that most anyone can afford. When you compare satellite TV to its cable counterpart, you will automatically notice a difference in the amount of channels you get to choose from. With a cable package, you get to choose from different packages, and you have to pay more for premium channels, such as HBO or Cinemax.

More Channels Than You Can Handle

With s...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Many people have satellite TV and there’s a very good reason for it: you get almost unlimited channels and it’s a price that most anyone can afford. When you compare satellite TV to its cable counterpart, you will automatically notice a difference in the amount of channels you get to choose from. With a cable package, you get to choose from different packages, and you have to pay more for premium channels, such as HBO or Cinemax.

More Channels Than You Can Handle

With satellite TV, you get all the channels in one package. That’s because the satellite dish that you have installed on or near your home is able to pick up many channels that your cable TV provider can’t offer you.

Free Installation With Some Carriers!

The best part about satellite TV is that most carriers will offer free installation. You simply pay a small monthly fee, such as ten dollars a month, and you get a technician to come out to your house to install your satellite dish. You can have all those channels at your fingertips in the same day as you pick up the phone and call the satellite TV carrier of your choice.

A Few Drawbacks

There are some drawbacks to satellite TV that should be noted before a person commits to a contract. For one, satellite, unlike cable, can be affected by the weather. If the conditions are hostile, such as a bad thunderstorm, your satellite TV may not work as well or the picture won’t come in as clear.

Another drawback is that you may have to adjust your dish, depending on which channels you want. Most satellite TV carriers offer a remote that allows you to change the position of your dish, but many see this as a hassle. With cable, you simply choose a channel and you don’t have to worry that your cable box is pointed a certain way.

Satellite TV owners obviously don’t mind the drawbacks, as they are quite minute, and there are many satellite TV owners today. So, if you’re looking for an almost unlimited choice of channels at a price you can easily afford, call your local satellite TV provider today. A technician will soon visit your house and, in minutes, you’ll be able to surf the many channels that you wouldn’t be able to see if you had chosen cable TV.


