Title: 
Security Camera DVR: Finding The Type That Suits You

Word Count:
589

Summary:
Not all security camera Digital Video Recorders, or DVRs, are created equal. Remember this as you look for security camera DVRs for your business. There are great DVRs, good DVRs, and DVRs so terrible you cannot tell what you're looking at.

DVR stands for Digital Video Recorder. It is faster and easier to manage than non-digital and analog systems. Moreover, it provides instant access to recorded or live video. You need not worry about storage, too, because the bulk of vid...


Keywords:
security camera dvr


Article Body:
Not all security camera Digital Video Recorders, or DVRs, are created equal. Remember this as you look for security camera DVRs for your business. There are great DVRs, good DVRs, and DVRs so terrible you cannot tell what you're looking at.

DVR stands for Digital Video Recorder. It is faster and easier to manage than non-digital and analog systems. Moreover, it provides instant access to recorded or live video. You need not worry about storage, too, because the bulk of video that can be stored on a single disc tremendously outweighs that stored on tape. In fact, a single disc is the equivalent of over 30 VCR tapes. What this means is that you get to economize on space use and costs. The bigger your office space and thus, the more cameras you use, the more you will be able to appreciate the money DVRs can save you.

There are two main types of security camera DVRs, pc-based and stand-alone.

PC-based Security Camera DVR with Video Capture Board

A PC-based DVR is a digital video recorder built like a computer. It may consist of two things: a tower mount or a rack mount. Inside it, you will find a mother board, network card, video card, CPU, hard drive, and memory. The DVR video card and the DVR software give users remote access. The DVR capture board receives video directly from security cameras. The DVR software, in turn, works in conjunction with the DVR board to first, change captured video images into a manageable and recognizable format and second, to provide camera controls, as well as record and playback functions.

Stand-alone Security Camera DVR

A stand-alone security camera DVR is an all-in-one unit. All components of a stand-alone security camera DVR are built on one complete circuit board. Its appearance is very similar to that of a VCR or DVD player. Stand-alone security camera DVRs are highly reliable and are very easy to use and install.

The Difference

A stand-alone security camera DVR is very reliable and user-friendly, mostly because it is built on only one circuit board. One need not worry about system crashes or software conflicts because all the hardware and software are embedded on one board. A PC-based security camera DVR, on the other hand, offer more advances features and are better suited for upgrades and systems expansions. They have bigger CPUs and memory, and you can easily add burners and hard drives.

Stand-alone Versus PC-based

Most heavy and large-scale users, such as banks and airports, opt for PC-based models. Just because they do, however, doesn't mean you should join in the bandwagon and purchase the same for your office or factory. In truth, you should base your choice of security camera DVR on your surveillance needs. If your company's camera network is comparatively small and does not require much use of sophisticated controls, then a stand-alone security camera DVR should suffice. If, on the other hand, your surveillance needs require the use of sophisticated controls or if you are planning to expand your company's surveillance system in the future, then the wisest choice would be a PC-based model.

Here's another way of looking at it. If reliability and stability are what matters most to you, then buy a stand-alone security camera DVR. If advanced viewing, playback and video file saving over the Internet mean more to you, then go for a PC-based security camera DVR.

Ultimately, what would matter the most is not the type of security camera DVR you purchased but how it protects your business.


