Title: 
Secure Your Laptop: Secure Your Privacy

Word Count:
528

Summary:
Laptop computers still top the list of expensive personal items that are stolen most often (approximately 300,000 laptops are reported stolen in the U.S. each year). Because they are lightweight, easy to conceal, and valuable, they're coveted. Because they often accompany their users to public places – coffee shops, conference halls, hotels, etc.—they're difficult to keep track of. Laptops are often stolen from vehicles parked in parking lots, in meeting rooms/classrooms, and...


Keywords:
computer,furniture,desk,table,chair,money,school


Article Body:
Laptop computers still top the list of expensive personal items that are stolen most often (approximately 300,000 laptops are reported stolen in the U.S. each year). Because they are lightweight, easy to conceal, and valuable, they're coveted. Because they often accompany their users to public places – coffee shops, conference halls, hotels, etc.—they're difficult to keep track of. Laptops are often stolen from vehicles parked in parking lots, in meeting rooms/classrooms, and even out of unoccupied offices.

If your laptop contains important or private information for yourself or your business (including passwords, email addresses, banking information, financial documents, scanned receipts, copies of contracts, or even intellectual property), it's worth securing.

Versa Products, Inc. – the manufacturer of the popular Ultra Flat Wall Mount Computer Station, also produces a product to help you prevent theft or undocumented access of your laptop. The locking laptop drawer, which retails for under $120, is made from high quality American steel and mounted to a premium ball-bearing track that allows the drawer to retract completely under your desk or other work surface. In its extended position, it couldn't be more user-friendly, giving the user an extra "mini desk" perfect for ongoing use. The drawer locks with a steel key and has a hole in the back designed for cable management so that the laptop can charge or remain plugged in even when it is being stored.

Suddenly, having a laptop is actually more secure than a desktop computer.

If you're interested in other security options for computer equipment, Versa has you covered. A high-quality manufacturer of computer furniture, the company is known for its innovation and superior product line. Everything from locking wall mounts for laptops or desktop keyboard to easy-to-store sit-to-stand mobile carts and LAN racks. They also design heavy-duty computer racks for server rooms and security hubs. Clients include hotel chains, universities, casinos, offices, elementary schools, hospitals, mobile ER centers and even our very own U.S. military. Versa's products carry a lifetime warranty and all products – regardless of quantity or weight—ship for free in the contiguous United States.

With laptop theft on the rise, the statistics are paralleling the increase of laptop use in the workplace and in educational settings. Versa Product's laptop drawers can be installed on almost any existing desk—if you're not sure about yours, you can call and ask a customer service rep who will let you know if your existing desk is compatible to the product before you buy it—and is becoming increasingly popular in dorm rooms, bullpen areas, and medical exam rooms. Just as many people lock up valuables at home, installation of laptop drawers on home computer desks in den and home offices is also increasing. Not only are they ideal in theft prevention, they also secure your privacy and prevent children from using your laptop to access the internet unsupervised. And you'll never again have to worry about misplacing your laptop bag at home or forgetting to charge your battery. Not only will your laptop be protected against theft, you won't run the risk of it being bumped or kicked or knocked off a table. What will they think of next?


