Title: 
Send SMS Messages Online

Word Count:
499

Summary:
Ever wondered what could be the best way to stay in touch with your family and friends when e-mails and chat is no longer the exciting method and not a possible way when your friends are offline. Welcome to online texting, the surest way to reach your friends anytime (whether they are offline or online), and that to without wasting time in keying in your message on the small keypad of your mobile.

The online texting or sending SMS online is a new and exciting way of being ...


Keywords:
free SMS, free SMS online, free texting, any mobile texting, online sms, 100% free texting, no spam


Article Body:
Ever wondered what could be the best way to stay in touch with your family and friends when e-mails and chat is no longer the exciting method and not a possible way when your friends are offline. Welcome to online texting, the surest way to reach your friends anytime (whether they are offline or online), and that to without wasting time in keying in your message on the small keypad of your mobile.

The online texting or sending SMS online is a new and exciting way of being in touch. Fast catching up as a need rather than a leisure activity online texting is the easiest way of getting connected. Sending SMS online is very easy and can be used by a layman effectively. To send online message saves time and compared to your mobile plan is absolutely free of cost.

What you need to do is to visit the service provider and follow some really simple steps. First step is to enter the receiver's cell phone number in the mentioned field. While doing so remember not to use dashes or other characters other than the number and to enter the area code as well. The second step is to enter the subject of the message you want to send. It helps the receiver in identifying the content of the message.

The third step is to enter your message you intend to send to the receiver and here you need to remember that the limit o the message is 140 words. So enter the precise message and continue to the final step. The fourth step is to choose the receivers cellular service provider from the given list. And the final step is to click on the send text message button to send the message. Using these simple steps your message is delivered to the person you want to send it to.

Isn't it a simple way of sending your message across without you or the receiver paying anything for using the service.

Most of the websites ensure that by using this service you can cut on the fee you pay your cellular service provider for sending those important as well as cheeky messages to your friends. Not only it's 100% free but they also ensure that you get the service to every corner of the United States and that is why almost every cellular service provider is listed. With the quality service it is also ensured that your receiver never receives a spam message or advertisement on his number. The websites respect complete privacy of our users and keep the data secured.

So the next time you use online texting services be assured that your message will be delivered in no time and as said absolutely free. You can even prank your friends because of the anonymous text messaging, which means that your friends will never know who sent them the text message! So enjoy sending those texts online using free online SMS service and bring a smile on many faces.


