Title: 
Shareware Values, Redefining The Worth Of A Dollar.

Word Count:
566

Summary:
Shareware was developed as a marketing tool, giving Bob Wallace who created the concept in the 1980's an affordable way to offer PC-Write, a word processor he created, without all of the expense and hassle of conventional marketing.

Pro's
There are unlimited Pro's to Shareware Downloads and Programs, one such benefit being the true definition of try before buying option. With Shareware you are given a limited time to use the product and in most cases full version for a sp...


Keywords:
software,freeware,shareware,download


Article Body:
Shareware was developed as a marketing tool, giving Bob Wallace who created the concept in the 1980's an affordable way to offer PC-Write, a word processor he created, without all of the expense and hassle of conventional marketing.

Pro's
There are unlimited Pro's to Shareware Downloads and Programs, one such benefit being the true definition of try before buying option. With Shareware you are given a limited time to use the product and in most cases full version for a specified amount of time giving you plenty of opportunity to see if it is what you expected. Another Pro is to Shareware is the that there are multiple sites in which to find your download. When you first download the Shareware it is free of charge and in some cases you purchase a license for the product.

Con's
The fee's for Shareware can range from a few dollars and up, so beware when you are choosing between different downloads and their companies. This is the major concern from consumers when they go to download these Programs.

User ability
Shareware is considered extremely user friendly, with its ease of download and the vast amounts of places you can find them. All you need to know is what type of Program you are looking for and your favorite search engine. Just type in the Programs name or what it does and the word Shareware into your browser and you are all set for the super information highway, fondly known to some as The Shareware Internet to find multiple links of the program.

Stability and Security
There have been a couple of Stability issues with Shareware, mainly referring to the fact that if you do not register your copy and thus paying the nominal fee associated with it then your program will no longer work. However this can obviously be avoided by simply purchasing it for the price you agreed upon when originally downloading it.  The other stability issue is that though a few of Shareware Programs available are not the full version and do not have help features or a way to save your project during the trial period. This of course can be avoided by simply checking out the program before downloading it.

The Security issue is the same with a vast amount of things you can download, one being that unless you are downloading from a reputable site such as Downloads 3000 you can end up with a virus. However once again if you take a moment to check out where and what you are downloading then this two can be avoided. However if you end up with something nasty in your download there are various Anti-Virus Programs available.

Summary and Rating
Shareware is considered the main alternative of allowing buyers a way to try a Shareware Program before buying it, going as far as only requiring an email address. Coining the phrase Share. A large part of Shareware is sold with a donation fee involved, though there are quite a few which are the standards try before you buy with time variations of 14 days to a month before you have to pay to keep the software.

The overall rating to Shareware has to be a 9 and the only reason I am not giving it a 10 is the fact that although most Programs are available not all are. However with developer's working daily that will soon change.


