Title: 
Shopping For Cheap Notebook Computer.

Word Count:
622

Summary:
Very good cheap notebook computers can be obtained by doing your research systematically before going to purchase one. Make out the specifications that you want for your cheap notebook computer in a list. Go throufgh the list thoroughly, deleting those items you do not realy need.

If you're looking for a cheap notebook computer, there are a few issues to be conscious of so you don't skimp on quality. Computers have grown to be so commonplace in our lives that we from time ...


Keywords:
notebook computer


Article Body:
Very good cheap notebook computers can be obtained by doing your research systematically before going to purchase one. Make out the specifications that you want for your cheap notebook computer in a list. Go throufgh the list thoroughly, deleting those items you do not realy need.

If you're looking for a cheap notebook computer, there are a few issues to be conscious of so you don't skimp on quality. Computers have grown to be so commonplace in our lives that we from time to time forget that they are complicated pieces of technology that want care.  And, notebook computers are no exception.

whenever you want to purchase a cheap notebook computers, You will need to consider five features,

1. The weight of the notebook computer

Notebook computers weigh between 3 - 7 lbs.  The lighter the notebook the more classy they are.  And, when cost is a crucial issue, does it actually matter to you if your laptop is a couple of pounds heavier? Probably not.  So why not pick for a 5 or 6 lb notebook and save a few hundred dollars.

2.  Consider brand and customer service

Going for a trustworthy brand for your next notebook computer is essential.  When people contemplate buying an inexpensive notebook, they might initially think about going with an unidentified brand to save money.  This is a blunder.  The specialized computer companies that have been around for years proffer far better customer service.  24/7 customer service is key when you buy a technical item like a laptop. Choose the top names like Dell, Sony, Mac, HP, or Compaq.  There are much better techniques to save money on a notebook than by shopping with an unknown brand.

3.  Screen size consideration

If the budget only agree to for a cheap notebook computer, then save money by choosing a smaller screen size. You can still get a crisp, clear, color screen without it being the new 20" model.  typical screen sizes for a laptop range from 12" to 20".  A good 14" screen is a fine trade off to save you a few hundred dollars.

4.  Computer processor speed

Processor speeds change about every three months so don't worry about having the best and fastest because it won't be in a few weeks. I advise choosing a processor that's in the middle - not the fastest but not the slowest. You should realize that Intel processors are the most expensive while AMD and Intel Celerons are cheaper with good quality. As long as you have one of those three brands you should have no troubles with your processor.  To search out a cheaper notebook computer, get a processor that is a happy medium.

5.  Beware of add-ons

When you're trying to get a cheap notebook computer, you have to shun enticement when it comes to add-ons.  You know the upgrades and optional equipment they request you to buy that can in point of fact have you spend more money on the add-ons than the computer.  I'm talking in point of fact speakers, printers, fancy keyboards, optical wireless mice, upgraded CD/DVD drives, carrying cases, pre-installed software upgrades, extra hard drive storage (have you ever used more than 60 or 80 Gigs of space on a laptop? Come on.), upgraded batteries (because you never know when you'll need your laptop on for 28 hours straight), and fancy graphic cards, and the like.

Now bear in mind to stick to the basics when shopping for a cheap notebook computer.  It is feasible to get a good quality, new technology, notebook for around $500-$600 if you concentrate on what you need, and not what is bright and shiny.

lastly, finding a cheap notebook computer is easily done when necessary research is carried out before hand. a cheap notebook computer in the range of $400 to $600 can easily be found and purchased.


