Title: 
Should You Go Digital?

Word Count:
301

Summary:
Digital photography not only means getting photographs immediately, but also sharing them easily and inexpensively with a vast network of people. However, to the traditionalist digital photography means cheapening the time-honored art of photography. What are the pros and cons of digital photography, and how do traditional and digital photography differ?

How the image is captured is the difference between digital and traditional photography. Digital photography cameras act...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Digital photography not only means getting photographs immediately, but also sharing them easily and inexpensively with a vast network of people. However, to the traditionalist digital photography means cheapening the time-honored art of photography. What are the pros and cons of digital photography, and how do traditional and digital photography differ?

How the image is captured is the difference between digital and traditional photography. Digital photography cameras act more like computers than traditional cameras. They utilize thousands (or millions) of small squares called pixels to create an image, rather than an image being processed onto a piece of film. Each pixel stores information about the contents of that particular pixel, such as color, brightness and contrast.

Most digital photography cameras have an LCD screen on the back where the photographer can see the picture immediately. This is the biggest plus of digital photography because you are able to see the photo immediately. It also eliminates film and developing costs because you can download the photo to either a computer or a digital picture printer.

Resolution is the biggest drawback to using digital photography rather than traditional photography. Traditional has a higher resolution than digital. However, for many laypeople it isn't an issue. The resolution for digital photography can be high enough to satisfy all but perhaps print-layout needs.

"Point and click" digital photography can also create a lack of creative control. Having light, contrast, and focus decided for them might be great for amateurs, but for professionals, it can be frustrating. However, professionals don't have to settle for "point and click" photography, since many different types of digital photography cameras are offered.

For ease of use, lower cost, and better storage options, digital photo-graphy is the way to go. In the end, it depends on what you want from a camera.


