Title: 
Should I Get Cable Or Dsl High Speed Internet?

Word Count:
311

Summary:
When signing up for broadband internet service, you’ll usually have to choose one of 2 options. Cable or DSL. To the uninformed consumer they may seem like the exact same thing, but in fact they are two very different services. Each has its own pros and cons. So, before you decide on which one to go with, you should inform yourself of their benefits.

DSL is internet service that is routed through existing phone lines. However, unlike dial-up connections, it allows you to u...


Keywords:



Article Body:
When signing up for broadband internet service, you’ll usually have to choose one of 2 options. Cable or DSL. To the uninformed consumer they may seem like the exact same thing, but in fact they are two very different services. Each has its own pros and cons. So, before you decide on which one to go with, you should inform yourself of their benefits.

DSL is internet service that is routed through existing phone lines. However, unlike dial-up connections, it allows you to use your phone and get on the internet at the same time. This is because it transfers the data at a different frequency than the phone uses, so the two data streams don’t interfere with each other. This is a huge benefit, because you need minimal additional equipment to set it up. DSL is cheaper than cable, and also is available in more areas.

Cable, on the other hand, means that your internet connection is provided to you through a devoted cable. The cable can carry internet exclusively, or it may also have TV channels. The downside of cable is that you have to pay the price to have a cable run directly to your house. This is usually not cheap. However, once you have it, your internet connection will be much faster than the average DSL connection. For example, if you watch an internet video on a cable connection, you can watch it straight through. On a DSL connection, you may have to pause it and let it load all the way.

So, if you place a lot of importance on the speed of your internet connection, it may be worth the extra money to pay for cable. But, if you prefer a simple installation and you don’t mind a slower connection (not nearly as slow as dial-up, though), then DSL is a great option.


