Title: 
Should You ACT! Now?

Word Count:
515

Summary:
Your business is hectic. You are worried about missing deadlines and you are doing your best to stay on top of every little detail. ACT! now.

ACT! was created for all of your customer relationship management needs. It was designed to keep your business organized so that it could grow and prosper and enjoy increased revenue. In fact it does such a great job of it that it has been the #1 selling contact and customer manager in the world for a very long time.

ACT! is not o...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Your business is hectic. You are worried about missing deadlines and you are doing your best to stay on top of every little detail. ACT! now.

ACT! was created for all of your customer relationship management needs. It was designed to keep your business organized so that it could grow and prosper and enjoy increased revenue. In fact it does such a great job of it that it has been the #1 selling contact and customer manager in the world for a very long time.

ACT! is not only very intuitive it is very easy to use, and it lets you keep every critical detail about both your current customer and potential customers. Not only do you have the ability to track it all, it’s stored in one place and can be accessed in seconds. It provides you with all of the tools you need to be more competitive and productive.

Don’t you wish you had all your customer contact information in one place? Are you tired of shuffling through pages and pages of paper looking for that post it or spreadsheet that has all the necessary information?

ACT! is a single database that stores all your critical data in one place including detailed contact information, queries, activities that are on the go, customer alerts or warnings, quotes, your to do list, sales opportunities that await you, and so much more.

The main contact view uses a tab system so that you can quickly click on the appropriate tab for the information you need. It also allows you to quickly and easily add information. One very useful feature is the time date which instantly lets you know when the information was posted.

You’ll never miss another deadline once you ACT! You’ll stay on top of daily tasks no matter how big or small. If you need to contact a customer it will tell you, the calendar with it’s multiple views will make it easy for you to glance at your week quickly and look ahead too.

You can filter your schedule by appointments, meetings, to do items, and you can prioritize them. You can even create your own custom activity types. Your set with ACT! Nothing will slip through the cracks again.

One of the most talked about program features is the ability to automate and track customer communication. You can automate notifying your customers of up coming sales, renewals, marketing promotion, and any other personalized communication you need to get out.

You also get plenty of pre-formatted templates whether you need to design a report, send out an email, or write a letter. You can customize them to meet your specific needs or you can create your own from scratch.

ACT! has so much to offer yet you can learn how to operate it in detail just by spending a little time in it. It’s very intuitive. Instructions are designed for non technical people and there’s plenty of support on their web site and by telephone.

So shouldn’t you ACT! now and stay ahead of the competition?


