Title: 
Should You Switch To A Digital SLR Camera?

Word Count:
314

Summary:
For many people, digital camera photography means getting photographs immediately and sharing them with a vast network of people. For others, digital camera photography means cheapening the time-honored art of photography. How do traditional and digital camera photography differ and what are the pros and cons of digital camera photography?

digital camera photography differs from traditional in how the image is captured. Rather than an image being processed onto a piece of ...


Keywords:



Article Body:
For many people, digital camera photography means getting photographs immediately and sharing them with a vast network of people. For others, digital camera photography means cheapening the time-honored art of photography. How do traditional and digital camera photography differ and what are the pros and cons of digital camera photography?

digital camera photography differs from traditional in how the image is captured. Rather than an image being processed onto a piece of film, digital camera photography utilizes thousands (or millions) of small squares called pixels to create an image. Each pixel stores information about the contents of that particular pixel, such as color, brightness and contrast. In this way, digital camera photography cameras act more like computers than traditional cameras.

The biggest pro of digital camera photography is immediacy. Most digital camera photography cameras have an LCD screen on the back where the photographer can see the picture immediately. Being able to see the photo immediately and being able to download the photo to either a computer or a digital picture printer eliminates film and developing costs.

The biggest drawback to using digital camera photography rather than traditional photography is the resolution. Although traditional has a higher resolution than digital camera photography, for many laypeople it isn't an issue. digital camera photography can produce a resolution high enough to satisfy all but perhaps print-layout needs.

Lack of creative control is another con, particularly with "point and click" digital camera photography. This feature is great for amateurs, but for professionals, it can be frustrating to have light, contrast, and focus decided for them. However, many different types of digital camera photography cameras are offered, and professionals don't have to settle for "point and click" photography.

In the end, it depends on what you want from a camera. For ease of use, lower cost, and better storage options, digital camera photography is the way to go.


