Title: 
Shure Headphones... You Deserve The Best!

Word Count:
526

Summary:
Shure headphones. As a company, this top quality company has long been known among musicians and the music industry for their incredibly high quality microphones that have become somewhat of a standard for recording or live performance.

With all the brands out there, why Shure? What's so special about their Ipod type earpieces?

Making use of their powerful Sound Isolating technology in their earphones to provide a unique quality... that's far beyond what the most expens...


Keywords:
headphone, headphones, wireless, shure, akg, koss, sennheiser, noise cancelling, noise reduction


Article Body:
Shure headphones. As a company, this top quality company has long been known among musicians and the music industry for their incredibly high quality microphones that have become somewhat of a standard for recording or live performance.

With all the brands out there, why Shure? What's so special about their Ipod type earpieces?

Making use of their powerful Sound Isolating technology in their earphones to provide a unique quality... that's far beyond what the most expensive earbuds can offer, and beyond what even the best headphones could give.

Isolation was originally created as an in-ear monitoring system for musicians during live performances (it allowed them to hear their performance clearly without cheering from the crowd, venue or interference of the other instruments.) This corporation from Illinois now brings this technology to the average user. By using various pieces that block the background noise and direct a high-performance definitive sound straight into the ear.

Shure has designed their devices to create a separate listening area within the ear by having the earbuds fit directly into the ear canal. The soft, flexible sleeves on these are able to mold to your ear shape and therefore create a seal around the ear. This way, all outside noise is completely blocked out and your ears feel comfortable in every respect, meaning there is no listening fatigue or irritation from the earbud (s).

Isolation vs Cancellation

When comparing noise cancellation technology (which many cans have) and isolation technology, sound isolating technology is better in many respects. First, you get a pristine high-definition sound from the earphone design. Cancellation headphones are usually battery driven, heavier and of course much larger than earbuds. Second, this cancellation technology makes use of a process that cuts off certain frequencies within the music, and therefore brings in unwanted noise of a different sort (hissing, cracking etc.) This technology does not tamper with the original highs and lows of the music, but provides the best quality directly into the ear.

Specific Models:

Shure's earphone products all come with isolating technology, and each model is created with a specific genre and user in mind. The SE modular earphones from Shure are ideal for all kinds of music listening, whether it be your MP3 device, hi-fi, Ipod or computer. The E-Series: E2, E3, E4, E5 and E500PTH are designed specifically to provide the ultimate in top quality for gamers, delivering all the tiniest of elements and sounds straight into your ear during your gaming experience. You can listen only to what you want to listen to, so you can fully immerse yourself in the game world. Isolating technology is the best choice to listen to music traveling on the bus, exercising, driving or any activity outside of a controlled environment.

Wireless Headphones

Their product line ranges are also wireless and cordless, which has an incomparable advantage compared to wired sets. Too many times have cords become entangled and broken through regular use, rendering the them useless. They produce excellent wireless sets for convenience, quality and affordability.

The ultimate quality continues to be delivered through Shure products, and this is just a small fraction of what they are producing.


