Title: 
Smartphones - They Do It All For You

Word Count:
466

Summary:
In the world today, millions of people have never heard of Smartphones. They are incredible pieces of technology that that are small enough to hold in your one hand, however they have the capability of a top of the line computer. Smartphones are also known as Cell Phones. Since their inception, Smartphones have grown with the times. The technology of the first phones has paled in comparison with today’s phones. 

When Smartphones were first introduced, everyone was amazed w...


Keywords:
Go To My PC, GoToMyPC, Smartphone, Smartphones


Article Body:
In the world today, millions of people have never heard of Smartphones. They are incredible pieces of technology that that are small enough to hold in your one hand, however they have the capability of a top of the line computer. Smartphones are also known as Cell Phones. Since their inception, Smartphones have grown with the times. The technology of the first phones has paled in comparison with today’s phones. 

When Smartphones were first introduced, everyone was amazed with features like calculators, calendars and notepads. Today, Smartphones are equipped with Internet access, where you can download and install programs to enhance the phone address books, email, and many other features and accessories. Smartphones are considered mini computers, they are called Smartphones because they are able to very efficiently manage and edit the information that is on them. 

Most likely you have seen the more popular brands of Smartphones. They are Blackberry, Nokia and PalmSource to mention but a few of the more popular brands of Smartphones on the market today. Many companies have realized that these phones are sought after more and more and they have developed generic brands to be sold at a much lower cost. Smartphones are not just a passing fad; they are the wave of the future. 

They are equipped with the latest technology and, contrary to popular opinion, they are not only sought after by teenagers. Business people, above everybody else, have realized that the convenience of having one of these phones means instant and full access to customer and other business information. People from all social levels are coming on board and are seeking information regarding Smartphones. They are flocking to local retailers to purchase them, because prices are coming down all the time. 

Perhaps Smartphones are so popular because they allow a person to carry their entire database of friends and family and business clients and associates with them wherever they go without having a clunky address book or daily planner under their arm. Another benefit of Smartphones is that their cameras are top of the line; most of them even have video capabilities. 

Software developers have also recognized the significance of the arrival of Smartphones. Many different programs have been developed specifically for use with Smartphones. Some of this software is available as downloads and include encyclopedias, games, GPS systems and text messaging. Unfortunately a mouse is not available most of the time, but those who are proficient with the mini keyboards can sent text messages in a flash. 

Most people do not understand the full potential of their Smartphones.  These devices can one day make computers, digital cameras and camcorders obsolete. Software is being developed continuously and, in the not too distant future, technology will be available that will make Smartphones a staple in any home.


