Title: 
Solar Power Practicality For Camping

Word Count:
682

Summary:
Solar power systems for camping are increasing in availability, but what about practicality? Can solar power systems for camping be put to use readily? Are they portable enough? Are they durable enough?

Solar power practicality for camping must address those questions and more. Are solar power systems for camping cost effective? Do they produce enough energy for normal needs?

RV Camping

Solar power systems for camping can readily be used in RV camping. But are they p...


Keywords:
solar power,solar power for camping,rv camping,solar power systems


Article Body:
Solar power systems for camping are increasing in availability, but what about practicality? Can solar power systems for camping be put to use readily? Are they portable enough? Are they durable enough?

Solar power practicality for camping must address those questions and more. Are solar power systems for camping cost effective? Do they produce enough energy for normal needs?

RV Camping

Solar power systems for camping can readily be used in RV camping. But are they practical?

Many people spend most of their RV camping time in RV camping spaces with full hook-ups. They plan trips according to where the next RV camp is, and reserve a full hook-up space for the end of each day. For them, solar power practicality is questionable. It makes a good back-up system, if there is a power outage at a campground. On the whole, however, it is an unnecessary expense – just another toy.

Others enjoy the freedom of being able to camp without hook-ups. They want to get off the beaten track – be pioneers. They want the opportunity to be in a remote, quiet place for a few days. They may want to go off road, or stop beside a quiet stream, even though it is in the middle of nowhere. They don't want to rush to make it to the next full hook-up campground.  

Solar power practicality for camping is real for the second group of campers. Solar power serves a practical use for them. It breaks the leash of energy needs and lets them wander as they please. 

Operating an RV's electrical system with a solar power system is simple. Charging its batteries with solar power is also simple. You need to plan your system, of course. You need to know how much energy you want. Then you need to purchase and install solar panels, batteries, and inverters that will produce that amount of energy for you.

Many Internet websites will guide you through the necessary steps of determining how much solar power you need. They will explain which components will provide that amount of energy. Solar power systems for camping in recreational vehicles are increasingly available in a range of sizes, and you are sure to find one to fit your needs. Most are easy to use.

Solar power systems for camping may make you think twice about appliances you take for granted in RV camping. For example, suppose you have a coffee maker that requires 15 minutes to brew coffee, and then keeps the coffee warm on a warming plate. This will consume a lot of your solar power. You may want to replace that coffee maker with one that will brew in 10 minutes and shut itself off. Pour your coffee into a thermos and it will remain hot without using more energy.

Non-RV Camping

Solar power systems for camping are also practical for non-RV camping. The same two groups of people are to be found. One group likes to make camp in a KOA campground, with electrical power close at hand. The other group likes to hike into the back country with lightweight backpacks, and camp wherever darkness overtakes them.

Solar power practicality can easily be seen in the array of lightweight, portable units hitting the market. Solar power can be generated by the backpack in which gear is carried. Flexible solar panels can be rolled up and carried to the campsite, where they can be stretched on the ground to generate additional energy.

Solar power systems for camping are small and portable, but can generate enough energy to run a small heater or light bulb. Solar collected by a backpack while hiking can recharge a cell phone, camera, or iPod. Small solar power units will run appliances made for use in a vehicle. The coffee maker that will plug into your cigarette lighter can be run by a flexible solar power panel.

Solar power practicality for camping is sure to increase, and products for this use will multiply. Those who appreciate the environment enough to want to be far out into it will demand clean energy, i.e. solar power.


