Title: 
Sony Ericsson K850i - Fortus Phone Review

Word Count:
591

Summary:
3G at Its Finest

Sony Ericsson has broadened the limits of mobile technology with the latest addition to the Cyber Shot line, the K850i. This cutting edge mobile not only has one of the best cameras on the market and all the latest features, the K850i boasts a sleek, more compact design than its predecessors and is sure to turn heads.

Not a traditional candy bar phone, the K850i will fit comfortably in your hand or your pocket. The black casing gives the phone a sophist...


Keywords:
12 months free line rental,k850i,cash back deals,mobile phones,sony ericsson,mobile phone contracts


Article Body:
3G at Its Finest

Sony Ericsson has broadened the limits of mobile technology with the latest addition to the Cyber Shot line, the K850i. This cutting edge mobile not only has one of the best cameras on the market and all the latest features, the K850i boasts a sleek, more compact design than its predecessors and is sure to turn heads.

Not a traditional candy bar phone, the K850i will fit comfortably in your hand or your pocket. The black casing gives the phone a sophisticated look, while the bright, incandescent trim emphasizes the K850i’s trendy, modern features. Available in either luminous green or velvet blue, the glowing trim highlights the middle section of the phone and lights the navigation pad as well.

The navigation pad also features a new design compared to the K800i and the K810i. Instead of the troublesome joystick many users struggled with on early models, the K850i features an actual pad that is much easier to use. Unfortunately, Sony Ericsson positioned the navigation pad in a rather odd location, slightly overlapping the number keys, so it still poses some difficulty. The keypad itself is attractive and functional, but the buttons are small and flat, making usage awkward for larger fingers.

Once you become accustomed to the keys and the clumsy navigation pad, the K850i is flawless. It looks terrific, with a unique design that demands attention. The 2.4 inch high resolution display screen is composed of scratch resistant material for extended durability and this is truly the mobile phone that does it all. The K850i is the first 3G cyber shot handset and features a music player that rivals those found on walkman phones.

The K850i is one of the only 5 megapixel camera phones currently available and could easily replace your dedicated digital camera. The K850i features a 16X digital zoom that doesn’t lose quality, auto focus, and a Xenon flash for great pictures in any light conditions. There is a convenient button on the side of the handset to set the camera mode and the integrated picture stabilizer yields superb quality in video and photos. The K850i also includes BestPic, which allows you to snap up to 9 consecutive shots and select the best, a red eye reduction feature, and other fun imaging applications.

The music player is almost as impressive as the camera, with support for all major file formats and an FM radio. The included media manager software allows easy transfer of music and other media files between your phone and PC and the K850i features many of the same accessories as an Ericsson walkman phone, including PlayNow and TrackID. The sound clarity is amazing through both the speaker and optional wireless headphones. The K850i has 40 MB of internal memory and is compatible with MicroSD memory cards, as well as high capacity Memory Sticks, expandable to 4 GB.

The K850i’s 3G capabilities provide an excellent mobile internet experience. You can surf your favourite websites with a fast connection, quickly download ringtones, games, and other applications, and stay on top of the latest news through RSS feeds. The K850i also features push email for one touch messaging functions.

While the keys may be a bit fidgety, this minor flaw will be quickly forgotten once you discover all the things the K850i can do. Sony Ericsson has truly exceeded mobile expectations with this destined classic. The K850i is a fabulous handset that will not soon be surpassed.


