Title: 
Sony Ericsson K510i - Fortus Phone Review

Word Count:
455

Summary:
This K series phone from Sony Ericsson is a slim, compact phone that does its best to impress. The phone is available in either black or purple and sits at a perfectly suited 101 x 44 x 17 mm for ideal handheld use. The phone weighs a measly 90 grams and others a standard set of features that do not disappoint.

The screen displays 262K colors and features a 1.3 megapixel camera for taking pictures and video captures to view on that wonderfully bright little screen. Additio...


Keywords:
free line rental,mobile phones,mobile phone deals,12 months free line rental,sony ericsson,k510i


Article Body:
This K series phone from Sony Ericsson is a slim, compact phone that does its best to impress. The phone is available in either black or purple and sits at a perfectly suited 101 x 44 x 17 mm for ideal handheld use. The phone weighs a measly 90 grams and others a standard set of features that do not disappoint.

The screen displays 262K colors and features a 1.3 megapixel camera for taking pictures and video captures to view on that wonderfully bright little screen. Additionally, the camera allows users to introduce a variety of fun little effects to pictures, including face stretching and smudging along with substantial edits before sending photos to fellow users.

Email sends quickly and easily between phone and computer and the attachment feature for sending MMS is incredibly easy to use. Users can even use the phone to access the internet and type up a quick blog entry, attaching photos from their phone’s memory. Additional standard features such as the calendar and phone book are well designed and feature enhanced visual elements for having more fun while performing standard tasks.

Users can create their own ringtones with MusicDJ and download new ones with PlayNow software, additionally allowing them to enjoy the polyphonic ringtones featured by the device. Additionally, the K510i comes with Bluetooth compatibility for wireless connections and a complete software kit for editing photos and browsing the web.

The K510i allows users to synch up their Microsoft Outlook contacts list and calendar with that on their phone with a quick connection. Additional popular features include everything from polyphonic alarms to Java based games for on the go entertainment. The messaging features are as varied as any user can expect, featuring instant messaging, push email services, MMS, SMS, and longer input features for more text.

With 360 hours of standby time and 6 hours of standard talk time, the phone uses its Tri Band technology incredibly efficiently, making it a good choice for someone constantly on the go. There have been some reports of the battery underperforming expectations and a major drawback of these handset is the small, 28 MB memory that is included. Expandable memory slots would have been a nice inclusion, allowing users to take more advantage of the well built camera and editing features.

Regardless of its drawbacks though, the Sony Ericsson K510i is a great solution for anyone looking to get a simple, easy to use phone with all of the features they’ve come to expect. There are dozens of different options available here and the sleek appearance isn’t bad either. For those not seeking the highest end product or the most advanced technology on the market, the K510i is a great phone to start with.


