Title: 
Sony Ericsson K750i: You Should Get It, And Here's Why

Word Count:
511

Summary:
Although the Sony Ericsson K750i is similar to previous models, it brings an accomplished touch to the 2 features highly requested by the market: a good MP3 player and a quality camera. It can be considered a prototype for other mobile phone developments, taking into account the fact that engineers had to work a lot on incorporating a better processor operating speed and power in the same dimensions of the previous models.

Sony Ericsson K750i can use cards of up to 2 GB an...


Keywords:
free line rental,mobile phones,mobile phone deals,mobile phone contracts,UK,sony ericsson,k750i


Article Body:
Although the Sony Ericsson K750i is similar to previous models, it brings an accomplished touch to the 2 features highly requested by the market: a good MP3 player and a quality camera. It can be considered a prototype for other mobile phone developments, taking into account the fact that engineers had to work a lot on incorporating a better processor operating speed and power in the same dimensions of the previous models.

Sony Ericsson K750i can use cards of up to 2 GB and have a total memory up to 4 GB. The kit includes a 64 MB memory card. The musical function can be accessed with a button on the left side, giving the possibility of listening to the radio or the play list with a simple press of a button. The volume can be easily controlled with the help of a button located within easy reach. This button is designed like a swing and it is responsible for other functions of Sony Ericsson K750i. It can activate voice dialing and can be used for the photo functions.

For those interested in the folding cover and its construction, we should say that Sony Ericsson K750i has a reliable one, causing no problems at all, although the battery compartment is bigger than before. The battery is a 900 mAh Li-Pon and it works up to 400 hours in standby mode or 9 hours when talking on the phone. The battery recharges fully in 2 hours, which is very convenient.

No major changes are to be reported concerning the menu organization of Sony Ericsson K750i. The same style is respected with only one exception - the added Activity Menu. The menu representation is different and the user can benefit from more possibilities of accessing the phone book. Creativity can be developed with the help of a graphical editor for drawing pictures.

An FM-tuner is built in the mobile phone and it can store up to 20 radio stations. Radio works in stereo mode and offers quality sound. The auto-search option of the mobile phone will find and store 5-7 radio stations with the most prominent and strongest signal. Other radio stations can be added manually.

This phone is also an actual mp3 file player offering a wide range of multimedia options. The convenient settings offer the possibility of a quality sound and, in addition, there is the possibility of creating your own settings. You can also choose the red version if you are not into classic black.

Another interesting fact is that this mobile phone is the first one to have a 2MP camera and auto focus, being great for any distances. There are three possible resolutions for Sony Ericsson K750i: 160x120 pixels, 640x480 pixels, and 1632x1224 pixels. There are two types of data compression for pictures: Normal and Fine, both providing quality output.

An optimized mp3 player, a camera with high quality results, plus a smart mobile phone - this is how we define the Sony Ericsson K750i. If all this sounds tempting to you (and it should!), then give this phone the consideration it deserves.


