Title: 
Sony Ericsson K950i – Worth More Than Just A Memory

Word Count:
552

Summary:
The Sony Ericsson K950i is a new breed of phone, plain and simple. It effectively moves away from the accepted standard of features that its predecessors have set and, as a result, has taken it to a new level and is in a class of its own. It has a host of features that people of every age could make use of, with some notable absentees that may put users off. Technologically, it is one of Sony Ericsson’s better phones and is well worth considering if you are on the look out fo...


Keywords:
free line rental offers,mobile phones,mobile phone deals,mobile phone contracts,Sony Ericsson,W950i


Article Body:
The Sony Ericsson K950i is a new breed of phone, plain and simple. It effectively moves away from the accepted standard of features that its predecessors have set and, as a result, has taken it to a new level and is in a class of its own. It has a host of features that people of every age could make use of, with some notable absentees that may put users off. Technologically, it is one of Sony Ericsson’s better phones and is well worth considering if you are on the look out for a new phone.

Before you even pick the K950i up, it looks amazing. At 15mm thick, the phone is extremely practical, However, not everything follow suit where size is concerned. The screen, for example, is a fantastic 2.6 inches, is crystal clear and shows up colours very crisply. It also happens to be a touch screen and comes complete with stylus for ease of navigation. The buttons are quite small so the ability to touch your way to a menu on the screen proves to be a major plus point. 

It has to be said that the K950i has a long list of features. It has all the usual features, such as Bluetooth and FM radio, but others go above and beyond the call of duty. The MP3 player is of a high quality in itself, but also has add ons that makes it infinitely easier to use. The jog wheel on the side of the phone can allow you to find a song much quicker than you could using a scroll button. Track ID is also present so you can find out unknown song details from a few bars.

If that doesn’t float your boat, maybe the handwriting recognition feature will. Simply write using the stylus and the K950i will translate it into text, if your writing resembles printed lettering that is. Then there’s the conference call facility, the top of the range web browser or the exceptional organizer functions. The list goes on.

The K950i particularly stand out from the crowd because of the memory and battery power though. You get an incredible 4GB of memory and 7 plus hours call time. The K950i has more stamina than most other phones, which makes it easier to use if you tend to travel a lot or want a low maintenance phone. The memory is perfect for song storage. Despite all of the other features, I think most users will appreciate these the most. 

Most phone models have a few faults that any reviewer can pick on, but I can find very few with the K950i. The main problems with the Sony Ericsson K950i are not actually present in the phone, but rather what it lacks. It has no camera and no capability for video conferencing; the two features that are probably most in demand at the minute. This severely lets the phone down.

The Sony Ericsson K950i is an exceptional phone, but lacks the complete package. Add a camera and it would do, but the fact it is missing degrades the phone slightly. However, the memory and battery are nothing to be sneezed at and should give two excellent reason as to why you should choose this phone.


