Title: 
Sony's Latest Release: The Psp Camera

Word Count:
494

Summary:
Although Sony only released its PSP (PlayStation Portable) in March of 2005, it has been updated with new accessories on almost a daily basis. The PSP is a small handheld device weighing just over half a pound, but packs the fullest punch for the audio-video enthusiast. Its capabilities include playing back music, movies, television shows, other saved or downloaded video clips, wireless Internet connection, and its primary purpose: video games in a portable system. 

All th...


Keywords:
psp, psp camera


Article Body:
Although Sony only released its PSP (PlayStation Portable) in March of 2005, it has been updated with new accessories on almost a daily basis. The PSP is a small handheld device weighing just over half a pound, but packs the fullest punch for the audio-video enthusiast. Its capabilities include playing back music, movies, television shows, other saved or downloaded video clips, wireless Internet connection, and its primary purpose: video games in a portable system. 

All this is available to users anytime of day or night and virtually anywhere. The most recent release accessory announced by Sony is the PSP camera. This comes as a joy to PSP users on the go all around the world looking to complete their micro entertainment center with the ability to not only view picture and videos, but actually take their own pictures and videos with their PSP.

The PSP camera was first announced at the E3 in Japan in March of 2006, where it also made its first public demo behind protective glass. The camera will don the name of Chotto Shot. Physically it is a small and seemingly basic camera lens about the size of the bottom half of your thumb that attaches to the top of the PSP system just above the screen. As if a camera attachment to the PSP would not be enough to complete this compact media center, the quick shot camera will also have a GPS attachment available.  The camera is capable of delivering 1.3 megapixel image quality for the pictures as well as the video clips it captures. 

Also included with the camera's features is its digital zoom ability, allowing the user to bring the object of their photos closer than they can reach. A mono microphone will be included with this camera attachment to round out the extraordinary value of this extremely tiny little package. The microphone will capture the sounds to accompany video filming. And to protect your new addition, a protective carrying case is available. It's incredible to think that in a handheld device as small as the PSP, you can have the ability to play countless games, connect to the Internet, view pictures, listen to music, watch movies and other videos, and now take pictures and movies.

The PSP camera and GPS attachment officially went on sale in Japan in December of 2006. The price tag was equivalent to a miniscule $50 U.S. for this incredible little bundle. As of March of 2007, Sony has not committed to a release date for the PSP camera in the United States. For this outstanding value, the release could not be soon enough.

With the constant upgrading of the PSP and the accessories available, Sony has truly created a portable handheld device capable of managing all things media. With the upcoming addition of the PSP camera to the line up of accessories, the capabilities extend as far as the galaxy reaches. The PSP system has taken entertainment, gaming, and media to a whole new world.


