Title: 
Sony Ericsson W810i: Merge With Music

Word Count:
432

Summary:
If you are looking for a brand new mobile phone, one that you may wish to consider is the Sony Ericsson W810i. It is basically an updated version of the incredibly popular W800i, which was the first walkman branded mobile phone. So just what features does it have?

Features of the Sony Ericsson W810i

When comparing this mobile phone to its previous model, you can tell that it is slightly slimmer. This makes it easier to carry around with you and it can easily fit into yo...


Keywords:
free line rental,mobile phones,mobile phone deals,mobile phone contracts,UK,Sony Ericsson,W810i


Article Body:
If you are looking for a brand new mobile phone, one that you may wish to consider is the Sony Ericsson W810i. It is basically an updated version of the incredibly popular W800i, which was the first walkman branded mobile phone. So just what features does it have?

Features of the Sony Ericsson W810i

When comparing this mobile phone to its previous model, you can tell that it is slightly slimmer. This makes it easier to carry around with you and it can easily fit into your pocket without bulging out. The buttons are also slightly raised as opposed to embedded and the navigation button is also better designed than the W800i joystick.  

One feature that many people may love is the fact that the W810i has faster internet access. Also, it boasts a faster data transfer from phone to PC and vice versa. The main function of this phone, however, is to provide you with an excellent music player. 

The player supports MP3 as well as ACC formats and the quality of the sound is second to none. There is a Mega Bass function that makes the bass frequency better and that allows you to have a better music experience all round. Also, another feature that you may like is the fact that you can store a lot of music on the phone due to its high memory. In fact, it is possible for you to store up to 20 full length CDs on the phone, which is extremely good compared to other phones! 

If you like to rip CDs, you will also be pleased to know that the phone comes with software that allows you to do that. If you like listening to the radio, you will like the fact that there is also a FM radio along with the MP3 player. It truly is a phone that allows you to have the best music experience possible.

If music is not really your thing,  you might like the fact that the phone also has a camera on the side that has various features. You can have the option of 4x digital zoom, sharper images and a video camera as well as camera light too. It is classed as one of the best camera phones available, so if you do like taking pictures with your phone you will not be disappointed with this one.   

The Sony Ericsson W810i is one of the best camera and music phones available and, although it has been available since April 2006, it still remains as one of the best around today.


