Title: 
Spam And Spyware

Word Count:
524

Summary:
Spam is well known all over the world not because it’s good but because it annoys most people and can make a simple task take a lot longer. Spam not only attacks your email account inbox but also it can have attachments which may download to your computer. These attachments are more than likely viruses which will infect your computer, deleting important files, slowing your processor down as well as having trouble accessing the Internet.

Spam is unsolicited emails that get ...


Keywords:
Spam,Spyware,Anti Spam,Spam Software,Spam Blocker,Spam Filter,Firewalls,Spam problems,Computer,unsol


Article Body:
Spam is well known all over the world not because it’s good but because it annoys most people and can make a simple task take a lot longer. Spam not only attacks your email account inbox but also it can have attachments which may download to your computer. These attachments are more than likely viruses which will infect your computer, deleting important files, slowing your processor down as well as having trouble accessing the Internet.

Spam is unsolicited emails that get sent to random accounts in bulk. They may have attachments and links. The attachments on spam emails may contain viruses which locate important information on your computer as well as slowing down your processor speeds. The links in spam emails are usually to male orientated websites or even a website which looks like your online banking pages where they ask you to enter your account details in.

Spyware has become a big problem within the past few years it’s estimated that 9 out of every 10 computers are infected with Spyware and Adware. So over 90% of computers have had a breach of security of some sort a scary thought. Spyware programs run invisibly on your computer and are hard to detect. The programs track everything you do online from using your credit/debit card to signing into a website. All the information gathered is passed onto a designated website where the hacker has access to your details.

Spyware is software that is solely created to take control of someone’s computer without them knowing. So not only does the Spyware spy on your computer but it also spies on you.

There are now many different software programs you can buy instore or online, download free versions online as well as software that comes already installed on your computer. These software programs include:

• Anti Spam Software – this software tries to eliminate unsolicited and unwanted emails. These emails won’t even reach your inbox with the use of a good Anti Spam program. An Anti Spam software package will do all of the below and more.

• Spam Blockers – these block spam so you don’t get spam emails in your inbox. You can block spam before it even reaches your inbox using your service provider’s mail server or you can block them when they arrive in your inbox using the junk or spam function that most inbox’s have in place.

• Spam Filters – this tries to filter out junk emails before they reach your inbox. They usually are moved to a junk or spam folder where you are able to check they are all spam emails.

•Firewalls – there is usually a basic firewall installed on your computer when you buy it. The firewall tries to prevent any network intrusion as well as stopping any spam and viruses getting into your computer.

If you’re a regular surfing the Internet, chatting to your friends online or playing games online you will need some Anti Spam protection. Not only will they help reduce the amount of spam emails you receive but also help you from receiving unsolicited emails with virus attachments including Trojan Horses and Spyware.


