Title: 
Speed Up Your Web Browsing Experience - Web Accelerator

Word Count:
561

Summary:
One good Web Accelerator software can speed up your web browsing experience. Web accelerators are very easy to use and usually come preset with optimization settings that will work with most systems, it can reduce latency and download times using various web performance techniques including caching or HTTP compression.

MySpeed PC Lite is a Web Accelerator product from myspeed dot com, MySpeed PC Lite lets you test and analyze your Internet connection bandwidth and produces...


Keywords:
software,reviews,download,web,internet


Article Body:
One good Web Accelerator software can speed up your web browsing experience. Web accelerators are very easy to use and usually come preset with optimization settings that will work with most systems, it can reduce latency and download times using various web performance techniques including caching or HTTP compression.

MySpeed PC Lite is a Web Accelerator product from myspeed dot com, MySpeed PC Lite lets you test and analyze your Internet connection bandwidth and produces a report of download, upload speeds and connection quality. The result is presented with a colorful graph, that displays your speed in relation to various connectivity types. The software can connect to one of 4 pre-defined server locations (one in the US) to run the test.

Full Speed is from getfullspeed dot com, it can speed up your existing Internet Broadband connection and get the best performance possible from your current Internet access. Free Internet speed test program included. Double your money back guarantee. No questions, no knowledge, no choices, no spyware, no adverts, no subscriptions, no pop-ups, no contracts, no banners, nothing! Just an instant speed boost and maximum optimized Broadband performance. Will improve your online Internet experience with everything you do. Get faster performance with: downloads, web browsing, data streaming, email and gaming, etc.

Accel SpeedTec is from montanasoft, it modifies Windows settings to achieve faster web browsing, downloads, Email etc. It comes with a quick-start guide and step-by-step instructions as well as one-button operation for beginners. You can always return to your original settings if the tweaked settings are not working to your advantage. Additional features include a Hosts File editor that can further speed access to your favorite web sites. SpeedTec supports AOL adapters and DUN 1.3.

TweakMASTER is a tools suite for connection optimizing, tweaking, speed testing and more. It can be used with all types of Internet connections including dial-up, cable modem, DSL, or satellite as well as AOL. In addition to the Optimization Wizard and tweaking options, it includes a DNS Accelerator to help websites load faster by caching DNS information, a network connection viewer, clock synchronization and several network utilities including Ping, Traceroute and an intelligent Whois tool.

TCP Optimizer is a software for tweaking broadband-related Registry settings. The TCP Optimizer is a free, easy Windows software that provides an intuitive interface for tuning and optimizing your Internet connection. Just download and run, there is no installation required. The software makes it easy to find the best MTU and RWIN values, test latency and tweak all the important broadband related registry parameters. The Optimizer can be helpful with tuning any Internet connection type, from dialup to Gigabit+ :) If you need help with the program, check the TCP Optimizer documentation, read our broadband tweaking articles, the Optimizer FAQ, and/or visit our Forums. As an alternative, you can try one of our generic Registry patches instead. Optimize Dialup, DSL and Cable all from one simple to use interface. (It has the option to return your Registry to its default untweaked state as well) It also includes built in MaxMTU and Latency(Ping) detection utilities.

With these latest software, you can get broadband speeds from your dialup modem, accelerated e-mails and browsing. If you want to make your connection the best it possible can be - which can lead to very significant speed increases - then you may wish to try these acceleration software.


