Title: 
Sprint PCS Cellular Phones

Word Count:
495

Summary:
Almost everyone, in regards to phone services, is familiar with the name Sprint. Founded in year 1899 in Abilene Kansas, by a man named Cleyson L. Brown, Sprint telephone company was then called Brown Telephone Company. Brown Telephone Company underwent a quick growth spurt due to its technical advances, and became great in the telephone industry by the year 1976. However, it wasn't until 1989 that Sprint International emerged as a worldwide name. Sprint's sudden success was ...


Keywords:
cellular phones


Article Body:
Almost everyone, in regards to phone services, is familiar with the name Sprint. Founded in year 1899 in Abilene Kansas, by a man named Cleyson L. Brown, Sprint telephone company was then called Brown Telephone Company. Brown Telephone Company underwent a quick growth spurt due to its technical advances, and became great in the telephone industry by the year 1976. However, it wasn't until 1989 that Sprint International emerged as a worldwide name. Sprint's sudden success was in part because of its series of technological advances such as the first nationwide fiber-optic transmission, as well as the first fiber-optic transatlantic phone call.

By the year 1993, documents support that Sprint provided phone services for more than six million customer lines in nineteen different states. When the year 1995 came, Sprint, along with its partners, acquired 29 PCS wireless licenses in major trade areas in FCC's first auction. As a result, Sprint PCS evolved, as well as the Sprint PCS cell phones. The following paragraphs will discuss Sprint PCS cell phones, different types of PCS cell phones, as well as the fair and flexible calling plan available with Sprint PCS cell phones.

Sprint PCS Cellular Phones - Types and Styles

After you decide on a Sprint PCS cell phone plan, you will be able to select from a wide variety of types and styles of Sprint PCS cell phones. Most often, there will be special offers available, or special discounts on the most popular types and styles of Sprint PCS cell phones. Sometimes you will even be able to find instant savings offers, as well as online specials on the most popular Sprint PCS cell phone models. For example, there is the Vision V1660 by Samsung. This model of Sprint PCS cell phones comes with a wide variety of features including a compact design, clam shaped style. While the original price of this cell phone is around $200, it can be purchased at $20.00 off the retail value if you use the online special promotion, offered on their website. Other popular Sprint PCS cell phones include, but are not limited to:

* PCS vision phones
* multimedia phones
* video/picture phones

There is absolutely a model of Sprint PCS cell phones with features to best meet your own individual needs.

The Sprint PCS Fair and Flexible Cell Phone Plan

While there are many plans available for PCS cell phones, Sprint has designed a variety of service options to help ensure that their subscribers will get the most minutes for the best value. The Sprint PCS Fair and Flexible Cell Phone Plan actually protects subscribers against expensive over-charges. This plan is designed to add low-cost minutes to your plan when you need them. The Sprint Fair and Flexible Cell Phone Plan also offers unlimited night and weekend minutes to its subscribers, as well as nationwide long-distance 24 hours a day. Just imagine the money you can save by choosing Sprint PCS cell phones. In addition, imagine the comfort you will have not having to worry about unexpected costly over-charges.


