Title: 
Sprint Prepaid Wireless

Word Count:
399

Summary:
It's never been so easy to stay connected!  With Sprint prepaid wireless phones, you can have the freedom you want and the great service you need -- with no strings attached.  

These days, nearly everyone has a cell phone.  Wireless phones are simple to use, easy to carry and offer limitless freedom to talk, wherever you are.  There are usually no sign-up fees, no long-term contracts that force you to commit to two or three year plans, no set monthly payments and no credit...


Keywords:



Article Body:
It's never been so easy to stay connected!  With Sprint prepaid wireless phones, you can have the freedom you want and the great service you need -- with no strings attached.  

These days, nearly everyone has a cell phone.  Wireless phones are simple to use, easy to carry and offer limitless freedom to talk, wherever you are.  There are usually no sign-up fees, no long-term contracts that force you to commit to two or three year plans, no set monthly payments and no credit checks.  These phones are so simple to set up and use it's no wonder so many people have them. 

Instead of costly long-term commitments, prepaid phone service allows you to be in control of how much you spend every month.  There are plans that require you to make a minimum purchase, or put a time limit on the airtime you purchase, but these packages do vary.  You can compare the limits offered with various providers, and the denominations of cards purchased.  Even then, you're still only buying the amount of minutes you'll need.  If you know that you'll be using the phone less next month than you did this month, you can buy a card for a lower denomination with fewer minutes.  If you find that you're running short on airtime before the month ends, you can always purchase an additional card at any time. 

Sprint prepaid wireless plans, and some other prepaid calling services, also allow you to avoid those nasty overages that can grossly inflate your bill.  Rather than seeing your $40 monthly bill jump to an astronomical three-digits, the extra minutes you use will not be subject to ridiculously high rates.  With a prepaid plan, you can simply buy extra minutes at the rate you normally pay.  It's a fair way of doing business that benefits cell phone users, rather than penalizing them. 

Don't worry that you'll have to choose from a selection of poor quality equipment when choosing a Sprint prepaid wireless phone.  The selection is almost identical to that of phones offered on typical monthly plans, including the latest in camera and videophones.  One major physical difference is their "minutes display" feature that gives you a running tally of how many airtime minutes you have left on your prepaid account.  

In the world of cellular phones, Sprint prepaid wireless plans offer flexibility, quality and affordability, making them very attractive and popular choices.


