Title: 
Spyware Or Software: Your Business Guide To Must-have Software For 2007

Word Count:
1280

Summary:
If you use a computer, and run a business, then no doubt you have gone through, and may still be going through, the confusing time of deciding which technologies are actually important to your business.

Is that latest program really going to help you, or are you going to find yourself spending more time trying to figure out how it works, or finding someone else who uses it.

I present for your consideration, the definitive list of what software you should be using, to ke...


Keywords:
spyware,or,software,your,business,guide,must-have,software, 2007


Article Body:
If you use a computer, and run a business, then no doubt you have gone through, and may still be going through, the confusing time of deciding which technologies are actually important to your business.

Is that latest program really going to help you, or are you going to find yourself spending more time trying to figure out how it works, or finding someone else who uses it.

I present for your consideration, the definitive list of what software you should be using, to keep your business running smoothly and efficiently, who could pass that up!


Skype

Skype is a program now used by over 9 million people worldwide, which allows free calling between skype users, including video calls, and ridiculously cheap calling rates to countries around the world.

Skype has multiple options similar to what your phone company would traditionally offer (voicemail) and even has the “skype in” feature, allowing you to (for a monthly charge) have a landline number people can call, that routes into your skype program. This feature comes into its own when you are dealing with customers from different countries, as you can give them a local number, and save the toll calls.

Skype helps your business because calls become clearer and significantly cheaper, saving thousands a year due to the reduced cost involved. If you have staff that move around then it becomes your lifeline, because your staff can be sending and receiving calls anywhere in the world with an internet connection, irrespective of landlines.

Download Skype 3.0 Now - http://www.skype.com/download/ . 


Microsoft Office Outlook 2007

Microsoft’s outlook is an email application from Microsoft, although most commonly used for email’s, it also has a built in calendar, notes manager, and contact management.

Outlook is a solid basis for any organization, and with an exchange server, Users can have a shared mailbox as well as individual, and with the centralized contacts manager, you never have to ask someone for those customers’ details again.

With the new Vista edition, Outlook has gotten a system revamp, with a new snazzier finish, and a more intuitive design, Outlook is easier and faster to use than ever, making it a program no business can do without.

Check it out now - http://office.microsoft.com/ . 


Firefox

Firefox is a graphical web browser increasingly being used as a replacement to Internet Explorer, with currently over 9 million people using it, it is becoming a strong player in the market.

Firefox incorporates a lot of features that make web browsing easier, from an intuitive page search that searches as you type, to tabbing, allowing you to have one window open, but multiple web-pages open inside it, a feature other browsers have quickly tried to incorporate.

Firefox is also significantly faster, and more secure, with a fix response time to security vulnerabilities as high as 3000% faster than Internet Explorer.

Firefox helps your business run faster, more secure, and more flexible, advantages all around.

Download Firefox 2.0 today – http://www.getfirefox.com/ . 


McAfee Internet Security Suite

Let’s face it, the internet is a scary place, if it was a real place, it would be full of dark alleys full of dark figures, and everyone’s letterboxes would be overloaded with junk mail.

McAfee Internet Security Suite combats this problem, by introducing a powerful suite of programs, including spam blocking, safe web browsing and antivirus.

McAfee gives you 0 day protection for virus’s, meaning that as soon as a virus is found and the protection created, it is sent out immediately, unlike other antivirus suites, that might update only once a week, leaving you unprotected if you receive the virus the day it is released.

McAfee helps your business by keeping you protected against virus’s, and notifying you of the “dark alleys” of the web, so you know not to go down them.

Check it out now - http://www.mcafee.com/ .


ProWorkflow

How can you keep track of everything these days, with all that paperwork to do, and those customers to ring, how could you possibly know what Johnson is doing down the hall? Because you have ProWorkflow, that’s how!

ProWorkflow is a project management and time tracking solution, that gives you the control to see what all the staff are up to, how work is progressing, and see upcoming tasks and projects, even allowing customers logins so they can see how far you are on their projects.

And with the new Enterprise version, you can now manage your company worldwide, with the ability to submit projects to other locales through the click of a button.

Sign up for a free trial today - http://www.proworkflow.com/ .


Windows Vista Business Edition

Windows Vista is the new operating system from Microsoft, with the Business Edition being the first operating system to be specifically designed for the modern business.

With an overall upgrade to the look and feel of windows, getting things done becomes easy, no longer will you have the need to call tech support, or your “expert” staff member over again.

And with new features, such as Windows Meeting Space, doing things with other people becomes a breeze.

A must have for anyone that uses a computer for business.

Check it out today – http://www.windowsvista.com/ . 


Microsoft Office 2007

Microsoft Office is a complete business system for creating and editing files, and even better, most business’s use at least some form of it, meaning you will practically never come across someone who can’t read the file you just sent to them.

Microsoft Office also integrates with your windows experience, merging with outlook, to provide you full Microsoft Word functionality when writing and receiving emails, and with the new Getting Started screen, you have plenty of pre-built documents ready and waiting to help.

Microsoft Office is a must-have for anyone who uses documents, and lets face it, who doesn’t! Whether it’s typing up a quick to do list, or preparing a professional report, Microsoft Office 2007 is your perfect companion.

Check it out today – http://office.microsoft.com/ . 


Pageflakes

Pageflakes is your own personal start page on the internet, whatever business you are in, either personal or professional, Pageflakes will make your life easier.

With Pageflakes, you login (email and password is all they ask for), then add a few flakes, basic web-based programs that do things from display you-tube videos with a keyword attached to them, to a to-do list, to a clock, add some RSS feeds with interesting content to maybe help you learn something new, and viola!

You now have a homepage with content customized to you, where everything is relevant, and as an added bonus, you can access your content anywhere with a web browser and internet connection.

Now that’s smart business!

Get started at - http://www.pageflakes.com/ . 


You-Tube

Who doesn’t know You-Tube? … Exactly!

You now have a branding space that basically everyone knows about and has visited at least once. This is the type of marketing space that advertising agencies dream about, and guess what, people go to you-tube to watch things, some of the most popular videos are advertisements, for example, a dove advertisement on the site has been played over 3 million times, and re-posted hundreds of times.

All you need to do is record a video with something humorous, or thought provoking, or alternatively something to help your customers, such as a how-to video or insight in your field of business.

Show it to some people, send it to some users, and so long as your video isn’t boring, bland or otherwise, than you have just given yourself some (relatively) free advertising.

Join the You-Tube revolution – http://www.youtube.com/ .


