Title: 
Spyware: Do You Want Your Computer Activities Recorded?

Word Count:
469

Summary:
In the last few years, spyware has been a frequent problem for Internet users. Spyware can even cause enough damage to your PC that a serious infection can force you into buying a new one, not to mention the fact that spyware often records what you do on your computer.  Obviously, you want to keep your files and other personal records private, so the last thing you need is a spyware infection.

What is Spyware? 

Spyware is software that collects data about the usage of t...


Keywords:
spyware remover, spyware, antispyware, anti-spyware, computer security, adware


Article Body:
In the last few years, spyware has been a frequent problem for Internet users. Spyware can even cause enough damage to your PC that a serious infection can force you into buying a new one, not to mention the fact that spyware often records what you do on your computer.  Obviously, you want to keep your files and other personal records private, so the last thing you need is a spyware infection.

What is Spyware? 

Spyware is software that collects data about the usage of the computer it infects and sends that information to another source (usually a computer run by the people who created the spyware). Spyware is usually created to invade the privacy of ones computer. Furthermore, spyware can slow down the user’s computer, especially through the triggering of continuous pop-up ads that flood the screen. Spyware is a rampant problem and the only way to really curb it is to use special removal tools.

Spyware Search and Destroy 

Spyware removal tools scan the computer discs searching for spyware programs. The tools will then furnish you with a detailed list of problem files and applications. You can then select the files you wish to delete (or choose to delete them all). These tools are very easy to install and use.  Often, you can scan for spyware and have the files you want deleted all within 5 to 10 minutes time.  

McAfee and Norton 

These are more comprehensive tools than those catered to searching out spyware. These tools offer a personal firewall, anti-spam, and anti-virus protection so they protect you against a myriad of threats.  McAfee and Norton are extremely beneficial for home and small businesses use. These tools are extremely easy to install and the features are user friendly.  But even if you have one of these common tools installed, we suggest running a spyware removal tool as well.

What makes a good removal tool? 

We recommend you search for the following features in your next spyware removal tool:

The tool should provide you with free updates.
Find a product that provides you with balanced detection and removal of the software. 
Choose a product that provides you with scheduled scans and is easy to use. 

To protect your PC from spyware problems, the following tips may be helpful: 

Get informed: First try to understand what spyware is. Furthermore, try to understand the signs are indicating that you have a spyware infection. 

Seek and destroy: For removing spyware you need to evaluate various spyware removal tools. Most have trial downloads so you can try before you buy  

Be proactive: This refers to being careful of things that may encourage spyware infections including downloading free software and opening spam emails. Furthermore, to prevent spyware and other computer infections use a firewall and a safe browser (like Firefox or Internet Explorer).


