Title: 
Staying In Touch While Abroad

Word Count:
502

Summary:
From the times of Graham Bell's research around 1870, people have invented new and exciting ways of improving one of the first forms of communication, the telegraph. Its successor, the telephone invention, has gone a long way managing to penetrate people's lives and directing future technological innovations in a way not ever imagined by its founder. In fact, the telecom industry today constitutes one of the most diverse and promising high-tech markets around the globe. Devel...


Keywords:
Communication, telephone, telephone card


Article Body:
From the times of Graham Bell's research around 1870, people have invented new and exciting ways of improving one of the first forms of communication, the telegraph. Its successor, the telephone invention, has gone a long way managing to penetrate people's lives and directing future technological innovations in a way not ever imagined by its founder. In fact, the telecom industry today constitutes one of the most diverse and promising high-tech markets around the globe. Developing new ways to interact with others is a major concern in most cultures and the telecommunication products or service introduced will continue to have a tremendous impact to communication norms and peoples' interaction.

Choosing to connect with someone over a telephone fixed or mobile line, by purchasing a calling card, or logging on to a remote server to chat over an instant messaging service, are two examples of the most popular methods people use to stay in touch. Especially when one travels, successfully communicating with others is an issue that has generated billions of dollars to the telecom industry. One of the most popular products people use to attain their intercommunication goal is telephone cards.

Telephone cards can be found in two main categories in most counties: the pre-paid credit system or credit card style system. But the one you will prefer to use in order to pay for your calls depends both on your liking, but also on your area's overall telecommunication infrastructure. If you wish to spend some of your money in advance and be able to begin calling right away, you will probably appreciate the convenience and the hassle-free experience of using a pre-paid card. Offered in a variety of categories that are usually based on balances of minutes or value, the pre-paid method has gained a lot of supporters, who wish to know beforehand how much time they do have available for the specific amount of money they are willing to spend each time.

In case you decide to purchase a magnetic stored value telephone card, he should be aware that the balance he or she has just purchased is read only by a public pay-phone machine, when the card is inserted into the machine's card reader. Other types of stored value pre-paid telephone cards include the optical and the "smart" cards. The difference is found on the visible markings the optical card has, while the "smart" card has a small chip in which the information is stored and read each time the card is used. Another technology of phone cards is that of remote memory, which uses a toll-fee access number to reach a server and check the product's balance.

The type of card one selects depends on personal preferences and available services. Some people, for example, prefer to renew the balance of their phone cards online and thus, many companies have gone to offer such a service to their customers. As the telecom infrastructure continues to expand Graham Bell's dream, new telecom products will continue to develop to cover consumer needs.


