Title: 
Step Up Your CCTV Killer Instinct And Impress Your Boss

Word Count:
545

Summary:
Step confidently into any brick and mortar store selling electronic gadgets. They’ll know you’re not wet behind the ears when you want to establish a better DHCP for your computer connection. That’s what you get from learning your CCTV science.

No need to sweat over your surveillance system

Something goes wrong with your PC and the office computer whiz announces that you need to download a CODEC for some sites that need certain CODECs not installed in your PC. In survei...


Keywords:
CCTV


Article Body:
Step confidently into any brick and mortar store selling electronic gadgets. They’ll know you’re not wet behind the ears when you want to establish a better DHCP for your computer connection. That’s what you get from learning your CCTV science.

No need to sweat over your surveillance system

Something goes wrong with your PC and the office computer whiz announces that you need to download a CODEC for some sites that need certain CODECs not installed in your PC. In surveillance speak, this is just the same, but is more on video streaming from security cameras, instead of online sites.

CODEC is an acronym for compressor/de-compressor referring to a code that’ll enable you to compress or pack closely together (like sardines in a can) video streams and later store these in your hard disk for later recall or review.

There is not much of a difference between CCTV and PC speak because your PC and surveillance monitors are kindred spirits. So learning about your new CCTV is not that hard a nut to crack.

What’s in it for you?

In the workplace, the common problems have gone high tech. Gone are the days when secretaries have to dirty their hands with the typewriter or computer ribbons. The last of the dinosaurs have gone to be replaced with sleek computers and printers. But new problems have cropped up too – frozen computers and corrupted files.

The workplace has also tightened security measures with the installation of surveillance security. On the very first day, all of you became conscious of how you behaved. Nobody dared to make faces at the boss behind his back lest they get caught on the nosy surveillance cameras and with time, everybody, includng the prima donna co-worker, learned to curb their proclivities.

It’s for sure that nobody will bother learning about the office CCTV system. It’s beyond their business. But if you take the time to learn this on those weekends when you’re broke and can’t join the gang for a few beers, you’ll learn fast in no time.

In case your boss discusses CCTV problems, you can give brilliant responses and point out possible trouble spots. That’ll earn you some bonus points in the brains department. Who knows? The boss might be inclined to think about you in a new respectful light and even invite you to the neighborhood bar along the strip? Never mind if you have submitted late reports on occasion.

Where can you find smart information?

There are several online sites offering free information on all types of surveillance systems. Like your paperback or hardbound dictionaries, you’ll find that the terms or questions are arranged alphabetically – not like the way you arrange your office notes in your drawer – strewn all over like wreckage left in the wake of Katrina’s fury.

The online video surveillance FAQs and glossaries are easy to use. For the terms, just click on the needed alphabet letter and presto! You are sent to a new page by the hyperlink. If at the first read you don’t understand, try and try again. For a few bankrupt weekends, you’ll be on your way to CCTV tech savvy and impressing the boss.


