Title: 
Switching To VoIP?

Word Count:
693

Summary:
VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol) is one of the newest available technologies in the field of communication. What is VoIP, you may ask? It is directing of audio exchange done online or other IP-based network. Simply put, analog signals in a normal telephone line are transformed into digital data and transmitted through the internet. Switching to VoIP is a very wise and economical move.

Quite a number of individuals and organizations are switching to VoIP. The main factor...


Keywords:



Article Body:
VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol) is one of the newest available technologies in the field of communication. What is VoIP, you may ask? It is directing of audio exchange done online or other IP-based network. Simply put, analog signals in a normal telephone line are transformed into digital data and transmitted through the internet. Switching to VoIP is a very wise and economical move.

Quite a number of individuals and organizations are switching to VoIP. The main factor that influences this shift is the cost. The technology of VoIP is less expensive compared to that of the PSTN (Public Switch Telephone Network) which is used in analog phones. Apart from that, VoIP service providers offer extra features such as call display and call forwarding at no extra cost, compared to regular analog phone services that charge fees for functionalities outside of the regular telephone connection.

If you, like the many people who have switched to VoIP, are looking forward into making the leap to the other side, there are certain factors that you have to consider to be able to make a successful switch.

When switching to VoIP, you must keep in mind that you may or may not be able to keep your phone number. If your VoIP provider has the capability to grant local numbers, you may be able to continue using your old number. There is no guarantee, however, so you really have to check with your prospect service provider if they do have this functionality or not.

Emergency hotline numbers are very important. If you are an individual or an organization who wants the ease of contacting an emergency hotline such as 911, you must first think hard about switching to VoIP. This is a minor glitch in the technology. Your VoIP provider may be able to register your address and number to 911 and other emergency numbers. However, this feature can be limited. If, for example, you dial 911, but are unable to speak, the operator will not be able to locate you and therefore help will not be dispatched easily. Of course, since technology is evolving so fast nowadays, a solution for this slight hiccup may well be on its way. Until such time, it is best to also keep your analog phone line, if emergency numbers are very important to you.

Power outages cannot be ignored. Even if blackouts do not occur very often, it is best to be prepared at all times. Sure, UPS (uninterrupted power supply) and battery backups may sustain you, but only for a while. It is strongly advised that you keep a backup in the form of a mobile phone.

A lot of people are now switching to VoIP. And if its features intrigue you and you would like to make the switch, it is highly recommended that you scout for a VoIP provider that can give you the best service and most reasonable price. Some extra features in a VoIP service may include call forwarding, call display and call waiting. Features like long-distance or overseas calls may have some extra charge. But try to look around. Some VoIP providers have promos on these elements that will help you save some cash.

Once you have found the best VoIP provider suited for your needs, you will be supplied with a gadget called Analog Telephone Adapter (ATA) which will enable you to use your old analog phone with VoIP. If you are gadget savvy, you may want to ask your service provider for certain packages that will get you equipped with a router and an IP phone.

You will need some gadgets in order for you to access VoIP. These are broadband modem (can either be DSL or cable), a router and an IP phone. A computer is not a requirement. However, having one will definitely help you access your VoIP account easily.

Switching to VoIP is quite an easy task when you have found the perfect VoIP provider to cater to your needs. Setting it up is even easier. All you need to do is plug the router into the modem and then connect the IP phone to the router. Simple, isn’t it?


