Title: 
Telescope Binoculars Provide Better Clarity

Word Count:
430

Summary:
The difference between a telescope and telescope binoculars is one eye. With a telescope you peer through the lens with one eye and with telescope binoculars you use them both. Additionally, telescope binoculars are similar to traditional binoculars, only with a much longer focal length.

It has been said that a person can see more in the sky with a good pair of binoculars than with a cheap telescope, and telescope binoculars are designed with star gazing in mind with wider...


Keywords:
child telescope,refractor telescope,telescope binoculars,astronomical telescope,digital telescope,


Article Body:
The difference between a telescope and telescope binoculars is one eye. With a telescope you peer through the lens with one eye and with telescope binoculars you use them both. Additionally, telescope binoculars are similar to traditional binoculars, only with a much longer focal length.

It has been said that a person can see more in the sky with a good pair of binoculars than with a cheap telescope, and telescope binoculars are designed with star gazing in mind with wider aperture opening to allow more light into the lenses, offering a brighter view of the viewing subject. There are many binoculars on the market which can serve as telescope binoculars with the right focal length and magnification power, along with a reasonably wide lens opening.

Porro prism binoculars are better suited for night time gazing as they absorb less light through the prism path as do roof prism binoculars and will render a much brighter image when used as telescope binoculars in the typically low light conditions of nighttime viewing. However, upgrading optical quality and lens coatings are rapidly allowing the manufacturing of roof prism binoculars to meet the quality of porro prism units and they are gaining in popularity despite the higher cost.

Mount Telescope Binoculars For Stability

When using traditional binoculars as telescope binoculars it is best to have a unit with the capability to mount to a stable object such as a tripod or wooden deck to allow for better stability as well as in keeping them pointed in the same direction. Much like a telescope, they can be used to spot smaller objects in the sky, but can quickly lose sight of the object if moved and you will have to start the search all over again.

When looking for binoculars to double as telescope binoculars the numbers are important to know and understand. Binoculars are usually listed with two numbers, for example 10 X 50. This would indicate a magnification factor of 10, meaning the object will appear to be 10 times larger than the original and the diameter of the objective lens, in this case 50, determines the light gathering capability of the lens. While an objective measure of 30 is good for daytime use, a 50 would provide typically good views at night.

To be effective as telescope binoculars, a magnification of 100 with an objective opening of 70 or more would be preferred. Remember that the longer the magnification and lens opening the more the unit is subject to shake when being held in the hands. A tripod or mount will reduce this and is virtually necessary with longer lenses.


