Title: 
Telford Web Design

Word Count:
517

Summary:
Telford is a great place for people to visit as well as live and work. The town is very modern and is in sharp contrast to the surrounding countryside Shropshire. Telford was designated a new town in 1963 and was originally developed to alleviate the over population in Birmingham and the Black Country. Telford is now widely known as ‘the cradle of the industrial revolution’; Ironbridge is a World Heritage Site and is visited by thousands of people from all over the world ever...


Keywords:
web design, telford web design


Article Body:
Telford is a great place for people to visit as well as live and work. The town is very modern and is in sharp contrast to the surrounding countryside Shropshire. Telford was designated a new town in 1963 and was originally developed to alleviate the over population in Birmingham and the Black Country. Telford is now widely known as ‘the cradle of the industrial revolution’; Ironbridge is a World Heritage Site and is visited by thousands of people from all over the world every year. With 10 museums including Blist Hill Victorian Town, Enginuity, Coalbrookdale Musuem of Iron, Jackfield Tile Museum and Coalport China Museum. All of these museums will give you a great insight into the history of the industrial revolution.

Telford’s central location makes it a perfect base for exploring the regions many attractions. The M54 motorway runs right through the town linking Telford with the M6 and the rest of the UK’s motorway network. It is a modern town with great shopping and business facilities. There are many wonderful places to visit in and around Telford and the town is and is recognised as an important growth point in the West Midlands region.

If you live in the Telford area and have a business and are thinking having a website designed for your company then you need think about a few important factors. Do you have a domain name? Do you need hosting? What is your budget? Do you need an ecommerce website with a shopping trolley to sell products? Will you need to update your site yourself in the future? Once you have answered these questions you can then go about finding a good company that offer all of these services.

Finding a competent company that has a portfolio of work is very helpful. You can look through their portfolio and see some of the websites they have designed for previous customers.

The eCommerce design is very important to the success of any web site.  You want to be sure that your website is designed right. One of the first things you notice about a website is whether it is pleasant to the eye. Bright flashing coloured text is very off putting as is a flash intro. A very important key is to make sure your site loads quickly. You will loose a great deal of customers if your pages take over 5 seconds to load.

It is a lot easier if you can find a company that can do everything for you. A company that can sell you the domain name as well as the hosting. Some hosting companies also offer web design which would make the whole experience a lot easier. Dealing with the same people for your domain name, hosting, email, web design makes the who process a lot easier. For one you only need one contact telephone number. A company with good customer support is a must. Not all companies offer this and this and it can be very frustrating. You want to know that if you have any trouble you can just call for customer support or technical support.


