Title: 
Text To Speech Software For Natural Voice

Word Count:
533

Summary:
Text-to-Speech software is used to convert words from a computer document, e-mails or web pages into audible speech spoken through the computer speaker. This would be helpful to people who need or want aural verification of what they are seeing in print. 

Text-to-Speech Reader application will read your documents out loud in one of its many high quality voices. Let your computer read most documents with Natural Voices and convert text to MP3, or text to WAV files, text to ...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Text-to-Speech software is used to convert words from a computer document, e-mails or web pages into audible speech spoken through the computer speaker. This would be helpful to people who need or want aural verification of what they are seeing in print. 

Text-to-Speech Reader application will read your documents out loud in one of its many high quality voices. Let your computer read most documents with Natural Voices and convert text to MP3, or text to WAV files, text to audio files.

Some Text-to-Speech reader is compatible with the AOL, AIM, ICQ, and MSN Messenger clients. Now when you chat with your buddies online you will hear what they say instead of just reading it.

TextAloud 2.218 is a Text To Speech product from nextup.com, get 5 Stars SoftSea Rating, TextAloud converts any text into spoken words. It can read Text, Email, Web Pages, and documents using your choice of computer voices. The Text to MP3/WMA conversion can save text documents in audio format that can be downloaded to your portable MP3 player. Listen to email, online news, or important documents while you exercise, work or commute. TextAloud also supports ATT natural voices, however they must be purchased separately. 

Text-to-Speech Master 2.3.0 is a Text To Speech product from ttsmaster.com, This program is a text-to-speech player for Windows that lets you listen to documents, e-mails or Web pages instead of reading them on-screen. It can read texts with different voices, speeds and pitches, read clipboard content, and convert text into WAV or MP3 audio files. 

Text To Speech Live Player 1.31 is another Text To Speech product from speaktext.com, get 5 Stars SoftSea Rating, This text-to-speech translator lets you listen to text in documents, Web pages and Email messages. Simply select the text and choose the "Speak" option from the right-click menu. The software also integrates with the MS-Word toolbar. 

CoolSpeech 5.0 is a Text To Speech product from bytecool.com, With CoolSpeech, you can listen to online news from any URL, Email messages or any other text. CoolSpeech supports almost all computer voices, and you can download more voices from the developer's Web site.

SmartRead 0.65 is one product from smartysoft.com, With this Text to Speech(TTS) software, you can hear text read out loud by your computer. Various voices are available. 

Natural Voice Text to Speech Reader 3.6 is a Text To Speech product from naturalreaders.com, get 5 Stars SoftSea Rating, This program is a text-to-speech software with Microsoft Voices. You can have your computer read any part of the news, weather forecast, charting messages and e-mails. The software can also read Word documents, rich text files and PDF files. The speaking speed and voice quality can be changed according to your needs. You can also save the voice as a WAV file, so that you can listen later or burn it onto a CD. You can also record your sound to compare Natural Voice and your voice. It includes Microsoft voices.

These Text-to-Speech Reader includes many high quality computerized voices. Lets you listen to the Text in Emails, web pages, news, Word, PDF and more. This would be helpful to people who need. Today, let your computer read most documents with Natural Voices.


