Title: 
The Internet Explorer Revolution

Word Count:
527

Summary:
The Good And The Bad OF Internet Explorer

As the internet has evolved and become part of everyday life, Internet Explorer has also become a household name, used numerous times each day by the majority of internet users. As with any market, Internet Explorer needs to keep it's competitive edge, offering regular updates and improvements on previous versions. The latest Internet Explorer package to be released is IE 7.0, and is expected to make a solid impression with increas...


Keywords:
software reviews, software review, internet explorer 7, ie 7, software, computer


Article Body:
The Good And The Bad OF Internet Explorer

As the internet has evolved and become part of everyday life, Internet Explorer has also become a household name, used numerous times each day by the majority of internet users. As with any market, Internet Explorer needs to keep it's competitive edge, offering regular updates and improvements on previous versions. The latest Internet Explorer package to be released is IE 7.0, and is expected to make a solid impression with increased security features and an improved user-experience.

Internet Explorer has listened to what it's customers need and want, and stepped up to the plate and delivered. For example: Internet security is by far one of the biggest concerns for all internet users, whether it be in a corporate environment, a small business, personal computer or a computer used by young children. Each internet user needs specific protection, so IE 7.o offers a wide range of security features, and the ability to turn features and restrictions on or off.

More Internet Explorer 7.0 improvements:

Increased Online Security - Protecting your computer from spyware that monitors your internet usage habits, records sensitive information (banking details, passwords etc...), as well as rejecting applications that will install annoying or malicious software on your computer without consent, this includes everything from basic adware to full scale virus software.

Adult Filters – One of the biggest threats online today is the ease in which children can access inappropriate material. With this security add-on, you can block adult content and trust your children will be safe online.

Pop-up Blocker – Stop annoying pop-ups ruining your online surfing experience.

Privacy – For this feature, you have better control access to sensitive information, as well as your personal internet surfing habits.

You will also find some extra add-ons for Internet Explorer 7.0 that will save you time by personalizing your browser settings. As you will see from the list below, the features can be very helpful if implemented correctly.

Auto-Fill Forms - If you expect to regularly be completing online forms (order forms etc...), now you can simple store address, account, and shipping information to easily and quickly populate online forms.

Business Tools – Rather than have your company do things differently in various locations or even departments, you can now streamline processes easily and efficiently.

Developer Tools – With this add-on for Internet Explorer 7.0, you will save tremendous time pertaining to programs, utilities, and tools.

Download Manager – Set your download options, applications and software updates to autopilot, for a time that suits you!

Live Feeds – Have your favorite news broadcasts, blogs, stock quotes, sports schedules and results sent directly to your desktop each morning or night.

Offline Browsers – Save websites and visit them at a later date... no internet connection necessary.

One of the most exciting developments of IE 7.0 is the graphic imagery add on options. These developments will increase your options online and generally enhance online user experience.

Animation Players – Allows you to produce, and visit interactive websites, mobile content, and digital applications.

Design Tools – This add-on allows you to add power and enhancement to your desktop publishing, digital design, or illustration.

Digital Photography – Gives you enormous flexibility when organizing, editing, uploading and sharing digital photos.


