Title: 
The Easy Way To Search PDF Files

Word Count:
557

Summary:
PDF files, otherwise known as Portable Document Format files, are popularly used nowadays. With industries piquing everywhere, you would find all sorts of PDF files for brochures, forms, magazines, reports, and other materials that contain designs that would be too complicated when other kinds of files are used. Because of these PDF files, online reading has also become interactive on its own. This is a huge benefit we all can enjoy with PDF files.

Aside from materials usu...


Keywords:
search pdf,searching PDF files,pdf search


Article Body:
PDF files, otherwise known as Portable Document Format files, are popularly used nowadays. With industries piquing everywhere, you would find all sorts of PDF files for brochures, forms, magazines, reports, and other materials that contain designs that would be too complicated when other kinds of files are used. Because of these PDF files, online reading has also become interactive on its own. This is a huge benefit we all can enjoy with PDF files.

Aside from materials usually used for media, even academic materials today are being converted into PDF format! The typical thesis, dissertation, and even the usual article are not in PDF format. Even books are in PDF format already, in the form of e-books! Now, this is actually kind of sad for the regular paper book because it has inevitably lost a large portion of its market. But since e-books indeed present more convenience for any reader, then more and more people are getting into the trend as well.

However, there are actually times when we would want to find an exact word or phrase in the material we read. This is something that you can easily do on a paperback book or physical article. All you have to do is highlight the significant text and you are good to go. But with PDF files, this is indeed something very hard to do. The usual copy-pasting functions are not easy to do either.

This is precisely why a third-party search engine is needed when you want to search PDF files for certain words or phrases. With these search engines, you can now search PDF files for such words, and the problem of highlighting relevant words would be solved easily. All you would have to do is type in the word or phrase as you remember it and the program will then search your whole system for PDF files that contain these words or phrases. What will then be returned are the file names and locations of these PDF files. Now, this is indeed a very convenient program to have in your system. Imagine how you would have to go through one PDF file after another, just to find the sources you need for the words and phrases!

When you search PDF files on the web, it can also be daunting without the help of a search engine. This is true in spite of the fact that it is easy to come across with PDF files when you search for any particular word or phrase in any search engine. But when you are searching for particular PDF files, then this would be the ideal time to have a search engine dedicated to that sole purpose.

When you use the ordinary search engine to search PDF files, a common problem here is the fact that the files themselves are downloaded as a whole. When you type in words and phrases for the ordinary search engine to find, it would not give you just a chapter or two for each file it would bring back. The whole file would be returned, as long as it contains the word or phrase in question. Imagine how many PDF files would be returned this way! Thus, whether you want to search PDF files in your computer or from the web, then a third-party search engine is indeed ideal to have.


