Title: 
The Wave Of The Future?  Looking At Voip Phones

Word Count:
518

Summary:
VOIP phones may not look all that strange or different from a regular telephone at first glance, and there's a reason for that.  VOIP phones aren't meant to look sleek, cool, or futuristic, they way many of the new cell phones have come out with "trendy" designs based on appearance.  VOIP technology was designed to do the exact same thing as a regular old telephone: only with the hopes of finding a way to do it cheaper, more efficiently, and better.

A phone that specifical...


Keywords:
VOIP, VOIP Phones


Article Body:
VOIP phones may not look all that strange or different from a regular telephone at first glance, and there's a reason for that.  VOIP phones aren't meant to look sleek, cool, or futuristic, they way many of the new cell phones have come out with "trendy" designs based on appearance.  VOIP technology was designed to do the exact same thing as a regular old telephone: only with the hopes of finding a way to do it cheaper, more efficiently, and better.

A phone that specifically uses VOIP technology for calls as opposed to a conventional phone line is known as an Ethernet hard phone as well.  An Ethernet hard phone is a telephone that looks like a conventional phone, but instead of having the normal phone jack, it has an Ethernet port instead.  This port is used to communicate with a VOIP server, gateway, or another VOIP phone.  Since this type of phone as its own VOIP server, it does not have to be hooked up directly to a personal computer in order to make or receive phone calls.  

It can be used independently as long as there is an Internet connection, which is part of the reason why some businesses who have reliable wireless Internet have switched their office phones over.  This saves a lot of money, and makes work more efficient since the phones are not constrained by a limited number of available lines.

Residential VOIP phones usually don't refer to a physical phone, but to the software program.  At a residence, VOIP software can be downloaded and used with a VOIP phone to make calls.  A regular telephone works just as well, as long as you purchase an adapter to make it function with the computer system.  Most VOIP phones are also referred to as IP phones, and they can replace your normal phone if you don’t want to buy an adaptor.  Another option is that a microphone attached to your computer allows you to talk to someone back and forth who also has VOIP system (though note: you always need a minimum of broadband Internet for VOIP to be a good idea).

Another option is a "Wi-Fi phone."  These phones (made particularly well known by Vonage) work in the same way you can get wireless Internet with a lap top computer.  In the same way a lap top with wireless Internet needs to have an area with a wireless set up in order to function, Wi-Fi phones work in particular "hot spots" where a network is set up in Internet hot spots that allow you to make VOIP calls while traveling, instead of using the more common cell phone.

All these are good options for VOIP phones.  There are other options, as well, and what you might want can depend a lot on whether you are an individual or a business, whether you want a phone for business use or for simple long distance calls.  All of these factors can help determine which VOIP phone is best for your needs and convenience.  Always do your research before hand, and you won't be disappointed.


