Title: 
The Preference For Online News Over Tradtional Newspapers

Word Count:
554

Summary:
The advent and fruits of technology has everyone getting into the Internet as a means of expanding their businesses with the help of the technology age. Among the leading businesses that have adopted this methodology is that of newspapers and publication, offering an online counterpart of the actual publications that most people are used to buying at their nearby newsstands or delivered directly at the doorsteps.

With the advent of technology, people simply need to type th...


Keywords:
news,associate,television,radio,media


Article Body:
The advent and fruits of technology has everyone getting into the Internet as a means of expanding their businesses with the help of the technology age. Among the leading businesses that have adopted this methodology is that of newspapers and publication, offering an online counterpart of the actual publications that most people are used to buying at their nearby newsstands or delivered directly at the doorsteps.

With the advent of technology, people simply need to type the URL address of their preferred newspaper, and they will actually see similar news and information that they get from reading actual newspapers. Such has been the case for local newspapers, such as Manila Bulletin and The Daily Inquirer in the Philippines. The only advantage of the online access is that they can be easily updated and are more advanced before the actual publication is gotten hold off.

At first glance, there are minimal differences and advantages to be seen. For one, the navigation of the pages is much easier using the web based version, since it can be read immediately with a single click. Unlike in the newsprint version, where a person would have to find the relevant section and locate the article they would want to read on. Access and navigation beats the troubles of having to go over a number of sections to pinpoint the actual news or information contained in newsprints. For example, by merely clicking on the sports section will show summaries of the top stories for this category and the user can immediately read on the latest news of their choice.

Another aspect is that of a detailed summary of sections. Some online news groups would choose to publish only selected and important news items, relegating short news briefs towards the newsprint version. For newsprints, they cover all the information needed and do not leave out the minor ones. Most of the time, people would leave out announcements and news tidbits to save on space, something that can be properly sectioned in newsprint publications.

One other aspect is the fact that online publications can go as far as providing exclusive video coverage through the technology of real media files, actually showing footage of important news alerts through streaming media. This can be done via the Internet, something that newsprints cannot provide considering they are only the text version of the said news story.

The Trend towards Technology of Online News Publications

In conclusion, the shifts towards maximizing cyberspace and allowing it to reach various places and target markets of ethnic origins have offered an abundance of possibilities. People wanting to find out about pertinent information from a certain area, or for some people who reside in other countries can find out what the latest happenings are in their hometown, negating the need to have specialized copies of their preferred newsprint publications which originate from home.

The availability of current information, national and other news items can be accessed by the web, making it a whole lot more convenient for the people wherever they may be. Technology has provided a new dimension towards passing of information, and with the aggressive and tactical strategies that most companies such as public affairs and mass communication strategies, such has become both beneficial towards the consumer and the people passing on the information especially for current events.


