Title: 
The Fiercest Microprocessors

Word Count:
757

Summary:
Competition is everywhere, but more so in the computer processor industry. There are established brand names in this industry such as Intel and AMD who are constantly competing for your business and many other up and coming companies who are hoping to make a splash. How do you know which one is the best and how do you know what to choose if you need a new processor? One of best ways to go about making an informed decision is to compare and contrast some of the deals that are ...


Keywords:
Barcelona, PC Technology Guide, Technical Forums


Article Body:
Competition is everywhere, but more so in the computer processor industry. There are established brand names in this industry such as Intel and AMD who are constantly competing for your business and many other up and coming companies who are hoping to make a splash. How do you know which one is the best and how do you know what to choose if you need a new processor? One of best ways to go about making an informed decision is to compare and contrast some of the deals that are currently being offered. The AMD Quad Core Opteron Processor is one of the top names out there, but there are some other products which you should also be looking at.

AMD Quad Core Opteron Processor

The Quad Core Opteron is one of the power products making waves currently. AMD tried to take control of the processor market with this product and seems to have successfully placed their company name at the top of the list after comparison with other processors. This powerful computer piece is one of the most fundamentally sound products to hit the market in the last five years. The price is a case in point.

According to when you are purchasing this product, you can count on paying somewhere between $1,200 and $2,000. This may seem like a lot for a computer processor. But judging from reviews of the product, you will not regret it. The quad core Opteron incorporates all of the function of up to eight different processors in one, making it a fully functional, fully capable machine that is powering a large number of different computers.

Intel Core 2 Quad Processor

Though the AMD Quad Core Opteron has been the most popular processor, there are still other products out there that do an admirable job of powering a computer. Intel has long been one of the top providers of these products and continue to produce great processors. The Intel Core 2 Quad Processor is the next in that long line of computer processors that are great bargains. It comes equipped with not only enough power to run major functions on any computer, but also a price that you can easily afford.

As is suggested by the product name, the Intel Core 2 Quad Processor features four working threads which come together to power any desktop computer. They work well with any operating system and can serve to power all of the functions of that system. One of the main differences in this product, however, is that you will get quite a low price as compared to other processors. Standard retail price sits somewhere between $200 and $300, so getting a hold of one is something that may not be too difficult. You won't sacrifice much quality, either. Though it isn't the top notch device that the AMD Quad Core Opteron is, this Intel still packs enough punch to remind people why Intel used to rule the roost not too long ago.

Intel Pentium D Processor

With all of the new products entering the market scene, people might have a tendency to forget the processors that were pioneers. The Pentium D Processor by Intel is a solid desktop computer processor that has the ability to run any number of advanced applications in a computer. Though it may not be the trendy choice for some of the new wave computer owners, many of the most technologically savvy owners would agree that sometimes it is prudent to buy a brand of repute.

Intel has been providing computer processors for a few decades now and they have always been able to come out with cutting edge products that keep them ahead in the race. The Pentium D Processor may only have two dedicated cores, but it is designed well enough to perform nearly as well the larger, more expensive processors. For a person who is looking for a great deal of quality while maintaining a relatively reasonable price range, this is as good as it gets.

These three products all bring something different and exciting to the computer world. Depending upon what you need in a processor and how much you can pay, there are a bunch of great options that are worth looking at. AMD's new product has climbed to the top of the heap and has quite a fan following, but not enough is made of the quality associated with the other products that are mentioned. Intel knows what they are doing, too, and their processors are an example of how hard they work to keep pace with the competition.


