Title: 
The PSP Console - A Great Gaming System!

Word Count:
525

Summary:
The latest and greatest new gaming system has hit the market place and everybody, and I mean everybody wants it. The competition is great, as usual, to get your hands on one. The release date is scheduled for Friday at midnight and people are lining up and camping out in order to be in the front of the line and to, hopefully, be able to buy one.

Sound familiar? This happens every year when new gaming systems hit the market. The hype and advertising that goes on for months ...


Keywords:
psp, psp console, psp game system


Article Body:
The latest and greatest new gaming system has hit the market place and everybody, and I mean everybody wants it. The competition is great, as usual, to get your hands on one. The release date is scheduled for Friday at midnight and people are lining up and camping out in order to be in the front of the line and to, hopefully, be able to buy one.

Sound familiar? This happens every year when new gaming systems hit the market. The hype and advertising that goes on for months is met with a limited supply of the item.  Remember your economics class in college and the law of supply and demand? Keep the supply low and the price will stay up because people will be willing to pay almost anything for the item they want.

So, what is the rage over the PSP console? Actually, what is it? To make this easy, a PSP Console is the actual PSP system. It is a handheld game system released by Sony, hence the name PlayStation Portable-because you can carry it anywhere.

The system runs on a rechargeable battery that also plugs into any electrical outlet. The average battery life is about 3 hours when the game is turned on and being used. Of course, if you use electricity to play, there is no limit to how long you can play the system-you are only limited by the length of your electrical cord.

The PSP console can also be wirelessly connect with other PSP systems and this allows two people each with their own PSP console to play the same game at the same time. They can be on the same team or play against each other. Using the wireless connection also depends on whether or not the game allows it. The game Madden 2006 allows wireless connections while many other games do not-you would have to check the package to see whether or not it allows for multiple players.

The PSP console will play games, UMD movies and perform a variety of other tasks. The PSP itself comes in three different packages that start at approx. $200. The PSP can even connect to the internet.

Using the PSP console will be easier if you add a few accessories. You may want to purchase some that will make the system work better such as a memory stick where you can download and save movies, music and games.

Make the most out of your PSP console by knowing what it can and can not do. The majority of electronic equipment today offers many more features that most of us know how to use. If you are going to invest in PSP console, make sure that you can use it to its fullest potential.

Having a PSP console available for your use is great. You can play a game, listen to music or watch a movie on your way to and from work. If you are not sure how to make it work and how to use all of the buttons, ask a teenager in the neighborhood—they will definitely know how to use it and would probably enjoy teach you the ropes.


