Title: 
The Network Of The Voip System

Word Count:
602

Summary:
VOIP is an advanced technology that is used as one the modes of telecommunication. It has created its own space in the world of telecommunication. The main factor responsible for the functioning of the VOIP system is the broadband internet connection which has become a matter of concern for the customers as there is no proper coverage of network. 

Therefore, many VOIP service providers are working hard to increase the network coverage so the maximum percentage of the VOIP ...


Keywords:
voip, voip system


Article Body:
VOIP is an advanced technology that is used as one the modes of telecommunication. It has created its own space in the world of telecommunication. The main factor responsible for the functioning of the VOIP system is the broadband internet connection which has become a matter of concern for the customers as there is no proper coverage of network. 

Therefore, many VOIP service providers are working hard to increase the network coverage so the maximum percentage of the VOIP phone services should gain their advantage. 

VOIP Service Providers

The VOIP network can be hooked up in many ways and is dependent upon the VOIP service provider. There are many companies that provide VOIP services such as, Skype, VoiceGlo, Vonage, etc. Among all the companies, Vonage is the best known company in providing VOIP services because it proffers a wide range of services. In terms of pricing, it is mid range that is it is not too cheap and not too expensive. 

It also replaces the normal phone line with a VOIP phone and also provides a portable phone to carry along whenever you are out of town. These portable phones work according to "wi-fi," which is a technology that works similarly to that of mobile phone towers. 

Clear Picture Of VOIP Networks

As discussed earlier, VOIP phone service is one of the methods of telecommunication via internet. Due to lack of proper network coverage, it has become impossible for the VOIP service to reach each and every person. But the technical persons are working hard to increase the network coverage, which will lead to an increase in the demand of the services. 

As compared to the pastoral areas, the network coverage is better in the cities. After going through the reviews and testimonials of the customers those who have already used the network of VOIP, it has been concluded that there are the chances of eruption of big problems within a short span of time after it gets installed. 

It has been found through researches that people are more satisfied with their old networks as they don’t have to be more concerned about their working in terms of troubleshoots. The different types of problems that are confronted by the users in case of VOIP networks are hearing echoes, garbled conversations, and call drops. All these issues and problems have even resulted in the loss of businesses by many companies because of the dissatisfaction of the customers of the companies. 

How To Overcome The VOIP Network Related Problems

Though the VOIP network related problems are the major disruptions as they lead to the economic loss of the company. These disruptions can be rectified by considering the following points:

1 - You should work with your internet service provider in order to get the disruptions rectified. 

2 - If you are able to trace out that troubleshoot has occurred in your network then isolate and amend it. The problem can be traced by taking the help of other network administrators. 

3 - You can even opt for another option that is to buy a software tool to search for the problem quickly. This software can be searched online as there are many companies that are into the selling of such software. 

4 - It is always recommended before using a newly discovered technology to get in a link of the company which is already working on this project so that if any such problem arises, you should get assistance immediately. 

Therefore, according to this article, it is conveyed that before getting into a use of newly introduced technology, you should always be prepared for its positive as well as negative side.


