Title: 
The Benefits Of A Magellan GPS System

Word Count:
512

Summary:
This holiday season; protect loved ones by giving them an automotive GPS navigational system from Magellan. The long winter months can make driving very hazardous especially when trying to watch the road and read a paper map at the same time. You can help by giving a Magellan GPS unit that has a color monitor with detailed and accurate directions that will alert drivers if they miss a turn or have to take another way. With rerouting capabilities, drivers will arrive safely at...


Keywords:
fishing, fish, fish finders, bluetooth, gps, gps units, gps systems, waypoints


Article Body:
This holiday season; protect loved ones by giving them an automotive GPS navigational system from Magellan. The long winter months can make driving very hazardous especially when trying to watch the road and read a paper map at the same time. You can help by giving a Magellan GPS unit that has a color monitor with detailed and accurate directions that will alert drivers if they miss a turn or have to take another way. With rerouting capabilities, drivers will arrive safely at their destination and will be able to spend the holidays with family and friends. They will be able to exclude roads that they want to avoid and use spell check to will find streets that have been misspelled.

Magellan GPS systems now have text-to-speech technology that will allow drivers to listen to directions and leave their eyes where they should be – on the road. Drivers will be able to plug in coordinates or street names when they need to find a location. Find easy ways to get to hotels, airports, and restaurants by touching the icons that appear on the screen. With simple touch-screen capabilities, anyone will be able to use this GPS unit.

During the holiday season, there will be increased traffic on the highways and near shopping malls and other attractions. Avoiding these traffic jams is possible by finding an alternate route. A Magellan GPS system will be able to find side streets and shortcuts to highways and service roads that will cut down on the amount of time spent driving. This system will also come in handy by pointing out the nearest gas station so that drivers will never run out of gas again, ATM machines, and much more. When traveling in a strange town, a GPS unit can help make grocery stores and restaurants easier to find.

In addition to finding shortcuts to highways and other destinations, drivers will have the advantage of being informed of traffic accidents and other obstructions with their Magellan GPS system. This will also cut down on the amount of time spent driving during the holiday season. Some units also have Bluetooth technology that will allow drivers to use their cell phone hands-free.

If you know someone that travels often or who will be traveling this holiday season, a Magellan GPS unit that will map put up to twenty points and give them the shortest routes to each is a great gift idea. Your friends and family will be able to create a route that is easy to follow and will get them where they need to go quickly.

Magellan GPS systems also have address books so that drivers can store locations and routes, a battery that will last up to eight hours, colorized screen with 3-D images, and hundreds of maps that can be downloaded very easily with the touch of a button. Memory cards are available to download and store maps. Magellan has introduced many new GPS units this year that will have options everyone will enjoy. This holiday season; give the gift of safety, comfort, and reliability.


