Title: 
The Spread Of High Speed, A.k.a. Broadband Internet, Part 1

Word Count:
330

Summary:
Everyone that surfs the internet these days is wanting more and more from their experience.  The internet is becoming just like a desktop experience there are many times a user can be confused about whether they are online, or performing a task locally on their desktop.  

The demand for these types of media rich, extremely responsive applications on the internet has caused more and more people to look towards broadband internet access for their internet service.  The sprea...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Everyone that surfs the internet these days is wanting more and more from their experience.  The internet is becoming just like a desktop experience there are many times a user can be confused about whether they are online, or performing a task locally on their desktop.  

The demand for these types of media rich, extremely responsive applications on the internet has caused more and more people to look towards broadband internet access for their internet service.  The spread of broadband internet has been fueled by lower prices, more availability, and the need to use the internet for more important tasks on a day to day basis.  Many people are using the internet to download different types of media for personal use, paying their bills online, and even using more traditional applications online instead of locally.  All of these types of applications really need broadband internet access to perform at their best.

More and more people are downloading movies and songs onto their computers instead of going to the store and buying them off of the shelves.  If you are not using broadband internet access to download these types of media, you will get very frustrated, because depending on the size of the file it could take hours to get what you want.  Another group of people are trying to pay their bills online, because it is very convenient and reminders can be sent to your email address, so that you never miss a payment.  

However if you do not have broadband internet, then the convenience is not worth the wait for the authentication process needed to pay your bills online.  Broadband internet has also spread because many people are using different online programs to complete many different tasks.  Web email, online word processing, and online spreadsheets are becoming more and more popular today.  Many of these programs require broadband internet access to allow the user to get the same experience that they are used to with their old desktop applications.


