Title: 
The Basics Of Video Conferencing

Word Count:
434

Summary:
Modern technology convergence equips ordinary people with the basics to engage in video conferencing. Users can utilize the two most popular email and live chat providers Yahoo and MSN to set up simple video conferencing their softwares. People can call, talk and watch each other – regardless of location – and communicate in real time.

This can simply be point to point (between two people) or multipoint (more than two at different location) communication. Hardware requirem...


Keywords:
video conferencing


Article Body:
Modern technology convergence equips ordinary people with the basics to engage in video conferencing. Users can utilize the two most popular email and live chat providers Yahoo and MSN to set up simple video conferencing their softwares. People can call, talk and watch each other – regardless of location – and communicate in real time.

This can simply be point to point (between two people) or multipoint (more than two at different location) communication. Hardware requirements are simple such as a computer, web cam, microphone, and a broadband connection to participate in videoconference. People can participate in natural and normal conversations – they see and hear each other.

What started out as a simple enhancement to the popular Instant Messenger and yahoo Messenger chat software is now becoming an indispensable communication tool for the corporate world as well due the enormous cost savings. People can now attend to business activities and meetings with clients and business associates in the comfort of their office or home, eliminating the requirement to go to another place simply to discuss an important matter. It also removes the anonymity of the basic telephone conversation since it enables face-to-face meetings regardless of distance. The cost of setting up a video conferencing is definitely a lot less than the costs of travel and hotel accommodations.

Videoconferencing is undeniably an easier way to conduct meetings and interviews and give lectures and address employees located in other parts of the country or the globe.

Some big corporations, including educational and medical institutions have set up their own conference rooms with dedicated video conference terminals to enhance their communication capabilities using dedicated hardware and equipment fully equipped with control systems, document viewers, overhead cameras, vision switchers and slide viewers complete with compressor and decompressor interface.

Dedicated hardware makes it easier to transmit large files of information and data, regardless of type, over the net.

Video conferencing is proven to be a reliable and an excellent method of communication. It allows you to connect not only with other people but also with other companies. For the true e-commerce entrepreneur, it allows you to run your business in your locality and connect with suppliers located on another state or another part of the world with simplicity. It completely eliminates miscommunication since you talk face-to-face, and nuances of speech and facial expressions are visible.

Video conferencing guarantees a bright future for your business because it keeps you up to date on any critical information that may affect your business on a real-time basis. It is affordable and simple that not having the capability may be compared to committing suicide, business-wise.


