Title: 
The Importance Of Anti-virus Software

Word Count:
547

Summary:
Any computer and internet user, regardless of the reasons that they are online, need to have the latest antivirus software programs installed on their computer. Even thought most of these programs come already installed with your computer and are free, antivirus software is absolutely essential to safe and uninterrupted internet usage. It also plays and important role in computer safety, as it can protect your vital documents and files from becoming damaged or lost forever.
...


Keywords:
Computer, antivirus, security, software, programs, laptop, PC, important, files, documents, protect


Article Body:
Any computer and internet user, regardless of the reasons that they are online, need to have the latest antivirus software programs installed on their computer. Even thought most of these programs come already installed with your computer and are free, antivirus software is absolutely essential to safe and uninterrupted internet usage. It also plays and important role in computer safety, as it can protect your vital documents and files from becoming damaged or lost forever.

How does an antivirus software program detect and eliminate potential virus threats? This can be accomplished in one of two ways. First, the computer security program on your PC or laptop scans any files looking for virus definitions that match a virus dictionary. If a matching virus is found, the software alerts the user about the virus. The second method of locating viruses is to identify and suspicious virus behavior, such as port monitoring, spyware or data capturing. When these behaviors are detected, the antivirus software springs into action and gets rid of the infected files.

Every so often, you’ll hear on the radio or see on the news about a potential virus or worm that is spread via email. It may come with a subject line like “open this to see a funny video”. Once the video is opened and downloaded, the virus infects your computer and starts eliminating or damaging files. Antivirus software can help minimize the overall threat that viruses cause. As certain as you would lock your doors at night, or hide away valuable items in a safe location, computer safety depends on having antivirus software installed in your machine.

There are certain free antivirus software programs that you can trust to safely install and operate on your CPU or laptop. Programs such as McAfee and Norton are proven and respected names in the computer security industry. These companies continuously monitor and update their respective antivirus software applications as new and more dangerous viruses are released. While the potential for completely eliminating computer viruses and their ramifications from online users is remote, having these – and other antivirus programs on your computer can greatly reduce the risk that viruses can cause.

As with any threatening issue, there’s always an element of conspiracy that’s involved, and it’s no different with antivirus software companies. Think about it, if viruses were completely eliminated, then there would be no longer any need for purchased or free antivirus software programs? Some people theorize that computer security companies actually benefit from viruses and they actually keep virus writers on their payroll! Of course, this has never been proven, but it would make for an interesting movie.

Regardless of whether or not you believe in conspiracy theories, one thing is for certain: that computer security is dependent on antivirus software and vice-versa. New worms and programs are being developed all the time. Some viruses target specific files, like word documents or excel spreadsheets. Other more malicious programs can actually shut your computer right down. However, by installing the latest and most effective antivirus software programs on your computer or laptop, security will increase and you’ll have peace of mind as a luxury. Travel and visit some computer retailers in your area to learn more information on the newest antivirus software programs.


