Title: 
The Way To Imagine Digital Photo Frames

Word Count:
431

Summary:
Photo frames are becoming part of our life day by day, as the digital photography has taken over the classical one there was the demand for device that could show the digital photos similar to an old album. It would have been hard to imagine digital photo frames in the past, but not any more. With the digital frame you can save the pictures you want to display in the frames memory and after that, the pictures will be shown one by one, you practically create a slide. Another g...


Keywords:
imagine digital photo frames, digital photos


Article Body:
Photo frames are becoming part of our life day by day, as the digital photography has taken over the classical one there was the demand for device that could show the digital photos similar to an old album. It would have been hard to imagine digital photo frames in the past, but not any more. With the digital frame you can save the pictures you want to display in the frames memory and after that, the pictures will be shown one by one, you practically create a slide. Another great advantage is that you can connect your frame to the Internet and thus download the latest photos. 

I'm not going to ask you to imagine a digital photo frame, just think of the mechanism and the way it works. You are in Europe on a visiting tour and you want to send  home the pictures you make, the only problem is that your parents can't handle a computer so you can upload your pictures on a specialized site. The frame will get the pictures from the site and show them immediately, so practically your parents will just see the pictures on the  frame changing, without doing anything. You can also display videos on your frame not only pictures.

Another argument for having a digital frame is that statistically speaking almost 65% of the digital pictures are never printed, so practically having an external support to show your last taken pictures is a very good idea. Digital frames vary greatly in price, in quality and characteristics, if you consider in acquiring a digital frame take in consideration the following models, they are reasonably cheap, and offer a reliable quality. Those who imagined these digital photo frames knew what they were doing.

IMAGIN IM7MA 7" digital Photo Frame is a decent solution for a family that wants to display their photos but don't want to throw a bag of money on a digital album. The LCD has a 7 inch diagonal and a resolution of  480 x 234 pixel, it supports various card readers (SD,CF,MS), it can be connected to a PC using an USB 2.0 port and can play MP3 and MPEG4 files.

ASK Imagin DPF7J  digital photo frame costs around $110 with all taxes, it has a 7 inch LCD and a resolution of  480 x 234 pixel, 262.144 colors 330cd/m2 brightness and 300:1 contrast ratio,  supports many types of cards like  SD,CF,MS ; it has a classical USB 2.0 connector and supports  MP3 and MPEG4 file formats. It accepts almost any kind of  memory sticks, all in all it representing  a good solution at a reasonable price.


