Title: 
The Benefits Of Using Cheap Conference Calling Services

Word Count:
718

Summary:
Making a conference call has proved to be a cost-effective solution in conducting business meetings and seminars. With this technology, you can connect to your staff or other business people with fewer hassles. That means that you can talk to your associates without leaving the country or your office. You need not go through the pain and expenses of traveling any longer. 

How does call conferencing work? 
Conference calling usually involves three or more persons. It creat...


Keywords:
conference calling, conference calls


Article Body:
Making a conference call has proved to be a cost-effective solution in conducting business meetings and seminars. With this technology, you can connect to your staff or other business people with fewer hassles. That means that you can talk to your associates without leaving the country or your office. You need not go through the pain and expenses of traveling any longer. 

How does call conferencing work? 
Conference calling usually involves three or more persons. It creates a seamless and simultaneous interaction between the people involved in the conference. This means that your staffs need not to be physically present in a specific place to gather up for a conference. 

Three modes of call conferencing 

A call conference basically has three modes of communication. It can either be an audio conference, a videoconference or a web based conference. 

An audio conference would simple entail the presence of a working phone for each of the participants. A specific number is given out by the provider to be distributed to the rest of the people involved. Once dialed, the users would get in touch with the rest of the people involved in the conference. 

Videoconferencing is another type of call conferencing where a camera and a television are involved. It works as similar as a call conference, but this time you would also see the person or persons you are talking to through the means of real time videos. 

Web teleconferencing is another type of call conferencing. This method uses the power of Internet technology to connect to people. All you need for a web conference is your computer with web cam and headsets. Web conference gives you the speed and efficiency of Internet communication. 

Advantages of call conferencing 

• Cost-effective 
Virtual communication is the key in getting cheap conferences. Most providers do offer very affordable packages that would suit all your needs. Call conferencing would definitely allow your company to save up a lot because you can do away with buying airplane tickets, paying for hotel expenses and other travel expenditure. 

•  Saves time
Unlike traditional conferences, you do not need much of a preparation to conduct a call conference. This way, a lot of time can be saved. Call conferencing can also be your best option if you want to hold a meeting on a very short notice. It would also save a lot of time since you can get your message across a lot of people at a much faster pace. 

• Builds a good office relationship 
Call conferencing may possibly create a friendlier working place. Since call conference is a cheaper way of getting in touch with your staff, you can now get more people invited in meetings. This would prevent the feeling of neglect that may be experienced by your employees. 

• Accessible and simple to use 
The process of call conference is so simple and no technical skills or knowledge is really needed. Your provider would do all the set up for you. You just need to ensure that you and the other participants have a working land phone or a mobile phone. The host who would be heading the conference call can now communicate and interact with the participants via phone. 

• Provision for visual presentation 
Audio conferencing is only restricted to verbal communication. But with video call conferencing, you are not only limited to audio interaction. Video conferencing would allow you to create presentations and transfer data via video. With video conferencing, you can use visual tools to get your message across more clearly and effectively. 

• No need to travel
Distance can be quite a problem when conducting seminars, conferences, meetings or other business gatherings. Distance can be one reason why some of your employees may not make it to a meeting. With a call conference, you do not need to travel outside the walls of your office and you can get more people involved because distance will no longer be an issue. You can even get in touch with the people you need to talk with even if they are at the comfort of their own home. 

The advantages mentioned above only prove that call conference can be a real benefit for you and your company. You would not only save money, but you can also save a lot of time and hassle when conducting conferences.


