Title: 
The Various Advantages Of Using Internet Monitoring Software

Word Count:
511

Summary:
There are thousands of people who wish that they could monitor someone else’s online activities. Each of us has been curious one time or another about the activities of an individual while online. This is especially true for a business, corporation, parent or a spouse. Now, one no longer has to be just merely curious about someone else’s internet activities. Internet monitoring software tools allows an individual, business or parent monitor the activities that are performed o...


Keywords:
Internet Monitoring Software


Article Body:
There are thousands of people who wish that they could monitor someone else’s online activities. Each of us has been curious one time or another about the activities of an individual while online. This is especially true for a business, corporation, parent or a spouse. Now, one no longer has to be just merely curious about someone else’s internet activities. Internet monitoring software tools allows an individual, business or parent monitor the activities that are performed on a specific computer or a group of computers.

There are various advantages for a business to use internet monitoring software tools. These types of tools can be setup in a matter of minutes to monitor one computer or a group of computers. Once the tool is set up it will begin monitoring certain internet activities. Monitoring software tools are designed to monitor ingoing and outgoing emails and instant messages. This allows an employer to know what is being said about the company or specific people within the company.

An employer is able to view the keystrokes that are made, website surfing activity and the type of tools that are used on the computer. Each time an employee using the internet for personal reasons the monitoring tools will monitor these activities. So the employer can see who is shopping online while at work and who is working hard. The greatest advantage to an employer who decides to use monitoring software is that the tools can be accessed from any internet connection, twenty-four hours a day.

Parents have also been taking advantage of internet monitoring software tools recently. Parents can now monitor their child’s online activities. This is a great way for a parent to ensure the safety of a child while online. Parental tools are designed to monitor what a child is doing and for how long.

Also, the tools monitor emails, instant messages, chat room discussions and website activity. A parent can actually view both sides of a chat room discussion or read ingoing and outgoing emails. If a parent feels as if their child is in a dangerous situation then the parent can block a specific website or a chat room. This enables the parent to take control of the situation. One of the greatest advantages for a parent who uses monitoring tools is that the child is unaware of the monitoring software even running. This is an easy way for a parent to stay up-to-date on all of the online activities while a child is online.

There are several different types of internet monitoring software. A public Library uses a type of monitoring software tool that is designed to block and filter out inappropriate websites. Libraries and school districts have been using this type of technology for several years. Monitoring tools allows an employer or parent or spouse to monitor and view the online activities of another person. The website IPOWER Applications’ School Pow Wow is a terrific online resource that provides detailed information on monitoring software tools. Internet users can find the website at http://www.DoYouPowWow.com.


