Title: 
The Secrets Behind The Runaway Success Of Open Source Software

Word Count:
503

Summary:
Anyone who has used the Internet on a regular basis has heard mention of open source software. However, very few people understand what its full potential is and how it works, and how it can benefit the online community.

Open Source Software is unique because it can be designed by everyone for everyone to use. The intention of the software is to enable every computer user to be able to use it without having to worry about high costs or administrative issues.

In most ins...


Keywords:
GoToMeeting, Go To Online Meeting


Article Body:
Anyone who has used the Internet on a regular basis has heard mention of open source software. However, very few people understand what its full potential is and how it works, and how it can benefit the online community.

Open Source Software is unique because it can be designed by everyone for everyone to use. The intention of the software is to enable every computer user to be able to use it without having to worry about high costs or administrative issues.

In most instances, when software is developed it is done under a cloak of secrecy. Not many people are involved in the design and development phase. With most software, there is a huge cost that is associated with it, and it is usually this cost that is paid for by the consumer, whereas the develpment of open source software is completely free from start to finish, and the general online public can download it immediately at no cost.

Open Source Software is not new to the Internet. It has been around for over twenty years. Yet many people still do not understand its scope. This software played a big part in the way the Internet developed. it is the reason why the world wide web is free for all to access. Many different Internet providers have converted their browsers to Open Source and have had great success.

When a company installs Open Source Software, they are giving themselves the ability to reach markets that they not ordinarily be able to do business with. all business people know that image is everything, and when they use Open Source Software, they are able to contribute something back to the public thereby increasing their popularity with consumers and acquiring customers.

The creators of Open Source Software believe that when you allow the public to view how the software is made, it creates a sense of trust and thereby building a strong and united online community. Those who are dedicated to Open Source Software claim that is more reliable with fewer problems than the commercial counterparts.

The people who contribute to Open Source Software often are talented, caring, and are available to provide customer support when it is needed. They are able to provide a quality product that is far superior to commercial software. They do not do it for the money; they do it for the love of the software and Internet. They do not rush through the process just to get it done and sold, they create a product that everyone can understand and use on a daily basis.

Another benefit to Open Source Software is that anyone who uses the software can contribute his or her ideas to be used. What this means is that the general public can offer their preferences in the development of the software, where commercial software is developed according to the designers preferences.

Finding Open Source Software can be found very easily. By doing a simple Internet search, you will find millions of links to this software.


