Title: 
The Importance Of Working With Ergonomics

Word Count:
407

Summary:
Every job requires you to perform certain duties. Some workers may only perform one duty repetitively, where others will have a multitude of duties that their role entails. An example of this would be an employee working in a warehouse. Their role would include multiple duties such as forklift driving, shrink-wrapping, sweeping, packing, and unpacking deliveries. In comparison, a tollbooth worker would simply have the one duty to stand in the booth and take money repetitively...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Every job requires you to perform certain duties. Some workers may only perform one duty repetitively, where others will have a multitude of duties that their role entails. An example of this would be an employee working in a warehouse. Their role would include multiple duties such as forklift driving, shrink-wrapping, sweeping, packing, and unpacking deliveries. In comparison, a tollbooth worker would simply have the one duty to stand in the booth and take money repetitively.

Anytime you are moving you are exerting yourself physically. Sometimes what can occur is these everyday duties can cause physical repercussions with your health. This can be either because you are performing the action incorrectly or something in the working environment is wrong for what you are doing.

Ways that you could be contributing to physical injury or depletion could be having incorrect posture, not varying your range of movement repetitively, using too much force, not complying with weight limits for lifting, or not following safety regulations. Factors in your environment which could lead to problems are things like vibration, temperature, outdated or incorrect equipment, and bad lighting.

Things to consider that some employers aren뭪 aware of:

 Excessive heat will increase the onset of fatigue

 Cold hands and feet will reduce muscle movement and accuracy, slow down blood supply to muscles, and affect strength.

 Poor lighting not only increases risk of accidents, but often leads to bad posture which leads to further physical problems.

 Regular breaks can increase productivity by reducing fatigue and giving workers time to recover from exertion.

 Bad posture has a negative impact on the way muscles work together and support each other. .

 If you require your employees to reach, bend, kneel or hold up, around or out you need to ensure the work is not too repetitive and they have adequate breaks otherwise you could be seen as negligent.

 Insufficient tools, work areas, or incorrectly trained procedures can result in poor posture, which can then lead to the above mentioned other physical problems.

 Not enough space left for workers to perform their job means they may be forced to do things the wrong way, resulting in injury.

All of the above can be easily avoided if employers take the time to ensure the environment is right for the work being performed and employees are properly educated. If there is a problem, fixing it immediately could save your workers health and also save you money on compensation.


