Title: 
The Benefits Of Direct Satellite Tv

Word Count:
469

Summary:
The technology of television has changed over the years, from the days where black and white pictures were all you could get, to the new technologies of the present day, where sharper, clearer pictures are brought to your television screen. Just as televisions have changed, so have the methods of delivering programming to your home, from the simple antenna of the past to satellites today. Of these methods, direct satellite TV has caught on due to the small size of the dishes ...


Keywords:



Article Body:
The technology of television has changed over the years, from the days where black and white pictures were all you could get, to the new technologies of the present day, where sharper, clearer pictures are brought to your television screen. Just as televisions have changed, so have the methods of delivering programming to your home, from the simple antenna of the past to satellites today. Of these methods, direct satellite TV has caught on due to the small size of the dishes needed to intercept signals and because of the quality and variety of programming. If you've only used standard cable as an option in the past, there are some features of direct satellite TV that might cause you to consider a switch.

Picture Quality

One of the biggest advantages to direct satellite TV is the quality of the picture, which can far surpass the quality found on standard cable. The reason for this is the digital reception of images and sounds which are then reconstructed by the receiver. With standard cable, an analogue signal is subject to interference and can break down along the way if wiring is bad. The difference between the two can be as dramatic as the difference between VCR quality video and DVD quality. For a direct satellite TV signal to be interrupted, generally the entire signal must be lost, which is a rare thing to happen.

Channel Variety

One of the biggest selling points of direct satellite TV is the variety of channels offered, from educational to sports, and even channels that serve to provide music. Direct satellite TV often gives the customer well over 100 channels to choose from, which often appeals to the customer who wants to experience a wide variety of channels or has channels they want to see that their local cable provider does not show. Direct satellite TV is also at the forefront of the HDTV revolution, with many channels provided in high-definition television.

Video Recording

A more recent offering from the major direct satellite TV providers is the option to rent a digital video recorder (DVR) as part of the monthly service. This brings the convenience of recording and viewing television using a DVR into the household at a small monthly fee. This can often be much more affordable than the initial cost of purchasing a DVR, which can range from more than $200 to more than $700. This new angle on providing service has made watching direct satellite TV something that not only adds variety to the programming itself, but gives the consumer greater flexibility in when and how they watch television. With the emphasis on giving the customer the best of everything in watching television at prices that often match that of cable services, direct satellite TV is something that you may wish to consider giving a try.


