Title: 
The Education System Employs Technology To Help Stay In Touch

Word Count:
415

Summary:
Technology has become a part of almost every aspect of the workforce.  Many industries and organization are now reaping the benefits of its many uses, and the education system is no exception.  Communications servers are now making it easier than ever for school officials to notify parents of a child’s absence, for parents to notify the school of a child’s absence, and for teachers to offer information and assistance concerning various homework assignments.

Through the use...


Keywords:
emergency preparedness


Article Body:
Technology has become a part of almost every aspect of the workforce.  Many industries and organization are now reaping the benefits of its many uses, and the education system is no exception.  Communications servers are now making it easier than ever for school officials to notify parents of a child’s absence, for parents to notify the school of a child’s absence, and for teachers to offer information and assistance concerning various homework assignments.

Through the use of a computer system, an automated dial system can be configured to provide pre-recorded information upon request, and updating this information has become easier than ever.  Also, through the use of voice mail, students and parents can leave messages that can be easily access by school officials.  Likewise, students can quickly access critical information as desired to find various homework assignments, an option that is especially useful if a student has been absent on a particular day. 

These communications servers are designed to streamline information and messaging within the school system’s administrative and teaching community.  This type of system can also help facilitate communications between various designated groups, clubs, the entire student body, and parents.  Through this, everyone can stay better informed of special events and check the system frequently for any updates or changes that may have occurred.  

These types of communications systems are very affordable, and use an easy to use voice processing system that will make communications more convenient across the board.  Now, as soon as events are scheduled or changes are made, the messages can be recorded and immediately available to students and parents.  Parents will also be able to call the system and obtain this information more easily than ever before.  The results are now more instantaneous. 

Teachers can also post informative information about homework assignments, upcoming exams, and school-wide testing that students can access on a daily basis from the comfort of their own homes.  The use of websites has also served to promote this type of instant communication, and the two systems can be used in conjunction with one another to increase communications and raise awareness.  

There are several companies that offer such communications servers and services, each using similar technology.  As the voice capabilities improve, so will the level of technology.  As more functions are added to the system, more information will be readily available to students, school officials, and parents that will only help to unify the overall educational experience and foster a more comprehensive learning environment.


