Title: 
The What And How Of Music Ring Tones

Word Count:
572

Summary:
Music lovers have already taken their music with them to their cell phone through music ring tones.

From the time music ring tones were first introduced by cell phone manufacturers, the market made an instantaneous sale that reaches millions of dollars. Talk about making a runaway hit. With the people who just love listening to their favorite songs, it is no wonder why everyone want to have them as their ring tone.

Getting music into ring tones was not an overnight task...


Keywords:
ringtones, free ringtones, mp3 ringtones


Article Body:
Music lovers have already taken their music with them to their cell phone through music ring tones.

From the time music ring tones were first introduced by cell phone manufacturers, the market made an instantaneous sale that reaches millions of dollars. Talk about making a runaway hit. With the people who just love listening to their favorite songs, it is no wonder why everyone want to have them as their ring tone.

Getting music into ring tones was not an overnight task. Take note that there are still singer and producer rights that needed to be achieved first to be able to use their music. But then, all these artist were more than glad to have their music made into ring tones. And why not? There is no other better way of getting their music heard than having them ringing anytime a cell phone is used.

The fact that every cell phone user has tried downloading one or two music ring tone is true. What about those who want to have their own music ring tone collected in their cell phone? Just imagine the number of times they have looked for their favorite tune and downloaded them in their cell phones.

How about those who want to have different music ring tones set for every person in their phonebook? A lot of people does this. They get the music that they associate with the different persons on their list. Every time the person calls, the music that is stored for them will play. This gives the cell phone owner the chance of knowing who is calling them even before they take out their cell phones.

These are the wonders that music ring tones can do. That is why it is also no wonder why the music ring tone industry is enjoying the continuous revenue that it generates. Not to mention those people who just love hearing music ring tones in the cell phones.

What are the kinds of music ring tones that you can have on your cell phone?

1. Monophonic ring tone.

Monophonic ring tone is when melody is the only one that is being played. This is done one note at a certain time. Monophonic ring tones do not have harmony.

2. Polyphonic ring tone.

Polyphonic ring tone is the opposite of the monophonic one. In this, harmony is heard in the song.

3. Master ring tone.

This is basically the real song. Only it is compressed to be stored in the cell phone memory. Master ring tones are where you can hear the music as you hear it from the radio or any other music medium.

How can you get your own music ring tone?

The Internet have made it easier for people to download their favorite music ring tones. Nowadays, there are a lot of websites that are offering downloads, whether paid or free. All that is needed to be done is for you to find the specific ones that have the kind of music that you prefer.

Once you have found the music ring tone download website, you can choose from the collection of songs available. Then you also need to select the kind of cell phone that you have. After that, all the necessary information such as your cell phone number should be given for the music ring tone to be sent to you.

Getting your favorite music ring tone is that easy. So, what are you waiting for?


