Title: 
The Advantages Of Digital Camera

Word Count:
620

Summary:
The digital camera has totally changed the way we take photographs; it has made the greatest impact in the world of photography since the Polaroid Instamatic camera. It is a great accessory to the present day computer; photographs can be taken in an instant and loaded on to the computer, and emailed to a friend or a relative in the space of a few minutes. If you add a photo quality ink jet printer to your computer, you will not need to develop a roll of film ever again.

Th...


Keywords:
digital camera, photo, photographic camera


Article Body:
The digital camera has totally changed the way we take photographs; it has made the greatest impact in the world of photography since the Polaroid Instamatic camera. It is a great accessory to the present day computer; photographs can be taken in an instant and loaded on to the computer, and emailed to a friend or a relative in the space of a few minutes. If you add a photo quality ink jet printer to your computer, you will not need to develop a roll of film ever again.

The digital camera started out from a single 1 mega pixel quality photo; now they come in over 10 mega pixels with huge print sizes, with amazing photo quality.

You may find it tough to decide which digital camera will fulfill your needs the best. You will have to undertake a bit of research, to help you to find the best camera, with the proper lenses, filters, external flash, tripods - everything you need so that you can start taking photographs, like a professional! Just spend a little time and figure out how you will be really using your digital camera, before you purchase one. Will it be for daily use, for special occasions like birthdays, family reunions? Will the price of the digital camera make a lot of difference?

The digital camera is also part of a new field of photography, in which you use a green or a blue background, and with special software like Corel Paint or PhotoShop, you can do wonders and create a new imaginative background. You can edit out the background and put in its place any of thousands of prepared indoors or outdoors backgrounds. There are multifunctional digital cameras that can take not only photographs but also video and sound. Digital cameras can be categorized as still cameras, video cameras and professional modular digital camera.

Since the market is so full of different models of digital cameras, you have to select a digital camera that will suit your needs. They come in different price ranges, so you will not have any difficulty selecting one that will fit into your budget. Before buying a digital camera, your first consideration has to be the resolution. A digital camera with a higher resolution than what you require can prove to be a waste of money, processing power and storage. A large number of pixels do not necessarily mean a superior image, so be cautious. A lower resolution digital camera is the best for posting images to the web, to view images on your computer, or to email files. You don`t always need a high capacity memory card, a small capacity memory card can also give high quality performance.

A digital camera can use its own battery and charger, or it can use double A size batteries. A digital camera may connect to a computer for data transmission. The most usual method of connectivity is USB, but Fire wire port or Blue Tooth are also used. Some digital cameras can connect to computer networks wirelessly.

One of the good things about a digital camera is that you do not have to spend anything on developing the film at a local store, nor do you have to drive to the store and back. A digital camera gives you an instant feeling of gratification when you view the pictures you have taken on the viewfinder or on your personal computer. You also have the full freedom of editing your photographs until you are fully satisfied with them!

You can select, save or delete photographs without any cost involved. The photos are stored hundreds of media cards, so you can take as many pictures as you wish before you run out of space.


