Title: 
The Ringtone Craze - Ringtones Of All Shapes And Sizes!

Word Count:
350

Summary:
Almost everyone owns a cell phone these days. People are probably more likely to be homeless than to not have a cell phone. Some people, like me, have more than one cell phone, usually one cell phone is for personal use, and the other one is for business. Cell phones are getting smaller and smaller, but they are also gaining more and more features. There are many cell phones available that can take pictures, send and receive email, open up Microsoft Word documents, and downlo...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Almost everyone owns a cell phone these days. People are probably more likely to be homeless than to not have a cell phone. Some people, like me, have more than one cell phone, usually one cell phone is for personal use, and the other one is for business. Cell phones are getting smaller and smaller, but they are also gaining more and more features. There are many cell phones available that can take pictures, send and receive email, open up Microsoft Word documents, and download ringtones to your phone. These ringtones allow you to hear a very unique sound when your cell phone rings. Ringtones are now available in a variety of different types and styles.

Right now I have a ringtone on my personal cell phone that plays musical tones that sound like the Blue Oyster Cult song “Don’t Fear the Reaper”. I have never heard anyone else’s cell phone with this particular ringtone before, so I feel like my cell phone ringtone is one of a kind. This particular ringtone is not actually the words and instruments from this song, but it is comprised of digital tones that match the song very closely. This type of ringtone is one of the earlier versions that were available online. I downloaded this song from a web site that sells a six month subscription to their site for a fixed price, and they allow you to download as many ringtones as you want during the subscription period.

One of the biggest crazes today is to have ringtones with song playing on your cell phone. These types of ringtones sound very good, because they are just as clear as the real song. Many different web sites offer this type of ringtone, which you can buy as a single ringtone, or download as part of a subscription. You can find almost any new release available as a ringtone, but some of these web sites have actually journeyed back into the past and made many older songs available also. Whatever your personality is, you can now find a ringtone to suit it.


