Title: 
The Only Question With The GPS Child Locator Is Where To Wear It.

Word Count:
433

Summary:
So I was watching the local news the other day, and it revealed an Amber alert. Apparently a 4 year old child was abducted inside a shopping mall. Police did not know the whereabouts of the child just yet, and they hadn't a clue who snatched him. This IS without a doubt a parent's most awful nightmare come true. I couldn't help but wonder where the child was and if the parent was watching him closely. When I'm out in public areas I spot so many nonchalant parents who're barel...


Keywords:
parenting methods,,parenting plan,parenting skills,parenting styles,parenting toddlers,baby care,


Article Body:
So I was watching the local news the other day, and it revealed an Amber alert. Apparently a 4 year old child was abducted inside a shopping mall. Police did not know the whereabouts of the child just yet, and they hadn't a clue who snatched him. This IS without a doubt a parent's most awful nightmare come true. I couldn't help but wonder where the child was and if the parent was watching him closely. When I'm out in public areas I spot so many nonchalant parents who're barely keeping an eye on their tiny children.

It irks me to death, but what are you going to do about it? It's essentially up to the parents and the parents alone to do their job right. It only takes a second for a kid to be abducted. Now, on the bright side, there are certain measures you can take to ensure this will NOT happen to your child. Ever heard of a gps child locator? They're new on the market and offer a wonderful safety feature.

I'll bet you've seen a few children out in public wearing leashes. This is fairly common now days. It's a simply yet effective way to keep toddlers at you side in public places. Sure, they can prance about on their own, but they're restricted from actually going anywhere. The leash is only a few feet long and ensures that the child stays close by. It's much safer than letting your 2 or 3 year old run about on their own. Then there is the baby alarm. This is a simply gadget that attaches to their clothing. You keep the receiver so that you can press the alarm button at any time. This will cause the device on child to sound, and you can pinpoint their location. Pretty nifty indeed.

Now, the new-age child safety devices have been taken to a whole new level with gps child locator watches. This handy device simply straps onto your child like a wrist watch, and then you can proceed to monitor their whereabouts with your personal computer. Now that is SWEET! It's similar to a vehicle tracking device. So basically if your child was abducted, the police could instantly pinpoint the child's location. This would make retrieval much more likely.

My only question with the gps child locator is where to wear it. Should the child wear the gps child locator on his/her wrist, like a regular watch? Or, should it be worn under clothing somehow, so that an abductor could not spot it and remove the device? Just some food for thought.


