Title: 
The Easiest Way to Make Money Online

Word Count:
421

Summary:
By Far the easiest and fastest way to make money online is selling digital products (AKA MRR/PLR Products). There's NO shipping charges, they are in high demand, and most of them come with a professionally designed sales page. So all you have to do is promote it and profit.


Keywords:
niche,turnkey, resell rights, PLR, MRR, work at home, make money online, 


Article Body:
By Far the easiest and fastest way to make money online is selling digital products (AKA MRR/PLR Products). There's NO shipping charges, they are in high demand, and most of them come with a professionally designed sales page. So all you have to do is promote it and profit.

The only problem is that most people start off in the digital products business buying a huge amount of outdated products that you can probably get for free somewhere else. But Don't get me wrong these older products DO sell, but not as much and you have to work ALOT harder to actually turn a profit. 

The key to making good money from these products is to do allot of research. First Make sure the product is new, the newer the better. Then find its market value, a good way to judge this is to search the title of the product on ebay, look threw the listings and you should get a good idea what its selling for. If you don't see it listed, its usually a good sign. Try Searching the title in google and see what pops up.

A good idea is to try buying in bulk. I always see sites selling 50 for $99.99, i just do some research for a couple of the products and see how new they are. In the end u might pay $2 per product instead of $7 which can really save you allot of time and money.

A good example of these deals:

http://top50.pcfiend.com

this site (pcfiend.com) releases a new 50 pack every couple of months, just sign up for their newsletter, they even give you free products for joining. Their new 50 pack for september even includes their older pack as a bonus, which includes over 600 resell rights products, that are mostly older but there are about 100 newer products included. Also a huge collection of templates, fonts, graphics, scripts, and allot of other webmaster goodies. Probably the best deal i've come across in my 4 years of selling Digital Products. 

I Know There are Allot of sites out there selling these products and after a while it seems that they are all offering the same old stuff. Which brings me to my next tip. If you come across a unique product that not allot of people are selling BUY IT!! with the right promotion these products can be the MOST profitable 

Look out for more tips for profiting with digital products from Dr. Resell 

And don't forget to check out http://top50.pcfiend.com


