Title: 
The World Wide Web For Absolute Beginners, Part 1

Word Count:
341

Summary:
The World Wide Web is not as overwhelming as it sounds. Simply put, it is an effective way of exchanging information much the same way as the global telephone network. Just like a spider web, the web links together a collection of electronic documents, which can be accessed and utilized in different ways by Internet users all over the world. The World Wide Web forms a part of the Internet, which lets you access information in the form of words, sound, pictures and video.

P...


Keywords:



Article Body:
The World Wide Web is not as overwhelming as it sounds. Simply put, it is an effective way of exchanging information much the same way as the global telephone network. Just like a spider web, the web links together a collection of electronic documents, which can be accessed and utilized in different ways by Internet users all over the world. The World Wide Web forms a part of the Internet, which lets you access information in the form of words, sound, pictures and video.

People search the Web or surf the Internet for different reasons and in search of different thing. There are some Internet activities that are very popular among individuals who use the Web. 

Looking for information:  The web is vast and contains enormous amounts of information on just about any topic you can think of. You can find any information you are looking for if you know where to look. One of the best ways of retrieving information on the web is by using search engines, which are gigantic databases of information. While search engines may not necessarily contain the required information themselves, they can lead you to the URL or the address where you will find what you are looking for. 

Online Shopping: With online shopping, shoppers no longer need to go from store to store looking for what they want. The World Wide Web offers online shoppers the convenience of looking for any product or service they may want right from the comfort and convenience of their home. Shopping for rare items and discounted items or specialized products online is safe, convenient and easy. 

Searching for people:  One of the most popular of internet activities is trying to find a person. Internet browsers could be searching for a lost relative or detailed information about famous celebrities. Most of the time, this information is given absolutely free of charge. 

Downloading music and movies: There are many sites that allow Internet surfers to download their favorite movie or music free of charge. Some sites charge a small fee.


