Title: 
The Quality Of The Bmw M3

Word Count:
424

Summary:
When it comes to cars, the consuming public is one that holds its brands to a high level of expectation. And when we find a brand that we like – one that gives us the quality and dependability that we desire – we will remain loyal to that brand until the end. In most cases, this level of loyalty is extended to luxury vehicles – those cars that command a high price but continually deliver in quality and comfort year after year – and sometimes decade after decade. It’s no wonde...


Keywords:
BMW M3


Article Body:
When it comes to cars, the consuming public is one that holds its brands to a high level of expectation. And when we find a brand that we like – one that gives us the quality and dependability that we desire – we will remain loyal to that brand until the end. In most cases, this level of loyalty is extended to luxury vehicles – those cars that command a high price but continually deliver in quality and comfort year after year – and sometimes decade after decade. It’s no wonder then that the BMW M3 – as a part of the BMW brand – continues to inspire and engage customers.

The Bavarian Motor Works company (BMW) came to life in 1913 Munich, Germany at the hands of Karl Friedrich Rapp who was committed to producing a high-end luxury vehicle that would appeal to those interested in the finer things in life. Initially, he was most interested in performance – creating those vehicles that would be unsurpassed in the marketplace and hold up to the changes that would certainly be demanded from the industry. And hold up they did; today’s BMW brand continues to be the pinnacle of the industry – the BMW M3 included.

There are many variations of the BMW M3, and the features you get – and the price you spend - depend solely on the particular model that you choose. The M3 series is a sporty version of the compact BMW design and the models within the product line vary according the generation.

The E30 is the first version of the BMW M3 series featuring a 2.3 liter power train, S14 engine, and 238 horsepower. Standard to this design were flared fenders and a sleek aerodynamic design. The E36 coupe came six years after the E30 and featured a 3.0 liter power train, S6 engine and 286 horsepower. The power train increased to 321 horsepower just four short years later and featured a 3.2 liter power train. This particular model is still highly regarded as one of the best models produced by BMW.

The current model of the BMW M3 - the E46 - delivered an incredible 343 horsepower, new 6-speed transmission, and manual gearbox that required no clutch pedal. And the BMW M3 continues to expand its product line with the soon-to-come E92 expected to debut at the end of 2007. The E92 features a V8 engine and 420 horsepower, and will once again elevate BMW to the next level.

The BMW M3 reflects the overall commitment of the BMW company to top quality, customer service, and a dedication to remaining on the cutting edge of the vehicle industry.


