Title: 
The Nokia N70 – Smarter Than Average

Word Count:
451

Summary:
Although it's over a year old now, the Nokia N70 mobile phone is still more than able to hold its own with newer phones on the market, whether they're from its parent company or other manufacturers. Part of Nokia's 'Smartphone' series, it was one of the first pieces of kit to introduce many features that are now standard today, yet also keep both its looks and style that Nokia have become famous for.

Although it's still a reasonably small phone size-wise, the N70 packs mor...


Keywords:
free line rental,mobile phones,mobile phone deals,monthly contracts,nokia,n70,mobiles,12 months free


Article Body:
Although it's over a year old now, the Nokia N70 mobile phone is still more than able to hold its own with newer phones on the market, whether they're from its parent company or other manufacturers. Part of Nokia's 'Smartphone' series, it was one of the first pieces of kit to introduce many features that are now standard today, yet also keep both its looks and style that Nokia have become famous for.

Although it's still a reasonably small phone size-wise, the N70 packs more than its fair share of punches in its features. The Smartphone name comes from the all-round versatility that Nokia introduced to the UK market, and allows a mobile phone to almost be like a mini-computer, with internal memory and multimedia options. The N70, with its 3G capability, offers this and more. With 3G, not only can you expect better quality video features on your mobile phone, but still use other features at the same time, so in essence you can make a call while downloading a movie or music file.

Following on from the hugely popular 6600 series of mobile phones, Nokia really pushes the boat out with the N70. Similar in design to its older brother, with a larger screen allowing for better resolution pictures and movies, it's another wonderful endorsement of Nokia's design engineers. With an impressive 32 MB of RAM via the memory card as well as 22 MB of built-in memory on the phone itself, it more than allows you to store your favorite video clips or MP3 files.

Yet the features don't stop there, although coming from the innovative Nokia, that's to be expected. Although not up there with specialist digital cameras, the N70's 2 mega pixel camera still allows for impressive pictures to be taken, especially since the phone has a built-in flash as well.

It is also one of Nokia's first mobile phones to allow video calling, with its 3G functionality adding to an already impressive little device. Like any good mobile phone, it doesn't skimp in the audio department either. Combining MP3 with an FM Radio tuner, you'll be pleasantly surprised at the quality of sound when listening through the supplied headphones.

Yet as enjoyable as the N70 is as a simple mobile phone, it also offers professional businessmen a valid tool, with its built-in Quickoffice Office Suite software, which allows you to use it as a mini-organizer with calendar and meeting reminders, not to mention email facilities.

Once again, Nokia proves it's the leader in the field of mobile phones. With its whole N-series of phones, it raises the bar for what a mobile phone should offer the user, and the wonderful little N70 is the perfect example of this.


