Title: 
The Rise Of Computer Games Online

Word Count:
323

Summary:
Online computer games are video games that are played in a network, such as the internet or an internal office network.  Its popularity started out from small local networks and extended online.  As more and more people gained access to the World Wide Web, online games have likewise been a fast-growing segment for internet-based industries such as software developers and gaming console manufacturers. 

There are a large number of games available online, ranging from the sim...


Keywords:
online computer games,pc games,classic games,gaming,gamers


Article Body:
Online computer games are video games that are played in a network, such as the internet or an internal office network.  Its popularity started out from small local networks and extended online.  As more and more people gained access to the World Wide Web, online games have likewise been a fast-growing segment for internet-based industries such as software developers and gaming console manufacturers. 

There are a large number of games available online, ranging from the simple, text based games to role playing games imbedded with complex graphics and virtual environments that many players can access at the same time.  Most online games now have organized online communities where its players can interact with other players;  thus, making online games a social activity.

The online games popular during the 80s include Scrabble Clones, Chess and other board games.  There were also online games that had fantasy settings that were played on a BBS using a modem.  However, the high fees charged for online access diverted the set-up of some of these games from being played online into play-by-email games.

During the 90’s, the internet brought about many changes in the way online games are played. It was during this period that settings and concepts were redesigned and given a more urbane appeal.  Complex graphics were applied to gaming and online matches started as well. 

These new concepts also brought about a new generation of gamers.  Born between the years 1980 and 2001, these advanced gamers can play any type of computerized and video games and are largely adept with the navigation of computer devices apart from the inherent savvy over handheld gadgets.  The rise of these gamers influenced the internet’s shift from that of an information machine into an entertainment media as well.  

Today, computer games online have become a profitable industry.  Websites offering games charge monthly fees to web surfers while some maintain their sites through the sizeable advertising revenues obtained from on-site sponsors.


