Title: 
The Similarity Of Microscopes And Telescopes

Word Count:
400

Summary:
Almost everyone can remember the day in school when they got to the science class and the teacher had the microscopes on the table. We all knew the fun that could be had looking at things up close and the things that we came up with to look at were almost infinite.

Telescopes were also a favorite in the classroom, yet not quite as much as viewing the world of scabs, hair or whatever gross object that a middle school child could find to view up close and personal.

Micros...


Keywords:
child telescope,brass telescope,microscopes and telescopes,astronomical telescope,digital telescope,


Article Body:
Almost everyone can remember the day in school when they got to the science class and the teacher had the microscopes on the table. We all knew the fun that could be had looking at things up close and the things that we came up with to look at were almost infinite.

Telescopes were also a favorite in the classroom, yet not quite as much as viewing the world of scabs, hair or whatever gross object that a middle school child could find to view up close and personal.

Microscopes and telescopes have the interesting effect on pre-teens and the thought process that they can come up with to view with microscopes and telescopes is often times quite original.

Microscopes and telescopes are quite similar in that they are both utilized to view objects up close. The utilization of microscopes and telescopes dates back to the early 17th century and the similarity in the use of convex and concave mirror and lenses to make them have not changed much in the last few centuries. While these similarities in materials have not changed the utilization of technology has increased the abilities of microscopes and telescopes.

Microscopes and telescopes have evolved into computer versions that allow the user to manipulate the scopes and view the images on a computer. The computerization of microscopes and telescopes allows the user to manipulate the imaging process as well as the search process.

Differences in Microscopes and Telescopes

Beyond the obvious viewing material, looking at organic material under a microscope or the stellar skies with a telescope the microscope and telescopes differ in the manner in which they produce images to the user and the various types of microscopes and telescopes produce varying results that enable the user to view various images. While microscopes provide the user with a view of material in an easier manner than the telescope user, since telescope use takes patience to find various objects in the sky.

While many of us have fond memories of our first microscopes and the dream of our very own laboratory and although many of us are older we can still pass that passion on to our own children or grandchildren by introducing them to microscopes and telescopes. So when looking back at your childhood and remembering the times with your microscope or telescope take the time to share those memories with youth in your life.


