Title: 
The Head Turning Apple iPod Nano

Word Count:
449

Summary:
How cool would it be to have five days’ worth of your favorite music, if you’re someone who plays your favorite music 24/7, or 25,000 of you favorite snapshots suspended from a chain around your neck on a black, or pink, or green, or silver, or blue device about the size of a playing card? Good looks, great listening, and a mammoth memory are the big selling points of the latest version of the rechargeable Apple iPod nano, which retails from between $149 and $249, depending o...


Keywords:
Ipod Nano Case, Apple Ipod Nano, Ipod


Article Body:
How cool would it be to have five days’ worth of your favorite music, if you’re someone who plays your favorite music 24/7, or 25,000 of you favorite snapshots suspended from a chain around your neck on a black, or pink, or green, or silver, or blue device about the size of a playing card? Good looks, great listening, and a mammoth memory are the big selling points of the latest version of the rechargeable Apple iPod nano, which retails from between $149 and $249, depending on its memory capacity.

Features Of The Apple iPod Nano

The Apple iPod nano offers internal memory ranging from the five hundred song capacity 2GB to the two thousand-song capacity 8GB so that your 1.4 ounce MP3 companion will keep you dancin’ to its music for up to five days, if your downloaded song choices average four minutes or less. And that’s if your Apple iPod nano is never given any downtime.

Realistically assess how long it would take you to get through two thousand songs, and you may appreciate the amazing job Apple has done packing a ton of consumer value into a very small package! Not only that; Apple has made the process of navigating through two thousand songs a breeze with its proprietary click-wheeling interface. All this in a MP3 62% smaller than the iPod mini, and although there were a few sacrifices to its miniaturization, the improvements far outweigh them. Well, maybe not far, because the whole setup tips the scales at a mere 1.5 ounces.

Apple iPod Nano Colors

While the Apple iPod nano will not get you FM or allow voice recording, its dazzling color screen, outstanding sound , and flash drive all make up for that slight shortcoming, and eliminate the possibility of a dead hard drive to boot. With five casing colors, up from the original white, and the black and white options of the Pod mini, the Apple iPod nano is designed to appeal to the fashion conscious runner; there are blue, pink, green, silver, and black nanos so you can coordinate with your running shoes. White did not make the final cut, perhaps because the original white iPod just got too grubby too quickly. For more info see http://www.knowipods.com/Articles/Ipod.php on Ipod.

The Apple iPod nano has a line of accessories to meet any customization and function needs, and its lithium ion battery can provide music for twenty-four hours straight, with a fast cycle recharge getting it to 80% capacity in ninety minutes. A full charge will take three hours. You can also use the Apple iPod‘s amazing color display to exhibit a musically-accompanied show of you favorite photos for up to five hours.


