Title: 
The Real  Benefits Of VoIP

Word Count:
478

Summary:
VoIP services are making waves throughout the business world. You may be curious to find out what all the hype is about. VoIP is new telecommunication services that allow you to send and receive phone calls via the internet rather than using a traditional phone line. The system has been widely marketed in the business sector. It is becoming increasingly popular in homes as well, replacing regular phone services.

Your VoIP services are based on computer-to-computer calling....


Keywords:
voip benefits, voip service, voice over IP, internet telephony


Article Body:
VoIP services are making waves throughout the business world. You may be curious to find out what all the hype is about. VoIP is new telecommunication services that allow you to send and receive phone calls via the internet rather than using a traditional phone line. The system has been widely marketed in the business sector. It is becoming increasingly popular in homes as well, replacing regular phone services.

Your VoIP services are based on computer-to-computer calling. People are choosing to change to VoIP from their regular phone service because of the quality enhancement of the product. Local calls, long distance calls, and even International calls come in very clear. The higher the speed of your internet service, the clearer your calls will be. At least 64 Kbps are required. A bandwidth of 128 Kbps will provide you with top of the line service results. Your VoIP provider can assist you with determining your Kbps as well as recommend any updates that might provide you with better service.

Some are skeptical to use the VoIP system because they are worried about the reliability of the system. In the past, if the power went out, then the system wouldn’t work. I can definitely see why that would be a concern. In a time of emergency, you need to feel comfortable knowing you have phone access to call for help

The solution to that problem is the introduction of a smart system. This system is a tool used to redirects phone calls to a different number, if the system detects your phone system is not responding. Incoming calls will be transferred to your required alternative during such occasions.

Other than the quality of the product, the price is a big seller. You can choose the options you want to use including caller ID, call waiting, and call forwarding. Types of plans include basic service, best value, unlimited access, and business plans. There are no long distance charges. This means you can make out of town and International calls at no additional cost. This alone is a great selling point, especially for businesses that often end up with huge phone bills on a monthly basis. For those wanting to maintain a budget, knowing how much your phone bill will be on a monthly basis is an added bonus. In addition, the cost of VoIP with all the features and long distance access is cheaper than most people were already paying for regular home phone services.

The Internet is a valuable resource for finding a VoIP provider in your area. There are several good information sites. You can get specific questions answered, review the types of plans, and look at the phone styles available. If the trend continues, then VoIP may soon replace home phone service plans worldwide. Look out, there is another huge technological change for most of us on the horizon!


