Title: 
The Advantages Of Voip Equipment

Word Count:
507

Summary:
So what do you need in the way of VOIP equipment?  The answer is not too much.  An essential part of VOIP system is a broadband connection, which we call a high speed internet connection. This is required for anyone who is using or wanting to use a VOIP system in their home or office.  The connection can be found through a cable modem, or a high speed service such as DSL.  

You can either hook a phone up to your personal computer or you can connect a phone through the tele...


Keywords:
voip, voip equipment


Article Body:
So what do you need in the way of VOIP equipment?  The answer is not too much.  An essential part of VOIP system is a broadband connection, which we call a high speed internet connection. This is required for anyone who is using or wanting to use a VOIP system in their home or office.  The connection can be found through a cable modem, or a high speed service such as DSL.  

You can either hook a phone up to your personal computer or you can connect a phone through the telephone adaptor.  The telephone adapter is about the size of a wallet and is the go between connecting the telephone and the computer.  It can turn the analog signal from the telephone into digital data that can be sent over the Internet.

One of the advantages is that digital phone offers many additional features that a traditional phone is not equipped to offer. If you have a broadband internet connection, there is no need to pay the additional cost for another telephone line just to make phone calls.  

A second advantage is that you can talk to people around the world for as long as you want if they have an Internet connection. Also you can talk with multiple people at the same time without any additional cost.  Lastly, a third advantage to switching to a VOIP provider is it may significantly decrease the cost of your monthly telephone bill.

The overall quality and reliability of your VOIP equipment and telephone communications are completely reliant upon the quality, reliability and speed of the Internet connection that it uses.  If your Internet service or electricity goes down for any reason, so does your telephone service.  A major shortcoming with this system-you will be unable to communicate with anyone if this happens.  

There is a way to avoid this problem by having a battery back up similar to an uninterruptible power supply, or you can set up your VOIP system in advance to automatically send all telephone calls to your cell phone in the event of a power failure.  It may be necessary to keep your traditional analog voice line (your old fashion telephone that you currently have) or a cell phone just in case you need to make a telephone call during an emergency.  

The VOIP equipment is basically the telephone, telephone adapter, phone jack, DSL or cable modem and your computer.  You probably have most of these items in your home already and it will not take too much effort or cost on your part to make the switch to VOIP.

The bottom line is whether or not you want this new technology in your home and whether or not you need it.  If you are a real computer person and want to have the latest and greatest technology at your fingertips, the VOIP equipment will get your started.  All you have to do is find a service provider and to get the extra equipment needed to connect yourself and to start talking over the internet.


