Title: 
The Criteria To Look For In A Good Digital Camera Review

Word Count:
616

Summary:
Potential buyers use a digital camera review because they want to be able to make an informed choice about their purchase. They are created by a team of people made up of experts and general users, and tested over a period of time to give an informed opinion. Therefore, any review of it should be thorough and clear, with the buyer`s best interests in mind. 

For simplicity, the digital camera review is usually in a summarized table format, with stars or numbered ratings bes...


Keywords:
digital camera, photo, photographic camera, review


Article Body:
Potential buyers use a digital camera review because they want to be able to make an informed choice about their purchase. They are created by a team of people made up of experts and general users, and tested over a period of time to give an informed opinion. Therefore, any review of it should be thorough and clear, with the buyer`s best interests in mind. 

For simplicity, the digital camera review is usually in a summarized table format, with stars or numbered ratings beside each make. The reason for this is that this format makes it very clear for the reader to understand. However, the criteria assessed are not always made clear and may leave the reader wondering what exactly the ratings for the product was based on and whether it is reliable. 

A good digital camera review should have a wide reaching outlook and consider as many aspects as possible. It should have the requirements of a variety of buyer`s covered, considering the possible uses and realistic price ranges that may be required. 

The good digital camera review should also offer insightful opinions in terms of features, portability, performance and cost. It should be easy to follow but also informative, with a balanced argument and also a more in depth description available for any interested buyer. It should compare one product to another, to provide the consumer with the best possible choice. The good digital camera review should also be honest; to make sure the consumer truly gets what suits their needs and expectations.

Firstly, the cost should be considered and clearly stated. This is a necessity as all potential buyers have a budget in mind when purchasing a digital camera. The review should explain whether the product is good value for the price bracket that it covers, and if so, in what way. There should be reviews of several types or make of digital camera for each price range so that the consumer can understand what is fully available. The review should also try and alert any buyers of possible available discounts and deals that are realistically obtainable.

Performance is central to any review. The digital camera is bought for a reason, and potential buyers want to know whether what they are purchasing will meet their specific requirements. 

Performance includes the lens and sensor quality, the range of zoom, additional special features, compactness, weight, picture quality and reliability. These are all factors which will affect the quality of the image taken and also the type of photography that the digital camera is designed for. 

Clear reasons behind why each feature is considered to be of high or low quality needs to be backed up with clear and justifiable arguments. There should be comparisons made between digital cameras, and a range of makes covered. 

An excellent review will also go one step further and investigate the product a little further to give the reader the best possible service. This may include testing out any available accessories, or assessing the level of support from the manufacturers or the time taken to deal with repairs. These added extras can make the choice much more informed, and help the potential buyer from making possible mistakes. 

Most importantly, the best digital camera review should be user friendly, with technical information either explained in layman terms or kept to a minimum unless it is a review specifically aimed at professional photographers. It should appeal to its market and provide the information required.

This article is under GNU FDL license and can be distributed without any previous authorization from the author. However the author's name and all the URLs (links) mentioned in the article and biography must be kept.


