Title: 
The Importance Of CD Printers

Word Count:
471

Summary:
CD printers are a style of printer that can produce a label to display on a compact disc. A disc CD printer, as it is also referred to, can offer bright, vibrant color images to create professional looking discs.

An inkjet printer can produce a high quality looking print with up to a resolution of approximately 300 dots per inch, which allows for a clearer image to be reproduced. Most inkjet printers can print CD labels with the compatible software installed on a computer ...


Keywords:
cd printer,cd labels


Article Body:
CD printers are a style of printer that can produce a label to display on a compact disc. A disc CD printer, as it is also referred to, can offer bright, vibrant color images to create professional looking discs.

An inkjet printer can produce a high quality looking print with up to a resolution of approximately 300 dots per inch, which allows for a clearer image to be reproduced. Most inkjet printers can print CD labels with the compatible software installed on a computer to allow the CD printer to produce the correct shape for the CD label.

A thermal printer uses a process of heating coated thermochromic paper when a disc moves over a thermal printing head to allow adherence of the printed image onto the paper. Different colors dry at different temperatures. This type of CD printer works best for text and logos. The most economical for disc printing is to use a monochromatic thermal printer. This type of CD printer is the fastest source for producing CD labels. Approximately 120 discs can be produced per hour at a cost of two cents per CD. Using a thermal printer to manufacture labels makes them resilient enough to withstand high production professional environments. The labels are durable, dry instantly and are waterproof.

As noted above, there are different CD printers available for purchase. An inkjet printer, for example, along side a computer, can produce an acceptable reproduction for label making. Some CD printers have the capabilities of printing a realistic photo or graphic with a low-cost ink cartridge and some inkjet printers have a six-color cartridge to allow more vibrant and longer-lasting printed labels. There are also inks that dry faster and become more permanent on printable surfaces. A thermal printer, for instance, can provide an indelible ink that requires little or no drying time in about seven seconds to produce images with a resolution of roughly 300 to 600 dots per inch to attain a well defined graphic or photo.

An automated CD printer connected to one computer can produce up to 100 CDs per hour. There is also an option of an automatic fast gravity-feed loading system that loads the CDs into the printer for continuous printing. Connecting up to five printers to one computer would allow five discs to print simultaneously. As can be imagined, this type of printer system results in CD printing at a low cost. The speed for printing discs is quick, approximately at speeds up to 100 seconds for a full color photo label, about 20 seconds for full color text and something like 12 seconds for normal mode color text.

The importance of using a CD printer is that it will ensure a proper fit of labels for produced CDs. Thus, choosing a CD printer can turn a project into a masterpiece by having a colorful and well-designed finished assignment.


