Title: 
The Choices Between Voip Telephone System

Word Count:
523

Summary:
The voice over internet protocol (VOIP) telephone system is a great model of how advances in one field of technology often go hand in hand with advancement in other areas.  VOIP is an advancement made possible by computer technology that has directly affected phone systems, as well.  While this type of phone system may seem foreign to many consumers, most people are aware of some type of VOIP provider, even if they don’t know it.  Lingo, SunRocket, and Vonage are three provid...


Keywords:
voip, voip systems, voip telephone, voip telephone system


Article Body:
The voice over internet protocol (VOIP) telephone system is a great model of how advances in one field of technology often go hand in hand with advancement in other areas.  VOIP is an advancement made possible by computer technology that has directly affected phone systems, as well.  While this type of phone system may seem foreign to many consumers, most people are aware of some type of VOIP provider, even if they don’t know it.  Lingo, SunRocket, and Vonage are three providers of VOIP services that are relatively well known among many consumers.

The difference between a VOIP telephone system and a regular telephone system can be confusing for many people.  Traditional phone calls work by sending "analog audio signals" via fiber optics that is provided by a traditional telephone company.  The fiber optics is basically a fancy description of telephone lines, while the "analog audio signals" becomes the voices that are exchanged during a conversation.  This is how a traditional telephone call works, whether it is over a land based line, or a cellular phone.

The way that VOIP works is that instead of using a system of "analog audio signals" to transmit voices, the VOIP system uses a method that causes it to switch data packets to different channels, depending on which one is the most open at the time.  So unlike a regular phone system that has to have a dedicated channel to make or receive calls, a VOIP system can make use of any channel that happens to be open at the time the call is made.  For many individuals, as well as many businesses, a VOIP system is cheaper because the method of making calls doesn’t require payment for set lines or an expensive per minute long distance rate.

VOIP saves the most money for individuals who tend to make a lot of long distance calls.  The reason for this is that long distance calls with a regular telephone plan have a per minute charge, while that is not true with VOIP phones.  

This can make this type of telephone system valuable not only for a family, but also for more and more businesses who are switching over to this system not only because it saves money, but for many types of phone calls the VOIP system is more efficient.

The main concern many people have when considering switching to a VOIP telephone system is that most people think of VOIP as solely computer to computer.  This is one type of VOIP phone system, but it is not the only one!  

There are phones that are basically ordinary telephones, they simply connect to a computer that’s on instead of getting plugged into a wall.  There are also "Wi-Fi" phones, which work like cellular phones but use Internet and wireless hot spots instead of cell phone towers to connect calls.

VOIP telephone system technology is not perfect by any means, but it is highly effective and like all technologies, as it becomes increasingly popular with both homes and businesses the features and service will continue to improve as the new improved phone system replaces the old.


