Title: 
The Best Sony Playstation 2 Game Ever Created

Word Count:
435

Summary:
God of War II for the Playstation2 is a 3rd person action game that has won awards for its brilliance. While the original God of War game was amazing, the updated version has bettered it and in doing so, created a must-have game on Playstation2.

Enter a world of Greek legend where you become Kratos, an evil brute, recently crowned the new god of war.

The game is beautifully paced, giving you seemingly endless areas to explore with truly believable atmospherics in a way ...


Keywords:
sony playstation 2, ps2, pstwo, play station 2, playstation2


Article Body:
God of War II for the Playstation2 is a 3rd person action game that has won awards for its brilliance. While the original God of War game was amazing, the updated version has bettered it and in doing so, created a must-have game on Playstation2.

Enter a world of Greek legend where you become Kratos, an evil brute, recently crowned the new god of war.

The game is beautifully paced, giving you seemingly endless areas to explore with truly believable atmospherics in a way not seen before. To complete the mission, you'll have to fight some fearless creatures, uncover the answers to problems that bar your way, fight your way past seemingly unbeatable boss characters, and prove that you're the most brutal being ever created.

God of War II really does emphasize combat over everything else and gives you more combos to perfect, new moves and an array of weapons than you would have dreamed to own in the first title. While God of War I only offered you one weapon, GOW2 gives you several, which can be made stronger with attack power and special moves and abilities. Choose your own style of combat, with levels that offer up constant surprises. Re-playability is excellent as well – you can store your upgrades for the second time around, giving you several options when meeting tough foes again.

For those of you interested in how this game was made the second CD has a detailed guide. Everything is shown, blowing the lid off the secrets of how such an amazing game came to happen.

The graphics and sound of GOW2 is truly awe-inspiring. The orchestral soundtrack definitely helps you to get into the game, and always feels in perfect sync with whatever you are doing, blending nicely with the action.

The animations are spectacular, with fine attention to detail, and a camera that doesn't cause problems and instead gives an improvement in gameplay massively – always keeping you visible and able to view all the action. Even the voice-overs are great, and the sound effects bring it to life.

The fantastic lighting and special effects of the game, along with the core visuals and backgrounds, additionally add to it’s already impressive appearance, and help to make God of War II truly the most beautiful game ever to grace the Sony Playstation2.

God of War II is for only for mature gamers, but it is definitely the best action-packed game on the Playstation2 and a must see experience in its own right. Its non-stop nature, huge re-playability and unbeaten atmosphere make GOW2 the greatest Playstation2 game you can own.


