Title: 
The Video Camera Reigns Supreme

Word Count:
617

Summary:
The video camera first made its debut in the television industry but has now penetrated the common field. BBC (British Broadcasting Company) used the first ones in the 1930`s.

The video camera is used mainly for two purposes. The primary one is for projection of live shows, like the ones we see on the television as also for immediate spying as used by and for the military and industrial operations. The second purpose is for storage and archiving. Videotapes were at one tim...


Keywords:
video camera, videocam, webcam, camera, camcorder


Article Body:
The video camera first made its debut in the television industry but has now penetrated the common field. BBC (British Broadcasting Company) used the first ones in the 1930`s.

The video camera is used mainly for two purposes. The primary one is for projection of live shows, like the ones we see on the television as also for immediate spying as used by and for the military and industrial operations. The second purpose is for storage and archiving. Videotapes were at one time in use but now discs have replaced these.

The latest video cameras (filmadora) are a far cry from its first generation models - similarities are difficult to trace. Professional models of video cameras are mobile units and allow fine manual control as required in fieldwork. Camcorders (filmadora) are also video cameras - it is a combination of a camera and a recording device (VCR). These are in great demand for home movies, television production, electronic news conferences etc.

Another type of video camera is the closed circuit variety that is used for security and monitoring. They are tiny so that can be hidden and are often used to monitor the environment in settings where man cannot physically go. These web cams are video cameras used where there is danger from radiation, excessive heat and exposure to poisonous chemicals and inhospitable terrain.

Another model is the digital camera that converts the signal to a digital output and these are even smaller than the security cameras. Often these are incorporated into the body of the computer or mobile pones and laptops. Special types of video cameras are used abroad satellites for probing space or inserted in robots creating artificial intelligence. These come in handy also for medical use.

Video cameras (filmadora) are slowly taking over the film world as video technology improves by the day. Video cameras are now able to create special effects like infinite regression - repetition of a scene.

Video cameras were first meant for broadcasting television pictures. The first ones were large, mounted on trolleys and connected by wires to recorders kept in another room. Technology meant downsizing everything to mini handy proportions.

Simultaneously costs began to go down making it more affordable to the common people. Sales shot up boosting further research in the field. Shoulder operated luggage type video cameras used to sell for US$1500. Today better features are available from a mini model of video camera (filmadora) that can rest on the palm of the hand for US$150! It is a revolution in evolution.

It consists of three parts - the lens, the imager and the recorder. The lens focuses light on the object. The imager converts this into video signal and then finally it is stored or recorded in the recorder. The camera (filmadora) section consists of the optics and the imager. The lens has an aperture to control light, zoom to define the field of vision and shutter-speed to capture motion in continuity. The electronics automatically controls and adjusts these units.

Professionals have the option of choosing from models, which have manual functions as well so that the operator has a say in the matter. The imager is the eye of the set and changes light into video signal electronically. The recorder writes the video signal on to a magnetic videotape or disc. The time and date are also recorded.

From ancient times man has been desperate and keen to capture in time what is fleeting and transitory. He has scratched on stone and papyrus building library after library of life that is as fleeting as the moving river. This urge still remains. With the video camera (filmadora) we capture eternally our personal lives and record history of protests and speeches.


