Title: 
The Apple Iphone - Why?

Word Count:
521

Summary:
In January of 2007, Apple announced that it was entering into the portable phone market with the development and launch of the iPhone. Scheduled for release in June of 2007, the Apple iPhone will be able to play music like an iPod, surf and browse the web, take pictures, showcase videos, send text messages and emails, and, maybe, make or take a phone call or two.

Big deal.

For every new cell phone or cell phone company that introduces itself to the market, proclaiming t...


Keywords:
Apple, iPod, iPhone, Lindsay, Lohan, Touch, Screen, Talk, Communication, Device, Music, Video, MP3


Article Body:
In January of 2007, Apple announced that it was entering into the portable phone market with the development and launch of the iPhone. Scheduled for release in June of 2007, the Apple iPhone will be able to play music like an iPod, surf and browse the web, take pictures, showcase videos, send text messages and emails, and, maybe, make or take a phone call or two.

Big deal.

For every new cell phone or cell phone company that introduces itself to the market, proclaiming that their particular model of cell phone can, say, play music, there are dozens of other names and brands, some popular, some not, that can do exactly the same thing. What's the catch? What's the hook? Where's the innovative technological design that's supposed to make the public stand up and take notice?

Now, the Apple iPhone does have complete virtual touch-screen. There are no raised buttons to press and push, and everything is operated with the sense of a finger. Now, that actually is a cool feature, but, it might not be completely practical. Why? Simply because when I look at my hands, I see chubby fingers that are not going to be able to accurately press any button on a small touch screen. Now, unless that screen is 6" across, which, if that were the case, might defeat the entire mobility purpose of the phone.

Why does Apple feel the need to develop and create their own portable phone? Could it be that they really want to revolutionize portable communication? Do they want to make the world a better place? Can they offer something that no one else can?

Look at it this way: why does Lindsay Lohan think she could sing? 

Because it's another revenue stream to be mined, that's why? Now, there's no doubt that the iPhone is cool, and will find a popular and receptive audience. But, like Lohan's singing attempts, it doesn't really improve the world and the world wouldn't notice it if it weren't around. It's just there, and it will make money. Partially because of its features, partially because of curiosity seekers, and partially because of people loyal to the brand name.

No one is begrudging Apple for getting in on the portability craze. After all, Apple may have taken that craze to incredible heights with the development and release of the iPod. So, it makes sense, then, to fuse the iPod with a cellular phone. But, it's already been done before.

Maybe the real issue is that if Apple released a phone without web, email, video player and other bells and whistles, that it simply wouldn't sell and just sit there on the shelves. If Lindsay Lohan had to sing on her own merits, she might be joining that lonely phone. But, add some studio effects, create some stylish videos and surround her with talented musicians, and she becomes passable and tolerable. 

In today's ultra-connected world, it seems that no one will buy a cell phone for the expressed purpose of having a phone with you while on the go. You need to have everything or your will appear to be nothing.


