Title: 
The Ipod Audio Revolution

Word Count:
469

Summary:
Do you know anyone who today doesn't know what an iPod is? Unless they've been asleep for the last ten years or are totally out of touch with today's technology, the answer is probably not.

But, in case you don't know, just be aware that the iPod, made by Apple (of Macintosh fame), is the absolute king of the MP3 market. Don't know what MP3 is? Well, that's for a seperate article. Speaking of articles, go check out more at http://www.foraudio.com.

The iPod is the most p...


Keywords:
audio,sound,stereo,sound system,cd,ipod,music,music mixing,audio engineering


Article Body:
Do you know anyone who today doesn't know what an iPod is? Unless they've been asleep for the last ten years or are totally out of touch with today's technology, the answer is probably not.

But, in case you don't know, just be aware that the iPod, made by Apple (of Macintosh fame), is the absolute king of the MP3 market. Don't know what MP3 is? Well, that's for a seperate article. Speaking of articles, go check out more at http://www.foraudio.com.

The iPod is the most popular and successful portable digital music device in the world. Another way of explaining it is that he iPod is The Format for digital music, period. End of story. You can love the iPod or hate it, but it's hard to dispute the facts. And, or such a tiny device, Apple's iPod sure knows how to throw its weight around!

And, your iPod is about more than just music. Here are a few interesting things to know about an Ipod:

*The iPod is the latest educational tool

*Thanks to the emergence of the podcast, the iPod is a powerful tool that makes learning just about anything fun and more convenient to access

*The latest version of the iPod includes a video player feature

*The iPod is no where even close to being 'out of date'

*Moving your songs to the iPod is as easy as copy a file to a disk

*Although the iPod is an Apple product, it works with both Mac and Windows machines.

*The greatest advantage and disadvantage of an iPod is its small shape.

And there are many more features to mention.

Here is a surprising statistic that you may find of interest: Apple's iPod is turning 5. That's right, the iPod's development dates back to 2001. In that short time it has become such a huge success that some people have predicted that in the future Apple will be more of a music company than a computer company. Well, that remains to be seen, but it could happen.

But one thing is for sure, the iPod is still in the prime of its life and has many years ahead of it even without the upgrades and updates that are sure to come. Add the future improvements to the mix and we have a product that will be with us for many years to come. An iPod is many things to many people, but it can be much more than most people realize.

So, do you have your iPod yet? If not, be sure to do your homework and determing how you will use yours. There are other MP3 players out there, but if you are fashion-concious, the Ipod is your choice.

For many people, their iPod is a constant companion. Are you ready to jump on board?


