Title: 
The Convenience Of An All In One Printer

Word Count:
474

Summary:
Most people don’t like to have a boss, but not everyone can work on their own. But working from home can be fairly expensive. Anyone who has worked from home can attest to the high cost of home office equipment. Standard office equipment includes a fax machine to send and receive documents quickly, a copier for making multiple copies of paperwork, a scanner for uploading information, and a printer for a variety of paperwork-related tasks. Adding them all up can hit you hard i...


Keywords:
printer


Article Body:
Most people don’t like to have a boss, but not everyone can work on their own. But working from home can be fairly expensive. Anyone who has worked from home can attest to the high cost of home office equipment. Standard office equipment includes a fax machine to send and receive documents quickly, a copier for making multiple copies of paperwork, a scanner for uploading information, and a printer for a variety of paperwork-related tasks. Adding them all up can hit you hard in the wallet and clog up your workspace. Luckily for anyone with a home office, there is a simple solution: an all-in-one printer.

The greatest advantage of the all-in-one printer is that it integrates three sizable machines into one conveniently-sized device. The all-in-one printer can fit easily on the surface of a desk or shelf, freeing up surface space for other things. Installing the printer’s software is simple to do, with easy step-by-step instructions to guide you through the process. Finding an all-in-one printer is as effortless as a quick trip to an electronics store like Best Buy, Circuit City, or Radio Shack.

Alternatively, you can shop online to find an all-in-one printer that’s right for you. With so many currently available on the market, the competition between brands has made the prices fall greatly. Some reliable online stores include http://geeks.com, http://newegg.com and http://amazon.com. Each of these online businesses can offer product warranties that will protect your all-in-one printer from an early demise.

All-in-one printers usually sell for one hundred dollars or less, so the cost of the machine makes it a very practical investment for any home office. The added work space that the all-in-one printer allows you makes the purchase even more practical, because it helps you maximize your office’s usable space. The additional convenience of having three devices in one is yet another clear advantage of buying an all-in-one printer.

Some all-in-one printers come with bundled software that allows the printer to serve as a fax machine in addition to its printing, scanning and copying duties. Buying an all-in-one printer with faxing capabilities will cost a little more, but the added convenience of being able to send and receive documents from home can make the additional expense well worth it.

You can benefit from investing in an all-in-one printer, even if you don’t work from home running your own business. These all-in-one printers are perfect for anyone wanting to scan and save family photographs, make copies of personal documents, or print letters and greeting cards. All-in-one printers are inexpensive too, especially when comparing it to the combined prices of all the separate devices. Adding up the ease and convenience of owning one device that performs a variety of tasks makes obtaining one a practical and fine investment.


