Title: 
The Innovative Apple iPhone

Word Count:
435

Summary:
It’s finally here! The hugely anticipated Apple iPhone is finally a reality. As what we have expected, it makes calls and supports a digital music player that syncs with iTunes. The Apple iPhone has a thin design and is dominated by a vivid touch screen that showcases photos and videos beautifully. People will also note a lack of controls and buttons as all menu navigation and data entry from dialing numbers and typing messages is done on the touch screen. The Apple iPhone is...


Keywords:
Innovative Apple iPhone


Article Body:
It’s finally here! The hugely anticipated Apple iPhone is finally a reality. As what we have expected, it makes calls and supports a digital music player that syncs with iTunes. The Apple iPhone has a thin design and is dominated by a vivid touch screen that showcases photos and videos beautifully. People will also note a lack of controls and buttons as all menu navigation and data entry from dialing numbers and typing messages is done on the touch screen. The Apple iPhone is three devices in one: a cell phone, a wide-screen iPod with touch controls, and an Internet communications device. Apple iPhone is not just a phone; it is a phone with a video player, music player, internet device, and camera all in one.

Apple iPhone Features

Other features of the Apple iPhone include quad-band world phone support, a 2-megapixel still camera, Wi-Fi capability, stereo Bluetooth, a speakerphone, e-mail and a Safari Web browser. Memory caps out at 8MB and although there's no 3G support or wireless downloads the Apple iPhone will garner interest simply because it exists.

The Apple iPhone has only one hardware control called the Home key. The device is dominated by a huge, 3.5-inch display. Inside are an iPod music and video player, a full Safari Web browser, a 2-megapixel camera and integrated support for Google Maps. People who use iPhone will be able to scroll through songs, artists, albums, and play lists with just a flick of a finger. One cool new feature is the display of album artwork.

Apple iPhone can make a call by simply touching a finger at a name or number in the address book, a favorites list, or a call log. All the contacts from a PC, Mac, or Internet device are also automatically synched with the device. Users can also select and listen to voicemail messages in whatever order they want, just like email. Calls can easily be merged together with just the touch of a button to you can create a conference call by easily merging the calls with just the touch of a button. This makes conference calling easier!

The iPhone can also send text messages with an SMS application with a predictive QWERTY soft keyboard that can correct mistakes such as misspellings. It makes it easier and more efficient to use than the small plastic keyboards found in other phones.

This highly advanced and very beautifully crafted Apple iPhone can hardly be called just a phone with the host of features that come with it. No wonder many people are dying to get one. http://www.the-iphone.biz/


