Title: 
The Revolutionary iPhone: The iPhone Camera

Word Count:
436

Summary:
The iPhone device is considered as being one of the most revolutionary, controversy causing gadgets to be released on the market in years, and although there are certainly some negative issues revolving around the device, there are many more positive notes to be made about it.

There are many aspects to the iPhone that are adored, but the iPhone camera in particular is incredibly popular. This is the camera feature that is offered on the iPhone device, and the iPhone camera...


Keywords:
The iPhone Camera


Article Body:
The iPhone device is considered as being one of the most revolutionary, controversy causing gadgets to be released on the market in years, and although there are certainly some negative issues revolving around the device, there are many more positive notes to be made about it.

There are many aspects to the iPhone that are adored, but the iPhone camera in particular is incredibly popular. This is the camera feature that is offered on the iPhone device, and the iPhone camera features are considered as being quite impressive for a camera phone, featuring 2 megapixels, fabulous image management software, and even the ability to be able to sync with images on your computer.

In terms of the actual quality of the iPhone camera, it is far from spectacular, but definitely still impressive, especially for such a small and compact device. Especially when you compare it to its competition on the market today it is ideal, considering that most other camera phones offer 1.3 megapixels at best.

Image Management

The image management of the iPhone camera is incredibly advanced, and while most other camera phones only offer basic image management software, the iPhone goes much further, and allows you options that you never imagined possible with a camera phone.

The software offered on the iPhone features playlist type galleries that you can sort through by name or subject, and you can use photos on the phone to store as your wallpaper or screensaver, and you can also email them out to your family and friends. This is just the beginning however, and one of the best and most advanced features of the iPhone camera image management system is that with the 3.5” display screen you are able to actually see your photos on the screen rather than having to squint while trying to look at thumbnails.

Emailing Pictures

If you like to email pictures from your iPhone out to your family and friends, then you have some really great options available to you, and this is actually one of the key features of the device in general. The iPhone works with POP email accounts, as well as with Yahoo! Mail, Microsoft Exchange, AOL Mail, Google Gmail, and Apple .Mac Mail.

Overall it is very easy to see how worthwhile a purchase the iPhone is, not only because of the featured iPhone camera, but also because of the various other terrific options that are available with it. Not only that but there are also numerous gadgets and accessories that you can purchase to go with the iPhone, so you are never lacking when it comes to variety. http://www.the-iphone.biz


