Title: 
The Spread Of High Speed, A.K.A. Broadband Internet, Part 2

Word Count:
338

Summary:
The price of broadband internet access has dropped dramatically over the past five years. Many people who could not afford broadband internet access now realize that by just spending about ten to twenty dollars more a month they can upgrade from dial-up internet access to broadband internet access.

This drop in price has been enough for people to look for an alternative to the slow, unresponsive, and very unreliable service that most of us became accustomed to while using ...


Keywords:



Article Body:
The price of broadband internet access has dropped dramatically over the past five years. Many people who could not afford broadband internet access now realize that by just spending about ten to twenty dollars more a month they can upgrade from dial-up internet access to broadband internet access.

This drop in price has been enough for people to look for an alternative to the slow, unresponsive, and very unreliable service that most of us became accustomed to while using dial-up. One of the main reasons that the price has dropped so much is that new technologies have been developed to allow broadband internet access to be enjoyed in more places. Also the infrastructure of many companies has been extended to allow service to be available to more people.

Probably the biggest reason for the spread of broadband internet access is the increase of availability. Many people wanted broadband internet when they first heard about it, but it was not available in their area. While we still have a very long way to go, the United States is starting to build an infrastructure that will allow broadband internet access to almost anywhere in the country.

One of the best things about broadband internet is that once it has been extended into an area, the price to distribute it to other people in the area is much lower. Most of the money has already been spent to get the infrastructure close enough to major population areas, that the cost to supply it to users in those areas is now very small.

Another reason the availability of broadband internet access has grown so much lately is that many different types of broadband is now available. These technologies include DSL, cable, wireless, and even satellite and GSM networks. The competition between these different companies has also helped to “hype” broadband internet access, and drive prices down. Broadband internet access is only going to get faster and spread more, so we need to embrace these new technologies or we will be left behind.


