Title: 
The Brand New Digital Electronic Photo Album Is Now Free Just For You

Word Count:
410

Summary:
A photographic album, or photo album, even a digital electronic photo album, is a collection of a series of photographs, generally in a book, even if it’s a virtual one. Some albums have compartments which the images may be slipped in to; older style albums were simply books of heavy paper which photos could be glued to or attached to with adhesive corners, or pages.

Online photos can be uploaded and made into a coffee table style photo book. Different online services offe...


Keywords:
digital electronic photo album, digital photos


Article Body:
A photographic album, or photo album, even a digital electronic photo album, is a collection of a series of photographs, generally in a book, even if it’s a virtual one. Some albums have compartments which the images may be slipped in to; older style albums were simply books of heavy paper which photos could be glued to or attached to with adhesive corners, or pages.

Online photos can be uploaded and made into a coffee table style photo book. Different online services offer options such as photo editing, varied sizes, varied bleeds, layouts, cover design, colors, for digital electronic photo album etc. 

Some services even enlarge the idea of a digital electronic photo album by allowing a photograph to become part of many photo albums, add comments and keywords to these photographs and use these keywords as the mean to create new digital electronic photo album. Some online photo albums provide services such as photo printing and options to upload pictures to your cellular phones.

There are many software programs available to organize images in folders or digital electronic photo album, such as Adobe Photoshop Album and Picasa. These programs generally allow for sorting and ordering of different images, tagging the images, and viewing them in slideshows or printing them. These programs commonly allow the user to perform basic edits such as cropping, red-eye removal, and some basic "one touch" enhancements for color and lighting. 

Storing digital images in traditional photo-albums needs the growth on photo paper and placing it on the pages of an empty photo-album. With Photo-Books, a real book with your own images and texts can be created. The follow-on book is printed via digital color printers and bounded together, and looks exactly the same as the initial concept.

Professional printing and binding services offer free software for easy creation of photo-books with professional layouts and individual lay outing capabilities. Because of the integrated design and order of workflow, real hardcover bounded books with your own pictures and text can be produced very cost effectively. 

Share your photos with friends and family, make different photo albums for all your special occasions, let your friends and family comment on your photos, and even allow people to rate your photos. 

The user shall be able to specify a set of photos for inclusion into an album, and have the system automatically layout the album using a predefined template. Photo selection shall grow linearly with the number of photos.


