Title: 
The Latest Hp Ipaq Device, The HP Ipaq 500 Series Voice Messenger.

Word Count:
364

Summary:
HP introduced the latest HP iPAQ device, smartphone that delivers a flexible wireless email experience for business customers through voice control and hands-free operation. The HP iPAQ 500 series Voice Messenger features voice over Internet protocol (VoIP) capabilities, push email and the latest Windows Mobile 6 operating system. With up to six hours of continuous talk time on a fully charged battery, the HP iPAQ Voice Messenger also leads the competition in battery life.
...


Keywords:
IPAQ 500, IPAQ 510, IPAQ, IPAQ500, IPAQ510, HP IPAQ, iPAQ Voice Messenger, HP


Article Body:
HP introduced the latest HP iPAQ device, smartphone that delivers a flexible wireless email experience for business customers through voice control and hands-free operation. The HP iPAQ 500 series Voice Messenger features voice over Internet protocol (VoIP) capabilities, push email and the latest Windows Mobile 6 operating system. With up to six hours of continuous talk time on a fully charged battery, the HP iPAQ Voice Messenger also leads the competition in battery life.

It is said that more than 20 voice commands available on the iPAQ offer customers hands-free operation. Using voice reply feature, people can reply to email by dictating and sending a voice response, without the need for any typing. Users also can listen to email and text messages, navigate through phone and calendar tasks and speak to start applications.

Additionally, the HP iPAQ Voice Messenger has built-in Wi-Fi to provide business customers a VoIP alternative to traditional office phone setups. By integrating the HP iPAQ Voice Messenger with office phone systems, businesses can eliminate the need for desk phones and benefit from streamlined communications and reduced IT management. The smartphone also includes GSM/EDGE and Bluetooth wireless technology connectivity options.

"Busy professionals are constantly flooded with email and looking for ways to quickly and easily manage it and move on with their day. Our HP iPAQ Voice Messenger smartphone gives mobile users an easy way to manage all types of communications and stay focused on their business," said Dave Rothschild, Vice President, Handheld Business unit, Personal Systems Group, HP.

Todd Warren, Corporate Vice President, Mobile and Embedded Devices division, Microsoft Corp., stated: "Windows Mobile 6 delivers advanced communications, increased productivity and integrated mobile business performance all within the familiar Microsoft software experience. We are pleased to work with HP to offer a device that will help businesses thrive by enabling people to access important data wherever they are."

The HP iPAQ 500 series Voice Messenger is expected to be available this spring in the United States direct from HP and select authorized dealers. International pricing and availability for the HP iPAQ 500 series will vary.

To learn more about the iPAQ series phones or the first iPAQ phone the iPAQ 510 visit iPAQ510.com or iPAQ500.com.


