Title: 
Things To Do When Your Computer Starts Developing Problems

Word Count:
579

Summary:
The introduction of the lap top has made computers portable and you can find them on planes, trains, buses and in cars. Computers are the latest method of communicating with nearly everyone, everywhere. That is until they start to develop problems. They are notorious for breaking down a few hours before you have to turn in your paper or make your office presentation.

Most computers have warranties covering service. There is usually probably a service where computer owners ...


Keywords:
computer


Article Body:
The introduction of the lap top has made computers portable and you can find them on planes, trains, buses and in cars. Computers are the latest method of communicating with nearly everyone, everywhere. That is until they start to develop problems. They are notorious for breaking down a few hours before you have to turn in your paper or make your office presentation.

Most computers have warranties covering service. There is usually probably a service where computer owners can get help over the phone or online. This service is essential to computer owners. If you have tried everything you know to resolve a computer problem and nothing is working, you can go online, at the computer manufacturer’s site, and do some simple diagnostic tests. Usually the site contains questions that commonly arise when computers fail. Simple solutions, from plugging in the equipment to rebooting a program, are available online.

If the online suggestions don’t work, you can call a service over the phone. The cable or phone company provider has this service available when you first are hooked-up to the Internet. A computer technician will listen to your complaint and then offer a variety of solutions. A pleasant, knowledgeable voice on the other end of the line can calm you down when you’re ready to pull your hair out or commit violent acts against your computer.

Sometimes, the phone technician can’t fix your problem. Then you need to call a repair service. There are companies that will dispatch computer technicians who will come to your home and, for a price, fix whatever is ailing your computer. Geek Squad is one such service. It will, on a 24/7 basis, provide upgrades, repairs and protection from spyware and viruses. If you think the problem is something you did as a result of not being familiar with a computer system, Geek Squad offers one- and two-hour personal instruction courses.

After it has been established that you don’t have a software problem, you now face the challenge of correcting a hardware problem. Then you have no choice but to open up the computer and do the repairs yourself. While most of us would pass on this option, it is not as difficult as it seems. There are less than 12 parts, including keyboard and mouse, in most computers. The number one cause of computer malfunctions is the AC power supply. Often, especially in cheaper models, replacing it solves all the problems.

There are some problems that you cannot solve without proper training, such as repairing the motherboard or the CPU or fixing video components and defective hard drives. Then you have to take your computer to a repair facility. There they can take your computer apart, run a diagnostic checkup and replace what needs to be replaced. They can install new hard drives, new components and programs, and replace any mechanical parts that are not working properly. They will also clean the inside of your computer, where dust and other smart particles have collected. If your computer is under warranty, you will probably get these services for free. If you have not purchased an extended warranty, you will have to pay for whatever is done.

If there is a hardware problem with your computer, you may not have to take it to the store where you bought it or a repair facility. There are facilities that come to you and, like Geek Squad, repair the malfunctioning equipment in your home.


