Title: 
Timex Heart Rate Monitor

Word Count:
432

Summary:
Many people who are involved in sports and fitness are looking for a great heart rate monitor, and who better to go to than one of the leading makers. Timex is one of the most popular makers of this kind of technology, and they also excel in regular watches as well. Now you can get a great heart rate monitor from tem and know that you have a accurate heart rate monitor to aid you in your activities. Whether you are training athletes, are an athlete in training, or just someon...


Keywords:
fitness, heart rate monitor, Timex


Article Body:
Many people who are involved in sports and fitness are looking for a great heart rate monitor, and who better to go to than one of the leading makers. Timex is one of the most popular makers of this kind of technology, and they also excel in regular watches as well. Now you can get a great heart rate monitor from tem and know that you have a accurate heart rate monitor to aid you in your activities. Whether you are training athletes, are an athlete in training, or just someone who enjoys staying fit, you will appreciate these great heart rate monitors.

What makes these monitors so great and accurate is the new FM technology that they use. These monitors have two different parts. One part is the receiver, which is usually worn on your wrist. The receiver actually lets the user see the heart rate reading and also gives the user access to other features such as the amount of fat and calories that are burned during the workout. The other part of the monitor is the transmitter. The transmitter has to be worn on the chest so it can measure the heart rate of the user and then send it on to the receiver for data measurement.

Most heart rate monitors use what is called an analog signal, and while these are usually quite accurate, Timex has developed a more accurate technology. This technology, the FM technology, is more accurate than the analog signals and will give you an accurate reading of your heart rate that may only be off by two or three beats a minute. This new technology is digital, and since it is digital you do not have to worry about getting interference from those around you who are also using heart rate monitors. You can be sure that the readings you get with this monitor are always accurate and you can rely on this information.

Some of these heart rate monitors made by Timex also have other great features as well. Some of them have special sensors that will keep track of the distance you go, as well as your speed. These Timex monitors actually use a special GPS system to calculate the time and the distance you have gone.

All of these features set Timex apart from any other maker of heart rate monitors. They are a step above the rest of the competition. If you need accuracy, then you want Timex. If you want great features, then you want Timex. If you accuracy and great features, then you again will want a Timex.


