Title: 
Tips On Where And How To Get Free Software Downloads

Word Count:
317

Summary:
It seems everywhere you look on the internet, you are being bombarded with offers to download free software. Some of this software contains spyware, malware, or worse so you best be careful when downloading things from the net. This article will give you some very useful information and insight into the world of free software downloads.

First off, you must understand the difference between freeware software and shareware software. Shareware programs are free to use for a s...


Keywords:



Article Body:
It seems everywhere you look on the internet, you are being bombarded with offers to download free software. Some of this software contains spyware, malware, or worse so you best be careful when downloading things from the net. This article will give you some very useful information and insight into the world of free software downloads.

First off, you must understand the difference between freeware software and shareware software. Shareware programs are free to use for a set period of time. For example, some software may have a 7-day trial period. This allows the user to use the program, either in full or with limited functionality, for 7 days. After the 7-day period, the user must pay for the registration of the software in order to keep using it. On the other hand, freeware software is completely free to use and distribute for as long as you wish.

If you are actively looking for free software to download, you should take notice of which site(s) you are downloading from. If you can, download from reputable websites. How do you know which websites are reputable? Make a search for the website on http://www.google.com or any other search engine to see what others have to say.

Once you find the software you’re looking for, you should take note of its software license. That is, if it’s freeware, shareware or simply a demo. Generally speaking, shareware programs tend to be better and have more features than freeware. If you’re looking for a piece of software that does one specific job, then you may find a freeware application to fit your needs. Once you try looking for more complex features you may be forced to look at some shareware applications.

Some of the best sites for downloading freeware and shareware applications are http://www.download.com , http://www.topshareware.com , and http://downloads.zdnet.com.


