Title: 
Tips To Keep Your Laptop Safe

Word Count:
560

Summary:
Having a laptop computer these days is just as important as having your desktop machine. You need to have access to the internet, your email, and other important data at all times. It’s important to remember that the same problems that data recovery, spyware and viruses can cause on your PC can also affect your laptop computer. Security for your portable machine is also doubly important because of the risk involved in having your laptop stolen. It’s also very important to mak...


Keywords:
Computer, Security, Laptop, Desktop, PC, Virus, Software, Spyware, Safe, Portable, Tips, Data


Article Body:
Having a laptop computer these days is just as important as having your desktop machine. You need to have access to the internet, your email, and other important data at all times. It’s important to remember that the same problems that data recovery, spyware and viruses can cause on your PC can also affect your laptop computer. Security for your portable machine is also doubly important because of the risk involved in having your laptop stolen. It’s also very important to make certain your laptop security is in tiptop shape before you head out for work or on a business trip with your laptop. There are certain laptop security tips you can follow to keep your machine and data safe at all times.

If your machine and data are super-sensitive, you can have tracking software installed in your laptop. Security experts can then track and follow the location of your machine as it moves. It works in the same fashion as a global positioning system does for your vehicle. This proposition is expensive, but it does increase your computer security and your overall chance of data recovery should your machine ever get stolen or lost.

Mostly, though, effective laptop security comes from good old-fashioned common sense. Being aware of your surroundings and movements can severely limit the potential of your portable computer being stolen, misplaced or lost. Here are some simple tips that can increase your computer’s security and help minimize the risk of theft to your laptop.

-Never leave your laptop unattended. When you stay with your laptop computer, security increase and the risk of losing your machine decreases.

-Do not leave your laptop in your vehicle. If you have to, improve laptop security by locking it in the trunk of your car. Don’t leave it in plain view.

-When you are not using your laptop, lock up the machine itself or lock it in a secure cabinet or desk.

-Make certain that using hard to decipher passwords enhances your laptop security. If someone does steal or come into possession of your computer, security caused by passwords will make it difficult for someone to access your data.

-Purchase a laptop security cable and lock so you can tightly keep your laptop closed when it’s not in use.

Just as with desktop CPUs, you can potentially lose unsaved data unexpectedly and require data recovery services. Make certain that any important documents or files have data backups at all times. Don’t just save items on your laptop’s desktop. If you lose something on your desktop computer, security experts at least have a chance to recover it for you. If you are not diligent with your laptop security, technicians can’t retrieve the lost data for you because your laptop itself will be gone. It’s hard to work on something that isn’t there.

Laptops are becoming wireless enabled every day. And wireless security is just as important as conventional laptop security. Because laptops can work in hot spots, there are many hackers ready to get into your system. Make certain your laptop computer’s security is up to date with the latest antivirus software to combat potential thieves. Also remember to follow the common sense tips listed above. If you do these things, you’ll never have to worry about your laptop security.


