Title: 
Tips On Finding Free Adobe Photoshop Tutorial

Word Count:
614

Summary:
You may have been amazed at how your friends or family have manipulated photographs from way back when or truly impressed by the visually stimulating personalized electronic greeting cards you received from your colleagues. No matter what your ulterior motive is for buying that graphic editor software, such as Adobe Photoshop, the question now is how you are going to learn how to use them and impress yourself or other people on how creative you can be with such tool.

Unles...


Keywords:
photo shop tutorial,adobe photo shop tutorial,free photo shop tutorial


Article Body:
You may have been amazed at how your friends or family have manipulated photographs from way back when or truly impressed by the visually stimulating personalized electronic greeting cards you received from your colleagues. No matter what your ulterior motive is for buying that graphic editor software, such as Adobe Photoshop, the question now is how you are going to learn how to use them and impress yourself or other people on how creative you can be with such tool.

Unless you want to be a professional graphic designer, it is advisable that you first learn the basics of the software from free Adobe Photoshop tutorial available to you. You may be extremely excited to weave magic on your digital images, but you need to know that you cannot just enhance or create beautiful pictures if you do not know even just the fundamentals of the software you just bought. It would also be futile to pay for advanced Adobe Photoshop classes or tutorials because you might not be able to fully comprehend what your instructor is saying, especially if you are not really very familiar with computers, because you don't even know the basics.

Do not panic. The first free Adobe Photoshop tutorial that is available to you is from the software CD itself. After installing the software, navigate and look for a tutorial or help section. Such software usually has tutorials that will show you what you can do with your new acquisition. Chances are you will be able to know what the icons on your screen signify and do with the help tool provided by the manufacturer of the software.

Another way to get a free Adobe Photoshop tutorial is to ask a friend to teach you. This is one of the best methods to learn the software because you will have someone guide you while you trying out the software. Moreover, this tutorial is interactive so you can ask your friend questions if some things seem difficult to understand. However, usually a tutorial from a friend is actually not entirely free. It would be nice to treat your friend to lunch or dinner after he or she has painstakingly explained and showed you how to use Adobe Photoshop. 

Actually, if you have a son or daughter who is into computers, you could also ask their help. Children nowadays are so adept at using the Internet and new computer trends and software. You won't have difficulty in asking help from your children because they know that they have to teach you well or else their allowance might be compromised.

Another way to find a free Adobe Photoshop tutorial is through the Internet. Just search "free Adobe Photoshop tutorials" in whatever search engine you usually use and you will find a lot of sites that offer tutorials that you can download for free. Be sure to type the word free when searching for tutorials because there are also a number of websites that require you to pay for certain file downloads.

Aside from downloading files on how to use your Photoshop, you could also join forums and discussion groups. Such venues will help you learn tricks and new ways of doing things from the experiences of people who have been using the software for a long time.

Lastly, the best way for you to learn is to practice. Do not be afraid to put the things that you have learned from the tutorials to use. No matter how many paid or free tutorials you attend, you will not be able to learn how to completely manipulate the graphic editor if you do not try it out. Go ahead be creative and experiment.


