Title: 
Tips For Improving A Wireless Home Network

Word Count:
515

Summary:
A basic WiFi home network can be assembled fairly quickly. However, many homeowners aren't aware of all the options available for making their network better. The wireless network can have its capability, performance and security improved. Consider these tips for improving your wireless home network.

1. Upgrade or replace with correct hardware

In addition to the basic WiFi equipment such as the router and the wireless card, which may be upgraded with newer, faster or mo...


Keywords:
wifi, w-fi, hotspots, wireless, internet, wimax, wi-max


Article Body:
A basic WiFi home network can be assembled fairly quickly. However, many homeowners aren't aware of all the options available for making their network better. The wireless network can have its capability, performance and security improved. Consider these tips for improving your wireless home network.

1. Upgrade or replace with correct hardware

In addition to the basic WiFi equipment such as the router and the wireless card, which may be upgraded with newer, faster or more compatible equipment as it comes on the market, other wireless gear such as video cameras, game adaptors and print servers are fun to consider. Do the research and get the best quality equipment for a good price.

2. Install the access point strategically

Assembly of the wireless home network can be done easily—so easily in fact that some people rush into the project only to discover that it won’t work in parts of the residence. Or, perhaps the network works just great until it crashes every time a cordless telephone or microwave is activated.  So non-techies are afraid to try to fix the poor performance of the network because they might make it worse. By moving the wireless router or access point to another location, many of these common WiFi networking problems will be solved. 

3. Change the channel number

Another tip for improving a wireless home network is to vary the channel used. In the United States, as well as in most other nations, WiFi equipment can send signals on a variety of channels.  Wireless routers usually are shipped with a default channel and many homeowners do not realize it can be changed. If the neighbor’s router or other electronic equipment causes radio interference, try changing the WiFi channel.

4. Upgrade access point firmware

The built-in programmable software of the wireless router or access point is called the firmware. The factory installed firmware typically works for a time, but usually needs to be upgraded or replaced periodically to get improved performance, more reliability or security enhancements.

5. Improve strength and range of the access point

Sometimes the wireless signal of the WiFi router or access point is just not strong enough. This can be caused by distances or home construction features such as brick walls. In order to solve the problem the WiFi antenna on the router can be upgraded or a wireless repeater can be installed. 

6. Improve strength and range of WiFi clients

The signal strength of WiFi clients can also be improved. When treating a WiFi client that has a short range in comparison to the other devises, you may want to choose this option. This same method can improve laptop computer’s ability to connect to hotspots.

7. Improve wireless network security

Many homeowners consider their wireless network a success when basic file and Internet connection sharing are functional. However, if proper security features are not in place, the work of network setup remains unfinished.  

While the basic setup and equipment of the wireless network may be perfectly satisfactory to the homeowner, part of the fun of technology is the opportunity to make good better and better best.


