Title: 
Tools To Convert PDF To Txt Files

Word Count:
556

Summary:
If there is one common problem amongst computer users all over the world, it actually concerns the conversion of PDF files to text files. This is because when you convert PDF to txt files, you actually need enough support for such a document exchange. Fortunately, a lot of tools that can help in such conversion have indeed been developed.

PDF actually stands for Portable Document Format, and it is actually developed by one of the hugest names in the industry, the Adobe Sys...


Keywords:
convert pdf to txt,convert pdf2txt,convert pdf to text


Article Body:
If there is one common problem amongst computer users all over the world, it actually concerns the conversion of PDF files to text files. This is because when you convert PDF to txt files, you actually need enough support for such a document exchange. Fortunately, a lot of tools that can help in such conversion have indeed been developed.

PDF actually stands for Portable Document Format, and it is actually developed by one of the hugest names in the industry, the Adobe Systems. What makes this format so special? It is actually the fact that the file can contain a complete and utter description of a document that is 2-dimensional. Such a document can contain text, fonts, images, and even vector graphics that are also 2-dimensional in nature.

The earlier versions of programs that created PDF files actually required much of users because they had to buy software that is totally separate from the system just to view and print these files. Also, at that time, these versions did not really support the format of hyperlinks, so these files were not really in demand over the net. But during the first part of the 90's, Adobe Acrobat introduced as much as 8 versions of this format. What's more, Adobe also came up with what is known as the Acrobat Reader Program free of charge. This very smart move on the part of Adobe Systems certainly turned around a lot of tables in their favor. So, the eight file types would actually include strings, numbers, arrays, Boolean values, names, large data streams, objects that have been arranged by dictionaries or names, and of course, the null object.

However, there is actually a problem that is quite common when using PDF files, especially when processing conversion. You see, the process of retrieving the contents of PDF files, like text contents and such, is not really that simple. This is the primary concern of the many convert PDF to txt tools that you can purchase in the market right now.

Adobe itself has developed its own set of tools for PDF conversion. One of these tools is the Acrobat Professional, which has been dubbed one of the more popular choices when it comes to such conversion tools. A lot of users prefer this tool to other brands mainly because of its extensive language support. This tool is actually very friendly to Chinese, Japanese, and Koreans.

Another name that has been stirring up quite a storm amongst a lot of users is PDFTextStream. Now, this tool has definitely built quite the reputation. This conversion tool also supports so many foreign languages and an extensive collection of fonts as well. But what distinguishes PDFTextStream from other conversion tools is the fact that you can actually use the tool in your browser. This means that you do not need to download it onto your system anymore, which makes up for disk space! Of course, when your Internet connection is down or experiencing technical difficulties, then the tool is not that useful anymore.

Needless to say, when scouting for different convert PDF to txt tools, you should choose the one what fits your needs the most. Once your choice has been made, be sure to check out its trial version first, so that you can make a more educated decision in the long run.


