Title: 
Top 3 Free Web Hosting Services

Word Count:
484

Summary:
Nowadays, there are many free webhosting services available on the Internet. Sometimes it can be difficult to choose which one is best for you. First of all, you need to bear in mind free wehosting usually have some limitations such as not allowed email accounts, no mysql databases, no perl etc. It varies from each web host.

There are sometimes hidden cost as well for free webhosting. For example, you need to register a domain name from the web host before you can have fre...


Keywords:
Cheap web hosting, cheap web host, web hosting, web hosting cheap, cheap domain web hosting, cheap w


Article Body:
Nowadays, there are many free webhosting services available on the Internet. Sometimes it can be difficult to choose which one is best for you. First of all, you need to bear in mind free wehosting usually have some limitations such as not allowed email accounts, no mysql databases, no perl etc. It varies from each web host.

There are sometimes hidden cost as well for free webhosting. For example, you need to register a domain name from the web host before you can have free web hosting. Other place restriction on bandwidth, disk space and if you exceed them, expect to pay some money.

Another type is some web host will place banners, text links etc on your webpage. Some only occupy a small amount of screen space while others can be as large as one-third. Geocities.com is an example of a free webhosting service that places banners, text links on your webpage.

With that said, if you really have no money, then there is no choice but to get free webhosting. It is also useful if you are new to web design and can use it for testing purposes. I still have one hosted on geocities with my first designed personal webpage.

There are literally thousands of free webhosting services out there but I will recommend the top 3 which I have used before.

#1 Champshost.com

Champhost is in my opinion is the best free webhosting service. They give 1000MB diskspace, no ads on your webpage and allows php, cgi, perl. The only thing they ask for is you contribute some post to their forum which isn’t so hard.

#2 – 100webspace.com

100webspace get my vote as the second best. They offer 100MB space, all full features as a paid web hosting, that includes, email, ftp, php, mysql etc. The only thing I did not like they have ads on your webpage but it isn’t too big to be a distraction.

#3 – Neopages.net

I like neopages because they are actually one of the few webhosting services that do not make any kind of money from offering free webhosting. They offer 150MB space, no ads as well as PHP, cgi, mysql, email, ftp etc.

The only issue is approval is on a case by case by members voting and you must have an existing website published already. It is pretty hard to get in since they only allow 3 each week.

As you can see, these 3 are just my favorites and there are a lot more free webhosting services available. Do remember to read the terms and conditions carefully to make sure you are actually getting free web hosting

Also, once you have some money do consider upgrading to paid hosting as they offer a lot more features and better support. You can go to any web hosting or webmaster forums where from time to time, webhosting companies offer big discounts for web hosting.


