Title: 
Trap Those Sticky Fingers With Video Security

Word Count:
561

Summary:
You’ve hired a stunning blond to tend the bar. Customer traffic increased since she mixed the first drinks. But why are you worried? Is your bombshell bartender giving away free drinks? You’ll never know without a video security recording.

There’s a crowd but is the money flowing in?

Every night you see a happy crowd in your resto bar. As early as four in the afternoon, people from nearby workplaces troop to the bar to get a drink or two, or have an early supper of your...


Keywords:
video security


Article Body:
You’ve hired a stunning blond to tend the bar. Customer traffic increased since she mixed the first drinks. But why are you worried? Is your bombshell bartender giving away free drinks? You’ll never know without a video security recording.

There’s a crowd but is the money flowing in?

Every night you see a happy crowd in your resto bar. As early as four in the afternoon, people from nearby workplaces troop to the bar to get a drink or two, or have an early supper of your famous lamb chops and Sloppy Joes. When the night is over, there’s little in the till and you’re beginning to wonder because you have no video security cameras to tell you anything.

A problem like this is common in restaurants, but the trouble is not only confined to the bar but to the kitchen as well. You’ve got to keep an eye on customers too because they are easy prey to walk-in snatchers.

The security cameras that’ll work for you

Security cameras installed at the bar, kitchen, front door, and other entryways will keep track of what’s going on in real-time recording. You can rewind and trace back through the recording to find out what really happened at the bar and check out the people who have entered and left the bar during the previous night.

A baseball-sized security camera will do the trick at the bar. You can hide it where it can capture the goings-on on the counter and at the till. Your bartender will never notice a thing because this is wireless. This also sends very clear images in real colors to the video receiver.

You’ll be able to check if your bartender is giving away free drinks. She may not be pocketing money, but you’re losing revenue. Show the recorded footage of her tricks and she can’t do anything about it but admit the accusation leveled at her.

If you have a big kitchen, a pan-tilt video security camera (although a bit pricey) is perfect. Yes, it is obvious, but at least the kitchen crew will have to think twice before they tuck in glassware into their shirts.

The pan-tilt camera or a wide angle camera is also ideal for the dining area because it allows you to see the crowd and your food servers or handlers. By watching your staff, you can note if they are doing things properly and you can give them helpful suggestions to make their work better.

Catch those liars without breaking the law

If you are billed more than the usual for deliveries dropped on your door, you can always rely on your video security cameras to disprove specious claims.

Kitchen staff will be more circumspect if you warn them that there are covert cameras watching their movements. As for your stunning blonde, you can be sure she’ll stop those rounds of beer on the house.

In fairness to new workers, you have to warn them of the presence of covert cameras. But you won’t be breaking any law to protect your business – unless you record conversations and use recorded activities for blackmail. Of course, there’s no need to place video security inside the men’s and ladies room. The police will be knocking on your door if you do.


