Title: 
Travel And The Cell Phone

Word Count:
647

Summary:
The cell phone (telefone celular) is created to make the world open up to the user; to enable them to be on the move yet in contact with the rest of the world. The modern person travels more than ever, both for business and pleasure, and so the cell phone has become an essential rather than an important tool in modern day living. 

Cell phones were initially created so that people could roam within regions, and then they advanced to nationwide. Now it enables the modern use...


Keywords:
cell phone, telephone, cellular, celular


Article Body:
The cell phone (telefone celular) is created to make the world open up to the user; to enable them to be on the move yet in contact with the rest of the world. The modern person travels more than ever, both for business and pleasure, and so the cell phone has become an essential rather than an important tool in modern day living. 

Cell phones were initially created so that people could roam within regions, and then they advanced to nationwide. Now it enables the modern user to connect to people all over the world. 

If you are travelling with your cell phone (telefone celular) to another country than where you reside, make sure that it will be compatible. Although devices bought in Europe are compatible throughout that continent, American models use a different frequency band. The best way to ensure that your device will be of use, purchase one with a tri-band frequency. This will enable your device to pick up reception anywhere in the world that is serviced for cell phone use. This applies also if choosing to buy a cell phone (telefone celular) whilst abroad. A tri-band frequency will ensure that it works once you have returned home. 

To use your cell phone (telefone celular) abroad, the roaming network needs to be activated, and this can be done by contacting your network provider. The cell phone (telefone celular) is equipped with everything needed for roaming. The rates are usually much higher than the standard rate, but networks are beginning to do packages for the frequent traveller. Rates differ from with service provider, and so contact them for up to the minute information and advice. 

The modern cell phone (telefone celular) also has built in camera and picture messaging facilities which are a great feature for the holiday maker. Although they tend to have little memory, up to 2 or more gigabyte memory cards can be purchased to be able to store more information. The pictures can then be transferred to the home computer upon return. The use of a memory card makes this particularly simple; just make sure that it is compatible with your computer. To stay in contact with friends and family in a more personal way, these pictures can be sent to any compatible cell phone through multi media messages. This is a particularly good feature for long term and frequent travellers. The feature usually has to be activated specifically for a roaming network, so make sure that you do this before you leave. 

Internet usage is a great feature of the modern cell phone (telefone celular). However, most devices are set up to use certain networks only and the compatibility can be poor or non existent when abroad. The best way to determine whether you can use this feature is to contact your cell phone service provider. Determine the rates also; internet usage is usually charged per the amount of information downloaded, rather than the amount of time the facility is used. If you are able to use the internet feature, then consider the advantages and disadvantages, especially with a GPSR phone; the battery will run down very quickly unless the always on feature is disabled. 

A modern feature that may be important to the travelling cell phone (telefone celular) user is the flight safe mode. This enables users to use it to listen to music without having to switch the cell phone on, which prevents interference with aircraft technology. Note that the battery will run down much more quickly when roaming as the cell phone (telefone celular) is constantly searching for signals and changing networks. Always make sure you have your device recharger with you. 

This article is under GNU FDL license and can be distributed without any previous authorization from the author. However the author's name and all the URLs (links) mentioned in the article and biography must be kept.


