Title: 
TWHowell Web Design - 5 tips to a successful web design!

Word Count:
354

Summary:
Is your company looking into getting a website designed? Maybe you already have a website, but it looks like it was created in 1995. Have you already picked who you are going with for web design?


Keywords:
Web design, philadelphia web design, philadelphia SEO, philadelphia search engine optimization, website search engine marketing and promotion, web developer, design team, php developer, html programmer


Article Body:
What do you need in order to have a successful website.

1. A great design first of all. If the site looks like a trainwreck, then nobody is going to want to stay there to view it more than 5 seconds. People react to different combination of colors and designs either in a good way or a bad way. If there is a bad mesh of colors, it will irritate the visitor. They will find your competition, and make money for them instead! I know that losing money is not the name of the game in any business except gambling, but if you have a subpar website, you are truly gambling on your investment.

2. It takes less than 15 seconds for someone to make a fully lasting impression about your website. Can you sell someone in 15 seconds with your current website? Alot of people are just turned off by how some sites are built. If the colors are off, or that there is no text, and that it takes a year to load.

3. What content do you have on your website? Does it reflect the product or service that your company offers? Does it engage the prospective customer or client to look at your product and pull out the wallet or call for more information? A few questions that you really have to ask yourself if you want to become successful at selling your business through your website.

4. Have you considered a budget for your web design. Something that alot of businesses do not take into consideration, the costs for web design. The sad truth is, even that alot of companies think they can get a website on the cheap as well. Unfortunately the old saying "You get what you pay for" applies in this industry. You want your website for cheap, the problem here, is that the quality goes down a great bit.

5. Consider TWHowell for your website needs! We offer the best and highest customized solution for those who would greatly benefit from a successful website campaign. We offer a variety of ways to help your business succeed in the competition insane world wide web.


