Title: 
Types Of GPS Devices

Word Count:
516

Summary:
The Global Positioning System – or GPS – has transformed how the world finds its way. It’s no secret that the popularity of GPS has made it a standard feature in many a car. But in truth there are quite a number of GPS devices that are used in today’s modern society. What began as a government experiment and then a standard device used by the military, is now more popular than ever in civilian society.

When Russia launched Sputnik in the late 1950’s we had our first glimps...


Keywords:
GPS Devices


Article Body:
The Global Positioning System – or GPS – has transformed how the world finds its way. It’s no secret that the popularity of GPS has made it a standard feature in many a car. But in truth there are quite a number of GPS devices that are used in today’s modern society. What began as a government experiment and then a standard device used by the military, is now more popular than ever in civilian society.

When Russia launched Sputnik in the late 1950’s we had our first glimpse into the role that satellites would play in our future. Those who were monitoring Sputnik found that they were able to pinpoint its location based on the radio waves it provided. The seeds of GPS were born.

In the 1960s the U.S. Navy began experimenting with the technology, using the positioning of six satellites to help missile-carrying Navy submarines pinpoint their location. But the Global Positioning System that we know today was designed and implemented by the United States Department of Defense; the first operational satellite was launched in 1978 and by the mid 1990s there were 24 satellites – all of which are still in operation today.

The byproduct of this new technology has been GPS devices, designed to harness the power of satellite navigation to offer the highest level of convenience. It seems as though every year more GPS devices hit the shelves and in so doing they become part of what’s expected in society. The types of GPS devices are varied and your choice to use them depends largely on your frequency of need.

One of the more popular GPS devices is GPS mapping that allows you to visit any number of websites and enter any address in the world. If satellites have access to this area, you are immediately given a satellite picture showing the precise location you requested. For mapping trips, these GPS devices can take information downloaded from your computer and put it to use in your car, giving you detailed directions for the most expedient trip.

Another one of the more popular GPS devices is a GPS navigational unit. These units can either be mounted in your car or come in a portable system that you can transfer from vehicle to vehicle. Once a destination is entered into the GPS navigational system, it can literally walk you through your trip telling you where to turn and the time and distance relative to each portion of the drive. Some navigational units offer a feature whereby you can find restaurants, shopping, hospitals, and accommodations regardless of where you are; this can be incredibly useful when hunting services in a town with which you are unfamiliar.

GPS tracking, another of the GPS devices, allows you to track another person or thing. Many parents use GPS tracking in the cars of their teenage drivers. Others use this system to help protect precious items that are in danger of being stolen.

No matter which of the GPS devices you choose, you will no doubt find GPS to be an essential part of your life before long.


