Title: 
Ultralight Helicopter For Sheer Fun Thrill And Excitement

Word Count:
400

Summary:
Each one of us dream of flying. But turning this dream into reality may be a little difficult and costly. This is, if we are still living several decades ago- when riding a helicopter costs too much or fly by a plane needs to have a purpose. Today, the story remains the same. Riding on a helicopter still costs too much and flying on a plane is still expensive. Well… not at all.

Actually, some of today’s aircraft can give you the best flight of your life. Not because you ar...


Keywords:
rc helicopter, helicopter


Article Body:
Each one of us dream of flying. But turning this dream into reality may be a little difficult and costly. This is, if we are still living several decades ago- when riding a helicopter costs too much or fly by a plane needs to have a purpose. Today, the story remains the same. Riding on a helicopter still costs too much and flying on a plane is still expensive. Well… not at all.

Actually, some of today’s aircraft can give you the best flight of your life. Not because you are served with the most delightful meal. Not because you are seating on a couch while flying. And definitely not because you are flying 28,000 feet above the ground. But because you experience the thrill, excitement and fun as you take the stick and fly at your own. Yes, you read it right. Fly on your own!

Development of helicopters plus the ambition of companies as well as individuals led to the invention of ultralight helicopter.

An ultralight helicopter is flying machine (it really flies by the way) that usually spans between 12 feet and 25 feet with small fuselage for 1 or 2 passengers. It varies depending on the weight. Usually, ultralight helicopters weight between 150-190 lbs., unmanned.

Ultralight helicopter comes in two forms: the ready to fly and the kit. Ready to fly of course is easy to understand. The kit may be a little too hard to swallow (at least for some).

The Mosquito is one of the more popular brands of ultralight helicopter. It looks like a miniature helicopter due to its size. But what makes it different from the rest is that it is only made to seat one person. Wondering where the novice would seat? This is where excitement would come. Anyone who wishes to learn on a one-seater ultralight helicopter must learn to fly on their own. It can fly with top speed of 90mph and as high as 12,000 feet.

Or if you simply don’t have enough guts yet to fly on your own, there are other ultralight helicopters where you can stay and remain as the passenger and let your flight or an expert do all the maneuvers.

You can enjoy the thrill of flying on an ultralight helicopter on some parks that offer ultralight helicopter tours. You can also purchase one for your personal use at the price similar to that of a family sedan.


