Title: 
Understanding A Fire Alarm Design

Word Count:
402

Summary:
Fire alarms – installed throughout a building - are meant to be a first line of defense in protecting the lives of those within. Installed professionally, fire alarms work in tandem as a complex network dedicated to detecting danger in the form of smoke and fire. But just as important as the alarms themselves is the manner in which they are installed. In order to ensure the utmost efficiency and safety measures, it is imperative that a professionally licensed engineer complet...


Keywords:
Fire Alarm Design


Article Body:
Fire alarms – installed throughout a building - are meant to be a first line of defense in protecting the lives of those within. Installed professionally, fire alarms work in tandem as a complex network dedicated to detecting danger in the form of smoke and fire. But just as important as the alarms themselves is the manner in which they are installed. In order to ensure the utmost efficiency and safety measures, it is imperative that a professionally licensed engineer complete a comprehensive fire alarm design.

We all know that a fire alarm is used to detect smoke or heat – in the form of fire – and alert us to the danger so that we may vacate the presences in enough time to secure our safety. A fire alarm design takes into account the layout of the building including number of levels, heat sources, and exits; and it also considers the level of complexity required for each particular building. For instance, a single family home will require a far less involved fire alarm design that a multi-tiered sporting arena. In a large public building additional fire safety features will be required – such as ceiling sprinkler systems and elaborate communications devices – that are not required on private properties. An engineer will take all of these needs into consideration when completing a fire alarm design.

The engineer and fire alarm technicians – as part of making the fire alarm design - will review the specifications on each property and determine where the fire alarms should go to maximize their efficiency and allow for the greatest safety assurances. A drawing will be completed of the property showing exits, proposed locations of fire and smoke alarms, as well as any wiring or electrical needs that may result from this installation.

Of course, in the case of a larger public building, the engineer and fire alarm technicians will work in tandem with licensed electricians who will handle the wiring and ensure that the installation is up to code. In many cases – both in public and private buildings – the fire alarm system will be connected straight to area fire officials who will monitor alarm activity. This ensures that help is on the way as quickly as possible – maximizing the safety of all inside the building.

When done properly by experienced and knowledgeable professionals, a fire alarm design will be a carefully crafted plan that will ultimately safeguard a building and the people inside.


