Title: 
Understanding Electric Motors And Their Uses

Word Count:
536

Summary:
The world of electric motors is quite fascinating. For many making and collecting various types of electric motors is a hobby and for others making them to power various devices is a profession. Whatever the approach is, but these devices offer innumerable possibilities for improvisation.

Working with them and understanding them is a rewarding and learning experience. Let us find out more about these in general. Usually, they can be classified into two main types. They are...


Keywords:
electric motors, the uses of electric motors, types of electric motors, prices of electric motors, w


Article Body:
The world of electric motors is quite fascinating. For many making and collecting various types of electric motors is a hobby and for others making them to power various devices is a profession. Whatever the approach is, but these devices offer innumerable possibilities for improvisation.

Working with them and understanding them is a rewarding and learning experience. Let us find out more about these in general. Usually, they can be classified into two main types. They are direct current or DC and alternating current or AC motors. DC or AC is very common terms and they refer to how the electrical current is transferred through and from the motor. Both types of motors have different utilities and uses.

DC motors are usually available in two general types. Alike, AC motors also come in two different types. They can be two phase or three phase AC motors. Although on technical front, the differences in DC and AC motors are sometimes marginal, but some of these differences make one types better than the other for a certain use.

In general, the DC electric motors work for conditions controlling the speed is essential. It is due to the factor that DC motors have a steady and constant current. DC motors are also the first and earliest motors used. But these good factors are also accompanied with some limitations; for instance, the DC electric motors are incapable of producing power over long period of time.

Most of the electric companies are aware of the limitation of the DC motor and have found that the power was lost as the electric current was transmitted. One of the variant, the Brush DC motors, uses certain rings that conduct the current and form the magnetic drive that runs the rotor. On the other hand, the brush-less DC electric motors bring forth a switch to generate the magnetic drive that powers the rotor. Direct current motors commonly used in most of the electric appliances in your home.

Now coming back to the AC motors we find that these kinds of motors are commonly used on the basis of their type. For instance, the single phase AC motors are used for general purpose. This type of motors will work efficiently in different conditions. AC motors are effective for systems that are hard to start because they need a lot of power for this purpose.

The three phase AC motors, also called polyphase, are commonly found in industrial sector. The AC motors have a high starting power built to transmit lower levels of overall power. As it alternated the power, so it gets its name AC. The amount of power specified by an AC motor is determined by the amount of power needed to operate the system.

Generally, the DC and AC motors are easily come across everywhere from the home to the car to industrial uses. The introduction of DC motors is still considered no less than a revolution and when AC motors were available in the market the way motors were looked at changed because of their amazing starting power potential. DC motors and AC motors are different in many ways, but they still both are used to power the world of electric appliances.


