Title: 
Wireless Networking: The Cutting Edge Of Technology, Part 2

Word Count:
347

Summary:
The new technologies that are available to construct, and connect to wireless networks is unbelievable.  You can connect to a wireless network with a laptop through Wi-Fi, GSM, and even through satellite data cards.  Many businesses are creating free “hotspots” that allow their patrons access to the internet to conduct business, or just send a friend an email.  Many car manufacturers are now offering satellite broadband internet access from within a certain distance of the ca...


Keywords:



Article Body:
The new technologies that are available to construct, and connect to wireless networks is unbelievable.  You can connect to a wireless network with a laptop through Wi-Fi, GSM, and even through satellite data cards.  Many businesses are creating free “hotspots” that allow their patrons access to the internet to conduct business, or just send a friend an email.  Many car manufacturers are now offering satellite broadband internet access from within a certain distance of the car, so that people can get an internet connection while they are traveling.  Many new types of cell phones and PDAs will allow you to check your email, get your contacts, your calendar, and even access certain web pages right from the phone.  Right now many web pages are not easily viewed, or fully functional on a cell phone or PDA, but many programmers and web designers are working on making their web sites more accessible from all forms of wireless devices.  

Many other forms of wireless devices are now being developed that will allow information to be obtained in real-time over great distances.  RFID has revolutionized process chain management, because now businesses can track their product from manufacturing to delivery, and everywhere in between.  New technologies have been developed recently that allow RFID wireless networks to be formed that can calculate distances between the different devices contained within the network.  This will allow a sort of “smart” network to be formed that will allow the devices to “know” when one is on the move, or if one has been lost.  Another very important development in recent years is the use of GPS tracking and navigation.  Now we have the ability to know exactly where our products are, and where they are going so we can ensure shipment delivery in a timely manner.  When all of these wireless networks are tied together an efficient and productive business can be sure to follow.  Wireless networks are a must in this new on-demand world that we live in.  If you do not keep up with the times, then you will be quickly left behind.


