Title: 
You Don't Have To Be A Programmer To Fix Computer Errors

Word Count:
611

Summary:
Nothing is more frustrating than a computer that constantly freezes up, hangs and crashes on you at the worst possible times!

I have had my share of frustrating run-ins with my own PC, and have threatened it with swift and painful death many times whenever it gave me errors...but for some reason that never seemed to work!

I now know of a far easier way to solve computer error problems...run a top rated registry cleaner scan on your system at least once a week...

It d...


Keywords:
regcure, registry cleaner, registry repair


Article Body:
Nothing is more frustrating than a computer that constantly freezes up, hangs and crashes on you at the worst possible times!

I have had my share of frustrating run-ins with my own PC, and have threatened it with swift and painful death many times whenever it gave me errors...but for some reason that never seemed to work!

I now know of a far easier way to solve computer error problems...run a top rated registry cleaner scan on your system at least once a week...

It doesn't matter what version of Windows you are running, sooner or later you will most likely get an error of some kind (there are thousands to choose from) and you'll start searching for ways to eliminate that error as quickly as possible! 

 Some of the more common errors I have had to deal with over the years are: windows freezes, long program hang times, computer crashes (very annoying!), runtime errors, fatal errors (sounds serious), blue screen of death, and others...

Just imagine trying to troubleshoot your Windows operating system by yourself, and figuring out which program, entry, corrupted registry key, etc... is actually 'causing' the error to begin with...

That task might not sound daunting for a Microsoft programmer, but for the 'normal' person, there are better things to do with your time (like watching grass grow)

So you have the choice then, of paying a computer technician $60-??? dollars to come out to your house and fix your computer errors and problems for you...or you can download a highly effective 'registry cleaner' and run a scan on your computer by pushing one button.

Registry cleaners are actually designed (by computer programmers) to eliminate errors, clean, defragment and compress your windows registry (a location within Windows where all critical data about every program loaded on your computer is stored).

Most registry cleaners will find problems and fix them, but some of the better programs will allow you to schedule when they should run automatically (set it up and forget about it). And they will allow you to control and manage startup programs, set system restore points in case anything bad happens, and actually show you where specific problems were found and what kind of PC errors they are.

There are a few things each person who is serious about keeping their computer running as fast as the day they brought it home should have in their "maintenance arsenal":

    * A good registry cleaner
    * A good spyware remover
    * A good anti virus program
    * A good anti spam program 

Having these tools can and WILL save you a lot of grief!

Who wants their identity to be stolen because of spyware running on their system? Who wants all their valuable data corrupted and unuseable because of a virus that slipped through and infected your entire system? Who wants to put up with a slow computer that gives you errors every time you turn it on? Not me!

The investment in a good registry cleaner can do the most good for your computer, as it will allow you to concentrate on actually using your PC instead of spending time reinstalling windows in an attempt to eliminate errors and make your computer faster.

I have spent countless hours (days even) doing exactly that in the past, because I was so disgusted with my PC I just couldn't take it anymore...and I remember exactly how fun it was to reinstall 50+ windows programs and go through all those program settings to get them back to the way I liked them!

I find satisfaction in helping others to avoid wasting as much time as I did trying to fix computer errors...


