Title: 
Yellowstone Area Media Company Helps Protect Fly Fishing Waters

Word Count:
232

Summary:
In order to tap into the popularity of Yellowstone, Montana, and Wyoming fly fishing as part of the travel agenda for many people visiting this environmentally sensitive region, the ‘Stop Aquatic Hitchhikers!’ campaign enlisted the help of Vertical Media, based in Jackson Hole, Wyoming.


Keywords:
fly fishing, conservation, environment, invasive, species, Wyoming, Montana, Yellowstone, national parks


Article Body:
In the past, most people have looked to the government to address various environmental issues. However, with the complexity and magnitude of these issues increasing exponentially, a different approach is needed. 

The ‘Stop Aquatic Hitchhikers!’ campaign has become a unifying communications vehicle to address the growing aquatic invasive species issue and it has attracted the interest, support and active involvement of the private sector. The national Aquatic Nuisance Species (ANS) Task Force, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and the U.S. Coast Guard are the primary sponsors of this campaign. However, campaign organizers have realized the power of working with the private sector to increase exposure for the cause. 

If you “Google” Wyoming or Montana fly fishing or Yellowstone Vacations, you are likely to come across one of Vertical Media's online travel guides. A banner ad at the top of each site displays the ‘Stop Aquatic Hitchhikers!’ message, urging vacation planning visitors to click and learn how they can help protect the waters in and around Yellowstone National Park.

With Vertical Media's network of websites collectively attracting over 3 million people and generating over 2.4 million referrals annually, this is one example of how the ‘Stop Aquatic Hitchhikers!’ outreach capacity is greatly increased by working closely with private and nonprofit interests. These organizations have a vested stake in promoting a unified conservation message to limit the spread of harmful aquatic invasive species.


