Title: 
Avoid Skin Cancer While You Enjoy the Outdoors

Word Count:
357

Summary:
Here's a bright idea: There's a beautiful way you can protect yourself from an increased risk of skin cancer.


Keywords:
Avoid Skin Cancer While You Enjoy the Outdoors


Article Body:
Here's a bright idea: There's a beautiful way you can protect yourself from an increased risk of skin cancer. 

The Problem

Through the work of nonprofit organizations, such as The Skin Cancer Foundation, the connection between sun exposure and elevated risks of skin cancer has become clearly established. 

"Twenty-five years ago, few people knew about the dangers of excessive, cumulative sun exposure," says Perry Robins, M.D., president and founder of The Skin Cancer Foundation. "While the connection between sun exposure and skin cancer is widely known today, statistics show that the incidence of skin cancer is continuing to increase rapidly. More than 90 percent of skin cancers are caused by the sun. Nationally, there are more new cases of skin cancer each year than the combined incidence of breast, prostate, lung and colon cancer."

Some Solutions

To help combat this growing health risk, The Skin Cancer Foundation conducts extensive educational programs and regularly reviews products that can help consumers reduce their health risks from sun exposure. More than 300 products in the U.S. and more than 70 products overseas have been awarded the Foundation's Seal of Recommendation. 

Sunbrella® brand fabrics are one of the latest products to receive the Seal of Recommendation. Sunbrella fabrics are used for awnings, market umbrellas and other forms of shade on decks, patios and at poolside. You will also find Sunbrella frequently used on boats as biminis, covers and marine awnings. Seeking shade between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. is one of The Skin Cancer Foundation's core sun protection recommendations.

In order to receive the Foundation's Seal, Sunbrella fabrics were subjected to extensive testing and met The Skin Cancer Foundation's standards for Ultraviolet Protection Factor (UPF). UPF is a measure of the amount of ultraviolet light passing through the fabric.

"Consumers have long selected awnings, market umbrellas and boat tops made from Sunbrella fabrics because of the sun protection they provide," said Harry Gobble, director of marketing for Glen Raven Custom Fabrics, which manufactures Sunbrella fabrics. "With the Foundation's Seal of Recommendation, consumers are now assured that an independent organization has verified the level of sun protection provided by products using our fabrics."


