Title: 
The Silicon Valley effect on your skin (California Skin Care Treatment)

Word Count:
459

Summary:
In the 21st century, where green-house effect, global warming and pollution green are on the rise, skin care is of utmost importance. We live in a time of age when the harshness of the sun, air, and all of our surroundings call for us to be extra cautious with our largest organ in our body, our skin. With these conditions we face everyday; you need proper skin care treatment to keep you looking young and healthy. Moreover skin is the natural clothing for the human body. California Skin Care treatment is one of the best the best option to make you look radiant and stunning.


Keywords:
california skin care treatment, skin care treatment, skin care


Article Body:
In the 21st century, where green-house effect, global warming and pollution green are on the rise, skin care is of utmost importance. We live in a time of age when the harshness of the sun, air, and all of our surroundings call for us to be extra cautious with our largest organ in our body, our skin. With these conditions we face everyday; you need proper skin care treatment to keep you looking young and healthy. Moreover skin is the natural clothing for the human body. California Skin Care treatment is one of the best the best option to make you look radiant and stunning. 

California is a great state. Apart from being the “Silicon Valley” to the world, it has a great array of skin care centers which provides a world class skin care treatment. The usual skin treatments available under California Skin Care Treatment are:

1.	Erase lines and wrinkles from your face
2.	Permanent hair removal 
3.	Clarify and lighten
4.	Cleansing
5.	Salon services
6.	Refine and rejuvenate

Under each category of skin treatment multiple options are available to suit every budget and need. 

If you want a wrinkle free radiant face, then the best way to treat that is through a reverse aging process, which eliminates lines and wrinkles between eyebrows, foreheads and eyes. The treatment includes a protein based formula, which can cost between $10 and $15 a unit. To replenish the dermal layer of your skin, the California Skin Care Treatment provides FDA approved skin treatment which smoothens and softens the facial lines, creases around the mouth and depressed scars. Prices start at $300.

For hair removal the price starts at $75. California Skin Care Treatment ensures permanent hair removal for at least 3 years. To remove cystic acne or treat your brown spots, prices range $25 to $150 and up. Capillary Treatment can be done on the face with sophisticated, non-laser procedure priced at $150 per session.

Deep pore cleansing, exfoliation, and gentle extractions are followed with facial massage and a series of vitamin and anti-oxidant-rich masks to unwind and give your face a new look. The face cleansing and purifying that California Skin Care Treatment provides start at from $65. Thought each treatment can depend on the variety and time of facial.

Waxing and brow shaping comes under salon services. These are the most common services available at California Skin Care Treatment and prices start around $15. To refine and rejuvenate your skin you’ll have a choice of different varieties of peels and facials. California Skin Care Treatment you can expect healthy-looking skin with improvements in skin color, tone and texture. It also reduces the appearance of distinctive pores, balances the skin tone and diminishes aging lines. Prices range from $75 to $250 and upwards.   

Life is an Event, so enjoy it with California Skin Care Treatment.


