Title: 
The Lifesaving Road Trip Screening Tour Raises Awareness About Skin Cancer

Word Count:
419

Summary:
The statistics are staggering--and growing. More than 1.5 million people will be diagnosed with skin cancer this year. Caught in the early stages, skin cancer is treatable.


Keywords:
The Lifesaving Road Trip Screening Tour Raises Awareness About Skin Cancer


Article Body:
The statistics are staggering-and growing. More than 1.5 million people will be diagnosed with skin cancer this year. There are more new cases of skin cancer in the U.S. than breast, prostate, lung and colon cancer combined. The key to keeping skin healthy? Detect and treat skin cancer as early as possible. Caught in the early stages, skin cancer is treatable.

"Many people are at risk, but skin cancer is also one of the most preventable and treatable forms of cancer," says Dr. Mark Lebwohl, Professor and Chairman, Department of Dermatology, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York. 

To raise awareness of skin cancer and early detection and treatment, The Skin Cancer Foundation and Doak Dermatologics, a division of Bradley Pharmaceuticals, Inc., have joined forces on an innovative public service campaign. Throughout 2006, The Skin Cancer Screening Tour is heading to major cities across the U.S. to perform this important service.

Doak Dermatologics has built a custom-designed Mobile Diagnosis Vehicle (MDv) that will be staffed by local, board-certified dermatologists in each city, ready to offer free skin cancer screenings. The physicians will be looking for four primary forms of skin cancer or precancerous skin conditions:

1. Actinic Keratosis (AK), which affects 1.3 million people annually. AK is the most common type of precancerous skin lesion. If left untreated, AK can lead to squamous cell carcinoma.

2. Squamous Cell Carcinoma (SCC) is a form of skin cancer that affects 200,000 Americans each year. SCC can metastasize (spread) quickly. SCCs that metastasize most often arise on mucous membranes or lips.

3. Basal Cell Carcinoma (BCC) is a common form of skin cancer, affecting more than 800,000 Americans annually. Chronic exposure to sunlight is most often the cause of BCC, which occurs most frequently on exposed parts of the body.

4. Melanoma is the most serious form of skin cancer and has increased more rapidly than any other form of skin cancer during the past 10 years. By 2010, melanoma is projected to rise in one in 50 Americans. If diagnosed and removed early, melanoma is almost 100% curable.

Get Screened Today!

When The Skin Cancer Screening Tour comes to town, be sure to pay it a visit. Of course, you don't have to wait for the MDv to get screened. Make an appointment with your local dermatologist for a screening as soon as you can. 

Whether it's on the MDv or with your dermatologist, the important thing is to get screened early and, if required, treated. It could save your life. 

A cross-country tour is helping drive many people toward better health.


