719

Wedding Etiquette: Destinations

You might have heard of a couple wearing an alien suit for a wedding dress or a couple who get wed in a pink cadillac in Las Vegas wedding strip. Although it sound like fun, many still don't get the wishes of couples to celebrate their wedding this way.

If you want to have an exciting wedding, you can get wed in an extraordinary way without looking like a psycho for getting married in an alien suit. Destination Wedding is gaining popularity these days because it satisfies the wants of adventurous couples without being a clown.

Destination Wedding is for couples who want to get wed on the sandy beach of Fiji Islands or at the romantic canals of Italy or at the Eiffel Tower.

Wedding guests for Destination Wedding usually are the closest families and friends of the bride and groom. Of course, only those who love you the most will take the time, energy and money just to get to attend your wedding day.

But do you know that there is a list of  Destination Wedding etiquette to follow? Destination Wedding Etiquette is just an enhancement of wedding etiquette that we have come to know.

-- Basic Destination Wedding Etiquette  

* The very first Destination Wedding Etiquette that you should know is that you should tell your guest in advance, at least six months, of the when and the where of your Destination Wedding.

This Destination Wedding Etiquette is important because it will give your guests an ample time to decide whether or not they should attend your wedding. Your guests also needs to check-in in a hotel and fly just to get to your Destination Wedding.

You may ask, should you pay for the travel expenses and hotel accommodation of your guests? Destination Wedding Etiquette tells that you should not. You are not responsible for their tickets and hotel fees. You would go broke if you do. Your guests know this fact and they should not ask you about it in the first place.

If any of them ask you the awkward question of, "Would you I pay for the tickets and hotel fees?" You could answer this way so as not to hurt his or her feelings: "Oh, I would love to treat you for a vacation but our budget is so limited that I could only accommodate your dinner after my wedding." You have better lines than this. Use it using your friendly voice.

* The second most important Destination Wedding Etiquette is to provide your guests with information about the place. You should also scout for the cheapest hotels in the area where they could stay.

You can create a Destination Wedding Information, a brochure type info kit, that contains the basic information about the town of your wedding venue and the scenic places that your guests can go before and after the wedding. Remember that Destination Wedding is like a honeymoon wedding? Think of the best honeymoon places and vacation spots in the area so that couples and singles alike will enjoy the place.

Also, create a map of the area so that your guests would know how to navigate the area.

Other Destination Wedding Etiquette

- Destination Wedding Etiquette allows bride to wear any wedding dress that they would like to wear. Of course, if you are a fashionable bride, you would like to wear a simple yet elegant wedding dress even without looking at Destination Wedding Etiquette books. For chic and fashionable brides the fabric and design of the bride's wedding dress must conform to the location. 

For example, if you are getting married at the sandy beaches of the Fiji Islands, you should wear chiffon and even semi-translucent wedding gown in white or other colors like aquamarine. This kind of wedding dress will look very sexy on the beach.

- Bring insect repellant lotions, sunblock and face hydro spritzer like Evian to make your guest feel comfortable in your wedding reception and ceremony which would be held in an unroofed venue.

This is not necessarily one of the rules of Destination Wedding Etiquette. This is just your way of saying thanks to your beloved family and friends who took the time and have spent fortune just to witness you getting tied with your one true love.