772

Exercising Proper Wedding Etiquette

There comes a time when the any couple decides to commit themselves to one another and express this by getting married. Along with family and friends, all those who care for them share their wedding day.

Proper wedding etiquette is required for different aspects of the wedding. From taking care of the invitations, to the transportation, reception details, location and the church, everything has a corresponding proper wedding etiquette to follow.

The engagement:

Proper wedding etiquette should already be observed during the engagement. The news should be announced to immediate family first. A gathering of both families should be arranged. Proper wedding etiquette dictates that if either one has not met each other’s parents; they should break the news to one family at a time.

As for friends, the proper wedding etiquette is to announce to them personally after the family. 

The wedding preparations:

The wedding theme is the first thing the couple must agree upon since all the details following it will be affected. If the couple chooses a beach wedding, proper wedding etiquette says that everything will be patterned after that. There are wedding planners who can coordinate everything for the couple and is a great help for the bride and groom in organizing their special day.

The question of when and where the wedding will be held is an important topic to consider. The couple must also decide what kind of ceremony they want to have. Will it be a church wedding or a civil one? The proper wedding etiquette is to consult the religious preference of the couple. Sometimes even if they share the same religion, a couple can still insist on the informality of a civil wedding.

The location for the reception is the next thing to decide on. As proper wedding etiquette, the couple must be considerate of the guests. Proper wedding etiquette dictates that the reception area should be close to the wedding location so that the guests and the couple won’t be too tired when they get there. 

Transportation is another factor to consider. Apart from the bridal car, it is proper wedding etiquette to provide for those who have no cars from the wedding location to the reception area. The couple can ask guests beforehand on who will bring their own transportation so they can estimate how many automobiles they will have to hire for the group.

The reception details:

Of course, a big part of this event is the reception. Even though the atmosphere is more informal, one cannot forget the proper wedding etiquette of having a program. It should really be about the couple, wishes from their family and guests, a time for gratitude and a celebration of the new life ahead for the newlyweds.

The menu, cake, table décor, centerpieces, sound system, and entertainment should be arranged months beforehand. The proper wedding etiquette is to follow the allotted time frame for each element. All of this will entirely depend on the couple’s taste and budget.

The dresses:

Proper wedding etiquette for any traditional wedding is a white gown for the bride and a favored color for the bridesmaids, entourage and sponsors. However, times have changed and other color palettes are now available for the bride.

The groom and groomsmen usually do not have trouble with their clothes since they wear what is appropriate to the theme and whatever the couple has decided on for the design.<br><br>

The budget:

All this preparation will go to waste if the couple cannot provide for any of the wedding items. As proper wedding etiquette, the question of who will pay for what is divided between the bride and groom’s family. 

Traditionally, the proper wedding etiquette is for the bride’s family to pay for the reception costs, the church fees, the groom’s rings, the invitations, flowers for the ceremony and reception, music, transportation and lodging for the bride’s party. The groom’s side takes care of the rehearsal dinner, the bride’s ring, clergy or officiator’s fee the bride’s bouquet the flowers for the entourage, transportation and lodging for the groom’s party. 

Nowadays, a couple can decide what obligations they will handle. But the proper wedding etiquette is to share the expenses, as this will be the sign of their future together.

It is tough job to handle all the wedding details but proper wedding etiquette must be observed at all times. Sometime we tend to forget these simple but very important gestures. We must realize that by following proper wedding etiquette, we help make the event more elegant and memorable.