774

The Rules For Second Wedding Etiquette

There are instances of second weddings and for these times, second wedding etiquette will asked to be observed by the couple. It entirely depends on whose experience is complicated by matters of the former wedding.

Before the wedding:

It is a second wedding etiquette to acknowledge the former wife or husband. If the relationship is amiable, announcing the engagement is best done over dinner. Second wedding etiquette requires a courtesy to be extended to the former legal partner.

If the previous relationship is not so good, the future bride or groom should inform them of their intentions through the telephone. Some second wedding etiquette can also be extended to the former partner’s family, if they are very close.

If the couple has children to think about, it is second wedding etiquette to inform them of their decision. Regardless of their children’s protests, this should not be skipped or done at the last minute. Children have a longer time to adjust and accept certain realities. One of them is the thought of having a new mom or dad.

Therefore, a second wedding etiquette requires mom and dad to make their engagement known to the children first. If the relationship is good between the kids and the new mom or dad, they will respect their parent’s wishes and support their union.

The wedding details:

Having gone through the entire wedding process before, this will be easier to handle the second time around. The couple should remember the second wedding etiquette of holding a smaller event and inviting only their close friends and family. It is rude to ask for the former partner to attend but if there is no problem, they can do so.

The couple can discuss second wedding etiquette regarding the budget for the wedding. It is normal that expenses are shared. The question of who will pay for what can be decided among the bride and groom privately.

For most second weddings, a lot of them prefer to celebrate out of town. Perhaps because of their higher disposable income, they now have the luxury to have the wedding in a foreign place. Second wedding etiquette is much the same as the first wedding which considers the guests and who can afford to travel that far, like Hawaii, for the event.

The wedding location and reception:

As a rule, second wedding etiquette requires the bride and groom to not celebrate their marriage in a place reminiscent of the past relationships. Second weddings are sensitive occasions for both parties since there is an unspoken expectation from the partner regarding the first marriage. 

Choosing the theme, the wedding location and where the reception will be held is a matter for both parties to discuss. The locations should be accessible to the family and guests. 

Regarding the color of the dress, it is all right for the bride to wear a white wedding gown. The groom and groomsmen can wear a tuxedo. For a second wedding etiquette, you can still pretty much follow the traditional color palette.

The couple as a second wedding etiquette should also provide for the transportation of everyone. It is allowed to ask beforehand who will bring a car so that the number of rented automobiles can be estimated. Doing so will save the couple money and time.

Second wedding as a family affair:

Not all second weddings are about building new families. The second wedding etiquette can be used to celebrate a renewal of vows to each other. This is usually done to mark a marriage’s longevity like the 25th year or the 50th year anniversary. 

Weddings like this are more private and solemn than the first wedding and perhaps more joyous. Reaffirming one’s vow made to their wife or husband is such a beautiful thing. The second wedding etiquette for the couple is to invite their closest friends and family to the event and keep it as simple as possible.

For guests:

It is proper second wedding etiquette to bring a gift for the couple. Though using a bridal registry is optional, second wedding gifts are often those that the couple can appreciate and use. Money is still accepted and the second wedding etiquette of handing the envelopes to the family members is still practiced.

The rules for second wedding etiquette are not at all hard to follow. All the couple has to do is be considerate of the other’s feelings and decisions in whatever part of the wedding. And as a second wedding etiquette rule, the honeymoon should be as sweet, if not sweeter, than the first wedding.