671

Second Wedding Etiquette

Just a decade ago, there is this popular thought in the way second wedding should be celebrated. People say that couples should not be extravagant and formal in celebrating their second wedding, most especially if the bride or the groom was divorced from his or her first spouse. Second wedding should be celebrated quietly, in a smaller and intimate party.

Nowadays, however, this is thought does not hold true to many of us. Couples who will celebrate their Second Wedding should not hide their emotions and love for each other. They could celebrate their Second Wedding in any way they want it to be celebrated. Be it an intimate or quiet one or extravagant and formal the way they have celebrated their first wedding. 

Don't think what other people would say about you being too extravagant for a Second Wedding. If you and your groom have the budget to finance a feast wedding, then do as you please! It is not everyday that you will find a person who would make your heart beat the second time. And finding the real Mr. Right for you (which you failed to find from your first spouse) is enough a reason to host a feast.  

But do you know that Second Wedding also has its list of Etiquette? So, if you want to avoid seeing raised eyebrows on your wedding day, try to know some basic Second Wedding Etiquette and avoid committing Second Wedding Etiquette blunders. 

-- Second Wedding Etiquette - How to Announce Your Engagement

If you have children from your first marriage, getting married for the second time will be a bit hard for them. So, even before you announce your Second Wedding to people that you know, take the time to sit down and talk to your children first about your plans to remarry. This is the most important Second Wedding Etiquette that you must remember. If you failed to tell your kids in advance about your plans of remarrying, you are taking your second marriage in an uneven road even before you, your second husband, his kids and your kids live in one roof. 

Second Wedding Etiquette requires you tell your parents of your engagement before you inform your ex-spouse. If you don't have any children with your ex-spouse, you would not violate second wedding etiquette if you won't inform you ex-spouse about your engagement.

-- Second Wedding Etiquette - Wedding Dress Issue

Lilac or lavender is the color of wedding dress for widow brides who are getting married for the second time. But this Second Wedding Etiquette is not obligatory; widow brides may wear any color of wedding dress that they wish to wear.

This fact holds true to divorced brides who will be having her second wedding. Divorced brides can wear white wedding gown. But it would be best if they would leave out the veil and tiara. A flower headress would be the best alternative.

-- Second Wedding Etiquette - Should You Invite Your Ex?

When planning for your second wedding, you should list the people who you would like to invite. Your groom should have his own list too. Then you and the groom should sit down to talk about who should and should not be on the list of guests. This is the proper Etiquette for Second Wedding. 

For Second Wedding Etiquette, it is advised that former in-laws and ex-spouses should not be written on the guest list even if you are on good terms with them. Your guests may feel a bit awkward around them.

Even if your groom agrees on the idea of inviting your ex-in-laws and ex-spouse (just to show that he hasn't any bad blood for his ex), you should not agree into it. You won't know what would happen if the former and current in-laws and spouses meet. It's better to be safe than sorry. The proper Second Wedding Etiquette for this scenario is to invite your ex-spouse instead for a dinner after the wedding and honeymoon.