Boating in England


When considering a boating vacation, many people think of tropical locations.  However, the truth is you can have a great time boating in England.  There actually are many bodies of water where you can have a great time boating in England.

Many barges and canals are places where you can enjoy the English countryside from the beauty of a “narrowboat”.  Lots of companies offer guided excursions down the water allowing you to enjoy jolly old England from the comfort of these luxury vessels.

Boating in England is really a lot like boating in the States.  It’s a relaxing, fun vacation taken at a slow pace.  There are actually over two thousand miles of waterways from wide canals to narrow ones and even some pretty good sized rivers you can enjoy.

Your best bet for boating in England is to hire a boating company who will give you a guided tour.  They will be able to point out interesting tourist attractions and give you information about their beautiful country.  

You can also rent your own narrowboat and commandeer it down the waterways.  People who have done this type of vacation report that it’s one of the most satisfying boating trips they’ve ever been on.

One of the advantages to boating in England is you can experience complete freedom.  There are many, many places you can stop along the canal and visit a neighborhood pub or a five star restaurant.  You can moor your boat and explore the countryside on foot.  Life on the water can be quite idyllic.

You may also want to explore boating on England’s River Thames.  This river is mostly non-tidal and runs through some beautiful places.  The Thames does have locks to go through, and you must be patient when traveling through the locks.  They can take quite awhile to get through, but just sit back and enjoy the scenery while you wait!

If you want to travel the River Thames, you should be aware that this is one of the most popular waterways in England, so the boat traffic could be heavy at times.  Also, all boats that want to travel this water must be registered.  Not registering your boat could cause problems with the water constable.

Boating in England is a great chance to experience one of the most beautiful places in the world.  Consider taking the time in the spring when the greenery is bursting into life and the hillside is green and lush.  We think you will find that boating in England is an experience second to none!
