Boating Clubs


No matter where you are located, you will most likely have a boating club nearby.  There are literally thousands of different boating clubs that you can join.  A quick Internet search brings up over 100,000 boating clubs throughout the world!

To begin with, boating clubs are great places to meet people who share the same interest in boating that you do.  People often join boating clubs for this specific purpose.  Boating is an almost obsessive sport.  When you know others who share that same passion, you’ll fuel that fire in ways you never knew possible.

Boating clubs will also sponsor social events like boat shows that you can participate in.  Social gatherings are great places to exchange information with other boaters and share your own knowledge.  You can really learn so much about this sport just by talking with other people!

It doesn’t matter what kind of boating you do, a boating club really is for you.  Compare boats with other people.  You may learn about a different style or brand of boat that you want to check out and even buy.  Maybe you’ve got a 16 foot power boat and have always wanted to try a cabin cruiser.  Find a fellow member who has the cabin cruiser and see what he or she has to say about that particular boat.

Many boating clubs offer members discounts on boating equipment and even on boating trips.  They say that membership has its advantages.  When you’re an avid boater, that’s certainly true with a boating club!

You can get boating lessons too in some clubs.  Like golf clubs, there is usually a pro around to answer questions and teach techniques.  If you want to learn about boating or brush up on some of the things you’ve gotten rusty at, just ask the pro!

Many boating clubs have their own “clubhouse” usually located on a body of water.  They’ll let members ramp for free and take advantage of the water with no additional charges.  The cost is usually included in membership dues.  The club house may even have a gourmet restaurant for members to enjoy.

The benefits of joining a boating club are far-reaching.  You will meet new friends, learn about boating more in-depth than ever before, and find new, exciting ways to make your boating experiences even more fulfilling than they already are.  We’re willing to bet there’s a boating club near you.  Find it and join today – it’s well worth the price!
