Boating World


Boating World magazine is one of the primary publications dedicated to the sport of boating from many angles.  When you consider a boating magazine, you really should look at Boating World.  It is a comprehensive guide to everything boating that offers its readers more than just a few articles about boats.

Boating World has articles on many subjects.  These subject range from how to take care of your boat, where the best boating spots are, what to serve on board when you are having a party, and much, much more.  These articles are geared towards everyone who loves boating and that includes especially the readers of Boating World.

They review different boats and name the advantages and disadvantages of each.  Boating World can help you know the best features of different types of boats and help guide you toward choosing the right boat for you.  There are many different types of watercraft on the market.  Depending on what you want to use it for, you’ll appreciate this valuable information.

One great feature of Boating World magazine is their “how-to” sections.  In these parts of the magazine, they show you how to do things like turn your pontoon boat into a cabin cruiser, how to apply numbers and letters to the hull, and how to research a boat purchase.

Like many paper publications, Boating World also has a great website you can visit for even more information.  Located at www.boatingworldonline.com, you will find articles, information about fishing, boat reviews, and ways to enjoy water sports in a whole new way.

Their website is easy to navigate and even has a section where you can research boating destinations you might like to visit on your next vacation.  They’ll even give you information on the best vehicles to buy in order to easily tow your new boat!

Boating World publishes ten times per year, and their subscription rates are quite reasonable.  A one-year subscription will run just $9.95, and you can sign up online at their website.  They also offer a money-back guarantee if you are not satisfied in any way with their magazine.

In the pages of Boating World magazine, you will find all sorts of great information about this sport that many people love.  When you love a sport like boating, learning as much as you can about it can really be an eye-opening experience.  There’s so much to know about boating and Boating World magazine is a great way to learn.
