Boating Marinas


A boating marina is a port within a sheltered harbor where boats are kept in the water.  Boating marinas also offer services that meet the needs of the recreational boater.  These services include offering gas, snacks, boating supplies, and more.

The boating marina is where you will find the boating ramp to get your boat on the water.  Some marinas will offer out of water boat storage for the off-season.  Boating marinas will also have extensive parking facilities for boaters and slips where boats can tie up while the boaters take care of their personal business.

Most boating marinas are privately operated often by clubs like yachting clubs or organizations.  They usually charge a fee for ramping your boat and may also have membership fees to belong to the marina.  But when you are a member, you will be able to take advantage of many opportunities marinas offer like boating classes, safety courses, and much more.

Almost all boating marinas will offer boat rentals for people who don’t own boats.  This is a great service for people who don’t have the resources to own their own boats – yet.  The rental prices are usually quite reasonable and provide for a fun day on the water for almost everyone.

All bodies of water will have a boating marina – in fact, many will have multiple marinas to serve many locations along the way.  In some places, the marina business can be quite a competitive one as each tries to look for their share of business from eager boaters.  However, because the marinas really have a captive audience so to speak from people on the water, don’t expect to find any great bargains on gas or ramping fees.

Boat etiquette when in a marina is very important to know about.  When you are ramping your boat, you should do so as quickly as you possibly can and then vacate the ramp area so others who are waiting to either drop or pick up their boat can do so.  If there is a line, do not “cut” into it.  Wait your turn no matter how impatient you might be.  You’ll get your share of dirty looks and perhaps cross words if you breach this unwritten rule.

When you are tied up at the boating marina, be sure you are in a slip away from traffic and not just floating out in the middle of the water hampering others abilities to get to a vacant slip.  Be respectful of others in the marina and practice safe boating when backing out and getting back on the water.  Many accidents happen in the marina, so pay special attention to the traffic around you as you’re backing out or coming in.

Boating marinas are great oases where you can stock up on supplies, take advantage of services, and gas up your boat for more water fun.  Use your local boating marina as what it’s meant to be – a service to you and everyone else out on the water!
