Boating Equipment


Boating equipment can be a wide and diverse subject.  When you take up the sport of boating, the amount of equipment you need is as complicated or as simple as you want to make it.  But the basic boating equipment that everyone needs includes a boat and a trailer.

The boat, obviously, is a no-brainer.  You have to have a boat in order to participate in the sport of boating.  But your most important piece of equipment is your boat trailer.  It’s essential that you match your boat trailer to your boat.  This will depend on the size of your boat mainly, but there are other considerations to be thought about as well.

What is the size of the vehicle you will be using to tow your boat on the trailer?  There are some lighter weight trailer models that can accommodate vehicles with less horsepower.  Ideally, you’ll want a four-wheel drive truck that can handle both the boat and the trailer easily.  But if you just have a small truck, look into a lightweight aluminum trailer that is easily towed by a smaller truck.

The type of boat you choose is also dependent on your vehicle.  Most people choose their vehicle first and then their boat.  If all you have is a smaller truck with little horsepower, you won’t want a 30 foot power boat traveling behind you.  Handling will be difficult, and you run the risk of harming others on the roadway if you don’t pay attention to this big detail.

So, you’ve got your boat and you’ve got your trailer, what other type of equipment will you need in your boating adventures?  Your boat must be outfitted with a life jacket for every person aboard, fire extinguishers, some type of sound emitting device (your mother-in-law doesn’t count), and adequate lighting for night boating.

Two other essential pieces of boating equipment would include a two-way radio as well as some type of navigation device like a GPS system.  When you are on the water, you don’t want to risk becoming stranded and not having any way of communicating with the outside world or being able to find your way back to shore.

If you will be participating in water sports, the boating equipment will differ from pleasure cruising.  For water sports, you’ll need a tow rope and some skis or an inner tube for tubing.  

What type of boating equipment you need will really depend on how you’re going to be using your boat.  Decide for yourself what’s important to you and then go buy your boating equipment, but be sure you have the basics as outlined above!
