Boating Trips


One of the best parts of boating is taking trips to places you’ve always wanted to go.  Boating trips can be simple day trips or week-long excursions.  Many people say that just being on the water is a satisfying boating trip in and of itself.

When you are planning a boating trip, you need to decide many things.  For example, how many people will be on the boat at one time?  Is your boat equipped for overnight trips or just day trips?  What supplies will you need to bring along with you?  Answer these questions well before you leave so you will be prepared.

When you leave on an overnight boating trip, the first thing you should do is have your boat checked over by a professional.  You will want the boat in top mechanical shape before you venture out on the water.  Plus, you will want to be sure you have enough gas to make the trip.  If you need to fuel up along the way, be sure you know where the gas stops are.

Map out your trip on a navigation map of the body of water you are going on.  Physically, take a pen or pencil and draw the route you will be taking.  When you have it all plotted out on a map complete with longitudinal and latitudinal lines will help keep you on track and reduce your chances of getting lost.

Be sure to tell someone you are going on a boating trip.  Let them know your planned itinerary and when you will be in certain places along the way.  It’s also a good idea to check in whenever you port so that they will know that everything is alright.

There are some great places you can go on boating trips.  Of course, that depends on where you are located and whether or not you are willing to haul your boat to a place where you can “shove off”.  However, many bodies of water like the Mississippi River link into other bodies of water like the Gulf of Mexico.  You can literally leave out from St. Louis, Missouri, and boat all the way to New Orleans, Louisiana.

Ocean boating trips need to have special considerations during planning.  Check with the Coast Guard as to how you should plan your trip so that you stay out of shipping lanes where the larger ships travel.  This is especially true if you have a smaller boat, which you probably do.  Avoiding accidents on the ocean is very important as it is on smaller bodies of water.

Boating trips are great ways to escape from reality and get some well-needed rest and relaxation.  The water is soothing and you will be able to explore places from the comfort of your boat – your home away from home!  Plan boating trips carefully and then enjoy your time on the water!
