Boating Schools


What is a boating school?  Basically, it is what it says it – a school where you learn what you need to know about boating.  The United States Coast Guard recommends that all boaters take an accredited course in boating at a certified boating school.  They have proven that boaters who participate in boating school have a markedly better chance of avoiding a boating accident when they have taken these types of classes.

There are many places where you can find a certified boating school where you can learn about boating safely.  Begin by looking online.  You’ll be able to find a boating school near where you are just by doing a quick Google search.  Take a look at the list you’ll see pop up and choose a school with a good reputation.

What makes a good boating school?  Well, first and foremost, they should have the credentials and experience to be able to teach boating basics to the general public.  See if they are accredited by the United States Coast Guard.  What qualifications does the instructor have?  What are some of the areas they will cover in school?  Also, make sure that their price range is within your budget.

Some companies offer boating schools online.  They will allow you to take classes from the comfort of your own home.  You’ll read through their provided materials and then take various tests to gauge your progress through the course.  At the end, you’ll take a comprehensive exam covering all the material in the classes which you will need to pass to become certified.  Online boating schools require concentration and dedication, so be sure you have the time and effort to devote to it.

Look to the local marina as well for a qualified boating school.  Marinas have on staff boating professionals who conduct classes on a regular basis.  The advantage to a real-life school is that you can have your questions answered right there and you will most likely get some hands-on experience in piloting a boat.

Finally, many boat dealerships will also conduct boating schools or at the very least, they will have information on upcoming schools in your area.  Just contact them and inquire about what boating schools they know about.

You will become a much better boater when you take classes at a boating school.  Even if you are an experienced boater, you can always use a refresher course to learn about new innovations and regulations in the boating industry.  Look for a boating school that will meet your needs and then take it as seriously as you would “regular” school.
