Boating Blog


If you love boating and want to share that love with others, why not consider starting your own boating blog?  It’s easy, fun, and lets you pass on your experiences to others who might enjoy the same things.  A boating blog is as simple or as complicated as you choose to make it.  Here are some tips to get you started.

You first need to find a place to post your boating blog.  But don’t worry; there are plenty of blog hosting spaces on the Internet.  You could join the phenomenon of My Space where there is plenty of room for both blogging as well as telling about you and your love of boating.  Another good blog space is www.blogger.com.  

Another option for your boating blog is to create your own web page.  This is easier than you think it is as many web hosting places like tripod.com will offer free tools for building your web site and will give you basic web space for free!

When you start your boating blog, introduce yourself.  Be careful not to reveal too much personal information such as your last name, a specific address, or things like that.  You will have all sorts of people viewing your web site – even bad ones – so be careful what you tell people.

Take some pictures of your boat.  Tell a little bit about it.  One blog on the Internet has a description of the boat from a first person viewpoint which we found to be quite interesting.  Tell about her features, what her name is, and where she likes to go.

A good boating blog will have a personalized touch speaking from experience.  Write about places you’ve been on your boat and what you recommend (or don’t recommend) to others as far as boating destinations.  You may also want to write about your dream boating trip as well as places you want to go to in the future.

By all means, share your boating expertise in your blog!  Have you learned a valuable lesson about boating safety?  Got a tip on engine maintenance?  Know about a great, secret place you want to tell others about?  Write about it!

Consider putting an e-mail link in your blog.  You can even invite people to sign a virtual guestbook.  You never know who you might meet!

You don’t have to be a professional writer to start and maintain a boating blog.  All you need is a love of boating and desire to share what you know.  Boating blogs are modern day captain’s logs.  They are everywhere and are awfully entertaining!  Start one today!
