Boating Charter


If you don’t own a boat, but are yearning to experience a boating vacation, a boating charter is the way for you to go.  You can charter a boat either with or without a captain depending on your experience level and what type of getaway you want.

A bareboat boating charter is when you simply rent a boat and will captain it yourself.  Most places who specialize in bareboat charters will give you a quick boating course so you know how to operate the vehicle and know the rules of the road when it comes to navigating the waterways.  As a general rule, it’s not a good idea to get a bareboat charter with no boating experience at all.

The advantage to a bareboat boating charter is that if you do have some boating experience, you will be able to captain a boat that you wouldn’t otherwise be able to afford to own.  That means a cabin cruiser or even a yacht.  If you’ve always wanted to go yachting, a bareboat boating charter may very well be the way for you to go.

When you do a basic boating charter, you are hiring the boat as well as a captain to operate the boat.  The movie “Captain Ron” comes to mind for this author!  The best part about a basic boating charter is that you can sit back and enjoy the boating experience without having to worry about – literally – anything else.  Well, except for the folks in that movie!

When you book a boating charter, be sure it’s with a reputable company who has adequate insurance as well as enough experience to insure you of a safe and satisfying getaway.  Choose a boat that’s within your budget, but don’t be afraid to splurge a little.  After all, this is a boating getaway for you; why not enjoy it to the fullest!

Have you always dreamed of getting away to an exotic location but want to incorporate your love of boating with that trip?  Charter a boat once you arrive.  Then you can really have the vacation experience of a lifetime.  There are very few places you can go where you won’t find a boating charter company ready to book you on a cruise along the water.

Your trip can be a simple day trip up and down a river or it can be a week-long excursion where you can whale watch, swim with the dolphins, or just sit on deck and enjoy the scenery.

Boating charters are easy to come by and an amazing way for you to have a boating vacation that will be a memorable experience for years to come.  Check out boating charters online before you book and then enjoy your trip!
