Florida Boating


It’s no surprise that Florida is the number one place with annual boating registrations that top all other states.  Florida offers many different opportunities for boating whether you want to brave the ocean, the gulf, or one of their many, many lakes.  

Because they have been consistently the number one boating destination in the United States, Florida concentrates a lot of their state-wide efforts on keeping the waterways safe as well as fun.  There are numerous state grants available for improving ramp access and keeping the waters clean.

Florida has over 8,000 miles of coastline and 4,500 square miles of inland waterways, making it a paradise for boaters! From mega-yachts to wooden skiffs, having a boat is as normal as having a car for some Floridians. The Intra-coastal Waterway is a natural but dredged channel that extends 500 miles down the east coast of Florida to the tip of the Keys. It's a very popular boating route that runs through rivers, creeks and dredged canals. It is maintained by the Florida Inland Navigation District.

The 135-mile Okeechobee Waterway, which cuts through the state, is another popular boating route, especially during the summer. It runs along the St. Lucie Canal from Stuart, across Lake Okeechobee and then on to Sanibel Island via the Caloosahatchee River.
 
There are roughly 1,250 marinas in Florida, most with excellent facilities, accommodations and outlets for fishing and diving charters.  Florida is also home to dozens of boat manufacturers, dealers and yards which provide services such as boat repair, painting and storage.

If you are boating in Florida, you’ll find all the amenities afforded to the many, many boating enthusiasts that flock here every year.  Numerous marinas allow for easy access to the many waterways and the services they provide make every boater comfortable and at ease.

The fishing is also great in Florida, so it’s easy to combine recreational boating with angling for prize fish.  You’ll find lots of award-winning fish in many different places, so if you plan on boating in Florida, be sure to bring your fishing gear!

There’s no doubt about it, when you want a great boating experience, you need to check out Florida.  Besides having some of the best weather in the country, they also offer boaters many opportunities to enjoy the weather along with the waters.  Any type of boating from sail boating to speed boating is just waiting for you on the waters of sunny Florida!
