House Boating


No family vacation is quite as fun and interesting as a house boating vacation.  If you are lucky enough to own a house boat, that’s wonderful.  However, most people can’t afford the luxury of a house boat.  That’s why if you’re interested in house boating, you’ll want to look into renting one.

House boats are amazing vessels with all the comforts of home.  They have separate sleeping quarters, a galley (kitchen), and even bathroom facilities.  Many house boats even have microwaves and televisions.  

When you begin researching your house boating rental, there are a few factors to keep in mind.  First, make sure it can handle the amount of people who will be along on the house boating vacation.  If you have a family of 6 and there’s only sleeping for 4, you’ll be awfully cramped.

Be sure that the place you rent from gives you a boating course before you get out on the water.  You will most likely be captaining your own boat, and if you have no house boating experience, you’ll need a crash course for safety, if nothing else!

Make sure you know whether or not fuel costs are included in the rental price.  If you will be responsible for buying your own gas, you will want to know ahead of time so you can budget.  Also, ask for a copy of the insurance policy on the boat.  You may have to add a temporary rider to your own insurance to be covered, so that’s a good question to ask.

When you are on your house boating vacation, take the time to enjoy where you are at.  That means you should by all means stop along the way and take advantage of the shoreline sights and offerings.  For example, if there’s a beach along the way, drop anchor and enjoy the sun and sand for a day.  

Some house boat rental places will also rent water equipment to you like jet skis.  If you will be towing them behind, be sure you know about safety concerns that need to be adhered to.  Many companies will also let you tow boats behind so you can enjoy whatever area you decide to dock up to.

Rates for house boating rentals are about what you would pay for a land locked rental like a condo.  Depending on where you are, rentals for the week can run anywhere from $1,000 to $5,000.  If you want a larger craft, you will, obviously, pay a little more.  Just consider what nightly motel rental is and multiply out the cost.  You won’t have restaurant costs when house boating because it has a kitchen you can stock for your entire trip.

House boating can be an immensely enjoyable experience for you and your family.  Vacationing really can be leisurely and fun.  For your next getaway, try house boating and know why so many people enjoy it!
