Lakeland Boating


Lakeland Boating magazine is one of the most popular magazines for boating enthusiasts.  Based in Chicago, Lakeland Boating has been the voice of the “Sweetwater Seas” for more than fifty years.

Their magazine offers a comprehensive guide to the sport of boating both professionally as well as recreationally.  They provide in-depth boat tests to help the boating enthusiast choose the right boat.  They will also review boating products and announce any new developments in boating products.

Lakeland Boating magazine is a great resource for information on weekend getaways.  They also give lots of information about colorful ports of call around the world.  One of the fun parts of boating is exploring new places.  If you are a boater in the Great Lakes area, Lakeland Boating is for you.

Inside the pages of Lakeland Boating, you will find tips on engine maintenance and repair as well as the most popular marine electronics.  It’s important for you to take good care of your boat if you want it to last.  This magazine will help you along the way!

Their website is also a great source of information for avid boaters.  Located at www.lakelandboating.com, you can get lots of tips and tricks from other boaters.  They have separate departments for features like engine repair, how to buy a used boat, and much more.

Join their message board and meet other boaters from the Great Lakes region.  Search for boats for sale and find a great bargain on a beautiful boat!  Lakeland Boating’s website also offers a cruising guide as well as a place where you can place your own boat up for sale.

You will be up-to-date on any boating events that are happening in the area with their event calendar.  You can even get some great books and videos in their online store.  The store includes boating guides to each of the Great Lakes.

Lakeland Boating magazine is passionate about boating and strives to keep fellow boaters safe while on the water.  They give you tips on safety and show you ways to make sure that your boating experience is both satisfying and safe.

Lakeland Boating magazine is published eleven times per year.  Their subscription rates are quite reasonable at just $21.95.  Plus, you can subscribe right on their website and save money off the newsstand rate.

If you are into boating, especially boating in the Great Lakes region, Lakeland Boating magazine is definitely for you.  Stay current with all the most recent boating news and learn more than you ever thought with Lakeland Boating!
