Michigan Boating


You have many options when you decide you want to go boating in Michigan.  Michigan is surrounded by four of the five Great Lakes and has over 11,000 inland lakes.  In addition, boaters in Michigan can enjoy over a thousand public access sites which makes it the ideal place to enjoy pleasure boating, sailing, canoeing, and even Great Lakes cruising.

Obviously, the most popular places for boating in Michigan is on one of the Great Lakes.  Whether you choose Lake Huron or Lake Michigan, you will find some great waters that provide challenges to even the most experienced boaters.  Access is easily found in many places, and you won’t have any problem getting on your way quickly for a day of fun on the water!

Michigan is well known for its great fishing.  Whether you’re interested in catching largemouth bass or some prized salmon, you’re sure to find some great fish when you go boating in Michigan.  Find a great spot somewhere along the shoreline of Lake Superior, or choose one of Michigan’s many lakes.  The fishing is as great as the boating in Michigan.

Because boating is such a popular activity in Michigan, you will find a wealth of knowledge on the subject in many places.  There are online forums that discuss the best places to boat and fish.  Blogs on boating in Michigan abound.  Take the advice of people who have been there and discover all sorts of opportunities!

If you don’t own a boat but still want to explore boating in Michigan, the good news is that you still can.  There are many, many places all along the water that provide boat rentals as well as chartered trips.  They will provide you with all the necessary instruction you need to pilot your own water craft on the water, or you can just sit back and enjoy the beauty of being on the water while someone else captains the boat.

Whether you’re interested in water skiing, sailing, or just cruising along the water, you’ll have many options you can explore in Michigan.  Even in the winter, you can boat in Michigan.  Ice boating is a very popular sport in Michigan.  Even if it’s cold outside, you can still enjoy the sights of this northern state.

Michigan is a beautiful place, and boating is a wonderful sport.  When you combine the two, you’ll have a great time boating in Michigan.
