Motor Boating


Motor boating, also known as power boating or speed boating, is one of the most popular forms of boating.  Motor boats have a diverse amount of uses from cruising at a slow speed across the lake to pulling skiers and tubers as well as fishing.  The experience you get from being on board a powerful watercraft like a motor boat is one like no other.

A motor boat is characterized by the use of a motor to power the craft.  The engine can be either an inboard or an outboard engine.  The inboard engine is encased at the rear of the boat hidden by an access panel.  An outboard engine is also at the back of the boat and it is removable for repair.  

Most motor boating is done most easily on a lake or larger body of water.  Because of the speeds the boats can reach, it’s best to allow lots of room for the boat to maneuver.  It’s refreshing to have control of a speed boat that can skim across the water at a high speed, however, it’s important to practice safety when motor boating.

When motor boating, it is especially important for you to obey the rules of the “road” when it comes to other boaters.  Stay a safe distance away from each other to reduce the risk of collision.  Stay fully aware of those around you as well as the layout of the lake.  Some bodies of water have hidden hazards just under the surface of the water, so you will want to be alert when driving your boat.

There is a great publication on motor boating called, appropriately enough, Motor Boating magazine.  This great magazine embraces everything that is great about motor boating.  They give you reviews of the best boats, tips on how to handle these powerhouse vessels, and so much more.

Motor Boating magazine also has a great website with a plethora of information for the motor boating enthusiast.  Located at www.motorboating.com, you’ll find articles, resources for predicting the weather, and tips on safe boating.  Check out their photo galleries that feature reader’s pictures of their motor boating activities.

A great feature of the website they’ve just added is a virtual boat show called E-marina.  In here, you can check out all sorts of power boats and motor boats.  Why leave your home and travel to a boat show when you can find it online at motor boating dot com.

On the website, they offer three free trial issues of Motor Boating magazine for you to check out and see if you want to become a full subscriber.  If you do, their subscription rate is just $14 for a whole year!

Motor boating is a popular activity for boating enthusiasts.  You can find lots of great information to enhance your experience both on the water as well as off.
