Naked Boating


Whether you believe it or not, there really is a new trend in boating communities – naked boating.  Now this isn’t something that occurs on every lake or river in the world, but it is happening mostly as an extension of the nudist lifestyle.  Advocates of naked boating say that there is nothing better than being on a boat au natural and feeling the sun warm every part of the body without the encumberment of a swim suit.

There are thousands of people all over the United States who embrace nudism as a lifestyle.  They allow this to spill over into their recreational activities as well which is why naked boating has become the way to go for many nudists.  European people are not as paranoid about showing their naked bodies, so naked boating in European or Caribbean destinations is especially popular.

If you think that naked boating might be something you may want to try, we must warn you first.  There are laws in many states that prohibit showing a naked body in a public place.  That includes public waterways.  Check with your state’s regulations before stripping down.

You may want to find a secluded place to drop anchor while you try naked boating.  There are usually private coves and out-of-the-way portions of even the busiest lakes and rivers that can give you the privacy you want on a public waterway.  Just be sure that you are alone before you show what God gave you.

You may want to check out a number of naked boating cruises that are available.  Some boating companies specialize in naked cruises and they often travel to some pretty exotic locations.  They tend to be affordable and because you will be with other people who love naked boating, you won’t be self-conscious at all if it’s your first time.

Many people like to also participate in water sports naked as well.  Some say that there’s nothing better than diving into cool waters to go snorkeling or scuba diving.  But, of course, you have to be a little careful of the marine life or else you could find some of your personal spaces a little violated!

If you are someone who enjoys naked boating and you will be having guests on your boat with you, please respect the other people’s comfort levels.  If they are not nudists like you, consider giving them a heads up before the trip or keep yourself covered for everyone’s comfort.   Naked boating can be a liberating experience, and if it’s what you want, by all means take it off.  Just make sure you are doing so legally!
