Party Boating


The words “party boating” conjure up images of wild on board antics with alcohol abounding and beautiful ladies dancing in skimpy bikinis.  Come on, you know that’s what you were thinking about!  The reality is that party boating is a lot of that, but it truly is so much more.

We need to begin this article by stressing that if you are captaining a water craft, you should keep your alcohol consumption to a minimum.  Boating while intoxicated is a serious issue, and you risk injury and even death to you as well as your fellow partiers.  A boat is just as dangerous as a car – even more so – because you have the added factor of choppy waters instead of stable roads.  Boat responsibly and drink less.

Party boating is a great way to connect with friends in a way that helps everyone have fun.  Generally, the best party boating is done on a pontoon boat or a yacht.  Pontoon boats are more affordable for the everyday Joe, but if you’re lucky enough to have a yacht – party away!

The best elements of great party boating are lots of food and drink.  Of course, you’ll have to have the room which is why a big pontoon boat that can accommodate a lot of people and a lot of food with ease.  Make up a few hors d’ouevres like chicken wings, chips and dip, and a cheese platter and lay them out on a table on board.

You’ll want to have lots of coolers on hand to hold your beverages.  It’s a good idea to keep things simple since you’re going to be on the water.  Bringing along tons of mixers for drinks just isn’t practical, so keep it to aluminum cans for beer and soda and wine coolers for those non-beer drinkers.

No party is complete without music and when you are party boating, the situation is no different.  If your boat doesn’t have its own stereo system, bring along a portable stereo and have plenty of batteries on hand.  Have a variety of music available to meet the needs of your fellow partiers and let the music play!

Be sure you have life jackets for everyone on board, and make sure that no one does anything stupid.  One of the cardinal rules of party boating is no drunken skiing or tubing and definitely no drunken swimming.  Keep an eye on your guests and keep them safe.

Owning a boat is a wonderful advantage when you want to party boat, but there are ways that you can go party boating and have a blast without causing any problems for anyone else.  Remember to be mindful of your fellow boaters and stay safe.  And then, let the good times roll!
