Recreational Boating


To some people, the term “recreational boating” seems like an oxymoron of sorts.  After all, why else would you go boating?  There are people who make their living boating whether it’s participating in regattas or speed boat racing.  Most people however use their boats for recreational purposes only.

Recreational boating is exactly what it sounds like – using a boat for having fun.  You can do so many things with a boat, and all of them are fun depending on who you are and what you like.  You can fish, swim, water ski, tube, or just relax and enjoy the water.

Millions of people enjoy recreational boating.  Statistics say that on average one in every six households in the United States own a boat.  An even larger number take advantage of rental opportunities renting a watercraft to enjoy a day on the water.

Of course, one of the biggest parts of recreational boating has to be knowing how to do it safely.  For many people, an ideal day on the water includes a few cocktails, or actually more than a few.  It is possible to actually get a BUI (boating while intoxicated) ticket, and accidents are much more likely to happen when the driver of a boat is impaired by alcohol.

For passengers who are consuming alcohol, there is also a risk.  People who have had too much to drink tend to be unsteady on their feet.  Add to that equation the fact that you are on a body of water that is unsteady as well, and you could very well have a “man overboard” scenario.

It’s best to keep alcohol consumption to a minimum while on the water.  If you must drink, do so in moderation and be aware of how impaired you are before a problem occurs.

Mind the rules of the “road” when boating and expect others to be doing the same.  Accidents are dramatically reduced when people obey the unwritten (and written) rules that the United States Coast Guard has set forth.  Be considerate of others and you will greatly enjoy your boating excursion

Recreational boating also means being considerate of others on the same body of water.  One of the best parts of boating is tying up in a cove and meeting new people.  Keep in mind basic rules of courtesy and treat others like you would want to be treated.  You’ll be surprised at how many wonderful friends you can make on the lake!

Recreational boating is one of the most enjoyable activities you can undertake.  Take a few steps to know what you are doing and then enjoy it to the fullest.  You will find more recreational activities while boating that you can participate in even in your older years.
