Summer Boating


When summer hits, there’s no better time to go boating on a nice, cool body of water.  It’s also the time when hundreds of other boaters have the same idea that you do.  Summer boating is great fun at a hot time of the year, but there are some things you’ll nee to take into consideration before you get your boat on the water.

First, remember that there will be many other boaters on the water at the same time as you.  Brush up on the rules of the “road” and pay special attention to those around you.  Remember when it’s safe to pass, how close you are allowed to get to another boat, and how to be courteous to others.

Summer is hot and when you are boating, you are in the sun most of the time.  To avoid a nasty sunburn, use plenty of sunscreen with a sun protection factor (SPF) of at least 15 if not higher.  Children should especially be protected with a good sunscreen as their delicate skin can burn quite easily.

Make sure that you stay well hydrated.  In the hot weather, you lose fluid quite quickly.  Drink plenty of water and avoid excessive amounts of alcohol.  Alcohol has a dehydrating effect and will deplete the fluids from your body much more quickly than naturally.

The weather can change in an instant, so when boating in the summer, be sure to pay close attention to the weather forecast.  You certainly won’t want to be stuck 4 miles off shore when that freak summer storm hits.  Don’t play games with the weather – especially in the summer.  Your safety depends on it!

Pay special attention to your boat in the hot summer months.  It’s hot outside and the engine is hot as well.  Check the boat’s fluids often so that you don’t run the risk of the engine overheating leaving you stranded in the middle of the lake.

Even though it’s hot, you still need to wear your life jacket.  This is especially true with children.  Almost all drownings that occur become fatal because a person is thrown overboard and is not wearing a life jacket.  A little discomfort from the heat is well worth paying the price when you consider you could be compromising your life.

Summer is definitely the best time of the year to go boating.  As long as you keep your safety rules in mind, fun is just around the corner.  Summer boating is also a great time to get your family together and enjoy a day on the water.  What a way to beat the heat!
