Travis Boating Center


Travis Boating Center is one of the premier super stores for the best deals on boats in the United States.  Travis Boating Center was founded and began by the man who was responsible for launching Bass Pro Shops – the premier store for everything outdoors.  It seemed like a natural transition for him to also found a store that sold boats and everything associated with them since boats are used in fishing as well as for recreational purposes.

Exclusively carrying Tracker brand boats, Travis boating center was started back in the 1970’s and featured a “ready to fish” boat package that was unheard of in the industry at the time.  Tracker boats have since become known as some of the best quality of boats that can be found today.  Since its inception, Travis Boating Center has expanded their brand lines to include Nitro, Sun Tracker, and Tahoe, to name just a few.

Today, this is a national phenomenon growing by leaps and bounds every day.  Inside the stores of Travis Boating Center, you’ll find the largest selection of boats all tailored to the regions that each store serves.

This great store, founded with a love of both fishing as well as boating offers the finest new and used boats at the best prices.  They pride themselves on bringing service and selection together to offer boating enthusiasts the best boating package at the very best price.

Travis Boating Centers are located in many places concentrating mostly in the south and southeastern United States.  They are especially concentrated in areas where boating is big such as Texas, California, and Florida.  However, chances are very good that if you take the time to look, you will be able to find a boat dealer near you that carries Tracker boats which were developed by Travis Boating Center.

Travis Boating Centers are well-known for being heavy participants in boat shows all around the country.  Because they have such great boat packages which usually include trailers as well as boating gear, they have a lot to offer at these shows.  

They pride themselves on offering everything the avid boater needs no matter what activity the boat will be used for.  Their staff is friendly and very knowledgeable as each employee must go through a rigorous training session where they learn everything that will help the consumer make a well-thought out decision on their boat purchase.

Whether you want to angle for sport fish, ski with family, or cruise to Margaritaville, look for a Travis Boating Center to get outfitted with the best boat around.  When you become an owner of one of their fine boats, you will enjoy the results of founder Johnny Morris’ enduring vision: “Build a better boat, make it affordable and make it last.”

That’s what you’ll get from Travis Boating Center and Tracker boats.  
