Title: 
A Perfect Houston Wedding includes a Houston DJ

Word Count:
618

Summary:
These simple guidelines will help you find the Houston disc jockey that is a perfect fit for your wedding.


Keywords:
houston dj, houston djs, houston wedding dj, dj in houston, djs in houston, houston disc jockey


Article Body:
If you're planning a Houston wedding, you'll confront the million-and-one decisions that all brides face. Who should you ask to be in your bridal party? Where will you find the perfect wedding dress? What do you need to pack for your honeymoon? In the process, it's important to remember that the enjoyment of your guests is also your responsibility. To ensure that they have a wonderful time at your reception, you should select a professional wedding DJ in Houston who can take some of that responsibility off your shoulders. These simple guidelines will help you find the Houston disc jockey that is a perfect fit for your wedding.

Find the Right Houston Wedding DJ

Initially, the thought of having to find the right wedding DJ in Houston can be overwhelming. Take some time to cruise the Internet and locate DJs in Houston who specialize in weddings. Make a list and run the names by your caterer, photographer, and the manager of your reception venue. They should be familiar with Houston DJs and can help you narrow down your list. 

Is it the Right Music for You?

Once you have narrowed the field, it's time to start making calls. If you have a particular type of music you'd like played at your reception, check to see if he has that music available. Keep in mind, though, that your reception is likely to include guests ranging in age and musical preferences. A professional Houston DJ will have an eclectic mix of music that will get everyone to his or her feet. By all means, ensure that the songs you want are on his play list, but also realize that part of his job is to set the cadence for your reception. By starting your reception off with light music, your DJ will help to put everyone at ease. Through music, he'll help to move the event along, from your first dance with your new husband, to the cutting of the wedding cake, the tossing of your bouquet, and the departure of you and the groom. 

A Houston Wedding DJ Provides More than Music

When choosing from among DJs in Houston, remember that you not only want him to provide terrific musical entertainment, but also to act as an emcee. For that reason, you need to check out the DJ's attitude, personality, promptness, and ability to please the wedding guests. The best way to ensure your wedding reception will be handled in a professional manner is to stop by another wedding reception and watch him in action. By seeing him perform, you will get to know his personality, the quality of his performance, and reaction he receives from the guests.

Important Things to Consider when Hiring a Wedding DJ

Before you sign a contract with a Houston wedding DJ, make sure that he has (or will get) the songs you would like played at your reception. Make sure that he accepts requests, as your guests will enjoy being able to dance to their favorite tunes. 

Even if you don't know much about sound equipment ask about it. A professional DJ in Houston should have top quality equipment and high-end professional lighting, both of which will make your reception more enjoyable for your guests. 

If you don't have the opportunity to watch him perform, be sure to ask the DJ what he will be wearing at your reception. Most Houston DJs wear tuxedos to weddings, but there are some who don't. By discussing this with the DJ in advance, you'll eliminate any problems or embarrassing moments on your big day.

Having the right Houston DJ will not only guarantee that your special day is well-organized, but will add to wonderful, lifelong memories.


