Title: 
American Idol Auditions Aren’t About Talent

Word Count:
350

Summary:
American Idol Advantage explains what it really takes to make it past the first round of American Idol auditions.


Keywords:
American Idol Advantage, American Idol Auditions,


Article Body:
Anyone who follows American Idol knows that there are times when there doesn't seem to be any rhyme or reason to who is selected - and who is rejected.  According to the 'American Idol Advantage,' this is because the judges aren't selecting candidates on the principles we think they are.

“Talent is not the most important factor in making it past these first auditions,” said Andy West, a marketing specialist and representative of www.AmericanIdolTips.com.  “The singers who have a clearer understanding of this are the ones who make it past the judges.”

If there is anything that gets results in the American Idol auditions, it's not talent - it's how much time and effort people have put into their presentation.  Singers who desperately want the opportunity stand out from the crowd, not because they're talented, but because they have done their homework: they know how to market themselves in order to get the judges' attention.  

'American Idol Advantage' explains the factors that actually determine the judges' choices in the first round of American Idol auditions - those that separate the chosen few from the rest of the crowd.  The e-book is full of trends, tips, and other information that reveals how American Idol auditions are really won: songs that boost a candidate's chances, versus those that bomb; how successful candidates tend to dress; and how to interpret the judges' reactions to you and your audition.  'American Idol Advantage' also includes analysis and interpretation of past American Idol auditions, showing real-life examples of what works - and what doesn't.

“There's a lot more to these initial auditions than just singing,” said Mr. West.

As with everything else in life, the American Idol auditions are about more than just showing up - they're about being prepared.  'American Idol Advantage' provides everyday people with a shot at making it onto American Idol - by teaching them how to prepare.

“The singers that do their homework and are the most prepared will make it on to the show, plain and simple,” Mr. West said.  For more information about American Idol Advantage, check out the website  www.AmericanIdolTips.com.


