Title: 
Are we moving back to the future sheet music?

Word Count:
331

Summary:
Sheet music is used by many music artists and composers to write music notes and create music of their own.


Keywords:
future of pop music, future of the music industry, future music release, future of the music business, music future, future music, back to the future sheet music


Article Body:
Sheet music is hand written upon paper or printed form of musical notations. In other words, sheet music is the written representation of music. It is also known as score and is used as a guide or means to perform a piece of music. It is very helpful for a musician who is preparing for his upcoming performances. 

Except in the case of solo performers who need to memorize the music notes, classical musicians usually have this sheet music in their hands while they are performing. It is used to give basic indications of melodies, chord changes and arrangements in jazz music. It is a platform where a new musician can write the music down and serves as a visual record of music. Different types of sheet music includes full score, miniature score, piano score, vocal score, short score and lead sheet. 

In the 15th century, western music was mostly hand written and preserved as manuscripts. Later, in the 18th century, music was being printed. By 19th century and later, sheet music was available in computer readable format. Then Music OCR, software to read sheet music that could be manipulated made the process even simpler. 

A music notation program or score writer software is used to automate the task of writing and engraving sheet music.  Such score writer allows you to input, edit or print music notes to different specifications. These score writers range from programs that can write simple programs to programs that handle complexities of orchestral music and music engraving. 

<b> What is digital music sheet? </b>
Digital sheet music is very much similar to the printed version of the sheet music but it has certain advantages over the print version. It doesn’t goes out of print so it can be offered in titles that are unavailable anywhere else.  These titles could be downloaded for guitars, piano, vocal, violin and other instruments. 

Find more information at our recommended website <a href="http://www.music-future.com"> music-future.com</a>


