Title: 
Company Gives Net Users New Way to Listen to Music

Word Count:
295

Summary:
An online marketing and technology solutions company is offering Internet users a new, easy way to listen to music on their computers.


Keywords:
Company Gives Net Users New Way to Listen to Music


Article Body:
An online marketing and technology solutions company is offering Internet users a new, easy way to listen to music on their computers.

Centale Inc. recently launched its Music on Demand program, a patent-pending algorithmic search online application that allows you to use Microsoft's Windows Media Player as an instantaneous connection to search the Internet for millions of audio and video files and listen to or view them without having to take the time to download any files.

It has a high-tech look and performance and switch-skin technology that will appeal to the millions of people listening to and purchasing music via the Internet, said Patrick T. Parker, chief executive officer and chairman of the publicly traded company (OTC BB: CNTL).

The application has been approved by Microsoft as an official plug-in "power toy/utility" for the Windows Media Player.

"We believe our acceptance by Microsoft as an official plug-in validates our technology," Parker said. "It will provide a substantial distribution channel for our Music on Demand and bring listening pleasure to millions of people worldwide."

According to Nielsen//Net-

Ratings, more than 200 million Americans use the Internet. According to the Pew Internet & American Life Project, there are more than 500 million desktops in the U.S. Fifty-six percent of Internet users watch video clips or listen to audio clips; 34 percent listen to music at a Web site; and 25 percent download music files. 

It is reported that 2.2 million people subscribe to digital music services, compared to 1.5 million estimated by IFPI's Digital Music Report published in January. The industry expects this trend to continue as the crackdown on illegal digital music services increases.

In addition to its Music on Demand program, Centale's product line includes the Catalyst EV direct-to-desktop marketing tool, customized browsers, instant messenger applications and screensavers.


