Title: 
Discover How To Convert MP3 Files Into CDs With Easy MP3 Converter Tips.

Word Count:
655

Summary:
Get mp3 converter and mp3 to wav facts. Discover how to convert mp3 files to CD and get ID3 tag mp3 editor tips on how to organize your online music file collection.


Keywords:
mp3,mp3 converter,mp3 to wav,ID3,mp3 tag,music,mp3 download,mp3 players,music download,free mp3,dmx mp3,free mp3 downloads,music downloads,mp3s,music


Article Body:
When downloading <b>MP3</b> files online, usually you will quickly build up a large music collection.  Keeping them on your computer is dicey because if your PC crashes all those music files could be lost.

MP3s, like all important computer data, needs to be backed up.  However, instead of treating MP3 files like other computer files, many people prefer to convert their online music files into audio CDs.  Converting MP3 files into CDs is a rather easy procedure.

Most CD burning software can do the conversion for you automatically. You simply build up your collection of MP3 songs and burn a CD.  Before the CD is burned, the MP3s will be converted into Compact Disc Audio (CDA) files.  This is done for you automatically with many CD burning programs, like Nero, but if you choose you can take more control of the CD burning process.

For instance, Nero has an easy audio editor that allows you to break up files and use filters such as equalization, noise reduction or stereo widening.  If your CD burning software does not provide these extra features, you can continue to process the MP3 files before burning the CD. In this circumstance, you'll need dedicated audio editing software.  There are a variety of freeware and commercial programs available online to choose from.

When getting your MP3 files ready to burn to a CD, one of the most helpful editing functions you can do is to 'normalize' all of the files. Normalization is a process that smoothes out the differences in volume between different tracks - this ensures that your entire music CD will play at about the same loudness.

Once you have finished editing your files, you'll need to save your MP3 files to WAV. Converting MP3 to WAV is necessary so that they can be burned to CD. More than likely, you will be burning your MP3s to a CD-R (Compact Disc Recordable). Newer model CD players can handle this type of CD, however, an older CD player may not be able to identify them. 

Instead of converting MP3 files to audio CD, you can burn MP3s directly to CD in their original MP3 format. This will allow you to store a lot more music on one CD. Another advantage of MP3 CDs is that they can be played on many CD and DVD players and they can also be played in a computer CD-ROM.

A disadvantage of the MP3 CDs is that because there are so many songs on one disc it can be very difficult to find a particular song you want to listen to. 

One way to solve this problem is to use them on a DVD player connected to your home theater system. Usually DVD players can handle MP3 CDs and will even display the tracks on the TV set. However, the filenames may be fixed to only eight characters, and therefore, you should give special attention beforehand about how to categorize your MP3s before burning to a CD. 

<b>Here are some tips on how to organize your MP3 music files:</b>

<b>1)</b> Divide your songs into separate folders. You can choose a folder for each artist or a folder for each genre.

<b>2)</b> Always begin the filename with the name of the song instead of the artist. This prevents all of the file names being displayed exactly the same.
  
<b>3)</b> Be careful when naming your MP3 files and remember that it's very easy to rename your files using MP3 tag editors. Today's ID3 tag software is designed to rename MP3 files using a variety of criteria.  To rename your entire music collection fast, simply check the option that puts the song title at the beginning of the filename.

Converting your MP3s into audio CDs is an easy process with the help of quality MP3 converter software and proper MP3 file organization skills.  Good luck.


