Title: 
Four Tips to Start A Valuable Music Box Collection, Part II

Word Count:
437

Summary:
Many music box and antique collectors enjoy collecting inlaid music boxes, wooden keepsake boxes, musical jewelry boxes, and other mechanical music and musical gifts. In part two of this two article series, we will take a look at additional tips to consider when seeking to develop a valuable music box collection.


Keywords:
music box, collectibles


Article Body:
Copyright 2006 Monique Hawkins

Many music box and antique collectors enjoy collecting inlaid music boxes, wooden keepsake boxes, musical jewelry boxes, and other mechanical music and musical gifts. In part two of this two article series, we will take a look at additional tips to consider when seeking to develop a valuable music box collection.

1. While music box collecting can be expensive, its important to remember to make sure the item that is being purchased does not have inflated value. So, take your time and develop a systematic appraisal, which can be used for all music box purchases. For example, some things to look for are loose, damaged, and missing veneer; looking to see if the design on the lid is an inlay and not a transfer. It is also necessary to check to make sure the musical movement is not damaged, no corrosion is present which can lead to lead leaks, and listen to make sure the tune on the music box is perfect. Plus, take your time when making a decision

2. If you find a music box that you fall in love with, but it has defects, go ahead and buy it! Usually, everything is capable of being replaced if you have the time, money, and know someone who is skilled in this area.

3. When buying a music box at an auction, always look at the piece prior to the auction. Make sure you examine the box carefully and decide how valuable it truly it is for you, no matter the cost. This will also ensure that you remain within your budget!

4. Music boxes can be delicate. Therefore, when it comes to transporting them you must be careful. There are precautions to take to ensure that your valuable collectible is not damaged in any way. Transpiration suggestions include putting the piece on the floor in the car, and remembering to never stand a music box on its end. Also, carry a cylinder music box in a level position to keep the cylinder from bouncing up and down. Additional tips include using a high density plastic foam to wrap your valuable in, using large strong crates for large musical boxes (best to let the professionals pack it) and putting "breakable" or "handle like glass" if it has to be shipped a long distance.

Collecting music boxes such as inlaid music boxes, wooden keepsake boxes, musical jewelry boxes, and other mechanical music and musical gifts, and many other mechanical instruments and movements are hobby loved by many a music box and antique collector. Following the above tips can greatly assist collectors in forming a valuable music box collection.


