Title: 
Future music

Word Count:
337

Summary:
Increase in music piracy in form of mp3 audio files that are being easily accessed and shared on the internet. These cause a cut down in the costs of original production of the sound track and are a major threat to future music.


Keywords:
future of pop music, future of the music industry, future music release, future of the music business, music future


Article Body:
Music is your own experience, your own thoughts, your wisdom. If you don't live it, it won't come out of your horn. They teach you there's a boundary line to music. But, man, there's no boundary line to art. -- Charlie Parker

Music is incredibly an important part of our day to day lives. Be it home, office or any place, the soothing sound and lyrics of an enchanting music track refreshes our whole day’s tiredness and stress. Music business is not the same as it used to be and it has changed many fold times. Future music, in the same way is going to be different from what we get today.

Entertainment in the beginning was in the form of song tracks distributed in plastic tape cassettes. Then CD’s were invented that provided much better quality of sound and was easily distributed. With the recent advent of MP3 which allows large data to be compressed without affecting the original melody of the music, it has really become the future of music business. 

MP3 music has become so popular that now it is easily available through different websites. Consumer is now in a much better state to listen good quality music through mp3 downloads and songs as these cost much less than the other audio forms available. This at the same time has brought huge threat along with it, in the form of music piracy. 

When a music company launches an album, it makes some copyright laws that disallow a third party to imitate or publish the same music record in any form. Since music could be easily downloaded and recorded in the form of Mp3 files, it is a main source of music piracy. 

There are several laws being imposed making piracy an illegal act and fineable too. But threats still moves along with times as more and more Mp3 and forms of audio develop different methods to access music.

To know more visit our website <a href="http://www.music-future.com">music-future.com</a>


