Title: 
Got HD? It's the next big thing in radio -- pure, crystal-clear sound -- and it's free!

Word Count:
287

Summary:
HD Radio is a new technology that does for braodcast radio what HDTV does for broadcast televison. HD AM radio sounds as good as FM today and HD FM sounds almost like listening to a CD. Read more about this amazing new technology....


Keywords:
HD radio, AM radio, FM radio, digital radio, digital broadcasst radio, free radio, digital DAB radio, better radio


Article Body:
HD Radio technology is the next big thing because it makes it makes FM stations sound nearly as good as if you were listening to a CD. The sound is just amazing – clean, pure and crystal-clear. It even enables AM stations to sound as good as an FM station today.

Let’s pretend you’re a sports talk radio fan. Just imagine how much better your experience will be when there’s no distortion, no annoying hiss, crackle, fade or static. It will be just like listening to your favorite AM station broadcast in FM.

And if music is your thing, you’ll love HD Radio technology even more because you’ll be able to hear music on your favorite classic or rock station in the clearest, cleanest, purest form ever available over the airways and, best of all, it’s free. All you have to do is buy a new radio.

In fact, this technology even makes it possible for your local stations to broadcast in true 5.1 surround sound.  Just imagine that. You turn on your favorite music station and you are immediately surrounded by sound -- just as if you were sitting in your favorite concert hall.

HD Radio technology also makes possible something called multicasting that allows stations to broadcast two or more different signals simultaneously. So, your favorite oldies stations could be broadcasting music from the ‘60s, ‘70s and ‘80s – all at the same time!

More than 500 stations are already broadcasting in HD Radio technology. And HD radios are available for both the home and car.

So far, radio stations have not done much publicity on this exciting, new form of broadcasting but you can bet that will be changing in the near future.


