Title: 
Guitar Lessons: Guitar Playing Must Be A Passion

Word Count:
315

Summary:
The first time I picked up a guitar my whole life changed. I think I slept with it the night I brought my first new guitar home. It’s a bit embarrassing to admit, but it is true. I remember the feel of the guitar in my hands and the shape, which reminded me of a girl I once dated. But seriously it was love, pure love.

Then I plugged it in and hit those first magic notes….. Wow did it sound awful, maybe the worst noise I ever heard in my life. So started my journey in the w...


Keywords:
Guitar Lessons, Guitars


Article Body:
The first time I picked up a guitar my whole life changed. I think I slept with it the night I brought my first new guitar home. It’s a bit embarrassing to admit, but it is true. I remember the feel of the guitar in my hands and the shape, which reminded me of a girl I once dated. But seriously it was love, pure love.

Then I plugged it in and hit those first magic notes….. Wow did it sound awful, maybe the worst noise I ever heard in my life. So started my journey in the world of music some 23 years ago, I found my one and only mistress, the guitar.

Today I am happily married with 3 kids, a real job, and my guitars. The only thing my wife has ever been jealous over is my guitars. I told her once I could have girlfriends or guitars, she said she’d settle for the guitars. Thus is the secret to a happy marriage.

Oh more importantly, the guitars. No two are the same, even the same model, made in the same year, with sequential serial numbers, are going to play and sound different. They have their own personalities, their own feel and their own mood swings. I have Fender’s, Gibson’s, Washburn’s, Parker’s, solid bodies, hollow bodies and semi-hollow body guitars. 

Every week I go to a friend’s house, or a local store and just pickup every guitar I can and play it for a few minutes. It really is an obsession. I think, dream and dwell on playing guitar 24 Hours a day.

Is this story the same as your’s. As humorous as this may sound, many of my playing friends say the same thing. You can never have enough guitars, or spend enough time playing your guitar.

Do you have a passion for playing as well?


