Title: 
How To Make A Unique Music Box

Word Count:
455

Summary:
For the music box and antique collectors who enjoy a challenge and like to do creative crafts, making their own music box can be lots of fun! Here are directions to make a unique music box called "Around The World."


Keywords:
music box, music


Article Body:
Copyright 2006 Monique Hawkins

For the music box and antique collectors who enjoy a challenge and like to do creative crafts, making their own music box can be lots of fun! Here are directions to make a unique music box called "Around The World." This was taken from Sharon Ganske's book, "Making Marvelous Music Boxes".

Materials Needed

Unfinished recipe box, 5 ¾" wide X 3 ¾" deep X 4" high 18-note-key-wind musical movement T-bar winding key, ¾" De'coupage Sandpaper Wood Sealer

Decorative Accessories for Music Box

Assortment of stamps Greeting card or postcard with traveling photo 2 brown ultra-sued strips, ½" wide X 16 ½" long 2 buckles, ½" 4 brass corner brackets, 5/8" Hasp catch, 1 ¾ X 5/8" Small padlock

Acrylic Paint Color: Blue-gray

Adhesives and Spray Sealer:

Industrial strength glue Tacky glue Gloss spray sealer

Tools and Brushes:

Drill with ¼" drill bit Hammer Old paintbrushes Paintbrush Ruler Scissors X-acto knife

Step-By-Step Assembly

Step One:  Using sandpaper, sand box. Using an old paintbrush, apply wood sealer to box following manufacturer's directions. Allow to dry thoroughly.

Step Two:  Using a paintbrush, paint box inside and outside with blue-gray acrylic paint.

Step Three:  Using an old paintbrush, apply a thin layer of decoupage to box and sides of lid, working an area about 3" square at a time. Place stamps on box and lid sides, overlapping them as desired. Stamps should be placed over opening between lid and box-it will be cut open later. Using a ruler and an X-acto knife, cur greeting card to fit top of box. Apply a thin coat of decoupage to lid top and place card in position.

Step Four:  Using an old paintbrush, apply a thin layer of Tacky glue to wrong side of one ultra-suede strip. Starting at bottom front left corner, ¾" in from side and 1 ½" from bottom, press strip to box. Slide a buckle on and make a small hole to accomodate the stem of the buckle at center 1" from the end. Using scissors, cut corners of ultra-suede strip on a 45-degree angle. Repeat process for remaining ultra-suede strip on other side of box. Allow to dry thoroughly.

Step Five:  Using the X-Acto knife, carefully cut opening between box and lid, starting at the back.

Step Six:  Drill a ¼" hole at center back of box ¾" from bottom. Using industrial strength glue, glue musical movement inside box, making sure winding-key shaft is centered in hole. Allow to dry thoroughly.

Step Seven:  Carefully hammer corner brackets on box. Turn the box back-side down, center hasp catch, and carefully hammer in nails. Pull padlock on hasp catch, and wind on winding key. Fill your box with favorite vacation photos.

Making your own music box can be a fun craft activity for a rainy day, lazy summer day, or really anytime! Why not take the plunge, and make one today?


