Title: 
How To Make Big Money With Your Band

Word Count:
969

Summary:
Being a musician for many years now, all I ever wanted to do was to be able to make a good living by doing what I can't do without, which is performing and writing music. Its a blessing to be on a stage looking out over a big room full of people to share your music with. You'll never experience a feeling like it. Just the satisfaction of knowing that for that moment in time you are completely understood. Its extremely gratifying and addictive.


Keywords:
guitar, guitars, how to make money with your band


Article Body:
Being a musician for many years now, all I ever wanted to do was to be able to make a good living by doing what I can't do without, which is performing and writing music. Its a blessing to be on a stage looking out over a big room full of people to share your music with. You'll never experience a feeling like it. Just the satisfaction of knowing that for that moment in time you are completely understood. Its extremely gratifying and addictive.

Over the years, its become evident to me that I'm not the only one who feels this way. Its only natural to want the band that your in to be a success. I've received letters for years from people just like you wanting to know how to grow their fan base and how to turn their craft into something profitable. Well, you can do these two things at the same time. Right now, I'm putting the finishing touches on a book that actually shows you everything you need to know about how to become a successful band. And its not just for beginners either, this book should be an essential for any band who wants to quickly become a fan favorite and start making serious money. I will tell you how you can get your hands on a copy of it a little bit later, but first I want to touch on a few things that's in the book.

First, I hate to be the one who has to tell you this, but these days its practically impossible to be a success on the music alone. There are actually a few things that fans take into consideration when deciding to like your band, and all of these things will be explained in the book. I will show you how to get out of the garage and onto a stage. And, yes it does matter where the guitar player, the bass player, the keyboardist(if you have one), the drummer, and the singer is positioned on stage. Or if you have anybody else in your band, such as back up singers and/or a horn section, I will also teach you all of that too, in a chapter called "the successful band formula". 

The real important thing to know if your in a band is you need a forever growing following. That's essential for the success of a band. And the only way to know that is as a band, you are a creative entity and a business. I know as the artist that you are, I know the last sentence is a hard one to swallow, and deservingly so, but for the public to like you, they have to be able to take you home with them and think about you. And they do that with products such as c.d.'s, shirts,etc. It is very important to bring band recordings to your shows to sell. If you don't have any other products, you should at least have c.d.'s. It gives you extra income and more importantly, it gives your ever growing audience the opportunity to get familiar with your music.

Presentation is the key to being well liked at your shows. Your first shows should be all about winning the whole crowd over, and the only way you can do that is very good, well rehearsed presentation. And that's not just rehearsing your music. Presentation is the show as a whole. From the stage show to your backdrop to the table where your products are sold and the people behind the table helping you sell the products. It should be a well oiled, fine tuned machine. All of that will be explained in entirety in the book.

Another point to take into consideration is to not only have a band onstage, but an act. Every member in the band plays a different character. That is also very important and all to often overlooked in a band. To have each member of the band's character relate to everybody. It gives the audience the feeling that they know you and can relate to you. And that draws them in even closer and that's what you want to happen, because it enhances the overall product that your providing to them. And you are the only band around that they can get that from. In the book, I will teach you how to make a character and bring it to life, as well as to develop that character as more time passes. 

If you are serious about having a devout following, you should seriously consider getting this book. Your going to get so much more important information for you to have. And like I said, its not just for a band that's just starting out. Any band that's interested in making good money and giving the audience a really good, memorable, and professional show should have this book. It will show you how to put on a really good show.

If you had a professional manager or agent, this book will teach you everything that they would want you to know. That in itself will attract them to you. Not to mention teach you how to get the major record labels to pay attention to you.

You could pay hundreds of dollars for this information and it would be worth every penny, but you won't. In fact, you won't pay anywhere near it. For the price of four packs of guitar strings you will get all of the valuable information inside this book. Satisfaction guaranteed. Just write to me to receive more information and how to order: Barry Ford 205 Terry Loop Rd. Cordova, Alabama 35550. 
As always, I hope you found this article both informative and entertaining. And may GOD bless you always, and in always.


