Title: 
iPod Workouts - A Trainer You Can Take Anywhere

Word Count:
361

Summary:
Did you ever see that movie with Sir Anthony Hopkins when he was a primatologist and he was doing work out in the jungle when he befriended a group of silverbacks?


Keywords:
iPod WorkoutsIpod Moviesipod movies


Article Body:
Yesterday I was riding in my truck.  I went over a bridge that had some exceptionally quick and repetitive bumps.  As I crossed this relatively short bridge and passed an uneventful point in my life something happened that has had me thinking for a full day now.  I felt my belly jiggle.  And when I looked down, I could sort of see it jiggle from under my shirt.  I hated that.  

So, what do I do about it?  Well, if I want to hop on some sort of bandwagon that may actually have the legs to make it into an actual established activity, I need look no further than in the front pocket of my backpack.  What’s in there?  Nothing short of a 20 gig powerhouse packed with nothing less than thousands of my favorite songs.  Yes, its my well used ipod.  I must confess that for the year or so that I’ve owned my ipod, the state of my belly has not improved, but seems to have actually deteriorated.  But, that was before I began to hear about a new use for it (aside from bothering friends into listening to a song that will “change their life”).

Ipod workouts are yet another thing that this apple product is doing that no one expected.  Obviously, a benefit while working out with your ipod is its mobility and its ability to absorb shocks that cd players can’t.  But, the new fad of ipod workouts has taken that at least a step or two further.  There have been several workout instructions that are now available to be purchased or downloaded.  This is like getting yourself a personal trainer that will walk you through your workouts whenever and wherever your heart desires.  Some of these can even come with images that can be displayed on your screen.  
The point is that at times one of the biggest obstacles in the way of you and a belly that doesn’t jiggle when going over bridges is knowing what to do during your workout and having the motivation to do so; and both of these may be significally minimized by using an ipod workout.


