Title: 
iPods cases for iPods

Word Count:
808

Summary:
iPods have cornered the market in terms of trendy mp3 players and the latest, third generation, versions offer photograph and video options too.  Then there is the 'iPod nano' and the 'iPod mini' and the 'iPod shuffle' too!  These gadgets have remained popular for some time now and alongside the sale of iPods an industry has grown in accessories...


Keywords:
ipods cases for ipods,ipods cases,cases for ipods,ipod,case ipod,cases ipod


Article Body:
iPods have cornered the market in terms of trendy mp3 players and the latest, third generation, versions offer photograph and video options too.  Then there is the 'iPod nano' and the 'iPod mini' and the 'iPod shuffle' too!  These gadgets have remained popular for some time now and alongside the sale of iPods an industry has grown in accessories.

The biggest advantage of an iPod is its size and therefore the ability to take it with you wherever you go.  However, this can cause problems as they are also quite delicate and the screen and case are prone to scratching, even during normal usage.
Therefore there is a whole market out there offering cases to protect your iPod from damage and to make it possible for you to take it literally anywhere.  Most cases now come with a variety of options for straps and clips to make sure your iPod never leaves your side until you are ready to put it away.

<b>Socks</b>

Yes, I do mean socks - literally a sock fabric cover made to fit the different shapes and sizes of iPods.  This makes a great iPod case They can be made of a cotton or wool knitted fabric.  Apple does sell their own, in packs of six different colours, but there are other manufacturers too offering different styles.  Nevertheless, the cheapest I have found was free - we took a pair of men's sports socks, cut off the foot and sewed up the end where the foot would have been!  It was perfect and we got two iPod cases for virtually nothing! 

<b>Skins and Fabric</b>

I'm not sure whether the fabric cases here shouldn't come under the 'socks' label, but having looked at various websites, there are some really wacky cases for iPods available, at a cost.  The options should suit all tastes from pink and fluffy to textured and to practical plain  "Hotromz" make the cases to fit all types of iPod available.  More expensive than a sock but they do make an individual statement about the owner!  

If standing out from the crowd is not your style, there are other fabric options available, such as tweed covered wallets that the iPod just slides into.  However, if you wish to change anything, or look at the screen, you need to take the player out of the iPod case.  

Between fabric and 'skins' there is the 'Moshi' pouch.  This is made from a special fabric, 'Terahedron'.  The inside has microscopic filaments which helps clean your iPod by removing smears and fingerprints from the casing and the outside is water and dirt resistant.  There is also an outer pocket for storing earphones.  This iPod case is proving very popular and is not prohibitively expensive.

Skins are made from silicone rubber or orca-skin neoprene.  The silicone variety provides a translucent skin so that you can still see the iPod inside.  They have clear screen protectors too, so there is no need to remove the player from the iPod case to use it.  Neoprene covers are best for those people who like to take their iPods when they are taking part in outdoor activities.  Tough and strong, they are made to protect the iPod regardless of where you are.  They still offer a clear view of the screen, but the cases often have shaped grips on the sides for easy handling.  Some have a lid to protect the front and a pocket to store earphones.   

<b>Leather</b>

Leather cases for iPods are the most expensive option there is, but not always the most practical, leather iPod cases offer a very smart alternative to the brightly coloured neoprene or silicone skin, or the fabric versions.  Some manufacturers offer the opportunity for you to have your initials printed on the iPod case, just to make sure no-one mistakes whose case it is.  Leather iPod cases come in several different styles, such as one that looks like a notebook with a front flap, or there is one that has a flap that fixes over the top, like a purse.   The ultimate and possibly the most expensive iPod case available is one made from ostrich leather!

<b>Armbands and Sports Cases</b>

The ultimate in portable cases for iPods with elasticised straps that have neoprene cases attached, ready for you to strap on your upper arm.  This turns your iPod into the ideal partner to take to the gym where you can exercise whilst listening to your favourite music or other download.  

If you are not too keen on wearing it on your upper arm, a new variation is a case that slips on to your hand, which is easy to access if you wish to change whatever you are listening to.  This style is most suited for those who want to exercise outdoors such as joggers or walkers.


