Title: 
iTunes Are The New Thing

Word Count:
469

Summary:
What is iTunes? It is the local buzzword going around town nowadays. Everybody is talking about it


Keywords:
itunes


Article Body:
What is iTunes? It is the local buzzword going around town nowadays. Everybody is talking about it. Well, iTunes is actually a digital media player application that has been developed by none other than Apple Computer. This concept allows you to play and organize your own personal set of digital music and video files. You could also use this program to manage you iPod, the highly popular digital audio player from Apple.

You can connect to iTunes Music Store and even purchase digital music and movies as well that you can play on your iPod or iTunes. This easy access to amazing music and movies has made iTunes an extremely popular concept and it is also easy to use, thereby encouraging people from across the world to use it. 

You can carry out a number of functions with iTunes, literally at the tip of your fingers. You can organize your music into playlists and even edit the files. You might want to copy files into a digital audio player or record compact discs, download podcasts and more. If that is not technology, what is?

You can play you songs on a random basis or according to a sequence. You can select the songs you want to listen to and even delete tracks that you don’t want. You can even avail of a radio service from Apple. You can listen to 300 channels and more in MP3 format where you can listen to music and interesting chat sessions about music and the artistes as well. 

It was in 2005 that iTunes also introduced video support where you can access movie clips from the iTunes library and this can be viewed on the iTunes display screen or a separate window. Today their facilities have increased so much that you can download the best of TV shows and you can watch it leisurely. So now, no disappointments if you miss your favorite show on telly!

ITunes is compatible with most computer operations like Mac of course, Windows XP, Windows 2000 and Windows server 2003 system. Today, iTunes offers you a variety of features and really for a person on the move, iTunes is a blessing. You can of course listen to music through playlists, the music library and even the Internet radio. You can enjoy file formatting and music sharing. Enjoy the facility of downloading video clips from your favorite programs on TV and movies too.

Podcasting and video podcasting are the features available on iTunes and of course there is the iTunes music store and mini store from where you can purchase any number of songs. iTunes is probably the best thing to hit mankind in recent times. And wherever you are, you can enjoy your favorite songs while you work or while you play. It’s all at the touch of a button.


