Title: 
Jordan McCoy Ready to Rock

Word Count:
414

Summary:
Enter (soon-to-be 15 year old) Jordan McCoy -- a vocally talented, charasmatic, impossibly cute All-American girl with a truly unique style about her. I believe this girl has every ingredient to rock things upside down and inside out retro style -- like it hasn't been done in some time.


Keywords:
jordan mccoy, music, pop music, pop rock music, rock music, young talent, new artists, female artists, new music, diddy, bad boy records


Article Body:
Enter (soon-to-be 15 year old) Jordan McCoy -- a vocally talented, charasmatic, impossibly cute All-American girl with a truly unique style about her. I believe this girl has every ingredient to rock things upside down and inside out retro style -- like it hasn't been done in some time.

Jordan caught my attention 3 years ago, in early June, on the American Idol spin-off show American Juniors. Within the first minute of seeing her in a personal interview (on one of the first few episodes), I knew Jordan had something special. When I watched her perform her first competition song titled 'Stupid Cupid', I knew this was a name that would certainly not soon be forgetten. By far, an amazing singer and seasoned performer. With brilliant consistency throughout the entire summer, that certain 'X' factor was more than apparent as each and every week went by, and will most certainly be that same present day factor to help seal her destiny as 'The REAL McCoy'. 

Not to my suprise one bit, Jordan was signed by Diddy (Bad Boy Records) in the early spring of 2005 and her debut CD should be out this September or October (2006). And judging by some early first-listen web site only releases (via myspace.com/jordanmccoy), Jordan will soon be a household name... 

'Just Watch Me' is a very inspirational song (lyrics and arrangement) showing off Jordan's unique and amazing sounding vocals and reflecting a true style of originality. Not a bad way to start off a national career! 

'Next X Boyfriend', one of Jordan's latest on-site listens, is a masterpiece combo of edgy rock and pop - as is her teaser snippet of 'Good Guys'. Jordan's vocals are primed to pump you up with satisfaction. I just can't get enough. 

After listening to these samples, I come off feeling as if 80s pop and present day 'anything-goes rock' are put in a blender and let loose. The result is quite refreshing.

I think two things. 1) Diddy (Sean Combs) picked a winner. 2) Jordan was picked by a winner. Diddy is a very talented guy who is a producer, writer, actor, singer, clothing designer, and much more. He is definitely a role model for young America and knows how to make things happen -- and in style. I think Diddy will do Jordan justice 100% and at the same time justice will be brought back to ROCK in the American culture where it is still sort of lacking for the most part. -- Improved, but yes, still lacking a bit...


