Title: 
Learn To Play Guitar By Ear

Word Count:
459

Summary:
Learning to play guitar by ear is one of the hardest things to learn. However require natural talent and knowledge of music and sound. If you want learn to play guitar by ear you will need to be patient and have a quiet place to practice.


Keywords:
learn guitar


Article Body:
Learning to play guitar by ear is one of the hardest things to learn. However require natural talent and knowledge of music and sound. If you want learn to play guitar by ear you will need to be patient and have a quiet place to practice.

Basic music knowledge

If you want to learn to play guitar by ear it is always best to have a basic knowledge of music. This does not mean you need to be able to read sheet music or be a professional. It just means you need to have had some basic experience with another instrument or general music knowledge.

Patience

Patience is definitely the key when you learn to play guitar by ear. You need to be able to repeat the same chords and riffs many times in order to perfect the sound. His will be very repetitive and you need to be prepared.

The use of CD’s

The main key when you begin to learn to play guitar by ear is to sort through your CD collection and find CD’s with an extensive guitar section. A fantastic example is Carlos Santana or Mark Knopfler (lead guitarist for Dire Straits). This will allow you to hear some of the best guitarists in the world and help you try to replicate their sound.

No need for sheet music

When you learn to play guitar by ear there is no need for sheet music or for long lessons of chords and riffs. Listening to a guitar set and replicating it is a way of developing your natural talent and will also help you in the future if you decide to join a band. If you learn to play guitar by ear, you will be able to cover any mistakes made by other guitarists and it will also help you improvise on stage.

A rewarding experience

When you learn to play guitar by ear you will find your accomplishments more rewarding as you are completely self taught with no help from teachers or books. In the entertainment industry, guitarists who learn to play guitar by ear are well respected and often called upon for their expertise and experience.

Surroundings

Ensuring your surroundings are quiet is an important factor when you learn to play guitar by ear. Silence is needed so you can hear every chord and riff on the CD’s and so you do not skip a note. A quiet atmosphere will also ensure you remain calm and patient and can absorb everything you need to when you learn to play guitar by ear.

Don’t forget practice is what makes the difference between a good guitarist and a great guitarist! So keep practicing and you will be rewarded with a fantastic talent!


