Title: 
Learn How To Play The Guitar - A Checklist For Online Lessons

Word Count:
295

Summary:
Many adults are starting guitar or returning after having families and careers. This is a checklist of things to look for when evaluating online lesson packages.


Keywords:
how to play the guitar, learn, online, lessons, play guitar


Article Body:
"I wish I would have stuck with or learned how to play the guitar when I was a kid!" Does that sound like you? More an more men and women in their 40's and 50's are picking up a guitar and learning how to play guitar. Some are starting from scratch, others have put it down to pursure careers and families, and now have the itch to play again. Whether you're 15 or 50, rank beginner or semi-skilled, you've probably looked around the internet to see what online guitar lessons are all about. Here are some things to look for.

Does the product offer written, audio, and video demonstrations of the material? This is especially important if you've never played before. You won't be able to tell if you're doing it right from a book, and your ear isn't developed enough to accurately hear if you're playing the example correctly. It helps immensely to be able to see someone else do it. 

Is the product designed for a player at your level? Don't buy a shredding lead guitar player package if you've never even strummed a chord. Learning how to play a guitar is like most things, you have to start with the basics. Everything builds upon everything else.

Is the course created by, or taught by, a professional guitar teacher? Furthermore, can you verify that the person can actually play the guitar well? Most online websites have little audio samples of the course designer. If there's not one, maybe you should ask why.

There's of course, no substitute for private lessons, but that can be expensive and inconvenient. Online materials are getting better and better. If you're seriously looking to learn how to play the guitar, you should be able to find just what you need.


