Title: 
Learn Popular Jazz Piano Chords Online

Word Count:
445

Summary:
A jazz piano chord is much the same as any other piano chord. This means that when you learn the basics of piano chords and theory, you値l be able to play any type of music, be it gospel or jazz. Many people enjoy the jazz style of music and will benefit from learning those chords that are most often used in jazz music. Once you learn these chords, you値l be able to play a wide variety of music because you will understand the backbone of notes and scales that are the key to p...


Keywords:
Jazz Piano Chord


Article Body:
A jazz piano chord is much the same as any other piano chord. This means that when you learn the basics of piano chords and theory, you値l be able to play any type of music, be it gospel or jazz. Many people enjoy the jazz style of music and will benefit from learning those chords that are most often used in jazz music. Once you learn these chords, you値l be able to play a wide variety of music because you will understand the backbone of notes and scales that are the key to playing music on any instrument.

Any pianist who wants to learn how to play jazz needs to have charts they can reference frequently. You値l first learn the basic intervals and how chords are built. You値l also learn how these chords are used differently in each song you play. Once you have mastered the basic intervals of jazz chords, you値l then be able to move on to advanced chords such as 9ths, 11ths, 13ths, drop voicings, and blues chords.

An online piano course will teach you all the functions of chords including clusters, polytonal clusters, and substitutions. You値l be provided with numerous charts that you can use for help during practice or when you need to quickly reference a certain jazz piano chord. When you learn to play these jazz chords, you値l also learn how to play with more harmony, variety, and passion.

Learning online is a great option when you池e starting out on the piano. You can learn at your own pace without having to plan around the schedule of a piano teacher. Online lessons also challenge you at your own playing level. This means that when it痴 time to learn those jazz chords, you master one before moving on to the next.

The piano is a wonderful instrument full of history and culture. If you are interested in learning to play the piano, look into taking some lessons to help you learn the basics of all chords, including the most popular jazz chords. No matter where you decide to play the piano, you値l be ready to play any song once you have the theory basics solidly behind you. You may find that family and friends are asking you to play more often!

At Hear and Play, located at http://www.hearandplay.com, we offer you the programs you need to learn how to play jazz music on the piano. Our online courses are designed to move you along at your own playing level so that you can easily learn and master each jazz piano chord. Contact us today for more details.


