Title: 
Leather Harmonica Cases Make Carrying Harps Safe and Convenient

Word Count:
496

Summary:
For players who like to carry their harmonicas with them, there are a variety of leather harmonica cases that serve to protect harps in style. Here are some of the most popular...


Keywords:
Buckeye, Buckeye Leather, leather, harmonica cases, guitar straps, pullman, banjo straps, mandolin straps


Article Body:
Although harmonics are traditionally associated with the blues and folk music, harps have long been played in music genres as varied as classical, rock, and even hip hop. The harmonica is the musical instrument for choice for many people both because of its portability and because you don't have to learn to read music in order to learn to play the harp. 

For players who like to carry their harmonicas with them, there are a variety of leather harmonica cases that serve to protect harps in style. Here are some of the most popular:

Harmonica Holster with Loop: Perfect for carrying in your pocket or in your luggage, the harmonica holster is backed with a leather loop for sliding onto your belt. These leather harmonica cases come in two sizes, and are made to carry either a 10-hole diatonic harp or a 12-hole chromatic harmonica. You can even attach multiple holsters to your belt if you want to carry more than one harmonica.

Multi-Slot Leather Harmonica Cases: If you want to carry several of your favorite 10-hole diatonic harps, a multi-slot case will fit your needs perfectly. These types of cases come in several different sizes, to hold varying numbers of harmonicas. A four-slot case will hold four harps, a six-slot will hold six harmonicas, and a twelve-slot will hold twelve harps. A unique feature of some multi-slot harmonica cases, like those made by Buckeye Leather or Pullman, is that you can wet the pouches in order to custom fit the case to your favorite 10-hole diatonic harps. They also feature a leather flap so that your harmonicas are completely covered. 

Harmonica Waist Wraps: A harmonica waist wrap has two major advantages: you can slide your own pants belt through the slots at either end, making it a "one size fits all" leather harmonica case, and it's open so you can easily access your harps. A waist wrap typically holds six harmonicas. 

Harmonica Belts: If you don't normally wear a belt, but want your harmonicas within easy reach, these leather harmonica belts offer the best of both worlds. Lined with Velcro, the ends are easy to adjust, as well as to put on and take off. Harmonica belts are typically offered in three sizes, and fit waists from 28 inches to 44 inches. 

Combination Straps: If you play a stringed instrument as well as the harp, combination straps are perfect. Typically, these are adjustable leather guitar straps, banjo straps, and mandolin straps that have four pockets for harmonicas. 

Briefcases: Although harmonica briefcases aren't typically made from leather, they do come in handy for professional harp players who need to transport a dozen or so of their harmonicas to gigs. 

The best leather harmonica cases are made from leather tanned in the U.S. and then cut, formed, and buffed by hand. Over time, the leather softens and almost becomes an extension of your harp - or at least a comfortable home for those times when you're not playing it.


