Title: 
Legal Music Download Sites VS P2P File Sharing.

Word Count:
416

Summary:
Comparison guide details the differences between legal music download sites and p2p file sharing networks. Discover the advantages and disadvantages of getting free music downloads online, and learn how to get safe music downloads without lawsuit risks.


Keywords:
music download,free music downloads,download online music,legal music download,legal music,p2p,file sharing,p2p file sharing,sharing site,free music download site,file sharing site


Article Body:
This article compares the differences between legal music download sites VS file sharing networks. 

1) Music files available for download:

The p2p file sharing networks heavily out number the legal music sites when it comes to the amount of files available for download.  A p2p application provides millions of unlimited mp3 music files, while a legal music download site provides legitimately licensed music files in the hundreds of thousands. 

2) The cost of downloading music:

You can download p2p file sharing networks for free, or for a very cheap one-time fee.  A legal music download site is usually either "subscription-based" or "pay-per-download".  A legal site will also usually charge extra for the ability to rip or burn music. 

3) Variety of files available for download:

A legal music site mainly provides ONLY music files for downloading.  A p2p application gives you, besides music files, full movie, game, video, software, TV show and ring-tone files to download as well.

4) Legal Issues & Controversy:

Legitimate legal music download sites are completely free of controversy and 100% legal to use.  P2p file sharing networks, while legal, are not without lawsuit concerns and controversy due to how the file sharing technology can be used.

If you choose to use a p2p file sharing program, there are potential risks you need to be aware of, including: 

Lawsuit Risks - Peer to peer file sharing networks have been ruled legal in a court of law. However, if you download and share "copyrighted material" you could risk becoming targeted, and possibly sued, by the RIAA (Recording Industry Association of America). 

Virus And Privacy Risks -  In using a file sharing application, you risk the possibility of installing harmful spyware, viruses, worms and malware on your computer.  And if that's not bad enough, many p2p applications also leave you exposed to online hackers and identity thieves that can steal you personal information.  

Legal Music Download Sites VS P2P File Sharing - Summary:

At first glance the p2p file sharing networks may seem to offer an easy way to get unlimited free file downloads. But remember, nothing is really free and this is especially true with the p2p file sharing applications.

The file sharing programs come with a price of increased privacy and security threats, and potential RIAA lawsuit risks.  The ONLY way to guarantee getting safe music downloads online is by using a legitimately licensed music site that provides downloads of music legally licensed from the record labels and artists themselves.


