Title: 
Lil Wayne & His Music

Word Count:
436

Summary:
Lil Wayne started his musical career whilst still in his early teens. Now, with 5 solo albums under his belt, he has garnered respect from many in the hip-hop community.


Keywords:
lil wayne mp3, lil wayne


Article Body:
Weezy F. Baby, otherwise known as Lil Wayne, was born Dwayne Michael Carter Jr. in New Orleans, LA, on the 27th of September in 1982. He is also known by the monikers Birdman Junior, Raw Tune, Weezy or simply Dwayne Carter. He has been a resident of New Orleans until August 2005 when Hurricane Katrina hit the gulf states and caused widespread damage. He has since relocated to Miami, FL. Lil Wayne claims to be "the best rapper alive since the best rapper retired."

Lil Wayne's musical career began at the tender age of 11, after meeting Cash Money Records' owner and CEO Ronald "Slim" Brian. He cites Pimp Daddy and U.N.L.V (recording artists from Cash Money Records as well) as some of his early influences. After his encounter with Slim, Lil Wayne out of high school to fully pursue his dreams of becoming a rap artist. Another Cash Money executive, Baby Williams, signed him to Cash Money, where he has been ever since. Baby not only served as Lil Wayne's musical mentor, but also as a father figure.

Weezy grew up with a stepfather who, like many young men from the inner city, owned a handgun which was unregistered. Lil Wayne accidentally shot himself whilst playing with it as a young child, and after waking up in hospital a few days later, pointed the authorities to the gun's owner. His stepfather was ultimately arrested for owning the unregistered weapon and incarcerated. Unfortunately, after his release from the penitentiary, he was abducted and killed. In memory of his stepfather, Wayne got "In Memory Of Rabbit: It's Up To Me" tattooed on his arm.

At age 14, in 1997, Lil Wayne formed the Hot Boyz along with fellow members Juvenile, Turk and B.G. They released the hugely successful album entitled "Get It How You Live". The Hot Boyz instantly became famous in the south and midwest.

When he was 16, Weezy released "The Block Iz Hot" thereby launching his solo career. Four albums have followed ever since; Lights Out, 500 Degreez, That Carter, and That Carter II.

His latest offering was released on the 6th of December 2005 and it has already sold more than a million copies. With his rising popularity came a huge demand for his music in digital format. Nowadays people prefer using mp3 players as opposed to compact discs. They are smaller, easier to carry, and can store over a thousand songs in some cases.

Lil Wayne mp3's are abundant on the Internet. If you know where to search, you can obtain free Lil Wayne Mp3 downloads. We all like the sound for free, don't we ?


