Title: 
Madonna Confesses Dance Floor Tour May Be Coming

Word Count:
766

Summary:
The secret to being prepared and equipped is having with you everything you may need in any given situation. This can be challenging when you have to carry all of your gear.


Keywords:
Madonna, Music, Entertainment


Article Body:
It’s not official but Madonna may be bringing her phenomenally successful CD, Confessions on a Dance Floor, live to a venue near you. To date, Confessions has sold nearly 1.29 million copies in the United States alone. It continues to top sales charts in the UK, and Madonna was recently recognized as the female artist with the most number one hits in the UK.  It seems almost certain that Madonna’s fan base will soon be pleading for her to finalize preparations for a Confessions tour.  How do we know Madonna may be preparing for a tour?  While not coming out and making it official, she has made some statements that hint at the possibility.

In a recent interview, Madonna spoke about some performances she has booked for the near future. She will be performing at the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival in Indio, California, on April 30, 2006.  She said, "I am especially excited about playing Coachella before I start my own tour."  In some interviews Madonna even talked about her vision for her next tour, some ideas she has for its visual presentation on the stage and what the Confessions on a Dance Floor show will represent for her.

Madonna’s plans for her tour aren’t specifically connected to Confessions, but when she says things such as, "I want them (the audience) to feel like they’re inside a disco ball," it’s hard to imagine that her vision doesn’t involve Confessions. Other statements like, "I want a sound system in surround and the dancers personalities to come out" indicates that a tour for Confessions is highly likely. So what is all this excitement about?

Confessions, the fourteenth album/CD created by Madonna, is a mix of anything you want it to be.  It’s about power and empowerment and love and its costs.  In this re-invention of Madonna herself and the disco-era, she has come back with possibly the best work she has ever done.  There are blogs and message boards full of comments on Confessions. "I never even liked this woman and I have to say, this is real good stuff," one person noted. Other comments include, "Only Madonna could bring back disco and dance with the popularity it had in the 1970’s."

It has been suggested that not only will she tour but that she will focus, as she has in the past, on dance.  Wherever Madonna goes many others follow.  She wants people to "get out of their seats" in response to the music.  She wants them to "have a good time straight through and non-stop."  Considering that one song on the CD is a hit single and she co-wrote and co-produced Confessions with Stuart Price, (Madonna’s musical director on her 2002 Drowned World Tour and last summer’s Reinvention Tour) one may assume that Confessions on a Dance Floor will be a visually extraordinary concert.

Madonna, of course, didn’t do this all by herself.  The genius forces of musicality that worked with her on Confessions will no doubt help her make the tour just as successful as the CD. Assistance from artisans such as Bloosdhy and Avant (Grammy winners), the producer of Madonna’s last two albums-- Mirwais Ahmadzai, and co-writer Henrik Jonback will bring the live version of Confessions to the stage.

Madonna’s part in producing this album comes from her fascination with post modernism and technology. In talking about the making of Confessions on a Dance Floor she said, "I'm trying to find the soulfulness in technology and playing with that. I would prefer to not have back-up singers. I would rather take my own voice and layer it and change it and put effects on it so it sounds like a lot of different tones and timbres."

Madonna fans know that this artist loves her craft.  She is excited about her music and passionate about bringing it to the stage.  If you haven’t heard the entire CD yet, you are in for a treat.  This is the kind of CD that requires you either find a place to relax and just listen or occupy a space where you can start moving.  There is no typical break between the songs.  This music will make even those that don’t dance get up and move their feet. The Mistress of Visual Artistry herself is the only one who can bring Confessions on a Dance Floor to life on stage. Throughout the world of music, it is rumored that this tour could start as soon as August or September 2006. Start getting in line for tickets!


