Title: 
Make friends playing the guitar

Word Count:
428

Summary:
Find out how you can make friends by learning to play the guitar.


Keywords:
friends, guitar, buying, new guitar, playing guitar, music, instrument


Article Body:
Who doesn’t need more friends? 
Making friends just got easier. The guitar is an incredible way to enjoy being with your friends because you’ve got something cool that everyone can do. This page will help you see why guitars are the magnet to attracting more friends. If you already know that you want a guitar, check out our guide to buying a new guitar page. Or maybe you already have a guitar and need to improve your skills, in that case start our guitar lesson 1. 

The need for guitar players
Almost every band that is formed has at least one or more guitarists in it. Guitars have increased in popularity and need over the past few decades. Punk bands are now the largest type of bands around and they have guitars galore that range from bass guitar to lead guitar. Face it, guitars are cool. 

Its no secret, the guitar is the friend making machine
The guitar is the perfect instrument to increase your circle of friends. From rocking with old buddies, to serenading the ladies, to campfire outings, a guitarist can always catch everyone’s attention. Guitarists end up being the life of the party. It’s a known fact that some of the most romantic scenes show being with a loved one, on the beach, guitar in hand, and singing a way. Thanks to the mobility of the guitar this scene can occur so many other places, such as: in front of a fireplace, candlelight dinner, picnic at the park, and on and on. 

Benefits of playing the guitar
There several reasons why guitars carry such a popular pull. First, they are easy to learn, yet still offer a challenge because guitars take a lifetime to master. Second, they are transportable and convenient. Third, they are one of the few instruments that sound great by themselves and with other instruments. Fourth, this instrument makes you look good, by not requiring your face to be distorted by blowing into anything. Fifth, it’s an instrument you can share. Whether teaming up with your buddies and their guitars or just allowing your friends to sing along it’s still going to be a group involved activity. 

Now it's Your Turn to Learn the Guitar
At any rate, the only way to know that the guitar is for you and your friends is to give it a try. Good luck and maybe this can be one of those things that you can look back on and say, “I am sure glad I learned to play the guitar”


