Title: 
Mp3 Players Take the Reins

Word Count:
346

Summary:
It first started with the cumbersome record player and turned into mp3 players as big as your thumb. A growing trend today seems to be the music player industry. It needs to be small and portable, yet hold 25,000 songs. It also must be fashionable. God forbid that you have last month's model rather than the one that just came out. With that remark, it could be obvious that the iPod is the most popular of these new fangled devices.


Keywords:
MP3, MP3 player, MP3 players, ipod, ipods


Article Body:
It first started with the cumbersome record player and turned into mp3 players as big as your thumb. A growing trend today seems to be the music player industry. It needs to be small and portable, yet hold 25,000 songs. It also must be fashionable. God forbid that you have last month's model rather than the one that just came out. With that remark, it could be obvious that the iPod is the most popular of these new fangled devices.

Although the iPod is not the only mp3 player and more in the market, they are the ones the kids cry for. I personally just received a Zen Neeon for Christmas and am quite pleased with it. Just as designer brands exist for clothing and the such, the iPod is the designer brand for the mp3 player.

Not only do you need the latest trend of players, but also the latest carrying accessory. For the iPod shuffle, snug little 'socks' to keep it safe from harm. Colorful and creative 'stickers' or 'skins' can be placed on the front of your device to spruce it up a bit. Carrying straps and cases of various size, shape and color make the selection even more appealing. There are even specialized sound systems and speakers that you can hook up to your device to enhance the experience. The cutest accessory, in my opinion, is the iDog, which lights up and dances to the music playing.

On some of the certain iPods, special features make room for more fun. Some iPod models include an assortment of games, like a music quiz, which plays a few seconds of a song, and you must pick the correct title. On the 'new iPod', you can hold music, photos and videos. Some companies' models have the feature to select a choice of the backlight color. Most devices also have the feature of shuffling playlists.

With all of the choices out there, how could you go wrong? You have the opportunity to go out and pick the one that fits you best. What are you waiting for?


