Title: 
Music of the 70s

Word Count:
412

Summary:
Reliving The Music Of The Seventies


Keywords:
commodores, aerosmith, bee gees, chicago, chic, donna summers, partridge family, david cassidy, mp3, radio, music lyric, country music lyric


Article Body:
We all associate songs and music with events in our life.  Many songs hold special memories for us.  We fondly remember the songs that were playing when we went to our first dance, the songs the school band attempted to play during half time at the high school football games, the songs that we heard on our first date, or the songs we heard on the radio while driving our first car.

The music of the 1970’s is probably the most impressive and most recognized of any era.  The artists of the 1970’s provided us with numerous songs we loved to dance to and sing along with.  At that time most bands actually played their own instruments and didn’t need to sequence part of it.

Remember how we used to listen to the music then?  At first we had eight track players in our cars, then we moved upward to cassette players.  Vinyl records were the most popular way to listen to our favorite music.  Every week you could go to your local variety or record store and pick up the new #1 song on a 45 record for under $1.00.  Of course, there was always the radio to listen to - most of the popular channels were on am radio.  We had many styles of music to listen to, including the bubble gum music of David Cassidy and the Partridge Family, soft rock of Barry Manilow, the great dance tunes of the Bee Gees and the Commodores, rock of Aerosmith and Led Zeppelin, the brass band sounds of Chicago, or the disco beat of Chic and Donna Summers.

The nostalgia of  the 1970’s music lives on today.  We can listen to it on our local 70's’radio station, on cds, on mp3, download it on our computer, and burn it onto cds.  For those of us who prefer records, we can still purchase them at record stores, antique or second hand stores, or yard sales.  Of course, many of us have held on to our own record collections and record players and can pull them out at any time when we need to relive those nostalgic days of the 1970’s.  Some bands are still performing after more than 30 years.  There’s nothing like seeing your favorite 1970’s performers live in concert!

The music of the 1970’s is still popular with people of all ages – not just those who grew up with it.  It never grows old.  It only gets better with each passing decade.


