Title: 
Music Subscription Service

Word Count:
474

Summary:
Gone are the days when you had to wait, save, and then buy a tape or CD. Remember the days when one person in the gang would buy a CD or tape and the whole gang would share it? Those were the days now you can get music of your choice off the net at very affordable prices. The quality is great and rendition crystal clear.


Keywords:
find free mp3 downloads, mp3 albums, music videos, top downloads, new songs, mp3 archive


Article Body:
Gone are the days when you had to wait, save, and then buy a tape or CD. Remember the days when one person in the gang would buy a CD or tape and the whole gang would share it? Those were the days now you can get music of your choice off the net at very affordable prices. The quality is great and rendition crystal clear.

Music sites are revolutionizing the music industry for as little as $ 6.99 a month. And, it’s affordable; a subscriber can buy any music for just around 79 cents instead of 99.  And, there are sites like RealNetworks where even non subscribers can listen to 25 radio stations a month and 25 songs. The costs vary from site to site but music is there waiting for you.

The technicalities vary but on some sites the songs can be just listened to, others can be downloaded and yet others transferred to portable listening devices. Music is just awaiting music buffs.

Unlike earlier you don’t have to spend to listen to a song---you can listen and if you like it then download it. Music sites are emulating the library formats here instead of checking out books you check out music of your choice.

Sites like Yahoo, Rhapsody, Napster, Apple itunes, AOL, Virgin, and All of MP3, among others are all vying to offer the best. Imagine over a million different tunes are just waiting to be heard. 

There are three options to choose from: PC listening only, music on a hand held or mobile device, and music for CDs that is permanent ownership. Music has embraced technology much to the delight of one and all. And it is legal and to stay.

What you get by subscribing is: basic juke box functions; the option to buy tracks at a discount; the freedom to listen to unlimited music; transfer to MP3 players; downloading songs for burning on discs (these have to be bought); and loading your PC chock-a block with songs you love. 

However, the music can be played only if you keep paying the subscription and you cannot share the music with friends. It is like a candy store so many tastes and colors, how do you choose?

Before you subscribe you must do comparison shopping find out which service is most affordable and easy to use. Check the songs on offer and read the terms and conditions with great care. What is most important is to check compatibility—is the technology being used by the site compatible with your PC, music devices, and hand held devices like IPODs and mobiles? Check if you need to use any standalone software and whether you are comfortable with the tools for transferring music to your PC or other devices.

If any of the sites are offer a free trial take up the offer and enjoy!


