Title: 
Music Billboard features New Artists

Word Count:
336

Summary:
About New Music Billboard.com

Best New Music Billboard and Music Community. MP3 downloads, streaming audio and charts.

We are on the web at New Music Billboards.com


Keywords:
New Music Billboard


Article Body:
New Music Billboard allows the public to listen to music for free from their favorite Indie Artist.  Traditional Billboards cover mostly mainstream music, but New Music Billboards features new and up and coming Singers and Bands.

New Music Billboards features music that runs along side more mainstream or commercial music and has frequently used the term Indie music. Small labels or individuals marketing their own music often participate in the Indie Music scene.  It is important to uncover unknown bands because there is so much music talent out there who simply lack ample marketing.
 
During the 1990s, Indie music became widespread and answered an increasingly larger market of people who were looking for alternatives to the mainstream music institutions.  In the same way that “alternative” was used before it became an actual genre of mainstream music, Indie is sometimes used in place of “underground” as a term to describe music.  

There are many places online where you can download Indie music for free. One of the better resources is our site at  New Music Billboard.com

Becoming involved in the Indie music scene typically, and sometimes still does, require one to move to a city or town where there’s an active Indie music scene. Traditionally, hooking up with other artists and fans was a way to build your career as a new artist.  

Seasoned musicians and new artists now have the opportunity to record and publish their music from the comfort of their own studio.  Income can be made from building a fan base and by selling merchandise, concert tickets and traditional CDs.
	 
Some Indie groups are now picked up by Indie record labels or even major record labels.  A good resource to find Indie Music Labels is New Music Label.com

While Indie music is still considered off from mainstream music scene, it is a place where new artists can build a fan base and begin many of the marketing components that they are going to need to be success in the longer term.


