Title: 
Musicians discover right now how to quickly and easily create “Streaming Audio and Video” like a pro!

Word Count:
599

Summary:
Learn how easy it is to add streaming audio and video to your websites and increase your stickiness and retension rate of your visitors.


Keywords:
musicians, streaming audio, streaming video, web audio, mp3 streaming 


Article Body:
Streaming Audio and Video has always been available to the large corporate sites and techies. Now you can use inexpensive software to produce your own streaming audio or video just like the professionals with no knowledge of programming required. Lets face it when a person comes to your website what would they rather do listen or read. 

Hint - You are trying to get people to listen to your music?

Best of all no special servers, monthly fees or additional costs….

With the web surfer becoming much more “web savvy” than they were a year ago, they are expecting not only information, but an entertaining web experience. 

Why Add Streaming Audio or Video to Your Website

*Credibility - Anyone can add some text and graphics however music is a very emotive medium and if your visitors can hear samples then you will find they will have a much more positive response. If done properly you can also generate some good sales if  that’s what your wanting.

*Auditory - Statistics show that 30% of surfers are auditory and so if you do not have audio then you are loosing out on a lot of traffic.

* Stickability - Our customers have proven that audio has dramatically increased the time people spend on their site. So many people are now able to get traffic to their websites using Pay Per Click advertising however the next main consideration is keeping them there so you get more from your advertising dollar.

* Current Marketplace - is awash with TV and radio programs so people are already used to the concept and are expecting it on websites. With the average computer being multimedia enabled they almost feel dejected if they can not utilize all the functions.

* The Wow Factor - At present only around 5% of sites utilise any form of streaming media so it creates a wow factor and delivers a lot more word of mouth traffic than any other form of web page functions.

* The Online Population - Streamies, those users who watch or listen to streaming online, represent 44% of all Internet users and 27% of Americans overall. By far, streamies are the most valuable consumer group on the Internet. Streaming media consumers are far more interactive, are more oriented to e-commerce and spend more time online compared with Internet users who don’t stream.” (EdisonMedia Study, Jan. 2001)

You do not need any technical ability. The latest programs are so easy to use that anyone can add streaming audio or video to their website and stand out from the crowd.

Marketeer’s and business people have always known that a well-placed audio stream can increase sales and signups to their products and services. The problem has always been that the average person could not afford the high cost of special servers or programmers to be able to use this technology. This has all changed with Streaming Audio and Video software available on the market today.

Audio's power comes from its ability to engage more of your visitor's senses. The more senses you engage, the easier it will be to effectively communicate. Instead of just reading your words and looking at your picture, you can communicate with your voice or music? and the voices of your clients.

Your site has been sending non-verbal messages for years; now it's time to break free and let it send a message everyone can hear. Adding audio to your website is not only easy to do, it can help you gain the trust of your site's visitors, thus increasing your conversion rate. So stop wasting your time and money, and start getting the sales you may be missing.


