Title: 
Now's Your Chance: Sing The Jingle, Be A Star

Word Count:
389

Summary:
A new contest is giving jingle singers the opportunity to cut the mustard--and that's no bologna.


Keywords:
Now's Your Chance: Sing The Jingle, Be A Star


Article Body:
A new contest is giving jingle singers the opportunity to cut the mustard-and that's no bologna.

Now through Sept. 4, 2006, the Oscar Mayer Wienermobile vehicles will be cruising coast-to-coast giving aspiring vocalists a chance to show off their stuff in the "Sing the Jingle, Be a Star" contest. Hopeful jingle fans have the chance to enter the national "casting call" by singing their own rendition of the Oscar Mayer Wiener Jingle, the Bologna Song or the Oscar Mayer Spanish Jingle to land a spot in the limelight.

Rolling Out the Red Carpet

Mercury recording artist and country music sensation Julie Roberts is encouraging rising stars across the country to enter the contest.

"Ever since I was a little girl, singing has been my passion, so I'm thrilled to partner with Oscar Mayer to support the 'Sing the Jingle, Be a Star' contest," said Roberts. "It's such a fun opportunity for everyone to show off their vocal talent and personal style."

On their cross-country trek, Hotdoggers-the official drivers of the Wienermobiles-will be making stops at events nationwide to film performing fans young and old (at least 6 years of age). Whether it's rapped or sung with a country flair, hot dog and bologna lovers are asked to sing their own rendition of one of the three-famed Oscar Mayer jingles. Five lucky winners will receive a chance to star in a national television commercial. 

Mail-in entries should include a VHS or DVD (no longer than one minute) along with an official entry form (available online at singthejingle.com). All mail-in entries must be received by Aug. 21, 2006 and sent to Sing the Jingle Entries, P.O. Box 5652, Blair, NE 68009-5652. 

Five Lucky Dogs

Twenty finalists (16 performed in English, four in Spanish) will be selected and posted online from Oct. 26-Nov. 27, 2006. During this time frame, fans can log on to singthejingle.com to vote for their favorite finalist or find additional details on how to vote via cell phone, ballot form or mail. America's vote, along with a panel of appointed judges, will narrow the pool of 20 finalists to five grand-prize winners (four performed in English, one in Spanish) who will have the chance to appear in a national Oscar Mayer television commercial. Judging will be based on the following criteria: overall performance, style and creativity and suitability for inclusion in an Oscar Mayer television commercial.


