Title: 
Paul Wall: Rapper, DJ and the man behind Grillz

Word Count:
307

Summary:
Paul Wall was known for his skills as a mixtape and party DJ, producing mixtapes in the screwed & chopped style that was invented by the late DJ Screw.


Keywords:
Paul Wall music, Paul Wal history, Paul Wall albums, Paul Wall ringtones, Paul Wall, Paul Wall Bio, Paul Wall song


Article Body:
Paul Wall, whose real name is Paul Slayton, is an American rapper, DJ, promoter and jeweler from Houston, Texas.  Wall, affiliated with Swishahouse Records, is a graduate of Jersey Village High School and went to the University of Houston for three years.  He was formerly one-half of a popular Houston duo, The Color Changin’ Click, next to long-time partner Chamillionaire.  

Before arriving on the rap scene as a full-fledged Southern rapper, Wall was a street team member on the Northwest side of Houston, promoting southern artists such as T.I. and labels like Cash Money and The New No Limit.  Wall was known for his skills as a mixtape and party DJ, producing mixtapes in the screwed & chopped style that was invented by the late DJ Screw.  

After several mixtape and independent releases, including the well-received Get Ya Mind Correct, Wall and his long-time music partner, Chamillionaire, would split up.  Wall would eventually debut with his own album, The People’s Champ, which includes popular singles, Sittin’ Sidewayz., They Don’t Know, and Girl.  The album would go on to receive certified platinum status. 

In August 2005, rumors cropped up that Wall and Chamillionaire had settled their differences and were on good terms with each other.  In 2006, Wall married his long time girlfriend, Crystal Slayton.  On April 18, 2006, Crystal gave birth to their first child, William “Fat” Patrick Slayton.  

Paul Wall is also the owner and proprietor of Grillz by Paul Wall in Houston, an online store that specializes in the production of grills, silver, gold, or platinum caps and diamond inlays.  His grills product was also the focus of the rap song, Grillz, by Nelly, which featured Wall and rappers, Gipp & Ali.  Wall’s new album, Get Money, Stay True is scheduled to be released in fall of 2006.     

<a href= http://www.paul-wall-ringtones.com/
>Paul Wall Ringtones</a>


