Title: 
Perfecting the Guitar strings

Word Count:
540

Summary:
Guitar is one of the easiest musical instruments to play. When you feel the uncontrollable urge to burst into music, just pick up a guitar. Whether you have musical talent or not you will be able to learn to play this fine stringed instrument in no time and with very little effort. You can let that inner rock star in you come out in the open and play everything from rock and roll to rhythm and blues and everything in between.


Keywords:
guitar' OR `category_name` LIKE 'music' OR `category_name` LIKE '


Article Body:
Guitar is one of the easiest musical instruments to play. When you feel the uncontrollable urge to burst into music, just pick up a guitar. Whether you have musical talent or not you will be able to learn to play this fine stringed instrument in no time and with very little effort. You can let that inner rock star in you come out in the open and play everything from rock and roll to rhythm and blues and everything in between.  

The first thought that comes to mind after deciding to learn is to go out for purchasing a guitar. However, it is advisable to first find a studio or instructor for learning guitar. Hiring an instructor is economically more feasible as he or she would charge an amount that is way too less than what do the studios charge. Moreover, with an instructor teaching, there is a one to one interaction.  

Chances are that you can find an instructor, who is ready to impart you guitar lessons, in your local classified advertisement section. If any of the people in your family or any of your friends are adept at playing guitar then you can ask them also for instructions or to tell you about anyone teaching guitar.  

Another option is to go to music stores for your music lessons. These stores are slightly more expensive than an individual instructor, but they also provide group and one-on-one sessions. The group session is good because you get the opportunity to learn with others and assess your progress by comparison. However, if you cannot keep pace with the others, you should go for the one-on-one sessions. 

Once you've developed the basic skills of the guitar, you should continue your lessons in a more advanced field. You can ask your instructor to give you the name and information of someone who can provide further instruction, if he can't do it himself. This is the time to purchase your own guitar and also join a group of guitar enthusiasts. 

Guitars are available from a hundred dollars to a thousand. You must set a budget so that you don't overspend. It's not wise to purchase an expensive version of an instrument you are still learning to play. It's a good idea to look around at thrift stores, yard sales, and pawn shops for a guitar that will fit your needs at this stage. Later on you can always exchange it for something better, but for the time being just a good guitar should suffice. 

Once you have mastered the art of guitar playing, begin to search for a band in need of a guitarist or begin your own band.  This is a great deal of fun and frustration in the same act.  Many bands want to try out several musicians before and then decide, so consider the process an extended job interview.  Once you have found a band and made yourself a home, you can truly be called a guitarist.

Playing the guitar is not an incredibly difficult task, but it will require a great deal of focus and determination.  Enjoy the learning process and work hard towards your goal.  Soon enough, you will be jamming with the best of them on your new guitar.


