Title: 
Rascal Flatts: One of Country Music's Succesful Groups

Word Count:
273

Summary:
In 2005, Rascal Flatts performed their hit single Bless the Broken Road live with contestant Carrie Underwood, on the popular television program American Idol.


Keywords:
Rascal Flatts music, Rascal Flatts ringtones, Rascal Flatts history, Rascal Flatts bios, Rascal Flatts album, Rascal Flatts songs, Rascal Flatts band


Article Body:
Rascal Flatts is a country music group made up of Gary LeVox (lead vocalist), Jay DeMarcus (bassist), and Joe Don Rooney (electric guitarist).  Upon getting a record deal with Lyric Street Records, the group released their first album, Rascal Flatts, which would climb up to the #3 spot on the U.S. country albums chart.  

The group’s next album, Melt, would peak at #5 on the U.S. albums charts and #1 on the U.S. country albums charts.  Rascal Flatts, next two albums, Feels Like Today and Me and My Gang, both debuted at #1 on both the U.S. general and country music charts.

In 2003, the Rascal Flatts would find themselves waist deep in controversy, stemming from their controversial music video for “I Melt”, off of their Melt album.  Some fans objected to the music video, which contained brief nudity of model Christina Auria in some sensual scenes with group member, Rooney.  

While such a music video would hardly cause a stir on MTV or VH1, being showcased on the more conservative CMT and Great American Country music channels, the video inevitably brought the group much notoriety.  The Melt album would garner the Rascal Flatts their first No. 1 country single, “These Days”.  

In 2005, the group performed their hit single Bless the Broken Road live with contestant Carrie Underwood, on the popular television program American Idol.  That same song was nominated for three Grammy awards including Song of the Year, Best Country Performance by a Duo or Group with Vocal, and Best Country Song.  The group would take home the Grammy award for Best Country Song.               

<a href=http://rascal-flatts-ringtones.com>Rascal Flatts Ringtones</a>


