Title: 
Record and create MP3 from your home

Word Count:
438

Summary:
It’s easy to record and create MP3 from your own home with the help of computer and mixer software.


Keywords:
free download mp3 song, free mp3 player song, download free mp3 music song, free karaoke mp3 song, free legal mp3 song, free mp3 music song,  free latest mp3 song,  free kid mp3 song


Article Body:
You won’t get any substitution for a good recording being done in a professional recording studio. With the rise in popularity of digital PC recording and the low cost of recording software, many people are thinking again for the idea of home recording. The ease of MP3 distribution and the sites that offer free web hosting and the ability to upload and download free music, the difficulty of promoting and distributing your MP3 band has become very easy. 

You need to think that what is needed to begin such recording at home, how these recordings can be turned into MP3’s and what to do with these MP3 ‘s once they are created. Home recording on a PC requires some necessary things such as a computer, recording software and a digital soundcard. If you are recording multiple tracks from multiple sources at the same time you might want to invest in a mixer as well. This will allow you input more than one instrument or microphone to your computer at the same time. You need to install your recording software and sound card drivers. Plug your mixer into your sound card, plug your instruments into your mixer and there you are ready for recording. The recording process may be a little different depending upon what software you are using. Most decent software comes with a good instruction manual that you can consult if you have any problems. After recording, you can also mix all tracks down to stereo audio .wav file.

Now that the recording is completed and you have the .wav file in hand you can convert it into MP3 file. IF you burn your tracks to CD, you won’t need to convert it to a MP3 file but for distributing music downloads on the web, the most universally accepted method will be an Mp3 file. You can take your .wav file and export it as an MP3 with the help of any audio recording program. Most of the recording software provides this option but you should keep in mind that you might need to mess with the output settings to get the best quality MP3 program. Another option is to use a stand alone .wav to MP3 converter. 

Once you have your MP3 files, you can set up your own website and offer free music downloads. You can visit many websites that offer free web hosting for musicians so that the musicians will have a place to offer downloadable music Mp3, music videos and music lyrics.

For more information, visit our recommended website <a href="http://www.freedownloadmp3song.info">freedownloadmp3song.info </a>


