Title: 
Saxophone and its types

Word Count:
339

Summary:
Being a music lover you might love to know about various musical instruments and saxophone is one of the most rare and appreciable music instruments.


Keywords:
future of pop music, future of the music industry, future music release, future of the music business, music future, future music, back to the future sheet music


Article Body:
Music has always been an inevitable part of human life and many of you may love to hear good music or play music for your own satisfaction and contentment. There are different types of music instruments such as saxophones, trumpets, guitar, piano that are used by people to fulfill their music love. Of these saxophones is still the most rare and appreciable music instrument by the people.

Saxophone was invented by Adolphe Sax in the 1840’s and is not really an instrument but a group of instruments. Sax has invented about fourteen saxophones out of which eight still exists. However, only four of them are commonly available – the soprano, alto, tenor and baritone saxophones. Out of these, the alto saxophone is most commonly found which most people think of. 

Other saxophone that still exists include E-flat soprano, B-flat soprano, E-flat alto, true tone alto, B-flat tenor, E-flat baritone, B-flat Bass and contrabass. The early saxophones were made in F and C and not E-flat and B-flat whereas others were invented but were possibly too radical to remain in the creation. 

The soprano saxophone is one of the straight saxophones in the whole family because it looks like a clarinet but it is made up of brass. It can be classified as a woodwind as it is a single reed instrument. The alto saxophone is curved around and has one bend in its neck whereas the tenor has a more curved neck and is larger. The baritone’s neck is a full circle and is the largest of all the saxophones. Its case is around four feet long and when it is played, it doubles the brass section. 

The soprano saxophone is not a common in most of the band but it is used sometimes and when it is played, it plays a part similar to a clarinet or even as another clarinet. It has a higher sound and often doubles the higher woodwind parts. 

For more information, log on to <a href="http://www.music-future.com"> music-future.com</a>


