Title: 
Spiritually enlightening notes on a violin

Word Count:
360

Summary:
Yehudi Menuhin is one of the foremost American violinists who enlighten your spirit when he plays on the strings of the musical instrument violin. Yehudi has been playing the instrument from his childhood since the age of 3..The different moods in a person can be played on the instrument violin and the enchanting notes of a violin makes the listener feel spiritually uplifted. Violin belongs to the category of stringed instrument that is more admired than other instruments like viola or cello. Vi


Keywords:
Violas, Violins, Cello Maker, Cello Rental


Article Body:
Violin is a bowed instrument that originated from Asia and later on got carried to other parts of the world. The sound of the instrument depends on the shape and wood used in its make. The instrument gets better with age and the older instruments are expensive in comparison to a newly constructed violin.

Violins are not only artistic in looks but also have the original class in their sound. The old generation has seen the transformation of the instrument in the way it is being accepted by the new generation. Violins are played not only in cultural ceremonies but also in rock bands. The instrument is played with Jazz instrument by the rock bands and one such famed band relying on the Violin is “The Corrs” that composes the touchy notes conveyed through their lead violinist of the group. Many videos depict the beauty of the instrument to get a classical look to their music albums. One such album is “Devil’s trill” by Vanessa Mae that has the look and notes of the instrument in its video.

The instrument is made up of varieties of color, sizes and shapes. Depending upon the comfort level of a person playing the instrument, one can select a violin for himself. An Australian band called Bond s also known across the globe for using violin in all their songs. The sound of violin helps a person to get relaxed and energized depending upon the notes you play on it.

The structure of the instrument consists mostly of European wood and is available in varying sizes depending upon the need of the musician. You can get some of the best violins through the site Stringworks. You can also get informed about the make of the different types of violin and to get a violin that produces rich sound you can get one from the Artist collection. The website not only sells the instrument but also helps music lover to hire the instrument to try it out. The website also provides with forums to answers queries of the buyers and has a discussion forum to discuss on the music and other violin related topics.


