Title: 
The Haunting Of The Violin

Word Count:
500

Summary:
The sad and haunting melodies of a violinist are never forgotten. They remain with you always coming back again and again. The true charm of music lies in how it can affect you and your emotions. I believe that violin has the power of captivation. It is not only sad but uplifting also. The true instrument of love and emotion, the violin truly is a wonder among all the musical instruments.

A good violin is made up of a spruce top, maple ribs and back. Two end blocks, bridge...


Keywords:
musical instrument, violin, orchestral supply, orchestra


Article Body:
The sad and haunting melodies of a violinist are never forgotten. They remain with you always coming back again and again. The true charm of music lies in how it can affect you and your emotions. I believe that violin has the power of captivation. It is not only sad but uplifting also. The true instrument of love and emotion, the violin truly is a wonder among all the musical instruments.

A good violin is made up of a spruce top, maple ribs and back. Two end blocks, bridge, sound post and 4 strings are other key requirements for a violin. Various other fittings can be attached and an optional chin rest.

What distinguishes a violin body is its "hourglass" shape and the arching of its top and back. The hourglass shape comprises an upper bout, a lower bout, and two concave C-bouts at the "waist," providing clearance for the bow.

The voice of the violin is solely dependent on its wood and varnish. It is also some what controlled by the graduation and thickness that of the body. As the varnish and wood improve by age, old violins are continuously sort after in the market today.

Earlier, violin strings were made of sheep gut stretched. Today however, they are made up of solid steel or stranded steel. When and how to change strings is often advised by the teacher depending how hard you play. Violinists often carry spare supply of strings in case any one string does not play true.

Violin comes in different sizes. Smaller ones are usually preferred for children learning the instrument at the beginning. 

Teachers determine what size is best. A true large size violin can be of 14 inches long. 

How are they tuned? Tuning is a very important issue for many instruments. The violin can be tuned by turning the pegs or fine tuners on the tail piece. These fine tuners allow for slight adjustments to the tensions of the strings.

So, how is it played? Tuning and everything is fine but how do you produce that melody? A violin is usually played using a bow consisting of a stick with a ribbon of horsehair strung between the tip and frog (or nut, or heel) at opposite ends. A typical violin bow may be 29 inches. Usually, the hair of a violin bow is got from the tail of a mail horse. Though some cheaper violins have this made up of plastics or synthetics. There is also a leather grip at one end with winding to protect the stick and provide thumb rest for the player. The winding can be made up of whale bone but today it is manufactured of fiber glass.

The violin is an instrument you can never forget. The tunes are replayed in your memory even after the instrument has stopped. It is as if the instrument can talk and has spoken words of wisdom. If there is any instrument that can reproduce the words of the heart, it is the violin.


