Title: 
Tuning In To Favorite Music

Word Count:
380

Summary:
Whether you're a classical buff or you think pop music rocks, chances are one of the best places to find the music you love isn't the radio--it's your TV.


Keywords:
Tuning In To Favorite Music


Article Body:
Whether you're a classical buff or you think pop music rocks, chances are one of the best places to find the music you love isn't the radio-it's your TV. 

Americans across the country now say they find out about new music, watch performances and even record their favorite songs from TV. In addition, televised concerts have become a great excuse for friends and families to gather and listen to favorite music. So what's hot on TV this season? Here's a look at some upcoming concerts. They're being televised as part of PBS' March fund-raising period:

&#8226; "Barry Manilow: Music and Passion"-Superstar Barry Man-ilow's hit Las Vegas show is an exciting, multifaceted production that features contemporary hi-tech music and effects mixed with the classic entertainment values of Las Vegas legends such as Sinatra, Presley, Davis and Martin. 

&#8226; "Chris Botti Live"-Acclaimed trumpeter Chris Botti is considered a virtual genre-of-one in the realm of contemporary jazz. His most recent album, "To Love Again," is the inspiration for this new concert, a magical evening with a star-studded lineup: Sting, Jill Scott, Paula Cole, Burt Bacharach, Renee Olstead, Paul Buchanan and Gladys Knight. 

&#8226; "The Four Tops 50th Anniversary Celebration"-Friends and peers joined the Four Tops as they celebrated 50 years in the entertainment industry with an all-star concert at the famed Detroit Opera House. Hosted by Nick Ashford and Valerie Simpson, guest stars include Mary Wilson, Aretha Franklin, Dennis Edwards and the Temptations Review, Paul Rodgers and James Carter. 

&#8226; "Queen and Paul Rodgers: Return of the Champions"-Queen's 2005 world tour was one of the live concerts of the year, with Paul Rodgers (Free and Bad Company) stepping into the legendary Freddie Mercury's shoes alongside Brian May and Roger Taylor. The spectacular show includes all the Queen classics, including "We Will Rock You," "Under Pressure," and "We Are the Champions," as well as Rodgers' anthem, "All Right Now."

&#8226; "Great Performances: Andrea Bocelli: Amore Under the Desert Sky"-Opera tenor Andrea Bocelli has become one of the most famous and beloved singers in the world. In his new special, Bocelli performs songs from his forthcoming album "Amore." Also featured are duets with 2001 Tony-award winner Heather Headley.

PBS music specials also feature Barbra Streisand, the Smothers Brothers, Judy Collins, Daniel O'Donnell, Patti Page, John Sebastian and others.


