Title: 
Visual Kei As a Music World Vision

Word Count:
292

Summary:
Visual Kei appears to be frequently used in videos and grab audience’s attentions. Visual Kei followers are characterised by a rather stunning, although freak appearance of a striking make-up and elaborate costumes, causing a shock effect.


Keywords:
Visual Kei, gothic style, visual, media culture, band, music culture 


Article Body:
Visual Kei appears to be frequently used in videos and grab audience’s attentions. Visual Kei followers are characterised by a rather stunning, although freak appearance of a striking make-up and elaborate costumes, causing a shock effect. 

To recall, for instance, Merlyn Manson, who is among few to follow the style in the US. The trend is popular among modern bands, irrespective of rumours, suggesting that the style suffered no popularity in the USA and Europe. The Visual Kei style is peculiar of the tradition to wear relevant make-up and clothing always and everywhere.

The style is credited to have started in Japan in late 80ies through early 90ies as a result of the gothic style’s influence. The word "visual" originates from English; the "kei" word is what Japanese name for style. The X-Japan and the Buck-Tick are believed to pose as catalysts of the movement. Their followers, including Luna Sea, Melice Mizer, Glay, L’Arc~en~Ciel, Dir en grey, Pierro are engaged in encouraging boom of Visual Kei media culture. 

Each band seeks to vary from a similar one through creating gorgeous and insane images. Though a vast majority of the musicians are male, bend members would often give a priority to make-up and clothing, considered as "feminine", which has nothing to do with their sexual orientation, but a combination of visual gothic elements and Japanese cultural traditions. Which is why Japanese gigs often resemble fascinating theatre performances. 

Notably, the ancient Japanese "Kabuki" theatre involved actors, among staff, to play women’s parts. Thus, a j-rocker, wearing a lovely pink dress and having his hair styled into violet locks, wrapped around with numerous fillets should cause no astonishment.

Presently, Visual Kei remains as a diverse, ever growing music culture.


