Title: 
Where To Go To Download That Free MP3 Song

Word Count:
561

Summary:
Music lovers! MP3 song collectors! Wondering where to find a free copy of that favorite song? If you’re reading this, chances are good you’re already online.. why not check the Internet for some free MP3 songs?


Keywords:
free mp3,legal mp3 downloads,mp3 music,music,mp3,download mp3,free mp3 song


Article Body:
Music lovers! MP3 song collectors! Wondering where to find a free copy of that favorite song? If you’re reading this, chances are good you’re already online.. why not check the Internet for some free MP3 songs? 

Below are a few websites where you can download free MP3 songs and albums.

www.Free-Albums.net – Free MP3 Song

At Free-Albums, it’s not only free MP3 songs that you’ll find but MP3 albums, reviews, videos, and more as well  At Free-Albums.net, get the most accurate lyrics and feel free to start singing along to your favorite free MP3 song. Download a copy of the hot new free MP3 song and hit or read up on your favorite artist or band with tons of pages dedicated to artists’ bios and news. You can search for and find complete discographies and download artists/bands pictures and use them as wallpaper for your PC desktop. Free-Albums.net… log on and find out what this free MP3 song and album site has to offer.

www.MP3sHits.com – Free MP3 Song

At MP3sHits, finding free MP3 songs is as simple as typing the artist’s name, song title, or the album name and hitting the search button. At MP3sHits, you can get free MP3 songs by bands such as Destiny’s Child, Blue, U2, Simple Plan, and more. What’s more, the website also features full albums in their special section with daily updates. Listen up to DJ Whoo Kid and Young Buck’s album recorded at G Unit Radio 9 or VA’s Suntribe Vol 9. Such free MP3 song samples are pure heaven to the indie music fan.

www.SongCrawler.com – Free MP3 Song

Whatever tune you crave, Song Crawler provides you with one-click results to all the free MP3 song downloads you can handle in a variety of music genres.

www.Music.Download.com – Free MP3 Song

CNet’s Download.com is yet another simply enormous download site that offers free MP3 songs. With genres ranging from rock, pop, alternative, punk, electronica, hip-hop, country, folk,and  blues, you can start looking for your favorite free MP3 song by typing in the name of the artist or band, song title, or the name of the album. You should also be sure to check out Download.com’s Editor’s Picks which feature the latest albums to hit the music market.

www.FindAnyMusic.com – Free MP3 Song

In our opinion, FindAnyMusic deserves their claim as the #1 replacement for Napster’s software. To start downloading your favorite free MP3 songs, all you need to do is sign up with the site and install their special music software. Once you’ve installed the software, you’ll have full and immediate access to over a billion free MP3 songs and music files online. Best of all, FindAnyMusic’s  software allows you to burn your downloaded free MP3 songs and create your own CDs. All you need are some blank CDs and a CD burner.

Unfortunately, we’ve only space enough to suggest a few of the top free MP3 song websites and there are certainly many more sites out there that also offer free MP3 songs for download, streaming, or sampling. A search of Google, Yahoo, or the MSN search engines for “free MP3 song” should provide you with just what you’re looking for!


