Title: 
Where the Unknown Music Roams - Expand Your Music Library

Word Count:
555

Summary:
Learn ways to expand your music collection without searching music stores for hours and hours.  Fabulous, unique music is at your fingertips...


Keywords:
music, blues, gospel, comedy, folk, jazz, latin, pop, r and b, rap, hip hop, reggae, rock, techno, spoken word


Article Body:
You've heard all your favorite music and artists on your local radio station. You've tuned in while hoping to hear something new and exciting. Unfortunately, the radio stations usually play the same tunes over and over. This causes other musicians to get left out in the cold. You may never hear of many fabulous rock singers, R and B artists, jazz professionals and Gospel greats if you only listen to what your radio station has to offer. Here are some tips to show you how to expand your music library with great songs you've probably never heard before.

Where Did The Music Go?

If hundreds of singing groups and musicians submit their songs to producers each year, but only a few get chosen, then where do all these amazing musicians go? Where and how are their songs being heard? Do they just give up? In the past, many of them would likely quit playing or singing all together once they were rejected in the mainstream music industry. But nowadays, a new avenue of getting their sensational music to the public has arisen; it's called the World Wide Web!

There are now thousands of hip songs available online today that will probably never make it to the radio stations. The artists' names will probably never be mentioned in the mainstream music industry. But, that doesn't mean the songs are cheesy or that the artists have bad singing voices. It simply means they didn't get chosen to be in the top music charts. Their music might be wonderful, but was overlooked or got lost in the crowd of other musicians and bands.

A Variety of Music

This happening isn't limited to only one certain type of music or musician. Almost any type of music can fall victim to getting tossed in the "rejection" pile. This includes jazz, Latin, pop, R and B, hip hop, reggae, rock, folk, comedy, Gospel, blues, techno, spoken word, rap, etc.

No matter what your taste in music, there are probably thousands of artists who never made it in the big-time that you would enjoy listening to their music. Your music library can grow with great music CDs from these singers so you can listen to many different songs whenever you want instead of being limited to the over-played music on the radio.

Music on the Web

There are specialty websites online that focus on publicizing music and artists that have never been heard before. You can go online to listen to unique sample music, buy CDs, and buy merchandise. These artists are great even though they never made it big. You can usually try their music before you buy it to be certain it is right for you. So, there's nothing to lose, but lots of amazing music to gain.

Music for Your Business

If you own a business where music is played often, you can also play some "unknown" music over the loud speaker for others to hear. Your customers will be amazed at all the distinct songs they hear in your store. You'll be the talk of the town!

Whether it's rock, jazz or hip hop you enjoy, or if it's Gospel, country, folk, or some other type of music, you can expand your music library in no time with many great tunes that never made it to the top!


