Airbrush Art Paints

When doing airbrush art there are many types of paints that you can use. The type of paint that you use will depend on what you are airbrushing. Some paints can only be used on certain surfaces and are not safe to use on other surfaces. So make sure the paint you are using is safe for the surface you will be putting your airbrush art onto.

Water soluble acrylic paints are used for airbrushing art onto plastic, metal, vinyl, wood, ceramics and cloth. This makes this type of paint the choice for airbrushing art onto your model cars or airplanes. This is also the choice for airbrushing t-shirts as well. But as long as your project is made from the above material you can use water soluble acrylics for your airbrush art designs.

Depending on which brand of acrylic paint that you go with, you may need to thin it down so that it flows freely through the airbrush. Also some acrylic paints require that they be heat set if used on clothing. You can heat set by placing a protect cloth between the design and the iron and ironing the design or you can turn the material inside out and place in the dryer on high heat. If the acrylic does not require heat setting on fabrics then you should still protect the design from fading when washed. To do this place the clothing into a sink of cold water and salt and allow to soak. Then the clothing can be laundered without risk of damaging the airbrush art design.

When doing airbrush art in the form of body art or tattoos you can use paint that is usually termed in two ways. Usually this paint is referred to as body art paint or airbrush tattoo ink. Both forms are basically the same and maintain a realistic tattoo look. This paint will last and is waterproof. To remove you will either just let time take its course and the tattoo fade or rub with baby oil to remove. To help you tattoo last longer apply talc powder daily. This will help the paint to stay on the skin better. 

Acrylic nail art paint  is needed when doing airbrushing art on nails. These paints clean up with water while they are still wet. So if you do get any on the skin or another surface where not needed then clean up immediately while it is still wet. The paint will become permanent when it dries. There are a lot of possibilities with acrylic nail art paint that you can do when creating your airbrush art. Colors can be mixed to create your own unique color for your artwork. 

When putting airbrush art onto an automotive use acrylic enamels. These are not only cheap but they will not clog up your airbrush like lacquers. Also make sure that you buy mixed colors and avoid any tinting colors, since they do not contain any driers in them. 

When creating airbrush art remember to use the right paint for the project. Beyond that when it comes to paints and airbrush art the possibilities are endless. 
