Books for Beginners to Advanced on Airbrush Art

When looking to learn on your own about airbrush art then reading is one area where you can gain a wealth of information to help you learn more. There a lot of great books out there that will help you from the beginner level of experience all the way through to the expert level. Books designed to teach airbrush art can be used alone or along with magazines and videos. To get you started are the following books covering beginner and advance information on airbrushing.

If you are just now looking into learning airbrush art then Airbrush by Parramon's Team is your best bet to start with. The book explains all about airbrushes and the uses of airbrushes. Instructions are also included in the book on how to use each airbrush. So someone who has no real prior knowledge this book will help you understand the airbrushes that you will be using when creating airbrushed artwork.

Getting Started in Airbrush by David Miller is also a great beginner's book on airbrushing. The book will give step-by-step instructions on the basic level of airbrushing techniques and how to create different effects with your airbrush art. By reading this book you will learn about the equipment and other materials that you will be using. The effects that you will learn about include freehand, edge effects, highlights, lettering and several others.

How to Airbrush T-shirts and Other Clothing by Diana Martin is good for beginners or can be used by the more experience airbrush artist who wants to learn the techniques used for airbrushing textiles. This book contains information on all the equipment, materials and techniques needed to create airbrush art on textiles. With 18 step-by-step guides you will be fast on your way to showing off your work on clothing.

Professional Airbrush Techniques by Vince Goodeve will teach you some pretty intricate designs. This book will help you learn how to prepare metal surfaces so that you can begin to learn or advance with airbrush art on motorcycles and cars. While the book will teach you some intricate designs do not worry though cause the book, also has some simple projects that you can start with when working with airbrushing motorcycles and cars.

If you are at an intermediate level with airbrush art then The Ultimate Airbrush Handbook by Pamela Shanteau is for you. This book will show you all about airbrushing everything from t-shirts to home interiors. Almost all surfaces for airbrush art are covered at the intermediate level in this book. Airbrushing nails to airbrushing cars is explained in great detail to help you advance further no matter what surface you like to put your airbrush art on. 

Airbrush2: Concepts for the Advanced Artist by Radu Vero will help to teach the experienced artist more advanced techniques. By learning these advanced techniques the artist can start to create even more complex airbrush art.  After all in the world of art there is always room to learn more and advance one's way of doing something to create a whole new aspect for the current art.
