Care Instructions For Airbrush Art Tattoos

When doing airbrush art tattoos there are some things that must been done to ensure that the airbrush tattoo ink sticks to the skin and does not fade quickly. When the prep work is done right and the customer understands the care instructions they can get many days of realistic looking artwork on their bodies. With the time and cost of creating great realistic airbrush art tattoos one does not want it to fade within a couple of days. 

While an experienced airbrush artist may know this a beginner may not, so it is worth mentioning. When doing airbrush art on skin make sure you are using airbrush paint that is designed for the skin. Usually this will be sold as airbrush body paint or airbrush temporary tattoo ink. These are the only types of airbrush paints that are safe to use on the human skin. 

These paints will have a hard time staying on skin that is oily. A tattoo artist will rub alcohol on a person's skin to kill clean and kill germs prior to beginning to start a tattoo. In this case you are still going to use the alcohol but for airbrush tattoos it is to get rid of the oil on the skin and not to sanitize an area for a needle. Once you have removed the oil from the area the airbrush art tattoo will stick a lot better. This will give more life to the tattoo. 

Now that you are ready to begin airbrushing the tattoo on, you need to take your time and be careful of what you are doing. There are no rooms for mistakes with airbrushing on a person's skin. So take your time to ensure you don't make a mistake on a person's body with the airbrush paint. While experienced artists understand this, again a beginner may not. So it was worth mentioning as well. 

After the airbrush art tattoo is completely dry then you need to apply talc powder. The talc powder will help to absorb additional oily ensuring more life for the tattoo. An airbrushed tattoo should last for 7 days. A person with oily skin will only get around a couple of days from their tattoo. There fore you should tell your customers who have oily skin that they need to apply talc powder themselves several times a day to help get the most from their tattoo. A person with dry skin will get more than 7 days usually from the tattoo. It does not matter though if they have dry or oily skin you should apply talc powder as soon as the airbrush art tattoo dries. 

Airbrush tattoos do cost money and customers are not going to spend that money if their tattoo does not last for at least close to what is expected. So make sure that you take all the prep and post steps to ensure that they do get a great realistic looking tattoo. Create a care sheet for your customers so that they will know how to take care of their new tattoo. 
