Is Airbrush Makeup A Form Of Airbrush Art

Airbrushing can be done on almost anything that you can imaging. Airbrush art is one way to take something and turn it into a master piece. Over hand painted art, airbrush art can be done in less time but with the same great effects if not better. There is more that you can do with airbrushing that you can not do with hand painting. You can take airbrushing and create a beautiful mural on a concrete wall to turn that once bland wall into a work of art worthy of some attention. While you can do this by hand the time factor makes airbrushing a better choice.

Airbrush art can also be applied to the body to create temporary tattoos and thus uses the human body as a canvas for an artist's imagination. Cigarette lighters are also being used as a way for artist to show of their airbrush art. The once simple looking lighter is now a display item with awesome art on it. 

So with everything being available for artist to use as a canvas for their airbrush art and with art being the taking of 
something and then turning it into a masterpiece, there is now a question posed. Is airbrush makeup just another form of airbrush art? Can the application of makeup with the use of an airbrush be art? Or is it still just the application of makeup that just happens to use an airbrush? 

When looking at what airbrushing does when used to apply makeup, a lot of people do believe that this is a form of airbrush art. When make up is airbrushed on the effects of what it does to the subject can be really drastic. Take a woman who has flawed skin and airbrush a light foundation onto her face and you now have a woman with perfect skin. The great thing is that the foundation is light weight and barely noticeable. Airbrush makeup has been able to take a woman that is plain and turn her into an exotic beauty with the right application of certain makeup. The effects of airbrushed makeup are more natural but at the same time more dramatic than the use of regular make up. 

The application of makeup takes time and a lot of practice to be able to do perfectly. The human face is one canvas where an artist does not want to mess up. One must be sure of their abilities with not only the application of the right makeup but also with use of an airbrush to apply those makeups. 

Those that apply make up are considered artists and airbrushing on makeup is just another great way that they have found to show off their artistic median. The make up goes on water and has to dry. As it dries those watching can see the transformation of the subject from what she was to what she is now becoming. This is why a lot of people do believe that airbrush makeup is another form of airbrush art. 
