Terms and Conditions 

This set of Article Underground articles you have purchased are for your personal use only. You may not resell or redistribute them in any manner.

To be accepted and continue as a member of the Article Underground Content & Traffic system you must agree to our terms and conditions. 

Each set of articles that you receive as a member you are licensed to use for your own non-exclusive use, but will have these following terms and conditions:

We provide you PLAIN TEXT FILES with RAW UNFORMATTED articles that do not have TITLES or AUTHOR CREDITS.

You may edit and change the article text and are welcome to credit with an author of your choice. 

You may use these articles for your own non-exclusive personal use only and can publish them on web sites that you own. 

You are not allowed to give these away or sell in any manner. 

Basically you are free to use them in any manner as long as you do not make these articles available to third parties as a gift, bonus, or sale. You may NOT repackage the articles and distribute in any manner.

While we don't advise submitting articles to directories for distribution or promotion, you may do so if you modify the articles so as to avoid duplication penalties by the individual directories.

Not submitting to directories also makes the articles more effective for you and our membership. If you do not submit them to article directories, it will be easier to get traffic and rank in the top ten of the search engines. 

That's your call. We don't reccommend that. 

Just don't sell the articles or give them away please. 

Other than that - tweak and modify away! 

I, Mike Liebner, of Creative Power, reserve the right to deny service to any individual or company, and revoke or discontinue membership for any reason. I also reserve the right to discontinue this membership service for any reason if it is deemed necesary. I also reserve the right the modify my membership offer or the features and specificatons without notice.

Please print this terms and conditions document to keep for your personal records. 

Mike Liebner
Creator and Owner of Article Underground Content & Traffic System
Creative Power 
12400 Ventura Blvd. #207
Studio City, CA 91604
(310) 734-1574 

Questions??? email: article@articleunderground.com

