There are so many car cleaning products on the market today that it is a wonder that anyone can choose just one. I discovered that many of the items are quite similar and they yield comparable results in general. However some products stand out from the other car cleaning products that you find in stores.

My first favorite among the superior car cleaning products is for the interior. I am an individual who is a little more concerned with my leather seats than I am my tires. After all, the tires are supposed to get dirty considering where they are and how they function. Trying to keep them sparkling seems like an exercise in futility.

If you want to keep your leather seats soft and clean you can opt for some car cleaning products that are designed for the interior of the vehicle. However, you really should consider buying a product made specifically for leather and vinyl rather than car interiors in general. 

A good leather and vinyl cleaner should serve as a conditioner as well. These car cleaning products are created to prevent drying and cracking in the interior and they also work wonders for taking out stains too. I even got a nasty ink mark out of my leather seats with a good quality leather and vinyl cleaner.

Using the product was beyond simple. In order to remove the ink stain, I used the cleaner full strength and I also let it soak in for about an hour. The ink came right out. After that, I used the cleaner diluted with water to clean the rest of the seats. Other car cleaning products were used to clean the dashboard and windows.

I do like to see where I am going so I take care when addressing my car windows. I use one of the more obscure car cleaning products on the market to remove bugs from the windshield. Advantage is a great window cleaner that will take even the juiciest bugs off of your windshield.

For years I had difficulty getting the little critters off of the windshield. After trying many different car cleaning products for this problem I gave up. A friend of mine suggested using Advantage to get the bugs off of the windshield. This is one of the best car cleaning products on the market. Even the bugs that have been baked into the glass have been removed. 

Now that my seats are smooth and soft and my windshield is sparkling I think that I can find car cleaning products for the rest of my vehicle. I may even shine my tires.



