You may or may not have heard of repetitive motion disorder. This is when you continually do something hour after hour, day after day, and it starts to take a toll on your body in some way. One of the most common conditions concerns typists and folks who punch away at a keyboard day in and day out. Improper form will wreak serious havoc on your tendons, and soft tissue. Nerves often get pinched. This can lead to terrible pain and even surgery. You've surely heard of carpal tunnel treatment. So, do you think you're at risk when it comes to repetitive motion disorders? It's definitely time to find out. 

I type for a living. It actually only took me about eight months from when I began to realize that I do this. Now, of course I already knew that I was a writer, but the repetitive motion aspect slipped my mind. I had always heard about typists and secretaries acquiring carpal tunnel treatment back when I was just a kid. It's funny how it didn't dawn on me immediately. On the other hand, I'm just glad that I realized it now and not 10 or 20 years down the road when I would probably require carpal tunnel treatment of some kind. Speaking of carpal tunnel treatment, I just spoke with a gentleman who had the surgery done. He makes knives for a living. This is one field that requires the use of small tools and repetitive motions. He said he was terrified of the surgery prior to having it done, but it surprisingly turned out great. He now has full range of motion and total use of his hands back. It's amazing what physicians can accomplish these days. 

Surgery is certainly not the only carpal tunnel treatment available. It is a serious measure, which is typically for those who are in poor condition. Other methods of carpal tunnel treatment consist of simple exercises and topical creams. Arnica cream is especially helpful if you have a job that requires for repetitive motions, and your forearms other limbs feel it after a long day. This wonderful and natural cream can keep you healed and refreshed. Most importantly, form is essential. If you use proper form when typing at a computer, then you may never require any sort of carpal tunnel treatment. Give it a shot. 