I hate ZITS! What about you? Ah, don't even bother answering this question. We all share the same feelings about whiteheads, blackheads, pimples, blemishes and acne in general. It SUCKS! Now, the trick is finding a way to stifle this affliction. Wouldn't it be phenomenal to never have a zit again for the rest of your life? I would pay big money for this wish to be granted. But unfortunately it's not going to happen. Life is never that easy. Even for adults the pimples just keep coming. Yeah, you heard right, teenagers. This dilemma isn't necessarily going to stop when you hit your 20s. I'm 31 years old and still get a few blemishes here and there. But what are the causes of adult acne? This is a good question. Do you know? 

If you haven't already noticed, most adults get pimples once in a while. They might not have an all-out pizza face breakout, but they still end up with a blemish or two. This can go on until the ripe old age of 50. I know, it's not something you really wanted to hear. Although a part of this is genetic, there are other causes of adult acne. One cause regards your diet. What are you shoveling into your mouth every day? I can tell you right now that high fat and high sugar foods will make your skin breakout. This is one of the major causes of adult acne, as well as acne amongst teens. What we consume excretes through our pores and gets into our bloodstream. It can also affect the way we smell. Think about this the next time you grab that Whopper or jelly doughnut. How is it going to affect your complexion? Water and vitamins are excellent for our skin. These essential elements nourish our body and it shows in our complexion. Try vegetables, lean meats and plenty of water for a solid week. You'll be amazed at how well your skin looks. Improper grooming is also one of the causes of adult acne. If you're not keeping yourself clean and your mug oil free, then you're only hurting yourself. You want to keep your face free of oil and dirt. This helps prevent new acne from forming. 

Always use a decent cleanser on your face. Dryness and irritation from harsh soaps are also common causes of adult acne. Eat a healthy, well-balanced diet, and cleanse your facial pores morning and night. A good, gentle cleanser to start with is Purpose. 