Change IP Address

There are many reasons why you may want to cover your tacks online. You can change IP address to do this, but it may not protect you like you think it might. You can also do this to help fix your Internet connection, though most people won’t even know this is what is going on when you call your provider for help. There are times when you need to do this, but if you are doing some thing illegal, this won’t protect you like you think it will. Your old IP will still be identifiable, as being you, and this won’t get you out of trouble.

If you want to change IP address because you are hiding from something, you can do it on your computer, though it will depend on your computer and your service provider. I’m not sure how to do this though, as I have only done it a few times and it has always been by direction of someone helping me over the phone. You have to release your current IP to change IP address, and then a new one is assigned to you. Your service provider will still know what your old one is if something comes up from the time you had it.

Some forums and web pages can ban you according to your unique IP address. If you want to get back on there, you can change IP address and you should have no problem. However, if you are making trouble, they can easily ban you again with your new number, and you will have to do it all over again. To change IP address probably will not worth the trouble, and you may just want to forget it and move on, even if you think you were unfairly banned. 

If you are having problems with your Internet connection, this is sometimes fixed when you change IP address. I’m not even sure why this works, or how it works. Perhaps it resets your Internet connection, though I can’t tell you for sure. If you are finding that you are having problems with pages loading and accessing websites that you visit all the time, you might want to change IP address to see if that helps. If you don’t know how to do it, you can call your service provider and describe your problem. Ask them if a new IP address will help solve the problem or not.
