Children's books are among the top selling books in the publishing business. It's no wonder. Children have loved stories for thousands of years, passed down through the centuries by their parents. Haven't you made up an entertaining tale for a child somewhere along the way?

Today, children's story books have the most fantastic illustrations, with glitter, pop-ups and hologram effects which can certainly capture the attention of any child. Parents can't resist these books and friends and family members love to give them as gifts to young children. So, the childrens book publishing market is booming.

In the not-too-distant past, the childrens book publishing industry was dominated by the big “houses” of publishing. With net technology, graphic design software and e-book compilers, you can start your own childrens book publishing company, offering both hard copy and electronic formats. If you're really on a shoestring, start out with an e-book only format.

If you're so lucky as to be both an artist and writer, you've got a lucrative, entertaining and soul-stretching online business venture just waiting out there. Enough of the starving artist!

If you're not so gifted, the worst case scenario means you'll need to hire a professional illustrator or graphic designer and an editor who can polish your story. If you're not web-savvy, you'll need a web designer as well to put your page up. If you think you've got the ideas that will appeal to your audience, your investment will be worthwhile.

One low budget advertising campaign that produces significant amounts of traffic to your site consists of articles pertaining to your product subject. For example, if you're selling a children's book telling the story of migrating whales encountering the joys and dangers of their journey, write an article targeted to educational sites. Write a piece that shows you've done your homework, have accurate facts and have a passion for your subject. 

Your subtle advertisement is contained in your byline. “Mary Jones writes children's books, specializing in animal stories and ancient myths. Mary's books are widely admired for their accurate depictions ...” You can see how you'll garner attention from potential buyers with a simple article posted on article directories.

In this scenario, another effective marketing strategy would be to submit articles to newsletters pertaining to parenting, books or children's education. Offer your article for free, the only condition being that a byline and link to your site be included.

The childrens book publishing industry is making a transition to the electronic and digital world, with all the magic the new technology  offers in visual pleasure for children everywhere. If you're looking for a home-based business that puts a little good in the world, think about childrens book publishing.






