There's a huge door we leave open all the time. It's a door that didn't exist 20 years ago. It's not tangible or even visible for that matter. You can't simply close it with a doorknob or deadbolt. This is a door that must be turned off or shut down. The dangers beyond this door are endless and we mustn't forget that. It's the door that leads to cyberspace. Did you remember to shut the last time you got off the computer? These days it's becoming more and more clear why you should. And I'm not just referring to viruses, identity theft and spam. What about children Internet safety. This is the greatest factor of all. 

Most healthy parents try so hard to keep their little ones safe. We put them in great schools, we reside in safe neighborhoods, we watch them when they play outdoors, and we lock them in our homes at night. The last thing we want is for something evil to slip in and hurt them. Unfortunately now days, a physical approach is not our only concern. You see, the Internet has made it simple for evil to slip in quietly. The predator doesn't even have to be near your child. They can be a thousand miles away and still make contact with a mouse and keyboard. I know; it sounds terrifying, but it's our modern-day reality nonetheless. What you need to focus on is children Internet safety. There are ways to keep your child far from the clutches of a sexual predator. You just need to know how to use your computer. With both Macs and PCs, there is an option known as PARENTAL CONTROL. You can alter the settings under your INTERNET OPTIONS or CONTROL PANEL. Put restrictions on your browser so that the minors in your home can't stumble upon unsavory websites and chat rooms. This is a great way to safe-guard them. If you wish to take children Internet safety a step further, monitor them yourself each time they get online. However, this may not work once they're in their teens. 

If you allow your child to use the Internet, it's your responsibility to keep track of where they're surfing and whom it is they're chatting with so casually. Take children Internet safety seriously. Come up with passwords your kids won't be able to figure out, because they will try this. It's true that the Internet can be a great resource and tool, but don't forget it's also a dangerous doorway. 