Chocolate has been a favorite, with kids and women, for centuries, with more than a few men enjoying the delicious dessert too! If you're a chocoholic, then chances are you came to this page in hopes of hunting down some delicious ideas for chocolate recipes. Well, you won't be disappointed. 

Chocolate comes in many forms, including powdered, chips, and bars. With these simple forms, thousands of original chocolate recipes can be created. Chocolate bars, crunches, cookies, cakes, pies, and brownies all equal chocolate satisfaction.

One chocolate recipe that can be altered every which way is the chocolate cake. The basic packaged chocolate cake mix can serve as a platform for a chocolate dessert “made in heaven”. Combine Dutch-processed cocoa, sugar, a dab of butter and a little water to form a rich liquid to swirl through the prepared batter just before baking. The result is a sinfully rich cake fit for a Queen.

The same mixture also doubles as a rich glaze to drizzle on top of the finished cake. If a richer frosting is your desire, nothing beats one made with cocoa, butter and powdered sugar. Very simple, but as chocolate recipes go, a real winner. For the ultimate chocoholics delight, top the frosting with shavings of a chilled dark chocolate bar containing 70% cocoa. The high cocoa content produces a velvety, melt-in-your-mouth good taste, rich but not overwhelming, in the proper size!

Some chocolate recipes don't require a special occasion. A case in point is the brownie. For thick, dense, moist brownies, swirl some chocolate syrup through the batter just before baking. Another chocolate recipe trick uses chocolate chips stirred through the brownie batter. Ten minutes before they're done, sprinkle chocolate chips over the top. There's (almost) no such thing as too much chocolate, you know! By the way, do you know that recent studies have shown chocolate to be heart healthy? Yes, really!

If you want to promote your dessert as a “health food” to reluctant friends and family, add nuts. Cashews, pecans, and peanuts are all heart-healthy, due to high vitamin E content and antioxidant activity. Granola bars topped with chocolate are filling and healthy.

For a s'mores-like bar, melt marshmallow creme with a little butter, chocolate chips and nuts. Surpass the ordinary chocolate chip cookie with a chocolate cookie batter made with the addition of dutch-processed cocoa and sugar.

All of these chocolate recipe treats may be frozen, with the exception of frosted cakes and bars. When you find yourself craving chocolate, make a weekend of creative chocolate recipes! It's a good idea to write down the quantities and combinations of your additions for repeatable results. You and your fellow chocolatiers will applaud your artistry!




