Many women face infertility while trying to conceive.  One of the first drugs they will be introduced to for overcoming their infertility is Clomid.  Clomid is a drug that is especially used in patients suffering from PCOS or other ovulatory disorders because it induces ovulation in patients.  

Clomid is taken orally for the first few days of a menstrual cycle, which is marked by the first day of full bleeding, for about four to five days.  Before starting treatment with Clomid, many doctor’s offices will do an exam or an ultrasound to determine if there are any structural abnormalities that may be preventing ovulation, in which case taking a drug will not help with inducing ovulation.  Once determined that the patient is a good candidate treatment can begin.  Most patients will begin taking one pill per day to reach sufficient results, but some women may be prescribed more after their initial treatments.  

Clomid is likely to help most patients that take it, and as many as eighty-five percent begin ovulating within six months of starting treatment.  If a pregnancy does not occur within those six months, then Clomid will most likely not work for you as a patient and you will need further examination for explanation as to why a pregnancy is not occurring.  

There are some side effects to taking Clomid that may occur, but as with any drug they will not occur in all patients.  There is a likelihood of ovarian cysts, but they do not cause any ill effects and are benign.  Also, you must be aware that there is a higher chance of conceiving multiples, with about a five percent chance of twins and less likely chance for triplets.  Other common side effects include nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, bloating and headaches.  The drug has been deemed safe for use by the FDA and has not been shown to cause any fetal abnormalities or long lasting effects on the using patient.

Personally I have known several people to begin using Clomid that have become pregnant within a few months of starting treatment.  Each had been trying for over six months before seeking help.  It also seems to help with their piece of mind, mainly because they feel like they are taking an active role in increasing their chances of pregnancy instead of trying and failing for another month.  If you are having difficulty becoming pregnant, talk to your doctor about the possibility of starting treatment on Clomid.
