There are plenty of fun jobs in the current world we live in. You just have to take a look around. So many people fail to do this. I laugh at some of my buddies, because they're still resorting to newspaper ads and such. This is gone with 80s! We live in a world of cyberspace madness. On the Internet is where you should be if you're in the market for work. Ever heard of CareerBuilder.com or Monster.com? Now, what about those outstanding gigs? Well, do you like playing video games? If you're a male under the age of 40, then the answer is an automatic yes. What you need is a career in computer game design. I'll bet you spend oodles of time on your PC already. Imagine a career where you're the one creating and playing games for a living. That's living it up my friends. 

It was a hot summer day in Chapel Hill, North Carolina. I was 20 years old and working hard as a Chinese food delivery guy. My current order was to a business center. This is one of those gigantic glass buildings that have numerous offices for various businesses. This one was to a few males in their 20s. I was shocked when they opened the door. Here sat three goofy, laid back Asian guys, who were playing video games. What was going on? I wanted the scoop. They invited me in with jovial grins. I stepped in with a look of awe on my face. I had to ask what they were doing, and were they actually getting paid for it. As it turned out, they were computer game design workers. One guy told me they were currently playing a new video game in order to work out the kinks. How in God's name could this be a career? Honestly, who cares? The point is that it IS. I had to tell my best buddy, who was a computer geek, about computer game design and these cool fellows I'd just met. 

So that's my story. It's experiences like these that really cause us to do a reality check regarding our current job positions or career choices. Obviously a high number of jobs are pretty poor in comparison to those such as a computer game design technician. It's tough to compete with playing video games all day and getting paid for it. What's your current job? 