CPR Training

If you haven’t had CPR training, you should probably run out and get it. There are jobs that require you to have this, but it is something that everyone should know. You never know what is going to happen, and you may end up being the only person around when someone needs CPR. Though it is not something anyone wants to think about, you really should consider what it would mean to know how to administer CPR. It might not be a stranger that you help. It just might be someone very near and dear to you.

I had CPR training when I worked at a facility for metal challenged adults, and I am glad I had it. Though I never had to use it, thankfully, I felt a little better while doing my job because I knew if something happened I would know what to do. CPR training was mandatory for this job, but I would have wanted to have it anyway. When you are in any field that demands you care for people, it is always a smart idea to not only know CPR but first aid as well.

If you are a parent, you may want to go out and get CPR training. If something happens to your child, you want to know that you can help before the medics can arrive. There can be delays, and by the time they get there, it could be too late. You don’t want to have that on your mind if something bad were to happen. If you have CPR training, you know you can help. If the worst happens, you won’t be beating yourself up thinking you should have known what to do. At least you gave it your best shot.

You can find CPR training in every community, and many times this is a free service. It usually doesn’t take very long to go through the course, and it is something you can do with your entire family. I’m not sure if children can go through CPR training, but I think it depends on their age. Young children won’t be able to do or really understand what is going on, but a teenager can. You should ask when you call to sign up, as there may be age restrictions of which I am not aware. Just a little time out of your life can save another, so go out there and get it.

