America is apparently interested in crime, law enforcement and the overall judicial process. Have you caught onto this yet? If you haven't, you either live under a rock or your name is Helen Keller. Take a gander at this week's line-up of television shows. If they're not a reality show, they're a crime show. We're talking crime scene tape galore. I fully admit that I love all these series'. Whether it's CSI, CSI Miami, Criminal Minds, Bones, Law and Order SVU, or Close to Home, I'm pretty much there. Hey, what can I say? I like modern-day entertainment and I'm fascinated by the criminal aspect. I feel that it's art imitating life. Granted some examples are far-fetched, but many of these stories are realistic. 

It's bizarre that you can purchase crime scene tape on the web. There has to be a law against this somewhere. If I were a twisted serial killer, I just may acquire some crime scene tape and use it in some way to dupe people. I could even get my hands on a real police uniform now days, which brings me to a major point. They reveal SO much on television! Aren't the Hollywood studios aiding the criminals by doing this? I mean come on; I guess if I ever kill someone, I will dispose of the body in pieces and clean the weapon with bleach. This way I will be as free as a bird and no one will be able to touch me. DUH! Do you thing television shows should be divulging all this stuff to the general public? Uh, probably not the best plan. Who am I kidding? We're talking about Hollywood here. The last thing on their minds is our nation's crime epidemic. Regardless of all that's revealed to us so casually, I still LOVE these crime shows. The sight of yellow crime scene tape on my television screen never gets old. Then again, if it was all real, I probably wouldn't enjoy it so much. Part of entertainment value is directly related to the stories being false. At least for me. 

You could definitely pull a sweet prank with real crime scene tape, some buddies and gory make-up. Imagine all the possibilities these days. Okay, hold on there; I'm not trying to pass out any crazy ideas or anything like that. When it comes to crime scene tape, we civilians had better stick with the prime time television. 