Cure For A Hangover

If you are looking around for a cure for a hangover, you are going to find a lot of strange advice. There is one surefire way to avoid a hangover, but all of the rest of the suggestions you find will be hit and miss. Some work for some people, and others won’t work at all. This is because everyone’s body is different, and you may find that what works for your friend won’t even touch the pain you are feeling in your head. You may have to experiment to find what works for you.

The best cure for a hangover is to not drink. I guarantee you won’t get a hangover if you don’t drink. I know this isn’t the answer most people are looking for but it works for me. If you don’t want to do that, there is one thing that seems to help a lot of people, and this is making sure you drink a few glasses of water before you go to bed. It might be a pain to get up to use the bathroom three times after you have done it, but it is better than the hangover. This cure for a hangover tends to help a lot because alcohol depletes the body of needed water, and if you drink the water, some of the side effects of dehydration disappear. Some hangovers are completely skipped if you take this step.

Another cure for a hangover I have heard is to take headache medication before you go to sleep. I wouldn’t advise doing this, and I don’t know if it helps. The problem with this cure for a hangover is that alcohol and most medications should not be mixed. You might end up with a problem way worse than a hangover. You may really want to skip that one and save the headache medication for the morning. If you wake up with a headache you can then take it.

I have heard of another cure for a hangover that seems to work, but I don’t know if I recommend it. Many like to have a drink in the morning. I’m not sure why this works, but it seems to work for some people. Though it is a cure for a hangover, it may make your problem worse. You are just putting more toxins into your body that your liver must deal with. This is why you might be feeling so run down. In essence, alcohol is a poison to your body and it must work to get rid of it. There may be nothing you can do for a sure fire cure for a hangover other than limiting the amount your drink or not drinking at all.
