Like many overweight women, I have had to struggle with body image issues most of my life. It was difficult for me to go into fitness centers. You see, they are such meat markets. People go to weight loss centers not just a workout, but to check each other out. It always made me feel self-conscious. I would feel fat, and unattractive. It did nothing to boost my self-esteem. 

Even curves weight loss centers were hard for me to go into at first. If you've never been into a curves health club, it is basically a place for women like me who want to work out. A lot of the people there have more curvy physiques. They go to the curves weight loss centers because they want a place that feels safe for them to work out it. They can be around other women in a supportive environment. They don't have to feel bad about themselves.

But even in the curves weight loss centers, I still would feel bad about myself. I began taking supplements to boost my weight loss productivity. I would take fat burners, appetite suppressant – anything I could get a hold of. Between that and my occasional trips to the curves weight loss centers, I began to see results finally. Within the first few months I had lost 10 pounds. Within the third month, I lost another five. The curves weight loss centers were obviously doing their work.

Going to curves weight loss centers is not for everyone. There might not be any curves franchises in your city, or example. Beyond that, however, a lot of people find it to be a little bit cultish. If you are into just doing your own routine, without taking any of the special curves classes, then it is a waste of your money. You would be better off going to the YMCA. But if you need a little boost in your confidence, and someone to help you out with your workout, I think you would enjoy taking classes at the curves weight loss centers. I know that they really did help me a lot. I still have some of the same self-esteem issues that I had when I first started going to the curves weight loss centers, but many of them are better than they were before. I definitely feel healthier and more self-confidence than I ever have before in my life!