Millions of men and women suffer from hair loss every day. Much of this is due to simple genetics. As much as we'd like to dismiss our genes at times, we cannot. Then there are the issues of health and stress. These will always play a crucial part. What you shovel into your body is what nurtures it. So are you chowing down the Big Mac, or are you feasting on salad and fresh fish? Your hair will tell the truth. If it's not receiving the proper nutrients and vitamins, it won't look healthy. I brought up stress because it affects our health in so many ways. Just as it can cause an ulcer in your stomach's lining, it can also result in hair loss. I'm sure you've heard this before. This depressing ailment can even take place as early as your teen years. OUCH! Now, having said all that, what about dht hair loss? Are you familiar with this concept? If not, you should be. 

What causes hair loss in most men? Well, about two thirds of the male population is afflicted with male pattern baldness at some point in their lives. It may happen in their 20s, and it may not occur until they hit their 50s. Hair loss is rather unpredictable. Furthermore, you should be privy to dht hair loss. You see, it all begins with testosterone. This is commonly known as what makes males aggressive, strong or manly. We need it. However, as we age it can do some damage. This is where dht hair loss enters the picture. DHT stands for dihydrotestosterone. This is what our testosterone turns into as we age and it makes its way to our scalp. When it mixes with the oils of our hair, there is a bad result. The follicles are damaged and weakened. Once they fall out, the root is dead and no hair will return, hence leaving us bald in that spot. Over time dht hair loss can prove quite significant. Suddenly your forehead is twice as large and you're reflecting sun off the top of your head. That's not cool, and most of us have a tough time dealing with this, whether we admit it or not. 

The good news is you can battle dht hair loss. There are shampoos, conditioners, and hair products available that can stifle the damaging work of DHT. Check out MIN New York on the web to get the scoop. They offer a complete kit for around 60 bucks. 