Dinner party ideas

One of the absolute best parties that I have ever been invited to and attended, was a "surprise" dinner party. We received the invitation saying that we had been invited to a surprise dinner party, and the guests would not know what the surprise was for. We racked our brains trying to figure out who's anniversary or birthday it was, but we were clueless. We just showed up with anticipation and a bit of excitement, not knowing what to expect. When we arrived, our friend's home was decorated fabulously and the aroma of a freshly cooked meal filled the house. 

The hosts refused to tell anyone what the party was about until all of the guests had arrived. She kept us in her kitchen and dining room with some appetizers until we had all assembled. Then, she told us that she had thrown all of us a surprise party because we'd been such wonderful friends and didn't get together nearly enough. She knew that the only way to get everyone to agree to just show up without offering to help or bring anything was to do it this way. We all loved what she'd done and had an amazing time. I have to say that was one of the best dinner party ideas I've ever come across. 

There are lots of reasons that you may be needing to come up with some dinner party ideas. Perhaps it is an anniversary or a birthday, an engagement or graduation that you are wanting to celebrate. No matter what the occasion, it never hurts to come up with some creative dinner party ideas. There's always the traditional dinner parties that involve a huge cookout or standard gathering. They tend to be forgotten rather quickly. You could find some fun and exciting dinner party ideas that may have your guests talking about it years later. Perhaps a Hawaiian theme would be fun, or a beach theme. Sometimes people will make it a costume party, no matter what season of the year it happens to be. I've witnessed adults throwing other adults a kid's themed party, with childish games and foods. By the time they were done with the piñata, every adult was laughing hysterically. Lots of dinner party ideas involve games. Not everyone enjoys games, so keep that in mind. 

One of my favorite dinner party ideas is to have a mystery dinner party. Everyone arrives in character and costume and tries to solve a mystery. It is a wonderful way to get people to use their imaginations and interacting with others. Plus, it can be tons of fun. Cater your dinner party ideas to the occasion or the season, but always cater it towards having a great time.
