Having two children can be draining for busy mothers, what with all the diaper changes, feedings, and play times. When they aren't cooing or playing, babies, as well as mothers, love to experience the great outdoors. One of the best ways to spend time with your child, and get exercise, is the double baby jogging stroller. Exercise is important to a new mother, which is why manufacturers have created the double baby jogging stroller.  Now you'll no longer need to spend twice the time, going to and from your house to collect your kids. Go for jogs in the park or around the block, and let both kids take in the sights and sounds.

A double baby jogging stroller is just that – two strollers in one. Both children are seated comfortably in a hammock like cradle. Fused together, these hammocks are safely and securely sewn to a strong but lightweight metal frame. Handlebars on either side are cushioned with thick, soft foam to ensure Mom's comfort during long jogs. Heavy-duty plastic wheels are doubled to ensure stability. 

Seat belts are a must, in the event of sudden stops. Belts come in two varieties: Parachute and single-belt styles. The parachute belts, are so called because they're smaller versions of ones used by parachuters and sky-divers. They're shaped like underwear, with straps wrapping between the legs, and a large belt across the stomach. Like a harness, you slip your baby into this safety belt.  
Single belts stretch across the tummy, buckling at the other side.  
Some double baby jogging strollers feature interchangeable belts and are much stronger.  Changing these belts can be complicated and difficult, so it's best that you choose a double baby jogging stroller with permanent belts. 

Even when you can rest assured your little one will be safe on his adventures, some days may be inclement. Here's where sun-shielding hoods and rain blocking tarps come in handy. For hot days, when the sun beats down on little heads, there is the double baby jogging stroller hood.  It's similar to porch and house awnings . Made of nylon and water resistant, the hood attaches to the handlebars of the double baby jogging stroller. Covering baby's sensitive skin, this feature also comes in handy for rainy days. 

Even with a hood, children can still get soaked from oncoming raining. Clear, plastic tarps have been designed to protect babies from potential colds. A specially designed rain tarp is attached to the stroller hood, and is stretched down to the foot board of the double baby jogging stroller. The sides of the tarp are breathable, water resistant nylon netting, allowing fresh air to circulate to your babies.  

Never buy double baby jogging strollers second hand. They may have defects, or not be up to current standards. The same goes for things like rain tarps, hoods, or seat belts. As you probably already know, always put on the safety brake located near the wheels when you're stationary. 