Drug Abuse

No one ever wants to talk about drug abuse, but for many families, there comes a time when you have to deal with it. Even if you don’t know anyone who is on drugs at any given time, you still have to talk to your children to make sure they know the dangers. Sometimes not talking to your children may seem easier than trying to find the right words to say, but this often backfires. Kids are curious, and if they aren’t aware of how you feel about something, they may not think it is any big deal.

Drug abuse can happen with illegal drugs as well as with over the counter medicines. For some kids, taking prescription drugs is something they try because parents forget to include them when they talk about drugs and drug abuse. These drugs can be just as dangerous as illegal drugs, and are often very easy for children to get their hands on. It may seem innocent to them if they don’t know what is going on before they are offered the drugs for the first time.

Drug abuse is not easy to talk about, and it is even harder to have ‘the talk’ with your children. If you have a hard time with this, you should know that help is out there. You can find many websites that deal with drug abuse, and they have practical advice and ideas about how and when to talk to your kids about drugs. They can help you figure out what to say, and provide you with the facts you need to back up what you are saying.

Even when teens have heard all about the terrors of drug abuse, you have to know that not all teens will care. Some have to try it, and they do it something just to annoy you. You have to know the signs of drug abuse and what to look out for. Make sure you know the signs, and make sure you keep your eyes wide open. If you walk around in denial, you aren’t doing you or your children any favors. Look up the signs and know them by heart. If anything with your children seems to be off, there is probably something wrong. Don’t ignore it, it may mean the difference between your children living a good life, or them wasting away. It may even mean the difference between life and death.
