Egg Decorating

One of my favorite parts of Easter is when we do the egg decorating. This is always something that was a magical event for me when I was a child. I always loved to watch the little disks of color dissolve in the vinegar and water to form the watery dye, and I loved to decide exactly what colors I wanted to make each and every one of the eggs before me. To eliminate fighting, my mother often split the eggs into two workstations so my brother and I wouldn’t argue over colors or who got to do more eggs than the other.

Today, egg decorating is not just for Easter, though it is the most popular time to do it. You can decorate eggs to go with your décor, though many people like to do this for special occasions only. You can empty the contents of the egg and then add the color or design you want. When you do this, you are ensuring you can keep the egg as long as you can keep it from being broken, because there is nothing inside to rot. Egg decorating can be trickier this way, however, because the egg is not as strong as it would be without a small hole in the bottom.

You can go about egg decorating this type of egg any way you want to. You can use dyes, but you can also use different types of paint that may stand out and make a bolder statement. You may want to just leave them white for whatever reason. It really is up to you. Egg decorating is something that can be as creative as painting a landscape or writing an epic poem if you have the time and energy to really get into it.

In fact, if you find that you have a flare for egg decorating, you may want to teach others some of your tricks and tips. Some craft stores like to offer classes like these, and you may want to contact the ones in your area to see if they are interested in having your hold a few classes in egg decorating. You can also contact your local college that might also hold classes such as these. They have classes for quilting, painting, writing, exercise, pottery, and other artist endeavors, so there is no reason why you can teach a class on egg decorating as well.

