Entertainment Book

I first saw the Entertainment Book when I was in college. I went to eat somewhere with a friend, and we knew one of the waiters. He was at the time a good friend of mine. When we ordered, he produced a coupon that allowed us to buy one meal and get the other one free. As a college student, that was a great thing! We wanted to have a decent meal but didn’t want to pay the high price for what we wanted. We were able to get what we wanted and didn’t have to pay an arm and a leg for it.

You can find many great deals like that in the Entertainment Book, but you will also find a lot of stuff you may not need. I don’t know what they cost today, but back then they were well worth the cost. You could save what you had paid for the book by using just six or seven of the coupons out of it, and it was filled to the brim with great deals on almost anything you could imagine. The Entertainment book was something I didn’t buy for myself, but I asked my mother to get me on for Christmas and I got great use out of it.

I would guess the Entertainment book is much like it used to be, but I hadn’t seen it around where I live. This is something that is a better deal if you live in an urban area and have a lot of place and things from which to choose. There are limited options where I live and the saving I might get from it might not be worth the asking price. This might be the reason why I don’t see the Entertainment book around here much, though I am sure they have it somewhere.

You can find the Entertainment book online and you can also get it in other places where you see it advertised. I have seen it in many places, but I don’t think I have ever seen it advertised on television. That doesn’t mean it isn’t, it just means that I have not seen the ads. You may have to do a little searching to find them in your area, but I would bet you could. You can get the Entertainment Book for yourself, or may want to get it as a gift for the person that is hard to shop for. No one can resist good savings and this book is chock full of them.

