It is really a shame how many kids do not get enough exercise nowadays. It does not seem like we should even have to worry about exercise for children. After all, kids love to run around and play, so why should adults have to prescribe certain exercises for children? Yet the reality is that we have some of the most obese, sedentary, and unhealthy kids in history. They spend too much time watching television, surfing the web, or playing video games, and not enough time outside running around. Having good exercise for kids is one of the most important ways to safeguard the future. An unhealthy childhood can lead to an unhealthy adulthood.

Of course, the best way to stay fit is to do something that you enjoy to do. This goes double for exercise for children. If you can have the kids play games that they like, they will be much more willing to push themselves and give it their all. Why have them running laps, when playing dodgeball can make for a more enjoyable exercise for children? That way, they will be willing to work at it instead of dragging their feet. You have to think like a kid to come up with a good exercise for children. Kids love games, so give them games!

Another really valuable exercise for children is bike riding. It is a real mistake for parents to give their kids rides everywhere. Not only is it a big inconvenience and a waste of fossil fuels, but it also stops the kid from exercising. Why not give yourself more time and allow your kid to get a good workout. Biking is one of the worlds most popular and enduring exercises for children. And, in addition to being a great exercise for children, it is also a great way to teach self-reliance. If they have to provide their own transportation from an early age, they will learn to take responsibility for themselves. 

Why not exercise with your children? Most schools make sure to provide exercise for children during school hours, but it is not always enough. Kids need time to run around after school. You can help them to let off their nervous energy by running around with them. That way, you can both get your exercise at the same time, while having time to spend together. This is one of the best ways to spend family time, in my opinion.