Getting in better shape is on the resolution list of many of us each January. We look at the scale or in the mirror and feel a tinge of longing for a better looking physique. Perhaps your desire to shed a few pounds is grounded in health concerns. Either way one thing is for certain if you want to be successful you are going to need to exercise to lose weight.

For years people have been in search of a magic pill or secret formula that will help them slim down. We’ve all seen the late night television commercials or magazine advertisements that claim they can help you lose ten or twenty pounds within days and without any exercise. The truth is that the only effective way to win the battle of the bulge is through a combination of diet and exercise to lose weight.

If you are used to living a sedentary lifestyle it’s important to acknowledge that it’s probably been a contributing factor to your current weight. Our bodies need to keep moving in order to effectively metabolize food. If we don’t take the time to exercise the food we eat will not be burned off and we’ll start to gain weight.

Shifting from a primarily motionless existence to that of someone who regularly exercises can be a challenge. One of the keys when you want to exercise to lose weight is to choose an activity that you really enjoy. If you can’t stand being in the water, don’t join a swimming class and if running isn’t one of your interests, racing around the track at your local high school won’t last long.

Walking is one of the best forms of exercise and it’s both inexpensive and easy to do. It’s also appealing to people who have little to no interest in exercise classes. If you use walking as an exercise to lose weight you’ll not only burn calories you will also help speed up your metabolism.

It’s also one activity that you can do regardless of where you are. You don’t have to join an expensive gym or purchase any equipment at all, aside from a good pair of walking shoes. Walking is an exercise to lose weight that people of all ages and all fitness levels can do. 

Once you begin to see the scale inching downwards and you feel your clothes become less tight you’ll feel spurred on to continue with your plan to exercise to lose weight. In addition to purchasing a new wardrobe once you hit your goal weight you’ll also have to find a new resolution when next January arrives. 


