Technology is your friend! Would you consider this a true statement? Now I'm asking you to look past the filthy air, and the cancer caused by electronic devices, and see the big picture here. Technology assists our lives every day in so many ways. Just take your Pc or Mac for example. Can you count the ways it aids you and makes your life less complicated in a single day. It's a pretty long list for me. These incomparable machines can do it all except the dishes. Talk to your buddies, take care of work by telecommuting, send crucial messages, order Chinese food, do your taxes, search for real-estate options, manage your bank account, order gifts, and play the stock market all from a small notebook computer. Now that's amazing! You can even take a moment to find anyone on the planet with this device. There are no limits!

Just the other day I was weeding through my junk mail. I spotted on of those Classmates.com ads. Apparently we can now find anyone from our old school days in an instant. Or at least we can get in touch with them through this new-age data base. It's actually pretty nifty when I think about. There are a few friends from back in the day that I'd like to see or chat with again. As I'm sure you have a few as well. Of course there is a catch to this reuniting process. You have to fork out 20 bucks a month for some membership. It may be a bit more or a little less depending on which level of access you choose. Unfortunately I already shell out 20 bucks each month to Netflix. That's enough for me. However, there are also a variety of other websites that allow you to find anyone at any time. It just takes a name and a little sorting. The more unique there name is, the better off you are. Again, I've still encountered fees that go with these services. But, you may just need to pay a one-time fee to search for a single individual. That could be worth the cost, depending on how close you were. 

One thing is for certain, our information is out there. Computers have made it simple for anyone with Internet access to find anyone they please. This can be a good thing, but it can also prove to be dangerous. Always remember to be careful what information you pass out on the web. 

