Who on this planet doesn't crave the almighty cure for blemishes? I think it's safe to assume that we all do. Even if you're one of the 20 percent, who aren't afflicted with acne at all, I'll bet you'd still like to get your hands on that cure. It would be an utter goldmine. People around the world would pay a massive price for this remedy. But, unfortunately we do not have a perfect cure for this skin affliction just yet. No sir, we're still stuck with a deluge of skin care systems, which work okay for some and poorly for others. I strongly believe that some of these "acne treatments" don't work at all. Who's with me on this one? 

Like many people, I got my first bout with blemishes back in junior high school. This is a fairly typical time for the zit monster to strike. If it happens even earlier on, then I'd say you got shafted. What did you do for blemishes back then? If I recall correctly, there weren't many cures, remedies and treatments available. If by some chance there were, I didn't see them. There was no Proactive Solution, no Neutrogena skin care, and definitely no Internet to search on. I was pretty much stuck with the zits I got. Well at least until they ran their cycle. Wait; there were Oxy and Clearasil products in the local drugstore. Unfortunately these were always too potent. I'd dab some Oxy 10 on my pimple, and in no time I had a big red dot where the cream irritated my skin. That was worse than the zit itself. What I required was a gentle treatment for blemishes. Sadly, I went through my awkward phase without one. 

These days we all have choices. I think teenagers and adults should be happy that they have so many acne products at-hand. Surely one of them can banish your skin condition to some point. Although they may not prevent you from ever getting another pimple, they can definitely treat the ones on your face, and keep some from popping up. If your condition is rather severe, then you might want to see a dermatologist in order to get a prescription medication for blemishes. These are often more effective than the stuff you'll find in a drugstore. 