With life comes preparation. Whether or not you agree with this is up to you, but I like to delve in prepared. Even when we're young, we are constantly preparing for the future. We do this in a number of ways. We attend school to prepare for college and everyday life. We then attend college to prepare for the "real world" and financial needs. We even exercise, eat right and take care of our bodies in order to prepare for the future. Okay, some of us do and some of us don't. Now, I will state that it's prudent you do. Clearly as we age, our bodies deteriorate in ways. This is inevitable. That's why we have to be cautious, adopt fitness regimens, and seat right. This way our body will remain healthy longer and we'll feel better. Neither men nor women are exceptions to this rule. While women strive to prevent heart disease and breast cancer, men search for prostrate cancer answers and better ways to reduce their cholesterol. It's an endless process. 

At the age of 30, I came to the conclusion that I am at risk for prostate cancer. Just like millions of women are at risk for breast cancer, one in every three men will have prostate issues to grapple with. This is a very bleak and discouraging number, I know. But, reality is reality. The only thing we can do is prepare ourselves and start early. Now, you may not know the first thing about or for prostrate cancer prevention. Not a problem. I encourage every man to consult his physician regarding this issue. They are the professionals and certainly should be able to dish out some advice. Furthermore, here are a few things I've learned in regards to this health affliction. Your diet plays a major part. Eating healthy can really decrease your chances of acquiring prostate problems. Embrace fruits and vegetables, water, and fatty fish. Consume plenty of tomato products, which contain Lycopene. This is great for your prostate. Omega 3 supplements are also highly recommended to prevent prostate dilemmas. Steer clear of salty, smoked, and char-grilled foods. Calcium received from dairy should also be kept down to a minimum. Adopt a healthy diet plan! 

Need more information for prostrate cancer prevention? Hey, it's not a bad plan. Consult that physician and find out what else you can do to ensure you will not be one of those 33 percent who struggle with prostate problems in the future. 