Gastric Bypass Surgery

You have no doubt heard the reports that the obesity rates in the United States are off the charts. This is evident everywhere you go. There are reality shows about losing weight, and the bookstores are stuffed full of books on dieting and exercise. Though a lot of Americans are overweight, there are some that are considered to be morbidly obese. When this happens, health quickly begins to decline and sometimes those patients turn to gastric bypass surgery to help fix the problem.

Gastric bypass surgery is often used as a last resort, and is used for those who are at high risk for immediate health problems. It’s not something they just hand out to anyone who wants to lose weight, and because of the issues with food that many people have, you may even be asked to go into a little bit of therapy before you undergo gastric bypass surgery to be sure you aren’t going to push your limits after the operation has been complete. If you have emotional issues that are the root of your eating and weight problems, you should make sure you take care of those as you become slimmer. If you don’t, you may find other destructive ways to harm yourself.

When someone gets gastric bypass surgery, a large portion of the stomach is bypassed. When you do this, the patient has a stomach that can only handle a few ounces of food at a time. Most patients that have gastric bypass surgery have to be on an all-liquid diet for weeks after the surgery because they cannot handle any solid foods whatsoever. In the weeks that follow they slowly begin to learn how to eat solids again without getting sick. This is a longer process then most people realize and is not an easy out by any means, just ask anyone who has had it.

If you think you are a candidate for gastric bypass surgery you should talk to your doctor to see what your options are. Some insurance companies will cover the surgery while others will not. You should also call your insurance to find out where they stand on the issue. If you are overweight, they will want to know that you have given weight loss the old fashioned way a decent try before they sign you up for gastric bypass surgery. Remember that this is major surgery, and there can be side effects. Things can go wrong.  You should only consider this surgery as a last resort.

