The world of dietary and health supplements is vast. We now have more options at our fingertips than ever before. Weight lifters and athletes around the globe are in awe over the benefits they're receiving from protein shakes, meal supplement bars, and creatine. Could it really get any easier? Well, it probably will with time. Things are constantly advancing. Just when you think the latest product is phenomenal, a new one hits the shelves and tops it. Take GNC whey protein for instance. This is a major protein supplement now days. It offers more healthy protein than its predecessors. However, will it remain the "craze" forever? 

I can't lie to you! I steer clear of GNC whey protein for one major reason. The price is jacked up! Basically it's just like every other vitamin, and health food supplement in GNC. You can certainly find less expensive whey protein elsewhere. You see, GNC is that cliche chain. They sort of set the bar or standard. They offer a wide selection of products, which are deemed good, and they sell them for as much as they can. Then there are all the other stores. Some are in your local malls, and some are only found online. They also offer quality whey protein powder, along with other good supplements, but for a fraction of the cost. Of course it's up to you which one you want to shop with. I would rather get online and purchase a couple 2 pound canisters of whey protein for 15 bucks a pop, than buy GNC whey protein for a great deal more. As long as the competitors offer equal benefits, then it's well worth it. 

A few things I always look for with whey protein are; cholesterol amounts per serving, protein grams per serving, and chain amino acids. The first one you don't want much of. Find a high quality whey protein powder that has small amounts of cholesterol. One you can try that's typically convenient is Body Fortress from Wal-Mart. This whey powder offers 23 grams of protein per serving. That's pretty decent. It comes in chocolate, vanilla and strawberry. So the next time you in search of supplements or vitamins, you don't have to acquire GNC whey protein, meal bars, creatine powders, or calorie mixes. You can easily check out the other options at-hand. 