Image is important to us all. Some of us flaunt this fact like no other, and others suppress it. Either way, we all want to look great. It's not only in our nature, but it's also often necessary to vie in this world. Okay, that's a small fib. Beauty has practically become essential to contend with the billions of others that inhabit planet earth. It's one of the three advantages most people crave. The other two are money and intellect. If you're blessed with all three, then you're golden. Paris Hilton has two of them. Can you guess which one she never received? So, what makes us beautiful? Sure our personality is part of it, but let's stick to image for now. There are our physiques, our facial structure, our skin, teeth, and finally our hair. I am a serious teeth person. This is a crucial aspect of anyone in my opinion. One feature I had never really considered until a few months ago is hair. What is hair anyway? It's dead follicles sprouting from our scalp. Folks want them on their head, but not on their bodies. It's a weird subject. Regardless, hair health is imperative to many. 

Whether you're a man or a woman, chances are you want your dew to look stellar. I recently know where you're coming from. I have seen the light concerning hair health. Being a 31 year old male with a full head of hair, I paid little attention to my dew in the past. It wasn't until my wife mentioned to me that she hopes I never lose my hair, that I started considering hair health and hair loss. Suddenly my head follicles became an issue. I don't want to lose them after all. Especially if my wife loves them. It was time to investigate what makes hair look incredible and what keeps it this way. A few things I discovered were; a healthy well-balanced diet, plenty of water and rest, quality hair care products, exercise and a multivitamin. These are wonderful for your due. Embrace them all in order to preserve your hair health. One vitamin I discovered that specifically enhances the hair is saw palmetto. You can find shampoos and supplements that offer this vitamin on the web and in GNC stores. 

Don't neglect a certain aspect of your image! While hair health is important, so are your skin, body, teeth, and overall health. With all the products and supplements available now days, we truly do have a fighting chance at long-lived beauty. 