When I go out for a jog, I am not only getting exercise. I am also participating in a fantasy. I think of myself as self-willed, a go getter, someone willing to do anything to push the limits and succeed. The reality is always much different than this. If I'm having a bad day, if I am sore or achy, if I am under the weather, or even if I am distracted, it will be hard to do my jogging. That is why I always have headphones for jogging. Listening to music is a great way to psych yourself up.

When I first started, I used my fancy noise canceling headphones for jogging. I already owned a nice set of headphones, after all, so why not put them to good use? This was a serious mistake.  Not only would they not stay on my head, but I actually dropped them and damaged them. Although they still work, the headset is a little bit bent out of shape, and the left ear buzzes a bit. I realized that inexpensive ear bud headphones for jogging are a much better idea. You don't need noise cancellation headphones. All you need is something that will play the music and get you through the routine.

Of course, the kind of earphones for jogging that you use, and the way you listen to music, depend on your workout and your environment. We all love to listen to headphones while jogging, but safety has to be the first concern. If you cannot hear what's going on around you while wearing your headphones for jogging, you should not be wearing them. That means that you should not have the kind of headphones that cancel out noise. Ear buds are the best way to go because they allow some sound to come through. Headphones for jogging are not the same kind that you use for your stereo at home. High-quality headphones are actually dangerous because they block outside sounds out. This is another reason why it is such a good idea to get  inexpensive headphones for jogging.

Once you get your jogging headphones, you will have to face the question of what to listen to while you run. This can be difficult for people. My best advice is to get an MP3 player. Put different music on it, and see what you like. That way you can see what is the best music for jogging that you own. 