Unlike many people today, I love to cook.  It is not just because of the good food that I get to eat.  I enjoy making food for people, I enjoy smelling the food and watching it come together, and I enjoy taking all those ingredients and turning them into a winning dish.  My parents worked on a farm, and my mom loved to cook as well.  The problem is that the food that you need on a farm is not necessarily healthy if you live a more sedentary life.  

Now that I have a family, I do my best to cook healthy dinner recipes.  I never learned this kind of cooking growing up, and it is foreign to me.  Fortunately, there are all kinds of resources that can teach you how to cook healthy low-fat recipes.  There are cookbooks available, websites, dieters groups, and of course, friends.  One of my favorite sources for healthy dinner recipes is actually my friend Sharon.  I was amazed the first time I ate over at her house.  We had chicken cooked with vegetables, a dish that I had always found rather bland before.  Let me tell you, that healthy dinner recipe was one of the most delicious things I've ever tasted.  I immediately started asking her for her secrets.

Now we trade recipes all the time.  Of course, it is not a reciprocal relationship.  She gives me healthy dinner recipes, and I teach her how to make Southern greens or barbecue.  She makes me lose weight and stay thin, and I help her put on 10 or 20 pounds.  But we both enjoy the taste sensations that we get to exchange with each other.  Cooking healthy dinner recipes is every bit as fun as cooking fatty ones, and I feel better after eating them.

One of the keys to healthy dinner recipes is planning.  No one really wants to eat healthy all the time.  Everyone wants to splurge now and then.  What you need to do is keep track of what you're eating.  For example, if your healthy dinner recipes for Monday and Wednesday include chicken, perhaps Tuesday you can eat fish.  If you eat small portions with lots of greens all week, on the weekend you can eat barbecued pork.  As long as you keep track of what you eat, there's no reason you have to give up on all of your favorite foods.  It is better to think of healthy dinner recipes as yet another kind of food that you get to enjoy!