In theory, vitamins and supplements are a good idea.  Who does not want to stay younger, stronger, more alert, and disease-free well into their 80s or 90s?   Many of the substances sold as health supplements really do have a beneficial effect.  The problem is that it is so hard to know.  The health supplement market is not sufficiently regulated by the FDA, and quality control is often a huge problem.  As a result, you do not know whether or not the claims made by the product is actually true.  A lot of the herbs and minerals are not evaluated scientifically, so vendors can say anything they want and you have to take it at face value.  Not only do you not know if you are getting what is being sold to you, but even if you are, there is no way to know whether or not it works.  This is why you should choose all of your health supplements carefully.

Many alternative health experts recommend only taking one health supplement at a time at first.  Unless you are getting health supplements to address some specific disease that is quite difficult to treat, you should do the best you can to only buy ones that have been scientifically tested and evaluated.  Consulting an experienced herbalist is one of the best way to ensure that you are taking health supplements that will be safe and beneficial.  Any herbal health supplements you take should be made in the United States in factories with a good standard of quality control.  Overseas supplements are often found to contain lead, mercury, and other highly dangerous additives.  You may start out trying to improve your health, only to find yourself with heavy metals poisoning!

The best supplements are made of natural herbs.  That way, you can be sure that you are getting what you want.  If you buy locally produced health supplements, you might be able to tour the farm and watch the extraction and processing of the herbs.  That way, you will know your health supplements are organic, naturally made, and high quality.  You might have to pay a little bit more for these health supplements, but it is well worth it.  After all, an expensive and high quality product is better than lead dust and other unknown additives from some foreign company.  Remember, the reason you are taking health supplements in the first place is to protect your health.  Isn't it worth a little more money to do that safely?