When most people think about health care, they picture doctors and nurses.  In reality, however, there is much more to health care services than this.  Health care schools all over the country train people in a wide variety of skills.  From physicians and nurses to health care administrators, healthcare careers have room for just about anyone.  And although there are job opportunities for a doctors, you do not have to be a doctor to be in demand.  

I knew none of this until a few years ago.  I had worked as an administrator in a mid-level company for many years.  It was an alright job, but there was very little opportunity for advancement.  When the company finally went bankrupt, I had mixed feelings.  I was scared about not knowing what I was going to do to make a living, but I was excited to be finally getting out of that job.

After several months on unemployment, however, things were looking bleak.  After seeing an ad on daytime TV, I decided to check out a health care school.  Although I was skeptical of the ads claims, the idea that health care schools can get me working in the medical fields within six months was quite appealing.  As it turns out, it was true.  Almost as soon as I enrolled in health care schools, the job calls started coming.

Many people do not think of the health insurance companies as part of health care, but in reality they are one of the most important parts.  Going to health care schools actually trained me to be a health care manager.  If medicine is about doctors and nurses, it is just as much about healthcare managers.  We use the skills we learned in health care schools to make important decisions about coverage.  The doctors submit forms to us, and we decide whether the patients need a particular treatment.  Without health care schools, we would not have the necessary know how.

I had never dreamed about getting involved in the field of medicine, but going to health care schools one of the best decisions I ever made.  You see, the company I work for is huge.  There is ample opportunity for advancement, and I never have a dull day.  Although there is a lot of paperwork, I am used to this as a manager.  And as an added bonus, the health care schools I went to provided me the opportunity to make many contacts in the field.  When my kids get sick, you can bet that I get them right into the doctor with no waiting.