Like you, I also want to look and feel my best. One of the drawbacks of being human is that we're always self-conscious about our appearances. We can't help it. Call it thousands of years of scrutiny. It always makes me laugh when I hear someone say that so-and-so made a negative remark concerning their hair, body or image, but they don't care. Uh, sure they don't care. This is as false as statements get. We all care. We simply can't help it. If someone tells you that your teeth look bad, it will bother you. You may force it to the back of your mind, but it will still affect you in some way. The only trick with this game is to hide it as best as you can. Act like it doesn't matter, and give the person no satisfaction. Then you can address the issue on your own and see if it really calls for improvement. My daughter, for example, has issues with her hair. She constantly feels that it looks poor. Although I see a head of healthy hair, she sees a dew that's not quite up-to-par. 

Our hair certainly calls for attention. It doesn't matter if you're male or female. You still have to treat your dew with respect if you want it to look nice. Healthy hair is not free. Well, at least not totally free. So what goes into keeping our follicles healthy? This is quite amusing considering they're already dead. Anyway, you should follow certain procedures. Vitamins, minerals, and a healthy diet with plenty of water are imperative for healthy hair. It's called treating from the inside. But, that's not the whole spiel. You also have to take proper measures from the exterior as well. This means quality shampoos, conditioners and hair products. It's imperative to properly cleanse and condition your hair to keep it looking healthy and feeling soft. I doubt you want a head of brittle straw. 

So, we've determined that healthy hair is not free of charge. Some legitimate effort goes into keeping your dew primed and ready. One thing you'll want to keep in mind is that your hair may thin as you age. This is natural. But, you may want to take precautions in order to retain the healthy hair you currently have. There are products and treatments that help with this. Ask your physician or beautician for advice. 