It was the last straw.  My back was sore, my eyes were tired, and I felt horrible about myself.  I had spent another day unemployed, sitting on the couch and eating junk food.  It wasn't really the economics of the situation that made me feel despair.  I did have some money saved up, and would probably be alright for another six months if I had to be.  It was my weight.  I was fat.  I was obese.  I was a tub of lard, and I knew it.  I needed to figure out how to lose weight fast.

I had found several websites on the Internet that told me they could show me how to lose 30 pounds in 30 days or my money back, but I could not believe a single one.  Losing 20 pounds in 30 days would be an accomplishment.  Figuring out how to lose 30 pounds in 30 days would be like discovering the elixir of life.  No one would share that over the Internet.  Nonetheless, I knew that I had to lose weight, and I knew that I had to lose it fast.  I also knew that, when you start losing weight, the first few pounds drop off quickly.  If I could possibly figure out how to lose  30 pounds in 30 days, I would.

Of course, it was hard to sustain that level of enthusiasm for the whole month, but I was determined to do all that I could.  I looked at all the websites on how to lose 30 pounds in 30 days, bought a couple of diet books, and got to work.  I knew that I had all the time in the world on my hands.  I began exercising two to three times a day, first for only half an hour each time, but soon for longer and longer periods.  In the first three days, I dropped 5 pounds.  I knew that I was well on the way to being the first person to figure out how to lose 30 pounds in 30 days.  If it was possible, I was sure that I would discover it.  Then, however, the junk food cravings hit.  I did not reach my weight loss goal, but you can learn from my mistakes.  It has been five months, and I'm only just now losing the 20th pound.  If you want to know how to lose 30 pounds in 30 days, take this advice for me: do not give in to the junk food cravings.