Although bloating problems are often very minor in terms of their health consequences, they can often cause major discomfort.  Anyone who has ever suffered from stomach bloating will tell you how bad it is.  It is the kind of pain that just stops you cold.  You don't want to do anything but curl up and lie in bed until the pain stops.  And on top of being painful, bloating can be persistent.  It can last for days on end, intermittently causing pain, gas, and other digestive problems.

Yet despite all of these problems, figuring out how to get rid of bloating can often be very easy.  You see, bloating can be the result of many different factors, but there are a few causes that account for the vast majority of cases and are easily treated.  Many experts on how to get rid of bloating agree that the first thing you should do is try to rule out digestive factors.  Often, getting rid of bloating is as easy as simply changing your diet.  American consumers are likely to try dozens of different products that promise to be the key to how to get rid of bloating. Few of them, however, even try to address the cause.  There are many different foods that can cause bloating, including the traditional culprits such as cabbage, broccoli, and of course fatty or starchy foods.  Along with these usual suspects, however, junk food plays a huge role in bloating.  One of my friends, a doctor, put it this way when I asked him how to get rid of bloating.  “Stop eating junk food,” he said, “you will not only get rid of stomach bloating gas, but probably take care of a few other health problems in the process.”

of course, figuring out how to get rid of bloating can be much more difficult in other cases.  For many women, bloating goes along with menstrual cramps.  Figuring out how to get rid of menstrual cramps can be a struggle on its own, and one that we do not have time to get into here.  The best advice that I have heard on the matter is to eat comfortable, simple food, get plenty of rest, and take a day off if possible.  Ultimately, in these situations, getting rid of menstrual cramps can be much more important than how to get rid of bloating.  The important thing, after all, is to address the greatest source of discomfort.