Many of us are trying to learn how to lose 30 pounds in 30 days. There is some good news and some bad news for individuals on this particular search. The good news is that you can lose 30 pounds in 30 days. The bad news is that you will not lose 30 pounds of fat. While this may seem a little exciting and a little disheartening all at once I’m not at all convinced that you should completely shuck the how to lose 30 pounds in 30 days search.

I may be considered a professional dieter. I have been on several weight reduction programs throughout my life. This includes Atkins way back when the program first hit the mainstream in the 1970’s. During these years of dieting I found that it is quite possible to learn how to lose 30 pounds in 30 days and you can still keep it off.

Many of us hate to wait. The long term diets that suggest that you should only lose one pound per week are sheer torture for someone who is significantly overweight. If I know that I have to commit myself to a strict program for just one month to drop the weight I am more likely to try the program.

When you know how to lose 30 pounds in 30 days you really have an advantage because you see results very quickly. These results alone will motivate you to exercise more and eat the right foods. Starting off quick is a great approach to weight loss because you can see the light at the end of the tunnel.

You may start the strict program with the full realization that you are not going to lose 30 pounds of fat. It is physically impossible to do so. You will lose some muscle mass and you will lose a lot of retained water on the how to lose 30 pounds in 30 days programs. Much of this weight will not creep back on. It will pile up like a ton of bricks if you abruptly quit and go back to your old ways.

However, once you learn how to lose 30 pounds in 30 days you can begin your program revved up and fully motivated. You will see the pounds drop off and you will see yourself getting smaller. This is a great starting point that should be followed for the first two weeks of your weight reduction program.

After the initial two weeks you can adopt a sensible weight loss diet and exercise plan. If you runs into a stumbling block down the line you can always adopt some of the more radical approaches in the how to lose 30 pounds in 30 days programs.
