Not another ZIT! Does the agony and humiliation ever end? Hmm, let me think about that one for a moment? Uh, no. The truth is that nearly 80 percent of us end up with blemish issues. It may be minor and it may get severe. Much depends on your genes and skin type. But don't waste your time scowling at the few individuals who never get a single pimple. Even though they're annoying, you need to focus on how to prevent acne from happening in the first place. This is the key, I tell ya! Prevention makes so much more sense than grappling with 50 whiteheads and infinite blackheads spanning across your face. Ready to get started? 

So many individuals ask the question HOW. Well, there are a few simple steps that anyone and everyone afflicted with acne can take to help prevent it. First of all, what's with your eating habits? If you truly want to know how to prevent acne, it starts from the inside. What you consume will have an effect on your complexion. Foods that are high in fat and sugar are especially damaging to your skin. These two elements WILL cause blemishes and zits. Now I'm not telling you that you can never again enjoy a Big Mac and fries, but I am telling you to make it a rare thing. Eat plenty of fresh vegetables, lean meats, whole grains, and water. Avoid massive amounts of junk food and dairy products. These will only worsen your situation. Okay, step two regarding how to prevent acne; keep your mug clean! Wash your face morning and night with a gentle cleanser and tepid water. Avoid HOT water, which can irritate and over-dry your skin. The last thing you need is dry skin and pimples. Soon more will pop up due to the dead skin blocking your pores. Now, the final step! Acquire a good and effective acne treatment medication. This may be found in the local drugstore, or it may need to be subscribed by a dermatologist. See a professional first for advice. 

We all can learn the proper steps on how to prevent acne. It all depends on your tenacity and dedication. Are you willing to work for that great complexion, or are you more interested in the slacker route? The choice is totally up to you. I will state that clear skin is certainly a confidence booster. 