We all want to be smarter. I was watching the television show, "Criminal Minds" the other day, and it got me thinking. How amazing would it be to have the intelligence as the character "Reed" does on this show? Now, for those who've never viewed the crime drama, Reed is a genius in his 20's with a PHD and MD and who knows what else. His genius lies in his memory and ability to comprehend quickly. His memory is photographic and he reads a page in about two seconds. So basically everything he reads, he recalls easily. If I could do this, I would be stoked. There is nothing better in my opinion. Aside from being Superman, a genius level of intelligence is the outstanding. Regardless, most of us fail to use this great portion of our brains. It's simply not common. We have to tackle other methods in order to increase brain power and levels of intellect. Fortunately not all hope is lost. 

If someone were to ask me how to increase brain power, I would generally tell them to attend a University. If they've yet to acquire a college education, this will round them out a bit in regards to academics and general knowledge. You get so many view points in college; whether it be from professors or students. I certainly think it heightened my brain power and ability to think and process quickly. It's all about the challenge. On the other hand, maybe you've already attended college and have a great degree. What else can be done to increase brain power? Think supplements! Ginkgo baloba is a major supplement on the market these days that supposedly has the ability to stimulate the human brain, hence generating faster and more efficient thoughts and responses. It's actually been popular for quite a while now. Personally I think challenging yourself is crucial. Learn new things each and every day. Take it upon yourself to learn new terms and subjects. All of these things, regardless of what the concern, increase your range of knowledge. 

Multivitamins play a part in the thinking process, as does a proper diet. We require the right nutrients in order to increase brain power and think clearly. Adopt healthy eating and fitness habits, and I bet you'll see a change in your cognitive process. Living well leads to thinking well. 