It's your duty to stay healthy. The truth is no one is going to do this for you. Unfortunately they can't. Sure, we look to our parents for guidance when we're young and still living at home, but once we're on our own, it's all up to us. I fully admit, this can be a challenge. It's not always simple or convenient to eat right, avoid fast foods, and exercise regularly. Every human being alive knows this. But, it is our duty to try our best, if we expect to live a long and healthy life. One thing you should focus on is how to increase blood circulation in your body. Many of the lazy activities we do on a daily basis don't help with this. 

A proper fitness program is essential if you wish to increase blood circulation throughout your limbs. Cardio is known for this. High energy activities such as running, using an elliptical machine, and aerobics are great because they get your heart rate up. This increases blood flow and burns calories at the same time. That's two things most people need. One of my personal favorite ways to increase blood circulation is via stretching. When I was growing up, we stretched all the time in my Karate class. This was something I got used to and appreciated. Not only does this increase blood circulation throughout your body, but it also makes your limbs stronger. I think its' safe to say that we all know what it's like what a hand or foot lacks proper blood circulation. We commonly say it fell asleep. This is a euphemism for it lacks proper blood circulation. If we were to allow this for a long period of time, it could result in permanent damage. You see, when it comes to our blood, it's important to know that this is our life source. We need it to constantly circulate and race through our bodies, or the consequences are dire. 

If blood flow is an issue beyond your control, you can see a specialist regarding these matters. These days we have medications that help increase blood circulation. One common issue concerns cholesterol. This is the nasty substance that clogs arteries, hence preventing proper circulation. Be sure to keep your cholesterol under wraps as you age. 