Jogger stroller(s)

I'm not proud to admit this, but I gained 20 pounds more than I should have when I was pregnant. My doctor continued to discourage my weight gain, but I just kept eating. I was a bit worried about how I was going to lose all of that excess weight once my baby was born. I had a feeling I would be stuck with it. One of the nurses at my doctor's office told me that I should look into getting a jogger stroller. I had never been into jogging, but I loved to walk. Of course, just because it is called a jogger stroller doesn't mean that you have to jog with it. It's just designed to be for more durability should parents be into exercising while taking their child for a walk. At first, I was discouraged by the prices of new jogger strollers. I had no interest in paying more than $100 for any type of stroller. Besides, I had a nice stroller that was for being out and about. 

However, two weeks after my daughter was born, I was reconsidering that. I tried to take her for walks outside and the regular stroller just seemed too big and bulky for actually walking at a faster speed. It was a great stroller for going to everyday places. So, once again, I priced the jogger strollers. My husband told me that it didn't matter what the cost was, as long as it would help get me out of the house and feel healthier again. I had some major issues with this new weight gain that had not left once my baby was born. We ended up getting a middle priced one for more than I wanted to spend, but less than what we could have spent. The moment we got home and figured out exactly how it worked and went together, I was off. I was absolutely amazed at how quickly I could move and how much more comfortable it was for me to handle. What was even more shocking is how quickly the baby fell asleep. I suppose it provided a much smoother ride for her than the more bulky stroller had. She could be incredibly grumpy before getting in the jogger stroller and then within a few minutes of being snuggled into the comfy stroller, she was as happy as can be. I loved being able to be outside and not feeling like I was so cooped up in the house all of the time. There were days that it was dreary and rainy, but luckily, the jogger stroller had a nice little roof for her and with a raincoat for me, I was still content. I managed to take off a few pounds each week. I had my doubts at first about the jogger stroller, but it turned out to be a wonderful investment afterall. 
