When it comes to music, there is plenty to choose from. Take your pick from pop, country, rhythm and blues, rock and roll, rap, bluegrass, folk, gospel, new age and more. This is a great thing! We all tend to vary when it comes to music selection. I suppose the majority of us enjoy a little from several genres. One thing I've always noticed is the musicians themselves and their staying power. Once in a while it's difficult to tell if a singer or band will make it or not. Maybe they're a one hit wonder, or only good for two albums, or maybe we'll see them for decades to come. On the other hand, you can typically spot the flops. We all knew that "The Spice Girls" weren't going to last. Then there are the kings and queens. Elvis is the epitome of this group. No singer has ever had such fame. Although a few have come close. Take Johnny Cash music for example. He is undoubtingly one of the most famous country singers of all time. Could it be his rebellious style? 

The rebels tend to vie on. Have you ever noticed this with music? Many of the ones who rebel against the standards and "rules" seem to make it further and do bigger and greater things. Just look at Elvis Presley and Johnny Cash music. They refused to conform to a norm. Whether or not their music was completely accepted at the peak of their performing lives is irrelevant. The point is it's still around today, and always will be. They're a different breed. They're the ilk of individuals that movies are made about. Johnny Cash music is bigger than ever today, and much can be attributed to the recent film that told his life story. This certainly increased his audience. On the downside, these films are generally not made until an artist passes on. There have been several made about Elvis Presley. 

It's funny, but I don't really care for country music. I commonly assume that the artist will have a nasal twang in his/her voice and be singing about a pick-up truck, dead dog, or some soul mate that left them. However, I do enjoy some Johnny Cash music. He has a few tunes that anyone can really relate to. I forget about the country twang and simply enjoy the poignant lyrics. 