Now that you have a website, it's time to generate some traffic. Advertising can be expensive. Those banners you see on websites often cost hundreds if not thousands of dollars. However, there is another way to drive visitors to your new website: keyword lists. Keyword lists are words and phrases specially designed to catch the  search engine's attention, so that when someone does a search on your product, your website will come up. However, your product is not the only thing that should be included. Your affiliate sites, similar products, and any other relevant words and terms should all be listed. Once you've decided on your keyword list, where are you going to put it? In the meta-tags of your website, of course. If this all sounds confusing, don't worry. We'll explain what everything is, and where it should go.

Keyword lists are compilations of words and phrases relevant to your products. The first keywords to include are those most closely associated with your merchandise. For example, if your product is "Harry's Sudsy Soap" then the first words you would put are "soap, harrys soap, clean, harry, skin, smooth skin". 

The next refinement of keyword lists is to include words and phrases for affiliate products, your product and similar products. For example, "shampoo, bath, shower, scrub, wash". If you have another company branch, say, "Sally's Natural Body Care" then include them too. 

Now, just because you've covered all of these bases doesn't mean you don't still have relevant keywords to include. Any combination of these words can drive up your visitor count. Combine company titles, affiliations, products, and so forth. Example keywords might include, "sally, harry, sallys natural, harrys body soap, sally shampoo, harry natural shampoo" This list could go on and on, but for the sake of  brevity, we'll hold off until the finished list is shown. 

After creating a keyword list, go back over it and insert any other  relevant phrases you may have missed. Be thorough and thoughtful. Your finished keyword lists might look similar to this:

"harrys sudsy soap, harrys soap, harry soap, clean, shampoo, shower, bath, clean, bath accessories, smell good, sallys natural body care, sally natural, sally care, sally body, skin, smooth skin, sallys natural body soap, sally shampoo" 

If you look at your finished list and think "I'll put the same phrases in there twice...maybe more", don't do it. Search engines have become wise to the practice of what is called "keyword stuffing". This is when you add the same keyword over and over again, in hopes your website will pop to the top of the list with this gambit. 

When creating keyword lists, don't plagiarize. You can include your rival's product name, as long as you don't represent your merchandise as being that of your competitor. Go over keyword lists again and again, until you're keyword dry. Combine affiliates, products, and similar or obvious words. If done with care your website should  gain substantial traffic, just from careful keyword lists. 

