Of all the areas in my house, it is my kitchen and not my bedroom that feels the most like a safe haven.  In the kitchen, I am in command.  I can cook a delicious meal, cleanup in a jiffy, and entertain guests.  Not only is my kitchen my favorite room to be in, but it is my favorite room to decorate.  Of all the interior decorating ideas I have, my kitchen decorating ideas are far and away the best.

You see, it is so much easier to come up with a good kitchen decorating idea than an idea for the living room.  People associate kitchens with food, and everyone loves food.  Kitchen decorating ideas can be simple, tasteful, and delicious all at the same time.  Little displays of fruit, kids pictures on the walls, festive wallpaper, and other simple touches all add up to a well decorated kitchen.

My favorite kitchen decorating ideas are the ones that are crafty looking.  With living room decorating ideas, I try to have as slick and artistic a look as possible.  I want professionally made tables, elegant chairs, and a very comfortable couch.  But with kitchen decorating ideas, I am trying to convey the impression that this is a room where things happen.  Homemade art,  wicker baskets, and other handcrafted touches which might look kind of tacky in the living room look excellent in the kitchen.

If you can not think of any kitchen decorating ideas on your own, I suggest that you let your kids go wild.  I mean it!  You can put up butcher block paper all over the walls, and let them draw any designs they want.  Then you can take the best parts of this butcher block paper, frame them, and display them as your children's art.  It is sure to impress everyone who enters your kitchen.

Of course, with kitchen remodeling ideas everything becomes more complicated.  It is strange to say, but kitchen decorating ideas and kitchen remodeling plans are exactly the opposite.  While a good kitchen decorating idea looks homemade, cobbled together, and unprofessional, good kitchen remodeling looks sleek and modern.  For some reason however, both of these things fit together perfectly.  I get comments on my kitchen all the time, so I should know.  People love the drawings my children do, and the little antiques that I bought at the county fair.  I get even more compliments, however, on my delicious cooking!  