Foot-baring high-heels can be a delightful addition to any outfit, but an enemy of your feet. Blisters tend to develop after just an hour of wear. We all know that the only only ways to prevent blisters are socks or bandages.  A white cotton sock can be hideous in contrast to a sleek high heel, and band aids are overwhelmingly ugly when the shoe is removed. Luckily, there is an attractive alternative to these old-fashioned methods of blister prevention. They are known in the fashion world as lace socks.

When you first think of lace socks, you might dismiss the idea all too quickly. Lace socks, you say? Are they durable? Yes, of course! Made from strong nylon and elastic material, these little fashion accents can last many wearings, if properly cared for.  The elastic allows for a snug fit that won't slip around while you walk, while at the same time they aren't so tight that it hurts or cuts off your circulation.  But what exactly does this fashionable lace sock look like?

Lace socks have an appearance reminiscent of ballerina slippers. Somewhat like the “peds” of the 1950's, these modern socks peep attractively just out of the rim of your shoes. Of course, this isn't the only style on the market.

Some lace socks go all the way up to the knee! Others may stop just above the ankle. There are thigh high versions. They're all  delicate, frilly, with a feminine look suitable for almost all women, and the shoes that they wear. 

Another feature you might find in the lace sock selections are ribbons. No where else would you find a sock with lengths of silk or satin long enough to wrap to your knee. If you've ever owned a pair of shoes with ribbon on them, you've probably experienced the skin lumps that form when the ribbon is tied. This happens because the silk or satin is too slippery, forcing the wearer to lace them tightly. Not with lace socks. A visually indiscernible amount of elastic is woven into the ribbons, thus comfortably setting off the splendor of your new lace socks. 

If you decide to purchase a pair of lace socks, you must always remember to take good care of them. Hand wash after every use, pat between clean towels and leave them to line-dry. Putting them in the washer or dryer will ruin your new accessories. Don't be afraid of blisters any longer.  Keep a pair of lovely and delicate pair of lace socks on hand at all times.