Latest Computers

This year, I have decided that I need a laptop for Christmas. Because I write for a living, I spend a lot of time on our family PC, and it leaves little time for anyone else to use it. I want to get a laptop so that I can do my work and my husband and my daughter can still have time to do whatever they want or need to do on the PC. We may even ditch this PC and get one of the latest computers for our family to use. This will depend on the budget though, and whether we can afford both remains to be seen.

The problem with going out and getting the latest computers is that they seem to be old the moment you leave the store with them. I have seen that Microsoft will be releasing “Vista” as a new operating system, and they’ll do it just a month after I will be buying my computer. So even though I will be getting one of the latest computers for Christmas this year, the operating system will be old within the matter of a month.  

Perhaps this is something that Microsoft has done on purpose, though I can’t be sure. December is a big time to sell the latest computers, as many people like to get them for presents. By releasing the new operating system the next month, which means everyone who got one of the latest computers in December will have to go out and buy the upgrade if they really want it. I’m not sure what I am going to do, and perhaps I am hoping that the latest computers will already have it, and the release they are talking about is for the separate purchase and not on all new models sold. I know some people can already get it.

No matter what operating system you get, be smart when you are looking at the latest computers. They have come down in price, and you will get what you pay for. If you can go somewhere like Best Buy and compare all of the latest computers for price, features and special options, you should make sure you do so. Just because you see something at a deep discount does not mean you are going to get a quality item. The latest computers all come with different things, and you are going to be happier with what you got if you give yourself the time to find the perfect one for you and your needs.

