Regular exercise is an important factor in staying fit and healthy. Do you get regular exercise but still have unwanted flab on inner thighs or calves? Perhaps your leg muscles simple lack tone. If this is the case, you probably need to start a program of leg exercise. Here are several to get your legs in the shape you'd like to see.

Two of the best and perhaps easiest ways to quickly get your legs toned and shapely are swimming and bicycling. Both of these activities work all the muscles of the leg at once. If the weather's inclement or you don't have access to a pool, you can do some of the exercises geared to specific muscles of the leg.

Leg exercise for inner thighs: using a table or desk, ideally about 28 inches in height for an average height person, stand with your side to the table and swing one leg onto the table's surface. Position your foot so that the side of your foot is resting on the table's edge. Gently bounce up and down ten times. You'll feel the inner thigh muscle stretching. Reverse and repeat with the other leg. Do about 30 bounces per leg. The number of bounces may be increased by five every other day.

Leg exercise for back of thighs and calves: stand on the floor with legs spread apart approximately two feet. Bending from the waist, with each arm reaching toward the feet, gently bounce up and down ten times. You should reach far enough down so that you can feel the muscles on the back of your legs stretching. Return to a standing position for a count of ten, then repeat this process three times. Every other day, add another group of ten bounces.

Leg exercise to trim ankles, thighs and calves: Lie flat on your back on the floor, with your legs together. Slowly, raise one leg about 18 inches from the floor. Holding the leg in that position, slowly rotate your ankle in small circles, ten times clockwise and then ten times counter-clockwise. Then, to a count of ten, slowly lower the leg to a resting position on the floor. Repeat with the other leg. Alternating legs, repeat the exercise three times for each leg.

Leg exercise for outer thighs: Lie flat on the floor. Pull both legs up so you can clasp both legs with your hands together, just beneath the knees. Roll from one side to the other, keeping your hand clasped around the knees. Repeat twenty times.

If you're consistent in your program of leg exercise, it won't be long before you're looking trim and fit. As you do each exercise, you'll feel each muscle being stretched. This may be uncomfortable for the first several days, but as you progress, you'll find you can increase the number of repetitions without pain or discomfort. You'll see the inches melt away and you'll definitely like the look of the new you!

