Letter From Santa

When you have small children, you may or may not indulge them in the story of Santa. I know some parents don’t like to do it because they feel like it is lying to their children. I don’t see it as a problem, and I know that when I learned there really was no Santa, it was easy for me to understand why people make him such a large part of the holiday. It adds a layer of fun to the holiday, and there is nothing saying you can have Santa as a part of a religious holiday. They can go well together, as Santa embodies the spirit of giving, which is something we should all hang on to. If you want a special treat for your kids, you can get them a letter from Santa to make the holiday all the more exciting.

You don’t have to have someone you know write a letter from Santa, though this is probably the easiest way to go about it. However, you have the problem of older children who can read figuring out the letter came from their town by looking at the post office cancellation. If you want to deliver the letter from Santa to them but not go through the post office, this may work well. If your children are very observant, however, you may have to get a little more creative.

There are companies out there that can send a letter from Santa to your child for you. They may or may not be able to get the cancellation from the post office so that it will appear that the letter came from the North Pole. I’ve never done it so I don’t know the specifics, but I do know this service is out there, and it sounds like a winner to me if you would like to indulge your children. I know if I had thought I had gotten a letter from Santa when I was young I would have been over the moon with excitement.

If you don’t want to pay for a letter form Santa, there is not reason you can’t do it yourself, or like I mentioned before, have someone else do it. If you want to do it yourself, make sure you don’t write it in your own handwriting. Some children will know right away that you wrote it, believe it or not. Type the letter from Santa up on your computer and print it out, and perhaps have your husband or a neighbor sign the letter for Santa. Just be prepared that some day your little one will reproduce the letter and demand an explanation.

