Although the prognosis for liver cancer patients is usually not good, there are alternative treatments that have proven to be nothing short of miraculous, including many cases of complete recovery. The liver is an amazingly resilient organ and with supportive nutrients, herbs, dietary changes, supplements and a host of other alternative therapies, you may well achieve a healthy and  cancer-free liver.

The liver serves as a  filter for everything that we consume, flushing toxins from our system and cleansing the bloodstream. Conventional medicine uses chemotherapy to treat liver cancer, with little success. It's often a case of the “cure” being worse than the disease in its effects, because the patient is already gravely ill, and chemotherapy further degrades the body's natural ability to heal.

Holistic medicine approaches disease with a whole body perspective. This means that the entire body must be nourished and in optimal condition. Other nutrients and plant medicines can directly attack the liver cancer. Liver cancer is beatable.

Here are just a few things you'll want to look into. Some have been clinically tested, while others are anecdotal accounts, but with a sufficient quantity of reports to be worthy of your consideration.

Essiac tea is a combination of herbs developed by a Canadian nurse. She treated her mother, diagnosed with liver cancer in 1935, with these herbs. Although doctors had said she had only a short time to live, Rene's mother fully recovered after ten days of treatment. Consult with an herbalist on dosage, as these herbs are very powerful.

Dandelion Root specifically targets the liver cells, producing incredible cleansing effects on the liver. Many people have used Dandelion root as a treatment and have puzzled their physicians when no trace of cancer could be found after treatment over a period of a few months.

Drink at least ½ – 1 gallon of pure water each day, to help flush the liver.

Include lots of raw organic fruits and vegetables in your diet. These foods are loaded with antioxidants, powerful cancer fighters. Red and purple grapes are great detoxifiers worthy of special mention. Make V8-type juices a regular choice. They contain beet juice, shown in many clinical Russian studies to cure cancer.

Bee pollen has almost magical effects on liver cancer. Many anecdotal reports claim complete recovery of “incurable” liver cancer with this delicious nutrient.

Vitamin D3 inhibits liver cancer growth. The recommended dose is 4000-6000 IU each day.

Coffee enemas are useful for their powerful detoxifying effects as an adjunct to other treatments.

These suggestions are not by any means an exhaustive list of alternative liver cancer treatments. It would be wise to speak to a naturopath for a plan to fit your individual condition.