Lobster is the king of shellfish, a pricey luxury, but so heavenly with its sweet meat and firm texture. For many shellfish lovers, a simple dressing of melted butter is all this admirable shellfish needs. For others, a succulent lobster sauce is required for the full appreciation of the dish. 

The classic lobster sauce is the Cantonese version, made of beaten eggs, pureed black beans and diced pork. However, this is far from the only garnish deserving of the name.  Cooks are inventive souls, and the lobster sauce has many faces. How many ways are there to dress a lobster? More than you may imagine.

Chinese cuisine employs the traditional black bean sauce in the preparation of butterflied shrimp. Lobster sauce is not limited to enhancing the taste of lobster.

One traditional sauce is a mixture of finely diced tomatoes, heavy cream, white wine and butter, sometimes with a dose of garlic. This bisque-like sauce,  served sparingly so as not to overwhelm the taste of the meat, makes an elegant entree.

An American favorite is appropriately called Lobster sauce Americain, which again uses a tomato and cream base, but also includes shallots, fish stock, a very healthy shot of brandy, white wine and a pinch of cayenne for a bright yet complex taste treat.

Everyone knows shellfish and lemon are natural companions. One sauce is   reminiscent of Hollandaise, with a beaten egg and milk mixture incorporating lemon and sugar for a delightful result.

Cream sauces are always delicious with lobster. Another match made in Heaven. One innovative take on this sauce combines a basic white sauce with cayenne and Worcestershire sauce, to give your palate a bit of a bite. Served on browned English muffins, with a dab of melted Swiss cheese and a sprinkling of bread crumbs is a dish suitable for a wedding party.

In the Provencal region of France, lush with fresh tomatoes, cooks have been preparing the famous Provencal lobster sauce for a very long time. A basic roux of butter and flour is made, incorporating cognac, tarragon and thyme and tomatoes into an unctuous sauce that must be tasted to be appreciated.

In Italy, pasta and lobster is a sublime combination. Italian lobster sauce is a thinner version of the Provencal version. Instead of butter, olive oil is used, along with a substantial amount of garlic, cream and lots of tomatoes, with oregano and mace the primary seasonings. Linguine is the preferred pasta, coating both noodles and lobster, in a captivating manner.

Lobster sauce truly knows no bounds in the gourmet's repertoire. Have you considered lobster pizza? Yes, it's true! Pesto sauce, tomatoes, olives and goat cheese are the main ingredients in this stellar lobster sauce. You'd better make plenty, as this pizza will disappear in a New York minute.

Lobster sauce deserves a fresh look, considering all the varied ways this outstanding shellfish may be prepared. Don't you want to look for some lobster to which you can apply a sauce? Bon Appetit!

















