lose 10 pounds

If you want to lose 10 pounds, there are some simple suggestions that you can follow that can help you do it. Though studies have shown that most women have a false image of their body and believe that if they were to just shed those last few pounds, that they would be happier, prettier, nicer, etcetera. This can also apply to men as well, though this occurs far more commonly with women. It is important that people re-evaluate these detrimental thoughts that only serve to give you negativity energy and supply little else to your well-being. Adopting a positive attitude and remaining more objective about the way you view yourself and situations, will go a lot further than any weight-loss program can.

Still, there are many that remain resolute to lose 10 pounds and would like to know ways to go about doing this. The speed and ease with which this occurs largely depends on the kind of diet the person adopts and the kind of body type that they are. Those that are severely overweight to begin with can drop 10 pounds relatively easily by merely cutting out a few key foods in their diet. People that are not so overweight need to look at a larger lifestyle change overall and try not to lose the weight too quickly, in order to keep it off indefinitely.

One of the easiest ways to lose 10 pounds is to start exercising. Exercising 30 minutes a day, three days a week, is probably one of the most beneficial things one can do for their body, next to eating well. Walking, running, biking, swimming, and lifting weights can build muscle and dissolve fat, by raising the body’s ability to metabolize food better. Doing this regular exercise regime is one of the key ways to lose 10 pounds and keep it off for years to come.

The most important thing a person can do to lose weight is to change what they eat and how they eat. Eating more fruits and vegetables, whole grains and low-fat dairy products can fill a person up and greatly reduce their caloric intake. Fats and sugars make a person crave more and more whilst providing energy that is not sustainable in the long run. Complex carbohydrates can give a person long-term energy without making them feel sluggish, tired and hungry. Good eating habits help a person lose 10 pounds without feeling that that must have a willpower of steel to do it.  
