Most fashion trends come and go and come back again a generation of two later. It is funny how when the fashion style is in, you cannot picture it ever going out of style, and then a few years pass and your clothes are completely different again. Some fashion styles I am sad to see go out and others I cannot believe resurface. One fashion craze that I was glad to see leave and is now back are low cut jeans. I did not feel comfortable wearing them as a young girl and I refuse to wear them now that they are back in style again.

When low cut jeans and other low cut pants were popular in the sixties the sizing was very different as was the fabric. Today, with the stretch that is put into denim and the plus sizes that are available for most fashion items, the number of over sized people wearing low cut jeans is very high. This is not a good look for someone that is over weight. Then you have people pairing this trend with the short sweaters and tops and you are looking at way more skin than you should be.

I have been overweight most of my adult life so it is not that I am against people that are carrying a few extra pounds. I am against having to look at the bare skin of people that are a few pounds overweight. For people that are slender their clothes tend to move with them. For people that are overweight the fabrics stay put and the flesh moves. As a result the low cut jeans become even lower and the high cut tops become even higher. People need to be more aware of how much skin they are showing and where they are wearing their low cut jeans and trousers. 

Last week a family with two teenage daughters sat ahead of us in church. One of the daughter’s had on low cut jeans that were so tight she looked fat, even though she was not heavy. The stretch in the denim fabric caused ripples to appear under her butt. This caused her thighs to look heavy and the overall effect looked like she was going to bust out the seams of her pants at any moment. She spent most of the service pulling down on her shirt and up on her pants. The constant fidgeting brought even more attention to her. I cannot wait until this trend goes out again. I was not a fan of the high waist pants, but at least with that look you were not exposed to excess flesh.
