Low Fat Cooking

If you are looking for a healthier way of eating for health, diet, or just for the sake of a longer life, you should make sure you know about low fat cooking. You don’t have to give up the foods you love; you just have to find a new way of enjoying them. You can still have fried foods, but you do have to make sure you don’t have them as often as you may be having them now. The key is moderation, and finding the right oils to use while cooking.

For a long time people use vegetable oil for low fat cooking because they thought it was better than use Crisco. At least this was how it was in my family. As it turns out, vegetable oil is not good for your heart, and you should not use it when you are frying any sort of food. You shouldn’t even use it for cakes or other recipes that may ask you to add oil. For low fat cooking purposes, you should instead get Canola oil, which is much better for you and your heart. You can use olive oil as well, but remember that it has a distinct taste that may not go with all foods.

You have to remember that even though an oil may be good for your heart, you still have to cut down on how often you use it. It still has calories and most oils are very dense in calories, which is not good for your waistline. Low fat cooking has come a long way, but you still can’t overdo it with the oils. Remember that you can also use applesauce in the place of oils in cakes and other baked goods to cut calories. You should know that low fat cooking is a good idea for all parts of the meal, even dessert.

You can find all sorts of great tips about low fat cooking if you visit any of the sites online that deal with dieting or cooking. If you visit the Food Network’s website, you will find that they have all kids of recipes, and some of them are geared towards low fat cooking. This may be one of the best places to find recipes because the chefs have come up with good ways to cut fat and calories but they manage to make them dishes so that they still taste good, and that is all that counts.
