If you suffer from any kind of low back pain, you know how awful and disabling this condition can be.  Low back pain sufferers often do not want to do anything.  When your spine feels bad, you feel bad all over, and so low back ache can be one of the worst things that can happen to you.  Fortunately, there are a range of lower back pain treatments available in this day and age.  Although not every lower back pain treatment is worthwhile, and you may have to try quite a few before you can find one that will work for you, chances are that if you persist you will find something to relieve your back pain.

Trust me, I know.  I suffered from low back pain for years and years before I found a successful treatment for it.  I tried every lower back pain treatment known to man practically.  I tried chiropractic, physical therapy, and even a number of fruity new age cures before I found anything that worked for me.  And the thing about it was, there was no miracle that came.  No one lower back pain treatment did everything that it promised to do.  The most important factor in my recovery, much more important than any of the individual things that I tried, was my refusal to give up.  In the end, what worked was a combination of conventional lower back pain treatment and some more experimental things.  By using chiropractic, physical therapy exercises, and an active routine of different exercises to build up my strength, I was able to get over my lower back pain.  If you are willing to give every lower back pain treatment that you try a serious go, you will eventually get over whatever pain you suffer from.  The key, and I cannot stress this enough, is not to ever give up.

All in all, I would say that almost any lower back pain treatment has to start in the same place.  You should get a good massage from someone who knows how to work with people who have back conditions.  This will help loosen you up a little bit, and relieve some of your pain and stiffness, which will help your lower back pain treatment take.  If you can get a doctor to prescribe muscle relaxants, this will also help get your lower back pain treatment going, but you should not make the mistake of getting the muscle relaxants and having that be the end of it.