Most women dream of meeting a white knight who will sweep them off their feet and into a life of happily ever after. Although this is the stuff of fairy tales, it’s indeed a magical day when a man asks a woman to become his wife. The traditional method of having a lovely dinner at a four star restaurant with the man falling to one knee is certainly memorable, but there are many marriage proposal ideas that are unique and just as special. 

Although everyone does enjoy the service and food at a great restaurant an inexpensive yet touching way to pop the question is to make dinner at home. This is especially nice when the man cooking the dinner, isn’t found in the kitchen too often. Marriage proposal ideas where the soon-to-be groom takes the time to cook something his girlfriend enjoys are always welcomed.

In order to make the dinner even more special the groom can place the ring in either a wine glass or atop dessert. If the woman isn’t expecting a proposal she’ll be delighted when she sees a diamond sparking in her champagne or decorating her cake. The types of marriage proposal ideas are inventive and will give the bride-to-be a treasured memory she’ll hold with her always.

If you want to do something more adventurous consider going on a horseback ride together. Rent two horses and then head out for an afternoon of fresh air and exercise. After arriving at a special destination, perhaps a clearing or near a lake, the question can be posed. The bride will be overwhelmed by the beauty of the location and how romantic it all is.

An incredibly fun idea is to involve an entertainer in the big question.  A nightclub is a great place for these types of marriage proposal ideas. If the bride loves jazz music, the groom can invite her to a club where a musician will be performing. Before the evening arrives, he can speak to the entertainer and ask if he can help out with the proposal by saying he has a message for her, which will be the proposal. Other marriage proposal ideas like this can be done with a magician. During one of his or her tricks a ring can be pulled out as a surprise for the bride.

Of course there’s also a lot to be said for asking for her parents’ blessing. If the bride is from a close knit family, it’s a lovely gesture to have her parents present when the question is asked. She’ll feel wonderful being able to share a once in a lifetime moment with everyone she loves. 


