Menstrual Cramp Relief

Many women struggle with cramps each month, but some have it worse than others. There are certain medical conditions that make menstrual cramp relief a hard thing to come by, and if you have one of these conditions, you know exactly what I am talking about. Some women with endometriosis or polycystic ovarian syndrome have to fight with painful and debilitation cramps each month, and sometimes the only menstrual cramp relief they get is to lie in bed and hope it goes away.

If you have mild or moderate cramps, you may only need to take a pain reliever for menstrual cramp relief. Pamprin is made for menstrual pain, but any other type of pain reliever should do the trick for you. Sometimes exercise can help to relieve moderate cramps, but this might not work for every woman. Sometimes, the last thing you want to do is exercise when you have cramps, even if you think it will help. Along with cramps comes bloating, fatigue, and an overall icky feeling that makes most of us skip the gym for a few days.

If you have heavy cramps, you know that something like Pamprin won’t ever touch your pain. This is when you have to get creative about menstrual cramp relief. For me, sometimes I need a heating pad to get relief, though it doesn’t usually take the pain away completely. Quite often I have to take medication and use the heating pads for at least two days out of the month. Even then, the pain is still bad, and there are days when I cannot get out of bed. Rest is the only thing that helps, though it is often a matter of dealing with it better if I can rest.

I am lucky that I am self employed and that I can take the day off when I am having trouble with menstrual cramp relief, but many women are not that lucky. I can’t think of any boss that would be willing to let a woman take two days off a month when the pain horrific, and I can’t think of many women who would want to. If your pain is so bad that it renders you useless for a few days out of the month, you should talk to your doctor about menstrual cramp relief so that you can get on with your life. They may have stronger medications you can try, or better techniques for dealing with the pain.

