I should have worked for the F.B.I.! Yeah, that's right; I could have been one of those cool agents you see on "Without a Trace" or "Criminal Minds." They make it look so adventurous and exciting. How great would it be to get involved with saving others and preventing horrific crimes? I can just see my intrepid yet stoic character now. I would locate more missing persons than any of them. After all, it is just entertainment. Bending the rules or making it look seductive and hip is easy. But then there are the people who do this for real. What are their lives like and how great is the job in reality? Don't you wonder? I do! 

When it comes to crime, our country gets a large sum of it. It's like we can't get out of rut of some sort. Do you have any idea how many missing persons are reported each year? It's a heck of a lot more than anyone cares to count. The question you may be asking yourself or me is "Where are these folks disappearing to?" Good question! Honestly when it comes to missing persons, a portion of them are ones that do not want to be found. They're commonly known as run-aways. Then there are those who are taken against their will. Over 90 percent of these individuals are abducted by someone they already know. Many people find this to be surprising. All that time you spend watching the shady guy at the mall or obscure individual at the park may not be as beneficial as you thought. Sure, it's imperative to be cautious and aware of your surroundings, but worrying will only blind you to what's in front of your face. While you sit around dredging up terrible scenarios, someone you or your child already knows could be giving off clear signs. Don't be blind to what's right in front of you. Sometimes the obvious answer is the correct one. 

When authorities such as the F.B.I. or local police investigate missing persons, they tend to look at relatives and acquaintances first. This is standard, and often leads them to finding the victim. Even you can get online in this day and age to search for missing persons. There are websites specifically designed for it. All you need is a name or social security number. 