Seeing some of the prom gowns that are on the market today may make you want to reconsider sending your daughter to the dance. Cutting edge formalwear for teens does not have to show a lot of skin. Many designers offer beautiful modest prom dresses that are truly exquisite. 

When many teens think of modest prom dresses, they cringe. Images of a dowdy old fashioned lace gown immediately come to mind in most cases. However, today’s modest prom dresses have a modern edge and great style. The only difference is that they provide more coverage than many of the trendier brands on the market.

My daughter and I had a difficult time agreeing on her gown for her special dance. I definitely did not approve of many of the gowns that she tried on in the shop. She wasn’t really thrilled about by suggestion of trying modest prom dresses as an alternative. We kept shopping but we were definitely looking at different designs.

We finally came across a great option in modern modest prom dresses that really are show stoppers. Ironically, my daughter chose one of the gowns herself without realizing that it was among the modest prom dresses that are on the market today. This gown is magnificent and it offers everything that the trendy formalwear does.

Formalwear has come a long way over the past few decades. We no longer embrace decadent lace and taffeta and sequence is kept at a minimum on most gowns. This makes choosing modest prom dresses even easier. Most of the styles are very modern and chic and appear to be appropriate for high school dances as well as the red carpet.

I love that my daughter made a sound decision herself. I didn’t need to nag or make a lot of suggestions. Once she saw the modest prom dresses she was sure to find one that stood out for her. The sleek sophisticated style was a hit at the dance. In fact, she looked much more mature than the girls who were showing a lot of skin.

I hate to admit that my baby girl is growing up but after seeing her getting ready for the special occasion I knew that she is emerging into adulthood. She is doing so in grace and elegance. I am so very pleased that there is a line of modest prom dresses that still offer great style. 
