There is more to a motorcycle loading ramp than just a ramp. This incline is designed to attach the back of a vehicle to the road to make loading and unloading a motorbike easier. While many may think that this is a relatively simple product a motorcycle loading ramp has a few features that you may want to consider before making a purchase.

Newer products are superior to the traditional ramps used by bikers in years past. The new features on today’s motorcycle loading ramp include innovations in design that make using the product easier than every. Following are some new features that each motorcycle loading ramp can include.

Some of the new products can be broken down into sections. This is great for quick set up and easy storage. This kind of motorcycle loading ramp is usually dividing into three sections that are held together by a connection rod. The sectional ramps are some of the best in today’s designs for many reasons.

The platform expands to about 38 inches across, giving you plenty of room for moving the bike into the truck. After the bike is transported, the motorcycle loading ramp can be quickly assembled to move the bike to the road. The ramp can be both folded in half and stowed away or it can be taken completely apart.

Some would wonder why anyone would want to take the time to completely disassemble a motorcycle loading ramp especially since it will take up extra time in the process. People choose to do this when they plan to go for longer rides. The parts can be stored in the truck’s bed and they can be secured, deterring any would-be thieves.

Safety features are really important to drivers. The newer motorcycle loading ramp offers great safety additions that help make your trip worry-free. Safety straps secure the ramp to your vehicle. These straps also serve to hold the unit together while in transport. The product will not shift or slide while the vehicle is in motion when the safety straps are properly used. 

An attaching lip with rubber pads is an addition that helps to keep the motorcycle loading ramp in place while the bike is being moved on to and off of the vehicle. This feature is perfect for the lone rider who needs to ride the bike on to the truck and back it off of the truck.

There are many different products available. If the motorcycle loading ramp offers the features listed above, you can be sure that you have a great product. 

 


