This country is full of people striving to succeed and become the very best they can be.  Sometimes, this results in serious intellectual endeavors.  People want to write the best novel, release the best album, or patented invention that will change the way people live.  But just as often, this drive manifests itself in all kinds of crazy fads.  One of the most perplexing and most enduring is the obsession many people have with getting as big and muscular as they can.  Magazines like muscle and fitness feature super pumped behemoths whose bodies are so bloated with muscle mass that they are barely able to scratch their backs.

Nonetheless, concern over fitness and muscle is good in some ways.  After all, we are living in an age of such plenitude that, if you're not concerned over muscle and fitness, you're bound to get fat.  Fitness weight loss is everyone's problems, because not only is being overweight unattractive, but it can also shorten your life span.  If you do not take care of muscle and fitness, by toning and conditioning your body as well as by keeping your cardiovascular system in tip top condition, you are likely to die an early death in poor health.  Nonetheless, moderation is important in all things.  If you are too concerned over muscle and fitness, you can actually do more damage than good.

I had a friend who was an absolute muscle and fitness fanatic.  He worked out every day, sometimes twice a day.  Although at first it seemed to be doing him good, eventually he became too obsessed.  He started taking dangerous fitness health supplements to help his bodybuilding exercises.  He became moody and withdrawn, obsessed with an image of perfection that he never could achieve.  Paradoxically, although he initially started training muscle and fitness in order to look better, by the end he became so bizarre and antisocial that he ended up driving everyone away.

Everyone wants to be big and strong, but it is important to do it in a way that is healthy and sane.  Any muscle and fitness routine must be done with safety as its first concern.  That means you should always use a spotter, should never overdo it, and should never lift more weight than your body is able to.  You should alternate strengthening exercises with conditioning exercises so that you develop healthy muscles that are not just big, but powerful as well.  That way, you can have a muscle and fitness routine that you can be proud of and a body you can be proud of as well.