I absolutely hate it when I get a stiff neck. Or even worse, when you turn or twitch your head suddenly, and a terrible dull pain pierces your skull or neck. We've all done that before, right? It's practically unbearable. It almost feels like I would imagine a brain aneurism to feel. Well, minus the whole death part. Anyway, it's pretty important to keep the muscles in our bodies strong. This goes the same even for the neck. So if you lack a good neck exercise in your fitness regimen, then I suggest you get one. It only takes a few minutes of your day. 

I can't tell you how many times I've exercised or lifted weights and ended up with a sore neck the following day. Needless to say, this stinks. I immediately want to hit up the nearest day spa for a good massage. That can always help to work out the kinks. But, I don't want to forget about neck exercise. You can easily work-out your neck each day. Here are some simple neck exercises that I do; turn your head front side to side 10 times. Do three sets of this. Now, lean your head from ear to shoulder 10 times. Do three sets also. Tip your head back and then bring your chin down to your chest. Do this 6 times. Try 2 or 3 sets. Now, make half circle rotations with your head, rolling it. 8 or 10 times should do the trick. Furthermore, you can also press you head forward on your hand, and apply resistance. Do the same on the back of your head. Try doing each of these motions 6 times, and follow with 2 more sets. These are general neck exercises. I do them each day while sitting at a computer. They are much easier and less strenuous than most weight lifting or cardio workouts; that's for sure. And I seriously doubt you'll be breaking a sweat with a simple neck exercise. 

Some may ask why a neck exercise is important. Well, it's simple; for the same reason any exercise is helpful to your body. It strengthens your muscles and better prepares you for the future. As you know, we all age, and our bodies get weaker. Work to slow this process down. Keep your neck and body in good condition. Later down the road, you'll be glad you did! 