Nursing Employment Opportunities

Healthcare is a huge industry and there continues to be great demand for skilled, educated, professional health care providers. Our country’s aging population is rising dramatically, as the Baby Boomers begin to enter retirement, which has created a need for a wide range of health care services. Physicians, registered nurses, nursing support staff, therapists, and ancillary staff are all an important part of healthcare, and without them, our system would fail to exist. Presently there is a nursing shortage that has been largely created by an astounding number of registered nurses reaching retirement age. Academic institutions are not able to meet the need quickly enough. Even with all the new graduate nurses entering the workforce, it isn’t enough to match the number of nurses leaving. That’s why there’s an abundance of nursing employment opportunities available offering very competitive wages, benefits, and employment incentives, such as relocation bonus.

To find the nursing job, schedule, and pay that fits your lifestyle, visit any number of online sites such as, www.nursing-jobs.com, www.nursefinders.com, and www.accessnurses.com that specialize in finding nurses full-time, part-time, temporary, per diem, and travel positions throughout the United States. Nurses can also post their resume on sites like www.monster.com or www.careerbuilders.com for prospective employers to view, which is another way to find nursing employment opportunities. In certain parts of the country, the demand for qualified registered nurses is so great that a six-figure salary is the norm. These nursing employment opportunities are usually in  critical shortage areas in heavily populated parts of the country like California, and the positions open are in critical care units or the emergency room. Positions like these can be extremely stressful as well, because there is probably short staffing, long shifts, overtime, and taking call required. 

The nursing shortage is affecting health care delivery systems across the country. Nursing employment opportunities are many, yet they are somewhat limited, because the majority of the high paying jobs are in less desirable areas of healthcare; medical/surgical units, intensive/critical care, and emergency rooms are where there is the greatest demand. Just like other areas of healthcare, nursing is very specialized and the nursing employment opportunities posted reflect that. Unfortunately, there will continue to be a shortage in critical care areas for some time to come. And the emphasis needs to be on thoroughly educating the nursing workforce and preparing the new graduate nurses to practice autonomously yet knowledgeably to provide the best care possible to their patients.





 

