Having the correct office furniture is absolutely essential for your health. Few people think about this until things go wrong. You see, it is human nature to take the body for granted. No one imagines that typing in the wrong position hour after hour, day after day, will do anything to their wrists. No one imagines that slouching day after day will do anything to their back. Even when you know that this is not the case, it is hard to think otherwise until it is too late.

I did not bother to get a decent office furniture chair until it was too late for me. At that point, I had already thrown my back out. My office computer desk and my office furniture chair were terrible. It wasn't even really an office chair. I was actually a recliner. I loved to kick back in my recliner, resting the keyboard on my lap, and typing while lounging lazily in front of the computer screen. It seemed like a relaxing position, but it was wreaking havoc on my back. There is a reason that office furniture chairs encourages you to sit up straight. The Office furniture chair is made to put the least strain your back, and when you slouch, you are putting strain on your back.

When you're picking out an office furniture chair, you can not be guided by comfort alone. I made this mistake once, and after hurting my back I resolved that I would not make the same mistake again. An office furniture chair must be comfortable,  but even more importantly, it should make you sit in the right position. It should be the right distance from the office desk, which also must be at the right height. 

Before you even go about buying an office furniture chair, you should consult an expert or look at guidelines about correct ergonomic placement. Most of us, after all, are so used to slouching that sitting up straight might feel unnatural at first. If we have bad habits, we cannot be guided by our instincts when buying an office furniture chair. We have to be guided by the correct guidelines.

Having the right office furniture chair will not alleviate all of your problems alone. You must also be willing to do stretches, get regular exercise, and take breaks during the workday to avoid sitting still for too long. If you're willing to do all of these, you can keep a healthy back.