Online MLS

An online MLS or multiple listing service enables all licensed realtors to list properties for sale in one place, so that every realtor and buyer or seller has access to most every property for sale in a specific location. This is an awesome tool for realtors, first time home buyers, curious property owners, and prospective buyers and sellers. Anyone can access this information on the internet. Interested parties who are not licensed realtors can search the online MLS from various realtor websites simply by registering with an email address. Full contact information is sometimes required, but this does not create any type of obligation. It gets you into the online MLS and permits the hosting realtor or company to contact you via email regarding any questions or assistance you may need.  

The online MLS is an easy way to browse available listings, recent sold properties, average home prices, and other real estate related resources, including lending institutions and special financing options.  As I mentioned before, it really isn’t necessary to first contact a licensed realtor to get information on available listings; it can be accessed easily online through any real estate website! Once into the online MLS, browsers can narrow their search by specifying location, price range, number of bedrooms and bathrooms, square feet, lot size, and other amenities like an in-ground pool or spa. Some online MLS listings also feature virtual tours of featured properties so that users can really get a feel for what the property has to offer. This a great way to see the property before you set up an appointment to meet with a realtor. The virtual tour may save you from wasting your time, because it wasn’t as good as it sounded, or it may just peak your interest even more!

Start your search for an online MLS at where else, www.mls.com! Start your search by selecting a state and an area that you are interested in, and you’re on your way! There are land listings, new home construction, single family homes, multiple family units, income properties, and commercial/retail listings. If you are somewhat intimidated by searching through an online MLS, don’t be! It is much more comprehensive that any real estate section in the Sunday paper that’s for sure! If you want access to most everything that is available, then get into the online MLS to view featured properties in any area of the country that your heart desires!       
