Struggling artists have been coming up with new ways of getting their name out into the mainstream. Many creative people may choose to draw or paint in parks and coffee shops in the hopes that they may be discovered. Others have embraced technology which has given the modern-day artist invaluable online art galleries as a means of self promotion.

Online art galleries are sprouting up all over the Internet. Many of these sites are created by the artists. Some online art galleries are a part of a community or talent pool. No matter which method an artist uses these resources are probably the most useful, convenient and productive tools for the modern artist. 

The artist can create his own online art galleries by purchasing domain names. There are several sites that offer free web space but they often lack enough room to display the art adequately. You really want to use a source that offers a lot of options as well as a lot of space. 

The great thing about these online art galleries is that they give the artists control over the presentations. When working as part of a talent pool or in a collective project, you may find that your own work might not gel with the rest of the online gallery. Creating an individual site is a great way to promote your work as a whole.

Maintaining the site and updating the art quickly becomes second nature. Online talent pools are also great because they help the artist promote his work. Even though these online art galleries do not showcase one single artist they do help in circulating the images. 

Many talent pools require a percentage of the final cost of the project. Using online art galleries is a great way for an artist to apply for projects without carrying a portfolio or maintaining a one-man gallery that no one visits. 

The talent pool online art galleries are also very useful for telecommuting jobs. The entire working relationship between artist and client can be handled over the Internet and by telephone. 

The advances in art through computer generated images are astounding. The use of online art galleries for professional use is also incredible. Today’s artists have so many more opportunities to be exposed to a wide audience. Whether you want to find work or whether you just want to share your creations, online art galleries are the perfect vehicles for your craft. 
