When most of us think of paper, we think of computer paper or the lined loose leaf paper we purchase for our children for school. There is a great deal more you can do with paper than simply printing text or writing information on it. Origami has been around for centuries, and this Japanese art of folding paper can be easily learned by just about anyone. All you need is some paper and one of the origami books that are available.

If you’ve ever watched someone folding paper into the intricate shapes that are indicative of origami you’ve probably thought you’d never be able to do it. Granted it does take some talent, but a good deal of this lost art involves skill. This skill is something you can acquire by reading and following origami books that are designed to teach the art form.

Finding one is relatively simple if you have an Internet connection. Many of the popular book websites as well as learning sites have kits that include paper and origami books. You purchase a set and within moments of receiving it, you are already folding your first paper on the road to creating a work of art.

Many people begin by using standard, inexpensive paper. This is a great approach as it allows you to make countless mistakes without having to worry about the cost of origami paper. Trying to follow the diagrams in origami books can be a bit confusing until you have tried the folds a few times, so you are bound to make mistakes.

A fun aspect of getting involved in this type of hobby is that the results are so impressive. Everyone loves seeing a work of origami. They especially find it appealing if someone they know created it. In fact, once they see that you’ve used origami books to help you become an origami artist they may decide to try it themselves.

People who are skilled at folding paper into intricate shapes claim that it’s much like riding a bike or swimming. Once you learn how to do it, it’s a skill that you’ll carry with you the rest of your life. As a parent, it’s something fun and intriguing that you can pass on to your children as they grow. They’ll love spending the time with you learning how to do origami and you’ll enjoy watching them create something they can be extremely proud of. 

If your child has taking an interest in learning this unique craft, consider giving them a gift of origami supplies. A few origami books and some colorful paper made just for creating shapes will give them the initiative they need to focus on something interesting and educational.


