Ovarian cancer symptoms are quite subtle and they often go unnoticed by many who are suffering from them. Recognizing the common signs of this disease isn’t always easy. This is simply because ovarian cancer symptoms can easily be confused with other health problems that a woman might face. In order to assure that you get treatment as early as possible it is essential to become familiar with ovarian cancer symptoms and talk to your doctor right away if you experience them.

The first thing that you want to consider is the possibility of a predisposition to the disorder. If you have a family member who has the disease or one who has died from ovarian cancer you should be on the lookout for the signs that accompany the disorder. 

The predisposition is not always associated with this particular form of cancer. Those who have family members who have breast or colon cancer are closely linked to this reproductive disease. You want to be on the lookout for ovarian cancer symptoms if you have a relative who has or had these forms of cancers. 

You also want to consider your age. The older you get, the more you are at risk for getting this disease. Also, women who never had children are at higher risk than those who are mothers. Following are ovarian cancer symptoms that should not be ignored especially if you are among those in the high-risk population.

Bloating isn’t always just about gas. Digestive problems that are persistent are other signs that go unnoticed. You may find that you feel pressure in your abdomen as well. These ovarian cancer symptoms are easy to ignore but you really need to see your physician if you have pressure or bloating in your abdomen and you are in the high-risk group.

Pain during intercourse and abnormal bleeding are also ovarian cancer symptoms that are subtle and many do not even think about cancer when experiencing these annoyances. In addition, fatigue and changes in bladder patterns are not commonly linked to such devastating illnesses. However they are ovarian cancer symptoms that should not be ignored. 

Since early detection is crucial to a woman’s recovery it is important to note the common tell-tale signs of the disease and follow up with your physician. It is much better to get checked out and find nothing than it is to ignore the symptoms of ovarian cancer when you may have the illness.
