Paint By Numbers

Though I never considered paint by numbers to be an educational tool, I now see that it just might be if you start young enough. If your child already know their numbers and colors, you are just giving them something fun to do, not that there is anything wrong with that, but if you give this to a younger child, you have just handed them a learning tool. They have to match the colors up with the numbers, and this gives them practice with not only knowing what their colors are, it helps them recognize numbers.

I used to love paint by numbers, and I often marveled at the outcome. Who would have thought that simply putting simple colors together in a pattern could produce some amazing looking paintings. The paint by numbers that I liked the most were of animals or landscapes, but you can get them in just about any theme or idea you can think of. If you know an artist, you can even have them help you make up some of your own. You can put them on canvas, cardboard, or paper if you want to, or you can even find computer programs that will allow you to make up one of your own if you look online.

If you have young children, you don’t have to get anything too complicated. You can make your own paint by numbers with simple pictures and just a few different numbers. If you find a coloring in page online, you can very easily turn it into a paint by numbers on your own, and you don’t even have to use paint if you don’t want to. You can use markers or crayons if you want. Your child will love it and it might keep them occupied for a while so you can get some chores done or even take some time out for yourself to read or just relax.

Most paint by numbers are pretty inexpensive and can be found almost anywhere. Though you may find the best ones in craft stores and hobby shops, you can find them in discount department stores and sometimes even in grocery stores. Paint by numbers are a common craft for kids, and many kids love them. That is why they are so popular and why you can indeed find them almost anywhere and in almost any theme you can think of or imagine.
