If you have a pet, chances are they'll need a safe place to call their own. A pet cage is an investment in your pet's safety and well being. There are pet cages for every animal, although some, like reptiles, need glass pet cages. Your furry and feathered friends like parrots, gerbils, hamsters and mice all need their own private cage. 

Why a pet cage? Small animals are vulnerable to the terrors of the average household, like poisonous plants, electrical wires, walking people, and open doors. A cage gives them security and comfort in their cozy, protected spot. 

The first thing to do when buying a cage is to determine the right size. You obviously wouldn't get a parrot cage for a hamster, nor would you have a hamster in a mouse cage. For every animal there's a  proper cage size. Each pet should have enough room to stand up and turn all the way around. Birds should ideally have the largest cages possible. If you can not afford a massive cage, the bird should be able to stretch his wings all the way out, and have a reasonable flying distance. Gerbils don't need much room at all, as they're content just being inside.  Mice need pet cages that are longer rather than wider. They need a lot of room to exercise and run, so a cage to frolic in would be a treat for him. 

Which animal goes into what cage is not the only thing to take into consideration. There are questions like "Can he chew his way out?" "How do I get food to him?" and "What materials might be poisonous to my little friends?"  Well, for one thing, a home-made cage can be dangerous if you don't know what you're doing.  If you're an amateur, get a good cage that is professionally made. No animal, with the exception of cats or dogs, should be put in a wooden cage. Little teeth can chew through, leaving a bewildered owner staring at an empty cage. When you buy a painted cage, ask to see its certificate. This ensures that no hazardous or harmful materials were used in the construction of the cage. 

A feeding hole is essential to every pet cage. This is where a water bottle is inserted, along with a removable food dish. The edges around these inserts should be closed off, usually by being pressed against a wall. Don't use tape, because this can be deadly to your pet. 

The doors to pet cages are the most important part. If the door seems a bit loose, then it's best to wrap a copper wire between the bars and the door, making sure the cut edge of the metal isn't facing towards the animal. 

When buying pet cages, always remember that your pet will get bigger, so buy one that accommodates future growth. Make sure no poisonous materials were used, and always remember to cover pet cages in cold weather.