Plasma Donation

When I first started college, people kept telling me that if I needed to make some extra money I could try plasma donation. I thought they were joking, but as it turned out, they were dead serious. I knew a lot of people who ended up doing it, and they often did it for beer money. As silly as that sounds, it’s true. You may find that many college students turn to this when they need extra money, but you have to admit it’s better than selling drugs or any other illegal activity to make extra money.

I don’t know about now, but I do know that back then they went in for plasma donation and came out about an hour later with thirty dollars. The rate may be more or less now, though I have no idea. They could only do it so often though, so it really didn’t add up to much money in the long run. They would do plasma donation any chance they got though, and more often than not, the money was used to buy beer. Perhaps I just went to college with a bunch of losers, I don’t really know.

You can so plasma donation if you want, though I would imagine you would be tested for drugs or disease before they would accept your donation. It takes longer than giving blood, and I hear that plasma donation is a bit painful. They must separate the plasma from the rest of your blood and then put the blood back into your body. I don’t know about you, but just the thought of it makes me feel faint. I know I would do it if someone needed me too, but I also know that I would pass out the moment it started.

I don’t know how common plasma donation is in smaller communities, but I am sure you can find it in most major cities. The plasma donation center in Pittsburgh was near the area where the hockey arena was built, though I’m not sure if it is there any longer. It was over ten years ago when this was going on. It might be a way to make some extra cash if you are hard up, but it certainly isn’t going to pay your bills. If you want to do it to help someone, then by all means go for it. Unless the rules have changed, you will walk away with a little money for your trouble.

