I have always loved to play computer games online, but they seem like a waste of time. As I approach my 30th year, it seems frivolous to use up all the time these online games take  participating in an activity that does not improve my intelligence, creativity, or physical health. The only problem is that I get so much joy out of playing online games, it seems like a shame to stop. That is why I began playing chess online.

When I first decided to play chess online, I really didn't know the game at all. To tell you the truth, I did not even really understand how to play chess. I have a friend who is a huge computer geek, and I had watched him playing chess online before. It looked like a pretty interesting game, so I thought that it might be worth a shot. I am so glad that I decided to try it.

Playing online chess is actually a great way to learn the game. Not only are their faqs, rulebooks, strategy guides, and all other manner of information about playing chess online, but there are always other players there who are helpful and eager to give you advice. I originally thought that everyone playing chess online would be much better than me, and that there would not be anyone at my skill level. I was quite mistaken. In reality, there are players at every level playing chess online, from beginners to expert players.

My favorite thing about playing free chess online is the friends that I get to meet. The group that is attracted to playing chess online is, by and large, an intellectually engaged bunch of folks. Besides talking about chess games, we discuss politics, religion, current events, and anything else that comes to our heads. We even get to talk about literature! When I play chess online, not only do I get to sharpen my wits and improve my skills,but I get to meet interesting friends from all over the world. Before I started playing chess online, I had almost no friends. Now, although I still have very few friends in my neighborhood, I can turn on the computer and talk to interesting, intellectual people all over the world. I have never had such a great group of people to share my interests. I really have made friends that I hope will last a lifetime.