Fashion is such a massive industry. It seems like it only grows larger as time progresses. We can always catch runway shows sporting the latest trends on E or Style Network. Typically these involve super-thin models strutting down the runway like trained horses. Yes, i know, it sounds cruel. However, if you've seen one of these shows before, then you must know what I'm referring to. Now, what does all this mean? Why are all the models so skinny and waify looking? Does this mirror our society? Ha, I seriously doubt it does her in the USA. I think the average sized American wears like a 13. Therefore, why don't we advertise this a bit? Why don't we see more plus size teen fashion runway shows? Are they not in demand?

What size are you? Or maybe you don't wish to say. This is understandable. A lot of people do not like to let the world know what size clothing they wear. This means only one thing. You're embarrassed about it. Now, hold your horses! This is not meant as an insult, but rather a deduction I've made. The media has everyone scared. This is why many people think they're fat. They always listen to what the media deems beautiful. Don't! If less people would, then maybe there would be more plus size teen fashion and women's clothing. Of course you don't want to take this the wrong way, and gain tons of weight. That wouldn't be healthy. But, no one says that you have to weight 32 pounds soaking wet either. There is a middle to this. A place where folks can be healthy and still look nice. Because let's face it, many of those runway models look near-death. I want to pass them a protein shake or something. 

The good news is that plus size teen fashion and women's fashion does exist. You simply don't see it glorified all over E or Style. You don't see it in Cosmo or Marie Claire. The fashion gurus keep the plus size teen fashion and larger models hidden in the background. This is unfair and lame. America has a right to see all sides of the spectrum and not just one. At least this way folks would know that there are beautiful people out there wearing the same size clothing as they do. Let's broaden that fashion world a bit! 