No man wants to ponder the possibility of hair loss. No, I take that back. No person wants to consider hair loss in their future. Because as we all know, woman can suffer from hair loss as well. Whether it's genetic, hormonal, related to diet or stress, it certainly can happen. Why do you think Rogaine for women is sitting on the hair-care shelf in every drugstore? It's a prominent issue. The funny thing about hair loss is that someone always has some new and "improved" hair loss solution. Unfortunately many of these are utter flops. Remember the spray-on hair remedy? What in the world were men thinking? Better yet, who came up with such a tacky concoction? Can you imagine what would happen if a guy used this product and his date decided to run her fingers through his dew? Yikes! I'd hate to be there when that happened. Then there was the more recent Procede hair loss remedy. I think this one is still advertised today. But, don't get your credit card out just yet. 

It's probably safe to assume that thousands or even millions of men have tried a number of hair loss treatments. I recently read a piece on the Procede hair loss solution. This one was advertised on infomercials, like many of them are. I believe it claimed to give you fuller, thicker hair and darken your scalp. This of course creates the illusion of a fuller head of hair. Hmm, sounds pretty bizarre if you ask me. And lastly, it washes and conditions your dew as well. Now, does the Procede hair loss treatment actually work wonders, or is it another gimmick? This answer will probably vary depending on whom you ask. I read one man's negative comment on the Procede hair loss treatment, which stated that it caused his hair to fall out in clumps. Yousers! That's a pretty heavy remark. It would definitely discourage me from trying the product. Another gentleman stated that it made his hair look fuller and richer, but it did not grow his hair back where it was lost. Obviously the results will vary. 

Take care of your hair! This is one thing that you can do without products such as Procede hair loss remedy. Eat right, take a multivitamin, try Omega 3s, exercise, and get plenty of water and sleep. These are crucial measures that any person can take to keep their hair looking great. Ask your family doctor if you're experiencing hair loss. 