Have you ever gotten stuck in a project that you find dull?  Some people, when they are in this situation, are able to finish the project as quickly as possible and go on to something else.  Most people, however, get bogged down by it.  Whatever the project is, be it school work, housework, a presentation, a report, or some other project entirely, it seems to last forever.  No matter how hard you work at it, it is as if you are making no progress at all. 

As a teacher and specialist at a reading clinic, I have learned that as hard as boredom is for adults to take, it is much harder for children.  This is why programs for reading must be fun as well as educational.  If you want your child to improve reading skills, you have to make sure that reading is enjoyable.  Most children love to be read to, even those with severe reading problems. The mistake that many parents and teachers make when they set up programs for reading, is that they look at it as a chore for the child to do.  Not only does this make it much harder for the kid to improve his or her reading, but it risks doing something much worse.  A badly setup program for reading can take a child's love for literature and ruin it forever!

The most important thing about programs for reading is that they have to be set up for the individual child's needs.  Many commercial tutoring centers have one stock program that they offer to all the kids, with outrageous promises to the parents about how quickly their child's reading skills will improve.  In reality, promising these kind of improvements from programs for reading is outrageous, and should be illegal.  

Many kids do improve quickly, but many others require years and years of work before they can read at a normal grade level.  Through summer reading programs, supplemental coursework, special accommodations, and a variety of different reading exercises, even these kids can eventually be brought up to snuff.  But the parents must realize, when they put their kids in reading programs, that it can take some time.  Even the most impressive programs for reading are not miraculous.  Programs for reading requires the patience and involvement of the child, the teachers, the tutors, and the other family members.  Only when everything and everyone works together can programs for reading succeed.