What is with all the diets? How can any of us laymen tell which ones are worth our time and money? Yeah, I did say money. In reality some of these new-age diets can get a bit pricey. A big one amongst men and some women is the protein power diet. This is the one that requires far more protein than you've ever dreamed of consuming in a day's time. On the up-side, there are plenty of ways to acquire all this protein goodness. From shakes, to packets of lean tuna, to broiled fish, to infinite snack bars. All of these are great sources of protein. Oh, and let's not forget the lean poultry. This is often a favorite. Now, the big question is; why do you need this type of diet regimen? 

It typically comes down to bodybuilding. This is my personal experience anyway. The women I know aren't interested in a protein power diet, but rather a low-carb, low-fat diet instead. There is a difference. Take my buddy Kevin, for example. He wanted to get stacked. This caused him to consult a personal trainer, who in turn encouraged him to adopt a protein power diet. Basically what this new regimen consisted of was four small meals a day, mostly involving fruits, vegetables, water and lean meat; in addition to three whey protein shakes. This is a popular protein supplement that's widely used now days, and can be mixed with juice, milk or water. I take it myself and love it. You can literally get about 30 grams of protein in one whack if you take it with milk. Furthermore, if you're not able to do the whey shake, you can substitute with a bar of your choice. Probably the most popular to my knowledge is Pure Protein. These supplement bars sell like hot cakes and have for years now. They are definitely an easy protein fix on the go. 

Truth be told, the protein power diet worked for Kevin. This lean, high protein diet was perfect with the proper weight training routine he chose. Overall he gained about 20 pounds of muscle. That's quite a bit. Anyway, if you're interested in a protein power diet, you should make sure you know what you're doing it for. If you're bodybuilding; great! If you're not, then you may just be wasting a lot of money on new-age supplements. 