Radar Detector

For the longest time I thought everyone had a radar detector in his or her car or truck. My stepfather had one for the longest time, but I never really understood what it was or knew that it was actually illegal to own one. He spent a lot of time speeding due to his profession, and it became a habit for him to have one. As a truck driver, he often had to exceed the speed limit to get his load in on time, and this piece of equipment apparently warned him when there was radar nearby.

I know now that they are illegal. I learned this when he got pulled over once and he tore it down and shoved it under his seat so the police officer couldn’t see it. Though he was not caught with it, he later told me that if he had been caught with it he would have been in a lot of trouble. He hasn’t used on in years, and I guess you could say he has slowed down quite a bit. Perhaps it was the birth of his granddaughter that did it, but he no longer feels the need to use a radar detector because he rarely speeds any longer.

By definition, a radar detector alerts someone when a police officer is using radar to determine the speed of the drivers going by on the road. I would think that by the time the radar detector alerted you that it would be too late anyway. I haven’t seen on in a very long time, but I am sure they still exist. I don’t know if they really alert anyone soon enough to avoid a ticket, but I do know that the best way to avoid the ticket is to just slow down and stay within safe driving limits. 

If you are considering getting one, know that radar detectors are illegal in most states, if not all states. If you get one it will be up to you if you think it is worth it to have it in the car if you get stopped. You may try to hide your radar detector, but you may be spotted with one and be in a whole bunch of trouble. Also remember that by the time a radar detector alerts you to the presence of someone clocking your time, it may be too late to slow down to avoid detection.
