Remote Control Toys

When I was young, it was a rare occasion to get remote control toys for any reason because they were not exactly common. My brother once got a remote control truck that we played with for hours on end, and we were amazed that something could run without wires connecting the object to the controller. That toy is long gone, but my brother still has a thing for remote control items, and if you don’t know what to get him for a gift you can fall back on one of these toys, and he’ll be a happy boy.

My daughter, on the other hand, takes remote control toys for granted. For her, they are just a part of life and they are everywhere. Funny how things change from one generation to the next right? In the same way that my parents don’t really know much about personal computers, I don’t know as much about remote control toys but my daughter seems to use them with ease. She seems to know how to move them around and turn without really thinking about it, and I guess she is just of the generation that will use mechanical controls for a lot of things that we have never thought of. It might be a good skill for her to have, no matter where she goes in life.

One of the first remote control toys my daughter got was the Wiggles Big Red Car. It doesn’t do much, and it isn’t fancy, but she sure loved it and still loves it. It goes in all directions and plays a Wiggles’ song when it is moving. Now, I love the Wiggles, but I have to say that this toy is a bit much when she plays with it. The song stops and starts over again each time she changes direction and it drives me mad. However, she loves this remote control toy so I let her play with it in her room whenever she wants. The closed door is a bit of a buffer.

You can find great remote control toys where you buy toys and electronics. You can find so much more than the few toys that were out when I was a kid. There are remote control toys that you may not even know exist. There are airplanes, helicopters and a whole host of neat items. You may find that you want them for yourself. If you love them too, make sure you buy two when you are shopping for your kids. No sense in parent and child fighting over a toy on Christmas morning right?

