It’s been said that there are Seven Wonders of the World, but if you’ve ever seen a ship in a bottle up close, you’d be tempted to up that number to eight. These small and intricate models of full size ships are so detailed that they appear to be exact replicas. Although they do vary slightly from the ships they are designed after, a ship that is found in a bottle is a work of art.

The men and women who engage in this hobby all have one thing in common. They are incredibly patient. Building a ship in a bottle can take months if not years to complete. The equipment that is required is often special made and the pieces of each ship have to be constructed within the confines of the bottle.

One misconception that surrounds the idea of placing a model ship within a long necked bottle is that any bottle can be used. The bottles that are designed specifically for a ship in a bottle, are made of glass and do come with a fairly long neck. Although people have been known to build a ship within a wine bottle, this can make the task even more difficult than it usually is.

Many stores that focus on hobbies have the supplies you will need if you want to attempt this incredibly detailed form of art. A good idea for a novice is to purchase a book that walks you through the entire process or attend a local class. Some communities offer different hobby classes to local residents, and a ship in a bottle instructional class usually garners a lot of interest. 

If you enjoy the charm of one of these works of craftsmanship but you lack the patience or steady hand needed to complete one, you can certainly purchase one that is already made. A number of the online auction sites boast a whole section dedicated to people wishing to purchase a ship in a bottle. 

Finding a safe spot in your home to display it in is also important. You want to place it somewhere prominent so visitors will be able to enjoy your ship in a bottle, yet you can’t place it where others can pick it up. If the bottle is dropped, it can easily shatter which will destroy the piece. A good suggestion is to buy a display case for it. This way everyone can look at it and at the same time you keep curious hands away. 
