If you’re a woman who wants to look fashionable you already know how important accessories are. The right shoes, the perfect handbag and jewelry that complement your outfit can complete your look. One fun and inexpensive way to add style to anything you wear is with silver hoop earrings. They can be used to either dress up or dress down almost every piece of clothing.

Owning one pair is akin to owning a single pair of shoes. Although they look very similar, there are different sizes including small silver hoop earrings as well as large ones. The type you wear really depends on your mood that day as well as what you’re pairing them with.

For men who struggle with finding a gift for the lady in their life, these are ideal. If a woman has pierced ears, silver hoop earrings can be found in virtually any jewelry store either offline or on the Internet. For women who haven’t taken the step to pierce their ears, they can still wear earrings but they do need to be the clip-on variety.

Although the plain style is striking there are others that are just as lovely. Gemstones always dress up an outfit and you can certainly purchase silver hoop earrings that contain a gemstone or two. The stones might dot the outside perimeter of the earring or there might be an elegant cluster of stones at the bottom of the hoop.

One hoop within another is also a really fashionable look. Many young women incorporate these earrings into their everyday wardrobe. These silver hoop earrings consist of several hoops that are connected to one another. They look great for women who wear their hair short or pulled back if they sport a longer hairstyle.

You can certainly invest in a pair that is crafted from sterling silver. However, many people instead purchase silver hoop earrings that are made from metal plated in silver. If you do decide to buy a more inexpensive pair, be certain that they have hypo-allergenic posts. Earrings can cause allergies in those with sensitive skin so it’s important to purchase ones that help minimize that risk.  

Even if you don’t wear earrings that often, owning a pair of these makes it easy to add a finishing touch to any outfit be it a designer black dress or a pair of jeans and a sweater. Silver jewelry goes well with almost any color so think about wearing them the next time you are going to work, to a movie or out on the town. 
