Some folks will do whatever it takes to shed those extra pounds. Even if it means destroying their body by binging and purging, or not eating at all. This is sad and is probably a direct result of the garbage our media expresses on a regular basis. Typically extreme measures can be avoided. You can drop body fat if you simply learn a few basic rules. Although some individuals are die-hard fans of weight loss and slimming pills, I strongly believe in the natural approach first. After all, if you really want that extra weight off, you'll work hard to see those results, right? That's the way life works. 

It's commonly portrayed in "movies of the week" that diet pills are bad news. You don't really ever see a protagonist, who strives to get in shape and resorts to slimming pills on the side. They do it the natural way, because it's healthy and sends a positive message. I can still recall the cheesy "Beverly Hills 90210" episode that had Kelly passing out from an overdose of diet pills. Although I found it hilarious, the general audience is not supposed to. It's a message to all people who wish to lose weight. There is a batter and safer way than slimming pills. Dieting properly does require a bit of discipline. You have to acquire a certain eating schedule and stick to it. Maybe this regimen will consist of four meals a day. Yes, I did say four meals; not three. Everyone is under the impression that three meals are just right. Well, it's not as perfect as it seems. Everything depends on your goals. If you're trying to slim down, I recommend four smaller meals, rather than three large ones. The more you shovel in at once, the harder it is for your body to break down and use as energy. Therefore, extra gets stored as fat. Make the meals smaller and allow your body to absorb all of the nutrients and burn all the fat away. Furthermore, this keeps your metabolism going, which is ideal. You don't want it to slow down. That's why slimming pills, which simply curb your hunger, are bogus and unhealthy. 

Your body requires certain daily nutrients and vitamins. You need these things to be healthy and strong. New-age slimming pills will not provide you with this. Eat healthy and in smaller portions. This combined with exercise is the key to weight loss. 