I have been very fortunate to have a girlfriend that I have remained close with since we were in junior high school together. We were friends through high school and roommates in college. We both majored in social work. Although we took different career paths, she manages home care services for the elderly and I do direct case management for children with mental health needs, we have stayed in touch. We were the maid of honor in each other’s weddings and our daughter’s have become best friends. My friend’s daughter is getting married and she has asked my daughter to be her maid of honor. We all laugh that this is a second generation event.

Although the girls are close they have very different tastes in clothes. My daughter is concerned because the bride wants to have the attendants wear slip dresses for the evening wedding that she is planning on having. My daughter has always been self-conscious about her bust size. She feels the slip dresses will emphasis that she is quite flat. One of the other attendants had a breast enhancement surgery so she is very excited about the idea of the slip dresses.

My friend and her daughter asked me to come along on the shopping trip to pick out the dresses. They thought it would be fun to try on different dresses and then have lunch together. My daughter was dreading the day, but she did not want to spoil her friend’s day so we went to meet them at the mall. In the mall are two bridal shops as well as three department stores that have bridal departments. The bride had already picked out and ordered her dress so we were concentrating on the dresses for the attendants. The bride wanted them to have dresses that they would be able to wear again. She does not like dresses that are obviously bridesmaid gowns. That is why she had mentioned the idea of slip dresses to my daughter. The clerks at the stores were very helpful in making suggestions. When my daughter mentioned that she thought she was too flat busted to wear the slip dresses the clerk had her try on a push up bra with the dress. It was remarkable the difference the bra made. My daughter looked wonderful, and I could tell she felt confident in the dress. The bride picked a rich plum color for the dresses. The girls would have matching shawls to wear during the ceremony. During lunch my daughter announced that she was going to buy push up bras in every color of the rainbow. I think wearing the bra will help her feel less flat.
