Snow Pants

If there is one thing that I remember from playing outside in the winter months was the huge snow pants that I had to wear when I went out. If I skipped them and just went outside in my jeans, I would be frozen, wet, and cold in a matter of minutes and would have to go back in the house to change. Though they were often cumbersome, I did get used to them, and they allowed me to play outside until my toes were frozen and I was forced to come into the house.

Today’s snow pants are a little better, though many of them still have the bulk that I remember from my childhood. It is far better to battle the bulk than to be wet and cold though, and most kids will adapt to them rather quickly. When I first put snow pants on my daughter, I remember laughing because she could barely move, let alone walk at first. However, she soon got over it because there was a whole yard of freshly fallen show she just had to explore. I wish sometimes that I were as adaptable as she seems to be.

There are newer, thinner types of snow pants you can buy, and there are also some that will keep you warm no matter what you are doing. If you look for snow pants that are made for sports such as snowmobiling or hunting, you are going to find the warmest snow pants that you can buy. If it is not that cold, you may even find that they are too warm for your liking. You can also find decent ones if you shop at a good store, and don’t forget to get good boots to go with them. Sometimes the boots make all the difference between wet legs and warm legs.

You can get your snow pants in two different ways. You can get two-piece suits so the coat comes off separate from the pants, or you can get a one piece. It’s a personal preference really, as both kinds work rather well. If you are a child though, the snow pants might be better if they come attached in one piece. That makes it harder for snow to come in between the layers and get onto your child’s skin. Children are rough, and they like to roll around in the snow, so get some snow pants that you know will keep them warm and dry for as long as they need.
