Winter seems to be the time of year when many people catch a cold or the flu. Although you can take precautions to minimize your risk of getting ill, it does still happen. Finding a way to get better quicker is always welcomed. Many people have their own family stomach flu remedies and concoctions for getting rid of a cold, but do they really work?

One of the easiest ways to find alternative treatments for many illnesses is by asking others. Many people suffer with influenza each and every year and if you know someone who has recently, ask them if they can offer any stomach flu remedies. Many of these types of treatments are essentially common sense approaches to treating illness. Things like staying in bed, drinking many liquids and taking aspirin or ibuprofen are usually suggested and are indeed often effective.

Some individuals have family secrets that they pass down from one generation to the next that are cures for all types of ailments. They often involve avoiding certain beverages or foods while sick or eating chicken soup morning, noon and night. This particular cure may actually work as chicken soup is said to have many healing properties.

In the case of an upset stomach your best defense is going to be keeping anything greasy or spicy out of your diet. One of the most common stomach flu remedies is drinking soda that has gone flat. You can do this by leaving the soda in a glass on the counter or vigorously shaking the bottle of soda. Many people believe that Ginger Ale is the best soda to drink when you have the flu.

Peppermints are said to have healing qualities as well. Many people turn to an antacid when they feel their stomach acting up, but a peppermint might do the job as well. Peppermints are one of the most readily available stomach flu remedies there are, and one of the tastiest and most appetizing.

Pregnant women who are suffering from morning sickness often turn to soda crackers for relief. Just as it settles the nausea associated with the changing hormones of pregnancy, it can also be looked at as a remedy for the flu. It can be extremely difficult eating when you are suffering with the flu, but slowly eating a few crackers is generally doable.

Possibly the very best method of treating influenza is avoiding it in the first place. This can be done by asking your doctor about a flu shot. You can also try and steer clear of crowded malls or airports where people who are sick may be found. Avoiding the source of the flu is one of the most effective stomach flu remedies. 
