Our appearances change as we age. For some this is a natural process, and for others it happens a bit pre-mature. Much of this has to do with how you care for yourself. Diet, regular exercise and grooming habits are imperative. Another aspect involves our genetics. There's truly no fighting this part. How you're made is how you're made. But what about folks who suffer from issues like ulcers, migraines and sudden hair loss early on in their lives? Well, there are a few simple answers for this, but it may be difficult to determine which one applies to you. 

We all wish to keep our hair forever. Well, maybe forever is a tad overdoing it, but at least until we're dead and buried, or cremated. Hair is one aspect of our appearance that provides a certain confidence. Without it, we can often feel unacceptable or even unattractive. This brings me to the notion of sudden hair loss. This can occur basically any time after birth. Sometimes it occurs in children and teenagers. It's often attributed to stress. Yep, good old stress does it again. Wow, does this irksome little condition cause a lot of problems! So many health afflictions are liked to stress. It can make your body tired, your muscles sore, your head hurt, your face breakout, ulcers form in your stomach, and even cause your hair to fall out. Another cause of sudden hair loss can be genetics. Your gene pool always plays a part. This is why it's crucial to know what runs in your family. If you're suffering from sudden hair loss, find out if anyone else did before you. Maybe an aunt of grandfather was also burdened with this random condition. Finally, surgery can be the culprit when it comes to sudden hair loss. Surgical procedures are often a shock to our systems, which sometimes causes our bodies to react strangely. 

There are ways to battle sudden hair loss, and hair loss in general. Probably the most common culprit is stress. So, where is your stress coming from? Deal with stress in a new way. Don't let it control your life and happiness. Vitamins help to reduce stress. Another way to relieve this affliction is through massage and relaxation. Don't let sudden hair loss get the best of you.  