Swimming Exercise

Exercise can be hard on the joints. There are people who are runners who are in good shape, but their knees and hips have paid the price. Any number of exercises can be good for you, but if you have aches and pains it might be hard for you do get through a workout without a lot of pain. You may also want to do something that is easy on the joints if you are expecting. If you want something effective that is easy on the body, you want to do a swimming exercise.

You can probably find a swimming exercise program at your local gym or YMCA/YWCA. These classes are held in a pool, as you may have guessed, and are often offered all year long. Most gyms have heated indoor pools that are maintained just for those who wish to engage in a swimming exercise. It’s not just for swimming laps either, there are many, many things you can do in a pool. You can have your own pool if you can afford it, or you can use the community pool in the summer months. The community pool is ok, but it is often too crowded for any sort of organized workout program. 

You may find a swimming exercise that is geared towards aerobics. Though it won’t be the same in water, it will be just as effective, and you will remain cooler throughout the workout. The water adds natural resistance, but it is also very good for your joints. There is not a lot of jarring when you do a swimming exercise, and you may find that some of your every day pains might just start to go away. 

You can also do swim dancing for your swimming exercise if you want, or you can stick to the tried and true swimming for fun. You can do laps or you can go up and down a lane, it really doesn’t matter. The great part about a swimming exercise is that it doesn’t really matter what it is. As long as you are moving in the water, you are getting a good workout. The water is always great fun for kids, and they won’t even realize they are getting exercise while they are in a pool. They will just think they are having fun. It might be a great way to get them moving and plant the idea of exercise for good health into their minds for a lifetime.

