Trying to find unique and eye-catching accessories for your home is something most people want to do. The standard vase with flowers and candles are lovely but you might want an item that is different. Table top fountains make a wonderful addition to almost any room and they are generally more economical than you might think.

When most people picture a water fountain they think of those enormous sculptures found in the middle of parks or shopping malls. It’s relaxing to stand in front of one listening to the water moving and watching it fall. Most of us can only dream of owning a home that could accommodate such a grand fountain, that’s why table top fountains are perfect. They bring the same charm of a larger fountain right to your home.

They serve a dual purpose in many situations. If you have a bedroom that is adjacent to a living or sitting room where a television is often blaring, table top fountains can help make the room more serene. The sound of the water rushing over the small rocks can help hide outside noises such as people talking or the radio. This is helpful if a person is a light sleeper. Also the sound of the water creates a soothing feeling which can lull a restless sleeper back to dreamland.

Your office is another place where you might want to put one of these. Offices can tend to be rather drab and dated. Adding table top fountains can bring a sense of personality to the space and it also plays the part of a focal piece that visitors are likely to comment on.

The idea of setting one up may seem a bit daunting. When you view one online or at the store you’ll notice how aesthetically pleasing it is. The rocks all seem to be in perfect formation, dotting the table top fountains and if you have to be responsible for that bit of craftsmanship you may decide it’s not for you. Not to worry though as most table top fountains come out of the box and only require that you add water and plug them in. They are very safe and although I’d think twice about placing one in the bedroom of a small child, they can be situated virtually anywhere.

Granted it’s a new idea and people may think that the idea of having a mini indoor fountain to be whimsical and unnecessary, it can brighten up not only a bland space but it also adds ambiance. You’ll be amazed at how much more relaxed you feel when you are working near a small fountain and it will also give you something beautiful to focus on when you’ve been writing documents or crunching numbers all day.




