We're obsessed with our images. This is the "hamartia" of the human being. Also know in cinema as the tragic flaw. What I want to know is how we got to this absurd point. Granted we all should take good care of the way we look, but it's getting ridiculous. So many other things and aspects of life should take precedence. However, this will never happen. It can't because the pandemic only continues to worsen. Image is a bigger deal now days than it was ten years ago, and I hate to ponder where it will be ten years from now. The funny thing is that so many of us will do whatever it takes to look ideal. We'll visit a surgeon and pay them to cut us up; we'll starve our bodies, and even expose them to damaging UV rays in order to look a certain way. It really is a contradiction. So many individuals want that tan perfect body, but care nothing of what it does to their skin in the process. 

This is the age of having your cake and eating it too, right? Then why are so many people still hitting up the tanning salons on a regular basis? Shouldn't they be considering the more healthy alternatives? That tan perfect image doesn't have to come with a price anymore. There are "fake bake" options at hand. What about self-tanner and mist-on tanning solutions. Thousands of people are testing these waters all the time. These are the ones who truly care about their skin's condition. Sure, the deep glow sounds great, but what about premature aging? With tan perfect creams and sprays, you no longer have to worry about premature wrinkles and age spots. Furthermore, you don't have to lie in those annoying cancer boxes anymore. As everyone should know by now, tanning beds and natural sun lead to cancer. It really is that cut and dry. 

Take you pick of infinite tan perfect solutions that require no sunlight of light bulbs. Apply self-tanners and acquire the shade of tan you prefer. But, you'll be doing it without the risks and drawbacks of fine lines and dry skin. And if you're looking for a mild glow, you may want to give one of the numerous "touch of sun" lotions a shot. These are body lotions that offer a slight tan with no embarrassing streaks or orange tint. 