Training Your Dog

If you have a puppy or a dog, you have to worry about your dog listening to your commands, and even more importantly, you have to worry about how they interact with people and other dogs. Dogs are not born knowing the right and wrong way to act, and it is important that training your dog is one of the first things you think about when you bring a new one into your home. You will be responsible for what your dog does, so it is for your own benefit as well.

You can go to classes designed to help you in training your dog, or you can buy DVDs to help you do it yourself. The most important aspect in training your dog is to teach your dog that you are in charge. Believe it or not, they want you to be in charge. Dogs are pack animals, and they need a leader to know what to do and how to act. If your dog or dogs seem to be out of control, the problem is usually that you are not being a strong leader for them, and they don’t know what to do.

Training your dog doesn’t even have to be that hard, and again, it’s a matter of letting them know who is boss. This is more than just how you talk to them. It is also about your body language and your tone of voice. You may issue a command you learned with training your dog, but if they don’t believe you mean it, they won’t pay any attention. Dogs need your leadership in much the same way that your children need you to be strong and in charge. Everyone feels more secure when they know someone is taking care of business.

If you are having trouble training your dog, there is no reason why you should keep trying. Go to a different class, or try to find someone to work one on one with your pet. If you have chosen to use a DVD for training your dog, you may be missing something as you go about teaching them what you want them to do and how to act. If this hasn’t worked, you most definitely should try an obedience class. If nothing is working even after that, you should have your veterinarian look at your dog to see if there is any medical issue that may be causing the problem.

