Anyone who suffers the symptoms of epilepsy knows all too well that finding adequate treatment for the disorder is crucial to living a relatively normal life. Treatments for epilepsy include medication, surgery and diet. There are alternative approaches as well. After considering the options, patients can try different approaches that appeal to them.

Medication is one of the most common treatments for epilepsy used today. This intervention is not an actual cure for the disorder but it is useful in controlling seizures that accompany the condition. Though this is one of the treatments of epilepsy that is used to address seizures but it isn’t 100 percent effective.

About 20 percent of patients continue to suffer from seizures no matter what interventions are used. The rest of the epileptic population experiences relief from using this intervention in the treatment of epileptic disorder. For this reason, medication is one of the most common treatments for epilepsy used. 

Some individuals have brain surgery to treat the disorder. However, this is one of the treatments for epilepsy that is rarely used. Unlike medication, surgery is used in only a handful of cases. In some cases, doctors can determine a specific area of the brain that is affected. If this area is removed, the condition will most likely improve.

Dietary interventions are treatments for epilepsy that have yielded uneven results. The Ketogenic Diet is used for children who have the disorder and the results have been unpredictable. Adults are not put on the program because there is no evidence that it is useful for mature individuals. 

When diet, surgery and medication are not helpful in treating the condition, many turn to alternative treatments for epilepsy. These interventions can be used independently or to supplement another approach. Complementary approaches include a plethora of new age innovations including guided imagery, relaxation and massage therapy.

In addition to new age treatments for epilepsy are some ancient approaches as well. Acupuncture, chiropractic care and yoga are among the older strategies for treating medical conditions that have stood the test of time but have not been fully embraced by the medical community. 

The unusual treatments for epilepsy should be administered in addition to regular medical interventions determined by the individual’s physician. Approaches that help the patient relax have been shown to be effective in treating the condition. The complementary approaches in addition to medication and regular doctor visits are currently the most effective treatments for epilepsy available until a cure is found. 

