I used to think that owning my own sound studio was beyond me. I have always been a musician, and I also am a big fan of music. I have many friends who play music as well, and have often worked with them to help the master their recordings. The problem is that new audio equipment is so expensive nowadays. Every year, the price goes up. Paradoxically, however, used audio equipment is cheaper than ever. In the last few months, I finally realize my dream. I was able to set up a high end audio studio for less than 5000 dollars. I am happier than I ever have been before!

I actually would not have even investigated used audio equipment, had my car not been broken into. You see, at the time I didn't have money to replace the high end audio gear in my car. I had a great stereo system, as well as killer speakers. All of them were stolen when my car was busted into. I had to replace it all with used audio equipment. I thought I wouldn't be able to afford anything but the basics. As it turns out, however, used audio equipment was cheaper than I imagined. I was able to get all the car audio equipment that I needed for under 400 dollars. I actually have a system that is better than when I started!

I have been saving up money for some time, and when I fixed my car it made me think about using used audio equipment to build my own studio. Building your own studio is easier today than ever. If you have a good computer, you can use it to record on. The problem is that you need a lot of other high end equipment as well. You need microphones, mixers, preamps, amplifiers, and the rest. Fortunately, a good used audio equipment store will stock all of this. You can really find everything that you need. 

When you are buying used audio equipment, however, you have to exercise a good deal of care. You see, some things last longer than others do. If you buy the wrong brands, you may get something that works well at first, but will not last. Even though you do save some money buying used audio equipment, you still will be spending enough that you want to be careful about your money. Otherwise, you could be out a lot of money.