Whether or not you are a meat eater, vegetarian crock pot recipes are one of the healthiest ways that you can eat well and keep the weight off. The best thing about cooking a recipe for the crock pot is that it is so easy. You just simply add a bunch of different ingredients and leave it simmering. That is it. The crock pot cooks all day, and by the time you get home, it is done.

My favorite vegetarian crock pot recipe of all is lentil soup. I love crock pot lentil soup. The thing about soup is that it has to simmer for a long time to mix all the flavors together. You really need to keep it going all day. This is easy if you work at home, but if you don't, you can't watch the soup. It is dangerous to leave the burner on. This is why vegetarian crock pot  is such a good way to cook. It simmers at a very low temperature, carefully regulating the soup. This means that no fires can start. There is no danger about leaving a vegetarian crock pot going all day. One time, I accidentally left my crock pot on for a week while I was out of town. Except for the fact that the crackpot wasted a little bit of electricity, nothing bad happened.

Of course, there are many recipes for crock pot – both vegetarian and omnivorous. Most of the time, I enjoy eating vegetarian low carb crock pot recipes, but this is not always the case. Sometimes I like to splurge on something a bit unhealthy. After all, why not live dangerously? My favorite meat crock pot recipe is beef stew. I simply love making crock pot beef stew. I have never understood how people can make beef stew in the normal way. It takes so much attention to make it on the stove. But in the crock pot, everything cooks so slowly that it is easy. You just leave it going all day, and voilà. You have the most delicious beef stew imaginable.

Once you get good with vegetarian crock pot cooking, you can usually experiment on your own. The first time, however, it can be good to follow a recipe. You can get crock pot recipes all over. They are on the Internet for free. You can also get crock pot cookbooks. There is no shortage of information about how to cook with crockpots. It is really so simple that once you try it, you won't stop!