There are many ways to decorate your home. Every person seems to have there own sense of style. What appeals to one person my not appeal to another. The important thing to keep in mind when you are decorating your home is that you are doing it for you and your family, not to keeps up with trends. Home decoration needs to be comfortable for the people that live in the home. The way a home is designed and decorated should not add stress to your life.

My neighbor is the kind of person that wants to have all the trendiest designs. She buys home improvement magazines, she watches multiple home improvement television shows, and she is constantly changing the décor of her home. Unfortunately she does not have very good taste and she buys the cheapest materials that she can find. As a result her home looks like a deranged designer had a melt down in it. We have lived next to her for five years. In that time she has had seven different wall paper borders in her dining room area. She keeps changing her mind on what theme and color scheme she wants to go with. She will put up wall paper borders and then when she is shopping she will see one that she likes better, so she will buy that one and put it up. 

She was involved in doing a neighborhood drive for the cancer association so she was going to all the homes in the neighborhood asking for pledges. When she came into our house she noticed that I had removed all the wallpaper that was in the kitchen and dining area. The previous owner of our home had hung the wallpaper and I was not fond of it. I explained that I am not a fan of wallpaper. I have never seen a pattern that I would want to live with for any period of time. She suggested that I go with wall paper borders. She said that they are so easy to install that she has two up in her dining room. She asked if I wanted to see them. I was curious to see how she had hung two wall paper borders in one room.

I followed her to her house and could not believe what I was seeing. She had put up wall paper borders along the ceiling as well as at the chair rail. The two wall paper borders did not match each other. They did not have the same theme or color scheme. She said that she could not decide between the two so she thought she would hang both of them. When she gets tired of one she will tear it down. I left her house very glad that I did not have to live there.
