I basically grew up with Walt Disney cartoons. I have been watching them since I was four or five. They are one of the best parts of my childhood. Everyone knows and loves those wonderful Disney characters. There's Goofy, Mickey Mouse, Donald Duck, and all the rest! They've been around forever, and will probably continue to be around for much longer. Let's face it – the Walt Disney cartoon is as American as apple pie.

When I was a kid, I always wanted to go to Disney World. I thought it was a magical place filled with living Disney cartoon characters. What I found wasn't quite that fantastic, but nevertheless I was not disappointed. There are many displays about the history of Walt Disney animation, as well as mascots of all of the Disney characters. There are rides, games, and even parades and fireworks displays. It got me more interested in Walt Disney cartoon animation than I had been before. I even thought about being an animator for a while.

Although Disney still makes good stuff, what I really like is the Walt Disney classic cartoons. Disney pioneered some amazing techniques in animation. I'll never forget the way that the demons looked in Night On bald Mountain, from the movie Fantasia. To this day, I have never seen anything like that Walt Disney cartoon! Not only were there demons, ghouls, and ghosts, but there were hippos dancing with alligators, as well as Mickey Mouse as a sorcerer's apprentice. It really was a fantastic Walt Disney cartoon. I don't think there is anyone from my generation who did not see it as a child.

My love of Disney is so transcendent that I tried to incorporate their animation into my everyday life. I have Walt Disney clip art on my computer, and a giant poster of Mickey Mouse on my wall. It may seem silly to you, but whenever I'm in a bad mood I look at the poster and it always cheers me up right away. It makes me think of childhood, and everyone loves to think of childhood. In fact, just writing this makes me want to go watch a Walt Disney cartoon. I would love to just take off the rest of the day and lose myself in the world of fantasy and imagination! I guess that's the best part of being a kid. You can sit down and watch a Walt Disney cartoon whenever you want to.