Waterproof Make Up

If you are like me, you never know when you might end up crying your eyes out. I know I am perhaps overly emotional, but I do tend to tear up over the silliest things. Some say I have a big heart while others call me a sentimental fool. No matter what the case may be, I do need to wear some waterproof make up when I am away from home. You just never know what is going to happen or when you may need it.

The most common type of waterproof make up is mascara. Most women buy this on occasion, but then throw it away because it is so hard to get off. This is something that makers of waterproof mascara have been working on, however, and some brands actually work better than they used to. Don’t mistake this with smudge proof make up, as that will still run if you cry hard enough. I just found this out the hard way this past summer. Upon the news of a health scare of a friend, my smudge proof smudged right down my face.

The makers of waterproof make up know that mascara is the biggest problem, and I can attest to this. Even if I am not crying, I always end up with mascara smudging all over the place. I have tried the waterproof make up but I always found I pulled out eyelashes when I tried to take it off. They are working on it, and some brands are supposed to flake off on their own without leaving any sort of smudge on your face or hands when it is removed.

There are other types of waterproof make up you can get as well, though they are not as common. I know that I would like to try waterproof eyeliner but I have not been brave enough to try it yet. This would be a great waterproof make up product if it really would work. My eyeliner always either wears off too fast or is all over the place. I don’t know what it is about me, but I am tough on make up. If someone could come up with a waterproof make up that totally performed and was easy to remove, I would be a customer for life. Not only would I be a constant and loyal customer, I would tell everyone I knew to buy it. There are some things that a woman just needs, and make up that does what it is supposed to is one of those things.
