Summer is made for outdoor living and if you happen to be in a place where the sun and warmth only last a few weeks a year you want to get outside as often as you can. There are some essentials that every young family needs when it comes to equipping their yard for the warm weather. If small children are present a swing set will keep them in the fresh air and will provide some exercise too. A wooden picnic table gives them a place to eat their lunch while enjoying the sun.

The type you purchase is going to depend heavily on how handy you are. There are several different styles and you can usually buy them in kits that you build or models that are already made. The wooden picnic table kit tends to be less expensive as you’re going to be doing much of the hard work yourself. If you don’t feel comfortable taking on such a taunting task you can purchase it pre-assembled and even have the wooden picnic table delivered to your home.

Shape is another consideration you’ll have to make. Traditionally they’ve come in one shape which was rectangular. These types of picnic tables are the ones you’ll see readily dotting campgrounds all over the country. Many people choose them because they are generally the least expensive outdoor table. You also have the option, depending on what wood it is made from, to paint it or stain it.

A large circle is a relatively new design in outdoor furniture. The bench that is attached to this type of wooden picnic table comes in two separate pieces. Each stretches half way around the base of the table. This is a great design for small children and also if you are planning on seating more than a few people at the table. It seems to offer more elbow room than its wooden counterpart does. Many people also think it’s more aesthetically pleasing so if that’s a concern you may want to strongly consider this shape.

They last for years if taken care of properly. Even if you aren’t planning on painting or staining the table, you should apply some type of wood protector coat. This will ensure that the wood won’t rot when it’s exposed to rain or snow. Even if the material your wooden picnic table is made from is pressure treated there is a small chance that it can turn green over time, so again, the protection in the form of a coating you apply will help prevent that from occurring.


