For me, one of the most difficult things is making things easy for myself. I always have to feel like I'm working hard, facing challenges that other people don't face. I never take the shortcut. I never even take the road when I can ramble off through the bushes. Sometimes this provides for interesting challenges, but more often it just forces me to go through all kinds of frustrating complications.

This really got in my way when I started doing exercise workout programs. You see, I used to be in shape but that was before I discovered the joys of writing. Now I sit at my computer eight hours every day. Needless to say, I have grown some padding to make the sitting more comfortable. I thought a good workout program was just what I needed. The way I proceeded to go about it, however, made things more difficult.

You see, the easiest way to do workout routines is to take a class. I had several friends who have been doing workout programs for years. They would take martial arts, yoga, Pilates, or aerobics. Some of them would even go dancing. All of these are valid workout programs, but I thought I should go it alone. I didn't want to hire a trainer or take a class. I just wanted to design my own custom workout programs.

Not only did I decide to go it alone when I could've gotten help, but I didn't allow myself to start slowly either. On the contrary, I got right in there. The first day, I almost collapsed. My workout programs goals were outrageous. I was supposed to be running 5 miles a day by the third day. The thing is, I was stubborn enough to try to do it. I knew it was better than any of the other workout programs that my friends used. I knew I would be in good shape within a month.

What I didn't count on was getting hurt. If I had done one of the easier workout programs, this wouldn't have been an issue. It is hard to get hurt doing aerobics, or using a stationary bike. I was doing some serious off-road running, however, as wells mountain biking. The way I was going about my workout programs, it was only a matter of time before I ended up in the hospital. Fitness workout programs that end in broken bones are not the key to good health. Next time I will take it easier.