People are often too ambitious with their fitness workout routines. They will join a gym and immediately come up with grandiose plans about getting in shape. They will decide that, within a week or two, they will be in the best shape of their life. For the first day or two the workout routine will go well, but soon they will burn you out. These unrealistic expectations are the biggest obstacle that anyone taking up a fitness routine has to face. Remember, it is important to push yourself, but it is also important to encourage yourself along the way. If you have unrealistic expectations, you'll never get there.

Unless you are an experienced athlete or have a fitness personal trainer looking after you, your workout routine should start off simple and easy. Easy workout routines get results. The best way to start is with 30 minutes of cardiovascular exercise three times a week. This will get your heart pumping, get your fat burning, and most importantly, get you to the gym. You will not dive into your workout routine too deeply, and as a result you will not burn out early. Then, after a few weeks of this, you can start to upgrade things. You can add some strength training, increase your cardiovascular exercises, or vary them. There are all kinds of things that you can do with your workout routine, but you need to get some momentum behind you. First you should build momentum, then you can build the perfect workout routine.

Honestly, people shouldn't worry about having the perfect workout routine. The thing is, it doesn't really matter that much. If you're training to be a tiptop athlete, you have to be scientific about how you workout. For the rest of us, a basic fitness workout routine works. It doesn't matter if you swim, cycle, jog, run, or do aerobics. All of it will work to keep you in shape. The important thing is that you do something, and that you do it regularly. If you exercise you will live longer. Having the perfect workout routine, however, has no clear benefit over having one that is only so-so. Whether you work out three times a week or four, it will still have the same beneficial effect on your heart. Therefore, the most important thing is to get started. Once you have learned that fitness can actually be enjoyable, it will be much easier to keep going!