Do you like to write? This hobby soon became my passion in college. I actually started to enjoy some of the pieces I was able to write on film. This is the key with writing and everything else in life. Finding the aspect that suits your interests. If you can do that, you will have discovered something special. Soon enough I was taking screenwriting courses and understanding more about the differences between how to construct a screenplay, develop a novel, and write short stories. All can be different and unique in the world of writing. Contrary to what you may have thought, writing fiction is certainly not the same as crafting a script for the big screen. What is your personal forte? 

I write short stories sometimes for mere enjoyment. I can read them to my daughter and she absolutely loves them. I personally prefer to write short stories in the horror and/suspense genre. This always keeps my little girl on the edge of her seat. She can never wait for me to finish the story. Do you ever write short stories? I think this is a wonderful place to begin a writing hobby or career. Now, on the other hand, I definitely prefer to craft screenplays. This is a much more "involved" process if you ask me. When you write and develop your script, you have to write in a different fashion. For example, if you like to write short stories, then you are basically a fiction writer, or I am assuming anyway. I guess you could be constructing stories based on true events; however, I doubt it. Now, when you craft a script, you are only writing what spectators will see on the big screen. You never want to get inside a character's head. This is a major no-no. If they can't see or hear it on the screen, then you should not be writing it. This is why fiction writing is completely different. Stephen King can say whatever he wants, whether it's a thought or memory. It really doesn't matter with fiction because you're the one reading it. Chances are you won't have a copy of the script handy when viewing a film. 

So, are you interested in fiction, screenwriting, or maybe wish to write short stories yet? This is wonderful if your answer is yes. There are a number of great books available now days that can seriously aid you in this process. Get online and you will discover exactly what I mean. Whether your desire is to write short stories or an entire novel, you can get the job done right. 