Reading a good book is incomparable to watching a film or television program. Yeah, yeah, I know what you're thinking. This is a pretty big and bold statement. I'm certain that many agree with me completely, while others are thinking HUH. Well, it's like this; when you watch a TV show or a movie, everything is happening right before your eyes. Not a great deal of imagination is required, because it's all in your face with pictures and sound. However, if you read a book, much is left up to you. The narrative, voice of each character, developing mental images and so forth. The story tends to be visualized in your mind. Therefore you can make it as spooky, gory, and thrilling as you like. The mystery regarding not physically seeing it has this effect on us. Our minds/imaginations go all over the place. Great writers know this. And that's why they develop awesome writing strategies in executing their books. 

When I think of writing, I commonly ponder screenplays. These are what I read and write. Unlike books, scripts only say what's revealed on the screen. You can never get into the mind of a character. You must stick with what can be seen and heard. Obviously this makes the writing strategies of a fiction writer different from those of a screenwriter. They are two separate entities. Just because you write one well, doesn't mean you can write the other. Now, what about writing strategies in general? What makes stories and dialog float out of some people and not out of others? Hmm, this is a bit tricky. However, I wonder if a few of my writing strategies would help clear things up. First of all, I like to be alone in a quiet place. This allows you to really delve into a story. You almost become part of it on another realm, so to speak. My emotions literally change as the story progresses and I feel what the characters feel. Secondly, I feel one of the best writing strategies comes from your personal experience with life. Use things that have actually happened, or steal ideas from events in your real life. This is your best material. Trust me! And finally, just go with it. There's no need to sit and dwell on something. If you don't have the answer, come back to it. 

Okay, so there it is. We all want effective writing strategies to get the job done with ease. Now, there is one last thing to remember. You may not be a superb writer, but that doesn't mean you're not a great re-writer. Drafts are the key to excellence! DON'T forget this!