America is the fattest country in the world and that reputation has started to get to us. Now more than ever Americans are trying to lose weight and get into shape. There is an endless supply of diets and exercise routines, so why are we still so fat? I think that a big part of the equation has to do with our mental health. 

I think that it has a lot do to with stress. Stress causes all kinds of health problems and I believe it makes some people gain weight or hold on to the weight that they already have and are trying to get rid of. If we are truly going to become a healthier country, I believe that we need to focus more on the importance of stress relief. 

One of the best and most popular ways to relieve stress is yoga. Yoga has become wildly popular in this country and the world over. Many people get great results by doing simple yoga exercises regularly and these people also report that a great deal of stress relief comes with the exercise. 

Before you get started there is one very important thing you need to get your hands on – some yoga mats. Yoga mats can be found everywhere now, even at your local K-Mart. They can be very inexpensive so there is no reason not to have an extra one. I keep one in my house for home exercise and one in my car for when I go to the gym. Having two yoga mats just makes it easier on me because I won’t be able to forget to bring one with me or take it back inside the house.

Having your own yoga mats is crucial when it comes to doing yoga. If you do to a yoga class without one you will quickly find that you are the only without one. As I said, you can find very affordable ones all over the place now so you will never have to be without one.

I suppose that I ought to say that you really do need to use yoga mats while doing the exercises. There is a reason that people use them and you should follow their lead. Yoga mats cling to the floor and make it easier for you to hold those crazy positions without shifting or sliding around. I have, on more than one occasion, had to learn this lesson the hard way and I do not recommend it. 

