America is fat. Fat, fat, fat. Are we doing anything about it? Well yes, we are. We are doing a lot. It is just not enough. Even with the multitude of diets and exercise routines out there we, as a nation, are still fat and something needs to change.

I think that a big part of the reason why Americans can’t lose weight and keep it off has to do with stress. We are overworked and tired. We are stressed out beyond our limits and something has to give. I believe that if more Americans did a better job of handling their stress we would be healthier, happier, and, of course, skinnier. 

One of the most enjoyable ways to get a handle on stress is to practice yoga. All you need is a yoga mat and yoga clothes and you are ready to go. Anyone can practice yoga regardless of age, shape, or weight. If you are out of shape and doubt that you could keep up with yoga, think again. There are may different forms of yoga and you can surely find one that suits you and your needs. 

First things first – get your stuff together. As I said, all you need is a yoga mat and yoga clothes. Mats are everywhere and so are the yoga clothes! You can find an entire outfit perfect for practicing yoga at Target these days. You may even be able to find something at Wal-Mart. All you need to look for when shopping for good yoga clothes is comfort.

Yoga clothes have to be comfortable. They need to be stretchy so that they move with your body as you go through the different moves. Look for pants that fit loosely, not tightly. This is not a nightclub or a fashion show. Keep the shape of your thighs to yourself and buy a decent pair of pants.

My favorite yoga clothes are also my favorite lounging clothes. Great yoga clothes can easily be worn as pajamas because they are so comfy. I look for shirts and pants that have long, sleek lines. I also try to get a pant that has a bit of a flair. I cannot say that it helps me practice yoga at all, just chalk it up to personal style. The most important thing is that you are comfortable. Yoga is meant to strengthen the body as well as the mind so get yourself into as peaceful as a place as is possible. You may be amazed at how much a little stress-relieving activity can do for your whole self. 

