Title: 
Winter Park - Winter Wonderland

Word Count:
571

Summary:
Come visit Winter Park, CO and stay at Vacations Inc. while you experience some of the best snow on earth.


Keywords:
Winter Park, CO, Vacations Inc.


Article Body:
As the 2005-2006 ski season unfolds it appears to be heading for the record books.  The snowfall across Colorado has come in welcome piles of powder throughout November and December.  Revenue and smiles are up as visitors pour into Rocky Mountain winter wonderland.  Next up, breaking the season barrier of 12 million skier visits.
 
Winter Park Ski Resort announced that 2005-2006 could become its best season yet.  Winter Park, with its close proximity to Denver, its ski train (www.skitrain.com), and a small town charm is a local’s favorite.  Accommodations in the surrounding area are plentiful, but for a quaint and charming retreat, a rental cabin or condo with fireplace is the perfect choice for a snowy mountain escape.  Vacations Inc (www.vacationsinc.com) specializes in both large and small vacation rentals for Winter Park and The Fraser Valley.   

Winter Park has justifiably gained a reputation for world class skiing and snowboarding, but many vacationers are now in search of unique activities to add to the traditional fare of downhilling.  In order to achieve a more rounded winter vacation experience, the valley has evolved to offer a host of outdoor winter activities both for the skier and non skier alike.

Winter Park Ski Resort is 3000 acres of greens, blues, and blacks, both groomed and knee deep in the white stuff.  Winter Park is one of Colorado’s premier resorts and is most easily accessible from Denver and the airport.  Cross country skiing is also popular in Winter Park with over 260 kilometers of groomed trails. The Fraser Valley offers a wide variety of choices for skating, classic or venturing off the track.  

Numerous companies throughout the valley specialize in snowmobile rentals and provide maps, grooming information, and guided tours. The snowmobile tour offered by Grand Adventures (www.grandadventures.com), which aside from being an exhilarating ride to the top of the Continental Divide and back, follows the historic “Moffat” railroad route that trains had to use up until 78 years ago when the tunnel through the mountains was completed. 

Sleigh rides are a romantic way to enjoy a starlit evening in Fraser Valley.  For the animal lover, Dog Sled Rides offer a thrilling journey through Winter Park's beautiful backcountry.  Snow tubing is an exhilarating ride down the slopes and is a wonderful activity for both kids and adults alike.  

After a long day in the cold, hot mineral baths are great for getting rid of a chill.  Located about 30 minutes from Winter Park, the hot mineral pools and baths once used by the Ute Indians for their healing powers are newly renovated.  Brian Lence, Vice President of Sales and Marketing for Vacations Inc described the pools as the “ultimate unique experience… imagine yourself relaxing in a 112°natural mineral pool, looking out across the Grand County snow-laden vistas of rivers, meadows and mountains, and right in front of you along comes a coal train or the Amtrak California Zephyr to provide the sound effects.  It doesn’t get more unique than that!”

For those who prefer to remain indoors, Winter Park offers quaint shops of all types and numerous dining locales, both fine and not-so-fine.  Also, the ski train provides an escape to the city lights of Denver’s downtown for the urban minded.

This season is breaking snowfall records.  Winter Park, Colorado’s winter wonderland is your escape.  Come enjoy the powder. 

Visit www.vacationsinc.com for Winter Park activities and vacation rental information.


