Title: 
Adding Almonds May Let You Reign In Spain

Word Count:
279

Summary:
Adding sliced almonds can give any dish a Mediterranean accent and may also win you a trip to sunny Spain.


Keywords:
Adding Almonds May Let You Reign In Spain


Article Body:
For many, warmer weather means eating lighter and healthier. Here's a quick, new recipe for a Summer Delight Salad. The sliced almonds help to give it a Mediterranean accent.


Summer Delight Salad


3/4 cup Sunkist® Almond Accents® Honey Roasted sliced almonds

8 cups torn spinach or mixed greens

1 (5-oz.) pkg. yellow teardrop tomatoes

1 cup quartered fresh strawberries

1/3 cup sliced red onion

1/2 cup crumbled blue cheese

raspberry vinaigrette dressing


In large bowl, toss half the Sunkist® Almond Accents® Honey Roasted sliced almonds and the next 4 ingredients. Arrange onto salad plates; top with blue cheese and remaining Sunkist® Almond Accents® Honey Roasted sliced almonds. Drizzle desired amount of dressing over salad.

Makes 4 to 6 salads.

Preparation Time: 10 min. 

Almonds are nutrient dense, vitamin rich and have long been used to add flavor and crunch to dishes from different parts of the Mediterranean. Sunkist® Almond Accents® are dry roasted with no added oil and have no cholesterol, no saturated fat, and just 1-2 grams of carbohydrates per serving. And now, using almonds in any dish may earn five lucky contestants a trip to Spain.

A Culinary Adventure

A seven-day, six-night epicurean adventure for two to Barcelona, including round-trip airfare, hotel, optional cooking lessons, food and wine tastings, excursions to wineries and local food producers and guided tours of historic sites, is the grand prize in a contest that celebrates the variety, flavor and health benefits that dishes that use almonds have to offer. 

A Slice Of Spanish Flavor

Sunkist® Almond Accents® will send five grand-prize winners of its Barcelona Culinary Sweepstakes on the all-expenses-paid trip for two to Barcelona, Spain.

Two hundred first prizes, consisting of a set of hand-painted, hand-thrown dishes, will also be awarded.


