Title: 
Cooking In Lapland:  The New Tundra Grill

Word Count:
322

Summary:
To offset any confusion, we are not talking about a grill for the Toyota Tundra but the powerful new Tundra Grill from Hammacher Schlemmer, built to withstand the elements and burn a variety of fuels including wood, charcoal, pinecones and brushwood, as well as cook all kinds of meat, poultry, fish and pretty much anything else you want to throw on, within reason. With the Tundras 37 inch diameter basin you are not limited to one type of cooking method either; you can grill, ...


Keywords:
food, cooking, grill, grilling, bbq, barbecue, home decor, home, garden


Article Body:
To offset any confusion, we are not talking about a grill for the Toyota Tundra but the powerful new Tundra Grill from Hammacher Schlemmer, built to withstand the elements and burn a variety of fuels including wood, charcoal, pinecones and brushwood, as well as cook all kinds of meat, poultry, fish and pretty much anything else you want to throw on, within reason. With the Tundras 37 inch diameter basin you are not limited to one type of cooking method either; you can grill, broil, simmer, fry, smoke and bake.

The options do not end there is the Tundra Grill comes equipped with a grill rack, skewers, and three swing-out skillets for frying eggs, simmering sauces, or even baking bread Dutch-oven style. No need to fret about your steak not coming out just the way you like it; the skillet, skewer, and rack height are adjustable for precise flame proximity. You will be able to cook for an entire dinner party or family gathering all at once, with space for two whole fish, three whole chickens, and six steaks. Want a cup of hot coffee or soup on a brisk morning or chilly evening? No problem; put on a cast-iron kettle for coffee or stock pot for soup.

The Tundra Grill is built to last, justifying its price tag. Whether you are cooking out in your backyard or braving the tundra, this grill has all the features and equipment to accommodate. The Tundra comes with a stainless smoke hood to induce draft in a gazebo or lean-to, or to keep out the rain so nasty weather will not thwart dinner plans. The Grill is wind deflector also helps make outdoor cooking a cinch. Zinc-coated steel shrugs off anything Mother Nature dishes out, while Birchwood handles allows for safe skillet use. Worried about messy ash clean up? The Tundra has got you covered,the Grills ash box and scoop makes for one-step ash disposal.


