Title: 
How to prepare pumpkin seeds

Word Count:
407

Summary:
There are always plenty of pumpkins to carve up around and after Halloween time and a great way to make use of the seeds is eat them.


Keywords:
pumkin seeds


Article Body:
Here are some good recipes for preparing pumpkin seeds for eating...and what a treat they are!

If they are toasted and salted properly they are wonderfully crunchy and easy to eat. It helps if you are going to eat them with the shells on if you use seeds from sugar pumpkins, somewhat smaller than the mega-sized carving pumpkins (not really pumpkins but large squash). The trick? Boil the seeds in salted water first, and then toast them in the oven. Recipes on how to make pumpkin seeds.

One medium sized pumpkin

Salt

Olive oil

1 Preheat oven to 400°F. Cut open the pumpkin and use a strong metal spoon to scoop out the insides. Separate the seeds from the stringy core. Rinse the seeds.

2 In a small saucepan, add the seeds to water, about 2 cups of water to every half cup of seeds. Add a tablespoon of salt for every cup of water. Bring to a boil. Let simmer for 10 minutes. Remove from heat and drain.

3 Spread about a tablespoon of olive oil over the bottom of a cookie sheet, or spray well with Pam or that type of product. Spread the seeds out over the cookie sheet, all in one layer. Bake on the top rack for 20 minutes or until the seeds begin to brown. When browned to your satisfaction, remove from the oven and let the pan cool on a rack. Let the seeds cool all the way down before eating. Either crack to remove the inner seed (a lot of unnecessary work} or eat whole (which is the way most people enjoy them).

Another great way how to make pumpkin seeds is to use is to use them as a crust or coating.

Roast ½ cup pumpkin seeds with 4 clove garlic
Process and add T. oil and 2T bread crumbs.
Use for fish, chicken, lamb etc.

Pumpkin seeds offer many potential health benefits! According to many people, In addition to tasting great, they may also be used to help treat parasitic infections, depression, enlarged prostate, and urinary tract problems. Please note:  None of these benefits have been scientifically tested or proven.  It's just that the nutritional aspects of pumpkin seeds have been analyzed and have been determined to be beneficial.  Pumpkin seeds are high in vitamin A, protein, essential fatty acids, amino acids, calcium, iron, and fiber. It's easy to make this nutritious snack. 

Whichever way you decide how to make pumpkin seeds, enjoy them!


