Title: 
How to Satisfy Summer Time Fresh Tomato Cravings Today

Word Count:
350

Summary:
Snow is falling. Cravings are persistent and lead to more intense desires for the fresh taste of summer time tomatoes. What do you do?


Keywords:
Fresh Tomato,vine ripe tomatoes,ripen,canned tomatoes,diced tomatoes,homemade tomato salsa


Article Body:
Disappointment reigns heavily when it comes to out of season tomatoes. Yes, summer is over as the harsh freezing cold temperatures blanket the entire North American continent and we are missing, craving more than likely, the incredible taste of vine ripe tomatoes straight from the garden.  Perfectly picked at their peek of freshness and aromatic fragrance.

Sure you try the produce market at you local grocery looking for bright red tomatoes that give a little to the touch but don't feel mushy. Your journey is unsuccessful instead you settle for the less than perfect specimen, pale and still a little green in color. Your hope is it will ripen at room temperature on the kitchen counter and be ready to use in a couple of days. Disappointment follows it has no taste whatsoever.

Cravings are persistent and lead to more intense desires for the fresh taste of summer time tomatoes.

Ouch, did you hear the weather report? Several more days of below freezing temperatures are ahead with no end in sight.

Capt'n Salsa has a simple and acceptable solution for you. Considering the snow covered garden out the back window and your cravings are growing more intense each day it is time to reach for the "canned tomatoes". 

Hey hear me out just a minute, okay? 

Canned tomatoes, yes whole canned tomatoes are the closest tasting to fresh tomatoes you can find. Look for whole tomatoes packed in juice not the sauce or the puree for the best taste. The whole canned tomatoes can easily be chopped or even added whole during cooking to most of your favorite recipes. Actually, go ahead and use the diced canned tomatoes again grabbing the ones packed in juice.

Diced tomatoes are coarsely chopped during the canning process saving you a lot of time and of course the messy cleanup of chopping canned whole tomatoes. Add them right out of the can to your favorite sauces, soups and pasta dishes, using them just as you would your fresh garden tomatoes.

Homemade tomato salsa? 

Sure, just remember to drain the juice first reserving it for a special "Bloody Mary" later.


