Title: 
How Much Propane Is In Your Tank?

Word Count:
313

Summary:
Propane tanks used to be included in the purchase of a gas grill. Not anymore. As a result, propane tanks have gone high-tech, and you may want to pay attention when shopping for a new cylinder.


Keywords:
How Much Propane Is In Your Tank?


Article Body:
Propane tanks used to be included in the purchase of a gas grill. Not anymore. 

As a result, propane tanks have gone high-tech, and you may want to pay attention when shopping for a new cylinder. 

One of the new tanks on the market now actually lets you see the level of gas left in it. The Lite Cylinder is made from a translucent composite material that makes it easy to see how much liquid propane (LP) is remaining in the tank--which means there's no longer an excuse for running out of gas while hungry diners wait in frustration for dinner to finish cooking. 

Another big difference is that the 20-pound LP cylinder weighs about 30 percent less than a traditional steel cylinder. 

The casing around the tank is made from molded plastic, which also contributes to the decreased weight. With many more women barbecuing today and millions of aging baby boomers still barbecuing, this lighter cylinder is sure to be popular. The casing is offered in a number of colors, lending a designer touch to every backyard. The cylinder is available currently in beechwood, red, blue and yellow. Unlike steel, it is corrosion-and rust-free. It is also low maintenance because the exterior can be cleaned readily with soap and water. 

In January 2006, Good Housekeeping recognized The Lite Cylinder with one of eight of its 11th Annual Good Buy Awards given to new household products that solve common problems and are excellent values. It noted that this composite cylinder is easy to fill, easy to attach to a grill and easy to handle due to its light weight. A Good Housekeeping editor who demonstrated some of the winning products subsequently featured it on "Good Morning America." 

Now when it's time to select a propane cylinder for the new grill -or even a patio heater or mosquito trap-you have more options than ever before.


