Title: 
Lavender Essential Oil – Recipe Ideas For The Handmade Cosmetic Crafter

Word Count:
330

Summary:
When it comes to manufacturing handmade cosmetics one ingredient no crafter should be without is lavender essential oil. Lavender essential oil (Lavandula angustifolia) posses antibacterial proprieties, is gentle to both dry and oily skin, and has the ability to relieve such conditions as muscle pain, insomnia, headaches, burns, bug bites, eczema, psoriasis, and acne making it the most versatile of essential oils. It is also one of the few essential oils that can be used as a...


Keywords:
lavender, soap, bath, body, tea tree, jojoba, oil, oils, salves, ointments, recipe, bath salt, rose


Article Body:
When it comes to manufacturing handmade cosmetics one ingredient no crafter should be without is lavender essential oil. Lavender essential oil (Lavandula angustifolia) posses antibacterial proprieties, is gentle to both dry and oily skin, and has the ability to relieve such conditions as muscle pain, insomnia, headaches, burns, bug bites, eczema, psoriasis, and acne making it the most versatile of essential oils. It is also one of the few essential oils that can be used as a middle or top note in perfume due to its fresh, floral smell and affordable price.

Here are a few recipe ideas for using lavender in handmade cosmetics:

Salves, Ointments, and Balms: Lavender blended with neem seed oil or comfrey root powder produces a salve that soothes itching caused by insect bites, bruises, burns, and even diaper rash. Add cinnamon and clove for a pain relieving muscle rub ointment. Use lavender by itself as a gardener’s salve to help chapped hands or as a temple balm to aid in falling asleep and to quell headaches.

Hair Care Products: Blend lavender with apple cider vinegar and nettle herbs for a normal-to-dry hair rinse. You can also try combing rosemary, peppermint, and lavender essential oils along with jojoba and oat extract, which produce a very effective scalp oil treatment.

Bath and Body Care Products: Add lavender to toners, facial creams, and body lotions to combat acne or dry skin conditions. Lavender essential oil combined with dried lavender buds, dead sea salt, Epsom salt, and powdered milk make for a lovely bath salt recipe. Blend jojoba with rose geranium, lavender, sandalwood, and vanilla for a sweet and sexy feminine perfume oil.

Soaps: Try adding tea tree and lavender essential oils to opaque melt and pour soap base along with pumice (sprinkled at the bottom of your soap mold) for a deodorizing and exfoliating soap bar.

A word of caution, due to their volatility, research any essential oil, and always do a skin patch test before use.


