Title: 
Mongolian Hot Pot - More Uses For Your Fondue Pot

Word Count:
505

Summary:
As much as you love your fondue pot, you can’t dunk bread cubes into hot melted cheese every night. On those nights when you need a break from cheese fondue, why not use the fondue pot for something else. Mongolian Hot Pot is a great meal that can be cooked in an electric fondue pot.

It is said that Mongolian Hot Pot was originated by the ancient Mongols who would cook their food in boiling water. They would season the water with the dry spices that they carried along with...


Keywords:
Mongolian Hot Pot, fondue


Article Body:
As much as you love your fondue pot, you can’t dunk bread cubes into hot melted cheese every night. On those nights when you need a break from cheese fondue, why not use the fondue pot for something else. Mongolian Hot Pot is a great meal that can be cooked in an electric fondue pot.

It is said that Mongolian Hot Pot was originated by the ancient Mongols who would cook their food in boiling water. They would season the water with the dry spices that they carried along with them on their many journeys and battles. Those Mongols probably would not recognize this Mongolian Hot Pot recipe but it's easy to make and delicious.

To make Mongolian Hot Pot you'll need a to fill your fondue pot with broth. Usually beef broth is used but you can substitute chicken or other broths for variety. Using your fondue forks you skewer meats and vegetables and cook them right at the table. Like fondue, this is a great meal for small dinner parties. All the of preparations such as cleaning and cutting the vegetables and meat into bite sized pieces, can be done before hand.

You'll need at least three dipping sauces to offer your guests some variety. Any less than that will become monotonous.

The vegetables and meat add flavor the broth while cooking in it. At the end of your meal you can add noodles or rice and serve it to your guests in a bowl. This after dinner soup is a special treat that your guests will remember and look forward to at future dinner parties.

Mongolian Hot Pot Recipe

Broth:
5 cups Beef Broth
2 Green Onions (chopped)
2 Garlic Cloves (minced)
About 5 Shiitake Mushrooms (chopped)
2 tablespoons Cilantro (chopped)
2 tablespoons Ginger Root (minced)
2 tablespoons Soy Sauce

Vegetable Platter:
8 Bok Choy leaves (cut into strips)
2 ounce Spinach leaves (cut into strips)
1 – 8 ounce Can Bamboo Shoots (drained)
2 Green Onions (chopped)
1 cup Broccoli Florets
4 ounce Egg Noodles (cooked)

Meat Platter
1 pound Beef Tenderloin (sliced into thin strips)

Arrange vegetable platter before guests arrive
Bring Beef Broth to a boil
Add Green Onions, Garlic, Mushrooms, Cilantro, Ginger and Soy Sauce Simmer for 15 minutes
Spear beef strips with fondue forks and cook in broth for 3-5 minutes
Spear vegetable strips and cook until tender
Dip cooked beef and vegetables into desired sauces

When all the meat has been eaten:
Add cooked Egg Noodles to broth
Add remaining vegetables to broth
Simmer for about 5 minutes
Serve portion to each guest in a bowl

Dipping Sauce Recipes

Sesame Sauce
2 tablespoons White Sesame Seeds
1/3 cup Soy Sauce
2 tablespoons Green Onion (chopped)
1 tablespoon Cider Vinegar
2 teaspoons Ginger (finely chopped)
1 teaspoon Water

Brown Sesame Seeds in frying pan or skillet
Chop Browned Seeds and a few drops of soy in food processor on high
Add rest of the ingredients and mix

Soy Wasabi Sauce
2 ounce Soy Sauce
2 tablespoons Wasabi

Mix until smooth

Spicy Oriental Sauce
2 tablespoons Soy Sauce
1.5 tablespoons Lemon Juice
2 Green Chili Peppers (chopped)
1 clove Garlic
2 teaspoon Sesame Oil

Add all ingredients and mix


