Title: 
Planning Helps Make A Party Perfect. Keep dinner simple. Heat frozen vegetables and precooked smoked sausage together for a complete meal.

Word Count:
285

Summary:
Whether you're celebrating an anniversary, a birthday, graduation, a holiday or the start of your favorite sports season, entertaining can be quick, simple affordable and fun if you plan ahead.


Keywords:
Planning Helps Make A Party Perfect. Keep dinner simple. Heat frozen vegetables and precooked smoked sausage together for a complete meal.


Article Body:
Parties and family gatherings are popular this time of year. Whether you're celebrating an anniversary, a birthday, graduation, a holiday or the start of your favorite sport's season, entertaining can be quick, simple, affordable and fun if you plan ahead.

&#8226; Stock your pantry, refrigerator and freezer with essentials such as precooked, hearty smoked sausage, assorted frozen, refrigerated or boxed side dishes, a variety of vegetables (frozen, fresh or canned), canned or refrigerated soups, and grated cheese for delicious meals in minutes. 

&#8226; Choose recipes you can prepare ahead to spend more time with guests.

&#8226; Last-minute party? Quick and easy solutions are available to help you have dinner in about 30 minutes, including: 

&#8722; Prepare your favorite seasoned rice mix, then add sliced smoked sausage. Heat through for dinner in 30 minutes.

&#8722; Serve smoked sausage alongside refrigerated mashed potatoes for a quick meal solution.

&#8722; Add sliced smoked sausage to a quick stuffing mix and pair with frozen vegetables.

&#8722; Stir sliced smoked sausage into prepared macaroni and cheese, then heat through for a one-pot meal that's quick, satisfying, delicious and minimizes cleanup time, too.

&#8722; Add sliced smoked sausage to a jar of your favorite pasta sauce and heat through. Serve over any cooked pasta and enjoy.

If you plan to serve dinner, choose a recipe that is a one-dish meal such as Sausage Skillet Dinner.

Smoked Sausage Skillet Dinner

1 (1-lb.) pkg. Hillshire Farm Polska Kielbasa, sliced 1/4" thick

1 (28-oz.) bag frozen diced, sliced potatoes

1 (16-oz.) bag frozen mixed vegetables

2 Tbsp. cooking oil

1/4 cup shredded cheddar cheese 

Place oil in skillet with potatoes and vegetables, cover and cook 6-8 minutes. Add the sliced Hillshire Farm Polksa Kielbasa to the skillet and cover and cook 8-10 minutes. Mix in cheddar cheese and serve. 

Serving size: 4-6 servings


