Title: 
Raining Outside? Try Indoor Barbecuing!

Word Count:
474

Summary:
Yes, there is such a thing as indoor barbecuing. But hey, indoor barbecuing doesn't mean using your ever-reliable wood or gas grill. First of all, that's illegal in most places because it's a major fire hazard. Second, it could kill you since these types of grills produce large amounts of carbon monoxide. What you need to know is that there are two basic types of indoor grills – the open grill and the folding contact grill.

Indoor Barbecuing 101

An open grill is pretty ...


Keywords:
bbq,barbecue,barbeque,grilling,cooking,food,gourmet,


Article Body:
Yes, there is such a thing as indoor barbecuing. But hey, indoor barbecuing doesn't mean using your ever-reliable wood or gas grill. First of all, that's illegal in most places because it's a major fire hazard. Second, it could kill you since these types of grills produce large amounts of carbon monoxide. What you need to know is that there are two basic types of indoor grills – the open grill and the folding contact grill.

Indoor Barbecuing 101

An open grill is pretty much like the electric version of the wood/gas grill. It provides you with the outdoor barbecuing feel as you occasionally turn the meat while cooking and even produces flavor closer to the outdoor variety. . On the other hand, the folding contact grill works much like a panini press or sandwich maker. (Such as the George Foreman Grill). The upside to using this kind of indoor barbecuing grill is that is cooks your food faster as it simultaneously cooks both sides. Thus, it doesn't require turning so you can do other things while grilling at the same time.

The George Foreman Grill is an electric grill which has non-stick grill surface, grooved to give those desirable “grill marks” on food and a cover which has the same type of grooved surface.

Food is placed on the grill and the cover is closed on top of it, enabling the grilling of food from both sides at once – cutting the normal grilling time in half. The grill is built with a “tilt” toward the front and a plastic dish is place under the front end so that fat can draw off away from the food. This is considered a low-fat feature. It also helps with the ease of cleaning in which George markets as one of the most important features of the grill.

The George Foreman also cooks food more evenly because the surface maintains a constant temperature that's easy to control, so you won't get hot spots or flare-ups. You should never use an extension cord with any electric grill, and always use an outlet with a ground fault circuit interrupter.

The George Foreman Grill currently comes in nine versions and prices range from $19.99 to $99.99

However, as we always say, equipment is just one aspect of producing amazing barbecue dishes. Though it's true that using an indoor barbecuing grill means none of that smoky flavor, which only wood or coal can deliver, there's definitely more to barbecue taste than smoky flavor. There are a variety of rich, bold flavors that characterize a good barbecue dish and these you can definitely get from a good marinade, dry rub or barbecue sauce. If you're looking for the greatest ones with the richest and boldest flavors, visit InsaneChicken.com and check out their wide selection of products, which can be delivered right to your very doorstep.


