Title: 
Tips For Making Homemade Bread

Word Count:
344

Summary:
Tips For Making Homemade Bread
There is nothing like homemade bread. Whether banana, pumpkin, white or whole wheat, the smell of a fresh, hot loaf can't be beat.


Keywords:
homemade bread,bread,making bread,bread machine,banana bread,white bread,whole wheat bread


Article Body:
There is nothing like homemade bread. Whether banana, pumpkin, white or whole wheat, the smell of a fresh, hot loaf can't be beat.

There are many reasons why you would want to make your own bread. If you have good pumpkin bread recipes or banana bread recipes, you can make a nice dessert or have a quick snack for the kids on hand at all times.
Baking your own white or wheat bread can help you save money on your grocery bill. Eating whole wheat bread will keep you healthier and may even help you lose weight. 

You may want to consider supplying your family with homemade wheat bread all the time. The health benefits are many, especially if you are going to use fresh ground wheat. Eating a slice of bread made with fresh ground wheat is like taking a shot of vitamins.

What Is Wheat And Why Would You Want To Use It? 

Wheat is the world’s most important grain crop and ranks first among the grains for its nutritional value. When used in its entirety, wheat is an excellent source of fiber and many critical B-vitamins.WheatB-vitamins. Wheat germ is one of the richest sources of vitamin E if used when freshly milled, before oxidation takes place. 

The richest source of Vitamin E is found in the germ of the wheat kernel. Milled wheat loses its Vitamin E very quickly due to oxidization. This is the reason why the bread we buy really has nothing of value for us. It has been stripped of the vitamins provided in the wheat. Within about 72 hours of milling, 90% of over 30 nutrients are gone.

Families usually enjoy better health once they start baking bread with fresh ground wheat including significant improvements in sinus conditions, runny noses and colds. There have also been reports of reduced cholesterol counts, warts disappearing, acne clearing and a host of other wonderful benefits. Of course there are the obvious benefits of adding more fiber to your diet, but remember to drink a lot of water when you increase fiber.


