Title: 
What’s So Great About A George Foreman Grill?

Word Count:
361

Summary:
When he entered the cooking appliance market, George Foreman ended up delivering a knockout punch in terms of sales. A number of people—whether they’re seasoned chefs or novice cooks—rave about the George Foreman grill. Still, you may be wondering what’s so special about this popular product.

Some consumers say the Foreman grill is the best “as seen on TV” product ever produced. In large measure, this is because the meat cooked on this machine is spectacular in taste. As o...


Keywords:
george foreman grills,grills,outdoor grills,indoor grills,electric grills


Article Body:
When he entered the cooking appliance market, George Foreman ended up delivering a knockout punch in terms of sales. A number of people—whether they’re seasoned chefs or novice cooks—rave about the George Foreman grill. Still, you may be wondering what’s so special about this popular product.

Some consumers say the Foreman grill is the best “as seen on TV” product ever produced. In large measure, this is because the meat cooked on this machine is spectacular in taste. As one fan put it, “Words cannot describe how good (it is)…”  The grill is also particularly effective at draining fat from meat. There seems to be little doubt that the Foreman grill “cuts the fat” from food. In addition, the grill is quite easy to clean—you simply wipe the surface with a soft cloth or sponge dipped in water, then place the drip tray in the dishwasher.

Cooks say the smaller version of Foreman’s Lean Mean Fat-Reducing Grilling Machine is terrific for preparing fast, low-fat meals—particularly for couples or single people. The double-sided grilling surface can heat in less than five minutes, which makes the grill convenient for today’s busy lifestyles. The grill’s high grooves permit fat to run off as the meat cooks. A plastic, grooved spatula can scrape off bits of fat that tend to get stuck to the surface of the grill.

However, the George Foreman is not just for hamburgers and chicken. You can also use it for cooking vegetables and tofu dogs. Since the grill is double-sided, the food cooks twice as fast. In addition, the grill creates little smoke, so it’s environmentally-friendly as well.

Nutritionists say that the George Foreman also offers significant health benefits. By eliminating the customary pool of grease, the grill produces lean meat that is much more nutritious. As a result, the George Foreman offers a way to create heart-healthy meals.

Because of the speed with which the grill cooks, you’ll end up spending less time in the kitchen. That means you can devote more time to your family and friends. And isn’t that what entertaining should really be about?


