Title: 
Which Grill Should You Buy, Charcoal Or Gas?

Word Count:
509

Summary:
If you are considering purchasing a new grill, or barbecue, you will be faced with a multitude of options to choose between. However, there is one choice which you will need to make fairly quickly in your quest for the perfect grill for you. That decision is whether to buy a charcoal or gas grill.

Both charcoal and gas grills have advantages over each other depending on what you are looking for and how you intend to use it. However, the good news is that they both produce ...


Keywords:
barbcue, barbecue, grills, outdoor grills


Article Body:
If you are considering purchasing a new grill, or barbecue, you will be faced with a multitude of options to choose between. However, there is one choice which you will need to make fairly quickly in your quest for the perfect grill for you. That decision is whether to buy a charcoal or gas grill.

Both charcoal and gas grills have advantages over each other depending on what you are looking for and how you intend to use it. However, the good news is that they both produce food which has been found to have very little difference in taste. Whether you choose the gas or charcoal version you can rest assured that they will both have the capability to produce great tasting fare.

For many, a barbecue is not a proper barbecue if it does not involve cooking over hot coals. This can take a long time to be at the optimum cooking temperature and can be difficult to master, and in addition there are ashes to be dealt with once the cooking is over. However, the primal instinct in many people (particularly men!) makes the charcoal grill appeal to them as they are required to start and tend the fire for the duration of the time for which they are cooking. In addition, many feel that cooking over coals gives the food a distinctive taste and smell which you do not get with a gas grill. However, as mentioned previously, this has not been found to be the case.

A gas grill can make life less complicated. The flames are produced at the touch of a button and the temperature can be controlled at the turn of a knob. This is more like cooking over a traditional kitchen cooker, only outside. A gas grill also removes the debris once the cooking is over as there are no coals to clean up.

As you can see, both types of grill have their advantages. However, it is important to think about your use of your grill before making your decision. If you plan to use it infrequently you may prefer a charcoal grill as they are less costly. A gas grill will cost more to buy, but if you are going to use it regularly it will become more efficient over time. For the newcomer to the grill, a charcoal grill may be the most sensible option. If you find you are using it a lot and it is becoming expensive to buy new coals you will then have the opportunity to upgrade to a gas barbecue if you wish. If you splash out for a gas grill immediately you may find that if you use it infrequently it will be an unnecessary expense that you need not have made.

Whichever you choose, there is little between the two types of grill in terms of the quality of the food cooked on them. Make your decision wisely and your grill is sure to be enjoyed on many occasions over time and makes a great addition to any summer evening.


