Title: 
Why is It I Can Never Think Of Anything "Good" To Make For Supper?

Word Count:
316

Summary:
If you find yourself trying to come up with something for supper every night then check out this quick solution to get inspired when making meals for your family.


Keywords:
meal ideas,side dishes,cooking supper,making meals,quick,meal,idea,ideas,family,good,supper,


Article Body:
Okay, now I need to ask do you find yourself making the same meals over and over and over?  It seems like I get in a rut and fix the same foods on a rotating scale.  Granted I have picky eaters in my family but not that picky.
 
I decided to do something about it.  After reflecting on it for awhile I discovered the biggest problem with cooking supper was deciding what to make so I got out a notebook and started writing down meal ideas complete with side dishes.  I even asked friends and family occasionally what they were having for dinner to get more ideas.
 
I had my daughter give me ideas too for her favorite meal choices and side dishes.  She did a good job of coming up with things I hadn't even made in a long time.  I found that asking her when she was hungry seemed to help her creative juices come up with more ideas.
 
Now each week I have my little notebook of meal ideas and I decide on 8 of them and go shopping for the ingredients to make them.  I then make a list and put it on the board of the 8 different menu choices and cross them off as I make them.
 
At the end of the week there is always one meal left over, I often find I didn't make it because someone doesn't like it much or it takes too long to prepare.  I then make a little note in my notebook saying cook this when so and so won't be home, or only put this on the supper list when you know you have time to make it.
 
I find I don't dread cooking supper nearly as much, I have eliminated the quick run to the grocery store before making supper, and have made my life much simpler when it comes to cooking supper.


