car painting

You can learn a lot by watching someone do their job. Often, there is more involved than you could imagine. I knew someone once who made a living doing car painting, and while I had no idea what was involved, I was surprised about how much money he made for each car or truck he painted. He was often sloppy in other areas of life, but when it came to his work, he did such good job that people came from all over just to have him do their vehicle. They always knew they were getting amazing work and attention to detail, and that was all that counted.

I went to work with him one day because he was near friends of mine. I stuck around for a little while to watch him do his car painting. Though he seemed to be fast at what he was doing, you could see the love in each detail and each move that he made. He took his car painting seriously, and that probably came from his love of the automobile. The care he took in marking off the parts of the car before painting was astounding in detail, even though he was extremely efficient with his motions.

Car painting can be expensive, but if you don’t want to spend very much, you may have to deal with the job that you get. Some are good, but you want to find someone like my friend who took pride in the car painting job. The difference will be noticeable. Some specialize in regular painting, meaning, you can get your vehicle in a new color, and others can add details. If you want flames on your car, there is someone out there that can do that for you.

Finding someone for car painting is often not that hard, but the best way to find someone good is to go by word of mouth. Ask around for recommendations, and see which names come up the most. Car painting is a lot like cutting hair or painting a portrait. Some are just gifted and have a love of what they do, and their work will stand out above others. Be sure to ask for details about how many coats you can get, what colors they have access to, and what to expect. Good painters may have a long list of people in line in front of you, but that just tells you that they are good at what they do. 