cat litter box

When you have a cat, there are many things that can be wrong with them that might not be apparent to you right away. You would naturally take your pet into the veterinarian’s office if they suddenly had no energy or were throwing up excessively all over your house. If your pet has a seizure, you know to take them in right away as well. However, some things are harder to see, and you may not know something is wrong unless you take a good look at the cat litter box.

Most think to change or scoop the cat litter box each day and then they are done with it. However, taking a closer look can mean a difference in the health of your pet. No one wants to sift through what is in there, but for the sake of your pet, this is something you should think about once in a while. There are clues in there that can signal a medical problem that can not be ignored. You should also pay attention to how much your pet uses the cat litter box, though that can sometimes be hard.

When a pet is sick, they may or may not leave obvious clues. However, if they have always been good about using the cat litter box, and you suddenly notice that they are not, they could be very ill. They may have a painful urinary tract infection, or a bowel obstruction. Both of these are very serious. They may be avoiding the cat litter box because they are associating using it with the pain they are feeling. If the box seems to be emptier than usual, or you are finding accidents, call your veterinarian to take your cat in for a closer look.

No one wants to have a close look at a cat’s stool, but if your cat has worms, they could be getting very sick. These are often evident if you look in the cat litter box. The worms may not be visible at all times, but if you keep a good eye on things, they will show up eventually. They are often small and white, and can mean your cat is not getting the nutrition they need. If you suspect that is a problem, make an appointment and take a sample from the cat litter box in with you when you go. It’s not fun, but it may mean a world of difference in the health of your companion.