Those of us that are middle age have a much harder time adjusting to all the new electronic equipment that is available. On a consistent basis I am having my children show me how to work some gadget or another. My husband is even worse. He insists that he needs and wants a cell phone, however he is constantly forgetting it at home and leaving it places. We have had to stop service on two phones so that someone else would not find it and start racking up a huge bill.

For father’s day our children were asking me what to get him as a gift. I told them that if they could find some type of cell phone case that he could keep track of it would be a great gift. They were concerned that if he had the cell phone in a case he would not be able to get to calls in time. I told them that at this point when he was losing the phone and leaving it behind at home he was not getting calls anyway. They agreed that I had a point and they said that they would look for some kind of device or cell phone case that would help him out. 

On fathers day we met at one of my husband’s favorite spots for Sunday brunch. The cafe sits on a cliff over looking a huge lake. The cafe is at the edge of a state forest so there are not any buildings that can be seen in the view. Our children have enjoyed coming here their entire lives so it is always the place we pick for a special family gathering. The brunch was wonderful as always. When we brought out the father day presents my husband was excited. He is still like a kid when it comes to getting gifts. When he opened the package from the children he pulled out a cell phone case and also a cord that had clips on either end. The cords clip to the cell phone case as well as to your pant loop so that the phone is attached to you. He thought this was quite clever. He has been able to keep better track of his phone since father’s day. There are still times when I call him and I hear his phone ringing on his dresser in the bedroom, but for the most part he has it with him. He is now trying to figure out how to retrieve his voice mails. The kids are considering cell phone lessons for him for Christmas!

