Most athletes hope they will one day wear or own a few championship rings. Though this is something that you see in many cases on a professional level, there are some other programs that can afford these through donations or as a promotional advertisement from some interested party. Sports achievements are something that athletes aim for, and for some, these are just as important as making good grades in the classroom. 

You may have seen the championship rings that are given out when a football team wins the Super Bowl, or even their division. These are quite often very expensive, and may be set with expensive jewels. Pro teams have the money to do such things, and if championship rings are given out on a high school or college level of play, they will probably not be nearly as expensive or nearly as big. In many cases, those in high school might get a trophy or a pin rather than a ring, and that is usually due to expense and time. 

Some people simple like to have their championship rings and their high school class rings to be one in the same. If they have a championship of any type under their belt before they order their class ring, they can have the championship noted as the theme of the ring in some cases. It will depend on where the ring comes from and if there are any good reasons why they may not want to have this done. Some students wouldn’t want these to be championship rings anyway, as they may feel that put a limit on what the ring would represent.

If your child has recently won a championship in any sport, this is something you can do for them on your own if you wish. You can order championship rings from a company, but you should know it is not going to be cheap. However, it can make an incredible gift for your child if their sport is important to them, and you think championship rings might be something they would enjoy. You could have them made to resemble other types of special sports rings, and you can have the school color for the stone if that is at all possible. They may not wear them forever, but they will probably save them long into the future so they can show them to their children and even their grandchildren.