Cheesecake

Cheesecake is one of those desserts that you either like or you don’t like. It seems that despite its name, this decadent dessert more closely resembles a pie than a cake, and there are lots of different variations. There is a great recipe appropriate for every menu, because it is the most classic dessert of all time. Every where you go, there is some type of cheesecake offered on the menu, and why not, it’s simply delicious. Fruit toppings like strawberries, cherries, raspberries, or blueberries are very tasty, as well as chocolate, nuts, coconut, caramel, and lots of other creative additions. A decadent finale to any meal, so be sure to save plenty of room for your favorite kind. If you’re really a fanatic, then you must check out the Cheesecake Factory, a unique upscale casual dining restaurant featuring an indulgent selection of specialty cheesecakes. You’ll be so overwhelmed by the choices you won’t be able to decide! 

Typically cheesecake is a sweet, cheese-based dessert, with a creamy filling in a pie shell or graham cracker crust. The filling is traditionally made with eggs, egg whites, sugar, cream, and a soft fat like cream cheese, but ricotta cheese, cottage cheese, or havarti can also be used. Cheesecake can be plain or have some very creative flavorings added to dress it up a little; vanilla, white or dark chocolate, fruit, and various liquors make the dish even more indulgent. The crust is usually pastry, cookie, or graham cracker depending on the recipe, and some variations require a spring-form pan to keep the eggs from coagulating in the center. Most recipes are similar to a degree, but with slight variations in ingredients and cooking methods to create distinct tastes and textures.  If you don’t cook much, there’s always the “no bake cheesecake”. Just whip up the filling in a bowl, throw it in a pre-made crust, and let it set up in the fridge for a bit. 

If you like to cook, check out a great collection of cheesecake recipes at www.thatsmyome.com, including Margarita, Upside Down Jack Daniels Double Chocolate, Fuzzy Navel, White Chocolate Cranberry, Swirled Pumpkin and Caramel, candy recipes, and more. All of these cheesecakes can be made ahead of time and frozen, then thawed in the refrigerator. Just add fruit or garnish before serving. If you’re not up to making your own, just go to Cheesecake.com where you can find a large gourmet selection, made from scratch and pre-sliced, in over twenty-six traditional and specialty flavors made fresh to order. So there you have it, or you will have it soon, won’t you? Who could resist the cheesecake temptation after reading this?    

 

 
   
