Chicago is an exciting city with lots of sights to offer the visitor. As with all major cities, one of the best ways to view the sights is from the river. Companies that organise Chicago Dinner Cruise trips attract customers with elegant boats, fine dining and landmark buildings twinkling in lights.

Many cruises depart from the historic Navy Pier by Lake Michigan and most regular trips are through the summer months. One cruise incorporates a gourmet table served meal, cocktail service, musical revue and floor show with dance music from the 1940s to the present.  There is a choice of dinner or lunch buffet, which includes entrees, salads, side dishes and dessert followed by tea or coffee. 

The sights on this Chicago Dinner Cruise and other cruises include the Adler Planetarium, the lakefront Grant Park and Soldier Field, home of the Chicago Bears. The boat also goes by Sears Tower, the 110-story building, the tallest one in the world until 1996. There is also a version of this cruise that includes a firework display.

The Chicago Lakefront Escape Early Dinner Cruise has a light buffet meal with a DJ spinning dance records and a live blues band on the outer decks. Special occasions and holiday seasons are wonderful to celebrate on a Chicago Dinner Cruise. For the romantic at heart, there is a Valentine's Day cruise that includes a champagne toast, luxury dinner buffet and live entertainment.

New Year's Eve is the perfect time to let your hair down and the Gala Cruise lasts for five hours and includes a deluxe buffet and open bar. There is a DJ, champagne at midnight and a fireworks show at the Navy Pier. The 4th of July Chicago Dinner Cruise also offers a vantage point for a fireworks display and a floor show. 

Christmas is another opportunity to go out on the river and there is a Christmas Holiday Cruise and a Santa Lunch Cruise where the special guest is, of course, Father Christmas. Other special occasion cruises include Father's Day, Mother's Day and St.Patrick's Day.

The Chicago Land and Lake Tour combines the best of the city's sights with cruising on an elegant yacht. The tour takes in the business district, designer shopping area and boating along the shoreline on Lake Michigan and the Chicago River, under the bridges and through the Chicago Locks. Chicago Dinner Cruises are certainly versatile and a tribute to a vibrant city.


