Until you are a parent yourself, you can not possibly imagine how hard it can be to buy your children shoes. Not only do kids grow out of their shoes very quickly, but they make getting new ones much more difficult than it should be. childrens shoes shopping shouldn't be all that hard. After all, kids have little feet. No matter what size your kids feet are, they will always have a shoe in stock that fits it. So what is the problem? Simply put, it is squirmy difficult children.

You see, when you go to the childrens shoe store, you want to do everything in your power to make sure that you pick out the right pair of shoes for your kid. Adults know how to buy their own shoes. You feel the way it fits your foot, walk around in it, check for extra space or too much tightness, and try adjusting the laces. If it feels alright, it is the shoe for you. With childrens shoes, however, you have to deal with fussy, impatient kids. If they like the shoe, they will not notice if it doesn't fit. If they don't like a children shoe, they will not notice if it does not fit. When they get blisters a few days later, you will be the one who has to deal with it. All in all, it can be a rotten deal.

I know that you aren't supposed to bribe your kids. Most parenting magazines nowadays say that bribes actually make it harder for your kids to learn to do the right thing just because it is the right thing. Nevertheless, I make an exception with childrens shoes. Every time we go to the kids shoes store, I make it a sort of outing. Getting childrens shoes is the first part of the day. If the kids are good, they get to see a movie and go out for lunch. If they are not good, it is straight home for them. After I showed them that I meant business one time, they have been good ever since. As a matter of fact, buying childrens shoes has become somewhat of a holiday in my family. Nowadays, the kid even look forward to it! A little bit of bribery can go a long way if you are careful to use it sparingly. I am quite sure that it has saved my life on more than one occasion, and I have no regrets.