Red is a great color for just about any kitchen space. The color is associated with energy and well-being and it actually stimulates that appetite. If you want to incorporate this hot color into your interior decorating ideas, you might want to consider chili pepper décor for your space.

The bright red pepper is lovely to see in a kitchen space. There is something so appealing about the design that I couldn’t resist adopting it into my own home. The chili pepper décor didn’t take over the kitchen at first. The process was pretty gradual. Following are some supplies that led to a room filled with this spicy theme.

The first item I received in this decorative kitchen theme was a pair of salt and pepper shakers. They are bright, bright red and shaped like chili peppers. I love the high gloss finish and the deep red color. Since these items were in plain sight all day long I thought about using a chili pepper décor motif for the room.

I went back-and-forth on this decision because I was pretty happy with my black and white design that I had before. However, the hot red shakers really caught my eye each and every time I entered the room. They made me want to cook and they made me want to consider the chili pepper décor a little more seriously.

My friends were also attracted to the idea of the chili pepper décor idea for my kitchen. The person who bought the shakers probably had no idea that the gift would lead to a collection of items that fill the room with vibrant color. She also didn’t know that it would lead to other similar gifts from others.

My sister bought me a pitcher that is just perfect for the chili pepper décor motif. She figured that it would go well with the shakers that we all love so much. That present was followed by a whole ensemble of placemats, napkins and curtains all suiting the chili pepper décor. My husband bought these. 

I love the look in my kitchen and I think that the chili pepper décor goes perfectly with the overall black and white room. It really adds character and color to the space. It looks as if the entire room was renovated but all that was added was a few bright, vibrant items that set the whole tone in the area.
