Chocolate Peanut Butter

If you want to get a reaction from me, all you have to do is offer me something that is made with chocolate and peanut butter. I don’t know who first thought to put these two ingredients together, but they have my vote for genius of the century. You can find chocolate peanut butter desserts of all sorts almost anywhere you go. Just when you think there’s nothing more you could do with these two ingredients, someone else comes up with something amazing. It’s no wonder I can’t seem to stay on my diet.

Like most people, I first found this combination when I had chocolate peanut butter candy. There are a few different companies that make these types of candies, but no one does as well as Reeses. There is just something magical about the chocolate peanut butter cups that you just can’t find anywhere else. My husband will often come home from the store with a four pack of these. He puts them in the freezer, and a few hours later we get them out. You don’t need to eat a lot of them, as just a few bites are enough to send you to heaven.

Just recently I tried chocolate peanut butter pie for the first time. I was avoiding it because I knew once I started I would not be able to stop. Thankfully, I had about a half of piece and was able to push it aside. I must admit though, the chocolate peanut butter pie was one of the most luscious desserts I’d ever tried. The one I bought did not cost very much, and I would imagine if I found an expensive version I probably would eat more than I wanted. My husband has strict instructions that he is not allowed to buy me chocolate peanut butter pie unless they specifically ask for it. And even then, he may not want to bring it home.

There are many other chocolate peanut butter desserts out there, and I am trying my best to avoid them. A friend in Australia tells me that the chocolate peanut butter combination is not very popular there, and I told her this might be one reason why I couldn’t live there. She said that American peanut butter is much sweeter than what they have there, and she isn’t sure why the chocolate peanut butter combination has never caught on. I told her that I can’t imagine life without a chocolate peanut butter cup, so she mailed me a box of Tim Tams. I have to say they are wonderful, but I’m wondering when they’re going to come out with peanut butter version.