You may not have to buy a lot of different things when you are decorating for the holidays if you don’t want to have a complicated set up each year. Some people like to use Christmas light decorating to give their home a warm and cheery glow without having to worry about other types of decorations. This can be quite beautiful, and it does not have to be very complicated if you don’t want it to be. Use as much or as little light as you want, and get into the holiday spirit.

When you want to create your holiday looks with just lights, you have a few options. You can use just white light, and that is always a great look. You can add more colors, or you can go with just two. Whatever you want. Some like to use just blue, as they give off a calming light, and some like to have all types of colors that twinkle and blink. Just remember that you want to be careful about putting blinking or bright lights where your Christmas light decorating might keep you or someone else up at night.

If you have a certain light color you are using for your home, you can use that color or those colors for the rest of your home. This makes your holiday decorating ideas spread evenly throughout your home for a really great look. You may want to have this in just one room, and that is just fine, but remember: you can have Christmas light decorating anywhere you want it to be, and though it can cost more to spread it throughout the house, this might be just what you need to feel the spirit of Christmas. 

When looking for lights, you may run into a problem when you want a specific color that might not be as common as the others. Each year I look for blue lights, and by the time I look, I am usually too late. They are all gone. If you want something like that - blue, green, red, or purple - make sure you shop very early, or find a site online that has what you need. You may even want to skip the stores and go straight to the Internet if you think you are going to have a problem. You may even find more ideas that way, and you may find lighting effects that have lights, but aren’t necessarily in a string. You never know until you look. 
