There are some truly tricky gifts to buy out there, and right at the top of the list are things for those who work with you in an office. This is also true, even if you don’t work in an office setting, as buying for coworkers is often something you are never sure about. Some companies have a gift exchange, and you already know who to buy for and how many you must get. Other times, because of religious differences, there is nothing official going on. What that happens, you are on your own when it comes to a Christmas gift for the office.

It can also be tricky when thinking about a Christmas gift for the office because chances are good that not everyone in your office celebrates that holiday. You should make it a point to discretely find out so you aren’t offering a Christmas gift to someone who does not celebrate. However, you can get them something, and then explain that even though you know they don’t celebrate, you still wanted to get them something to show your appreciation and friendship.

You don’t want to get anything too personal for anyone at work when you buy a Christmas gift for the office. Unless you are close with someone outside of work, you should keep things rather neutral. If you are good friends with someone, exchange gifts somewhere else if you want to get something personal. Think about things for the office when you do buy, like small plants or even nice photo frames your coworkers can use for pictures of their families or pets for their desk. You might even get an assortment of gourmet cookies or muffins for everyone in your department to share. 

You can also buy things like small food baskets, or even gift certificates for movies or something similar. You don’t have to spend a lot, and you certainly don’t have to get anything if you don’t want to. You can also find some easy and unique ideas if you shop around at novelty stores online to see what they have just for the purpose of buying for those you work with each day. Your company might even have a policy about buying a Christmas gift for the office. If they do, and you aren’t supposed to buy anything, you are probably better off not doing so. If you must, do it outside of work. 
