One thing that you should never leave off of any gift is the name tag. You may think you can remember who each gift is for, but you are bound to get a few of them mixed up. You may even end up giving Grandpa a new set of lingerie while you have given your best friend a brand new power tool. Both may get a kick out of it, it is not what you intended. This means you should have some great Christmas gift tag sets so that you know exactly who gets what and there will not be any embarrassing confusion.

What is great about the Christmas gift tag is that you can find something to go with almost any type of wrapping paper. If you are giving some of your gifts in bags, they may already come with these attached, and you won’t have to think about it. However, if you have chosen something really neat for your gift wrap, you want to have tags that match that idea. You can usually find what you need very close to where you found your wrap, and matching things up should be easy. Some even come in matched sets so you don’t have to worry about it on your own. The holidays are hectic enough, right?

You can also go in another direction entirely, but it might depend on your circumstances. If you have children, you have a great source for making your own types of Christmas gift tag. You can have make some that will be unique. You can cut out whatever size or shape you want, on any type of paper you want, and have them decorate them. You may have to direct them to leave space for the names, but they will get the hang of it after a while and they can then finish them up for you. You will probably be very pleased with what they have done, and those who get gifts from you will love them as well.

When it comes down to the last minute, you may have to make your own Christmas gift tag in a hurry. This is something that I have had to do many times because I am always procrastinating when it comes to wrapping up what I have gotten for everyone. When this happens to me, I like to take some of the same paper I used for the gift and make it into a tag. You can just fold a strip of it in half and write on the side that has no color or design. This is not always the best look, but it does work in a pinch. If you have forgotten to get them, and you are out of time, this is the perfect idea to keep your gifts going to the right direction.