Winter wedding ceremonies offer the opportunity to add the warmth of the holiday season into your bridal theme. Adding the right Christmas ornament wedding favor into the mix is the ideal way to bring the ceremony and the holidays together. Guests will cherish the memory of your special day when they look at their keepsakes each and every Christmas.

Some may think that finding the ideal ornament in the wedding theme would be very difficult. Not every bride is quick to choose red and green for her colors and Santa Clause might not suit the overall tone of the occasion. However, there are many other options in Christmas ornament wedding favors to consider.

Snowflakes are great choices for this special day. There are many holiday ornament wedding favors in this design. You can opt for something sparkling and grand or something clean and understated depending on your specific tastes. There is something for everyone in this theme.

The snowflake is such a nice choice because it represents the idea that everyone is unique. Just as no two snowflakes are alike, no two individuals are exactly the same. Couples can embrace the idea of retaining individuality even through a marital union. This lovely sentiment is a powerful message that can be expressed through the snowflake Christmas ornament wedding favor.

Accessories in the snowflake theme can bring the winter wedding inspiration together. Tables adorned with snowflake tea light holders emit a warm glow through the frosty image of the snow. The tea lights make lovely accents that are set off by the thoughtful winter wedding favors.

You can also find snowflake place card holders that suit the holiday theme quite well. These items come in a number of different designs ranging from sleek and formal to fairytale sparkle. In addition, the place card holders can serve as an additional keepsake for your guests to enjoy. 

Brides who want to dazzle their guests can choose from countless options. Finding something that suits your personality and style is a certainty in this theme. You chose a winter wedding for a reason; why not focus on this special time of year during your reception?
 
Imagine how lovely the holiday theme will look on your special day. And imagine how your loved ones will enjoy their precious keepsakes year after year as the holiday season approaches. The Christmas ornament wedding favor will be displayed for many years to come making the memory of your ceremony an integral part of the season. 


