There are times when it is very difficult to come up with gift ideas for others. Some people are easy to buy for and others are much more difficult. I was faced with needing to buy gifts for three of my friends that have meant a great deal to me. Four years ago my husband died. It was a very sudden death and my world cam crashing down around me. We had a very close and loving marriage. We were unable to have children so we spent a great deal of time together. When he died a huge hole entered my life. If it had not been for my friends I am not sure I would have been able to see past the hole. As I waded through the muck of grief I was able to start finding snippets of joy here and there. My friends forced me to be involved in activities that I would not have done without their support. Through their strength, guidance and love I was able to go on with my life.

Last year I met a man that has filled the void the death of my husband created. We decided to get married, even though I never thought I would make this large of commitment again. My friends are very excited for me and they played a major role in planning the ceremony and reception of my second marriage. I wanted to buy them each a gift that would let them know how much their support and love has meant to me. I thought of a piece of jewelry for each. I went shopping to see what I could find. On my way to a jewelry store I saw a display for the circle of friends candles. This seemed like the perfect gift. The circle of friends creates the candle holder and the candle sits on top. The holder to me represented a group of people helping to keep the flame burning. This was what my circle of friends had done for me through the dark years of my grief. There were times that they not only supplied the support, but the flame as well. What a perfect gift.

I bought three of the circle of friends holders as well as a unique scented candle for each of my friends. The holders were carved from wood. It is three wooden figures that are holding hands creating a circle. In the middle of the circle is a raised platform to place a candle. The wood carving is very basic the figures do not have any features and could be male or female. I thought this so represented my experience that I went back and bought another for my new husband and I to have in our home. I wanted to have a constant reminder that no matter what happens in my life my friends will be there to support me. 
