I am hosting a bridal shower for my best friend. This is a great honor and I am thrilled and excited about the event. However, when the bride-to-be said that she wanted clear plastic boxes for the party favors, I was a little apprehensive. I had full reign on just about every other aspect of the party. The clear plastic boxes seemed a little odd at first.

That was, until I got to see what products are available in these containers. These items are perfect for the event because they are sophisticated and sleek but still understated. I think that the only problem I am going to have with the clear plastic boxes is choosing which ones will be best for the occasion.

Well, I’ve done my shopping and I have it narrowed down to four finalists. The clear plastic boxes come in a whole array of different styles and designs so getting this far was a real challenge for me. The final four each have something special to offer and I guess that I might have a harder time choosing than I originally thought.

The first clear plastic boxes that are on my finalist list are really simple in design. They look like regular square gift boxes and they have tuck tops that fit right into place like lids. These items arrive flat and have to be set up but that takes little time.

The next pick is exactly the same as the first except for the bottom. These clear plastic boxes have tuck lids but they also have beautiful gold card bottoms. This gives the basic design a little character and shimmer but I’m afraid that it might be a little too much. The whole reason that we went with clear plastic boxes was because they didn’t have color or distracting textures. 

Since I love purses in general, the circle top gift box seemed like the perfect choice for the occasion. These clear plastic boxes fit together to look like a little purse with convenient handles. I like purses but that doesn’t mean that these items are right for my friend’s celebration. 

The butterfly top clear plastic boxes are more her style. These items are absolutely beautiful and they are simple to assemble. They fit together just like traditional gift containers and they do fit the overall theme of the bridal shower. I guess that I actually managed to make a decision. For now, the ultimate choice in clear plastic boxes is the butterfly design. 

 
