There is nothing that can ruin your day like cold feet in winter. Until year ago, I had feet always cold and uncomfortable. I never really thought about it too much. I figure that cold hands and feet were just part of the territory. I never really did anything to take care of it. I just put up with it.

What I didn't realize was that my cold feet were actually making me sick! This might sound strange to you, but it is really true. When your feet are cold, your whole body is off balance. Although it doesn't make a big difference immediately, if you always have cold feet, it can really take a toll on your health. It really surprised me was how simple it was to solve the problem. All I really needed was some comfy slippers and really warm socks.

This didn't completely solve my cold feet, but it did make a big difference. I would put on warm, wool socks to bed, put on sandals as soon as I got up in the morning, and in short, always make sure that my feet were covered. They would still get a little cold from time to time, but it was nothing like before. What really surprised me was that that winter, I was only sick for three days. Usually I miss a solid week at the least! I can not conclusively prove that it was because I no longer had cold feet, but for whatever reason my health was better.

Of course, although you can treat cold hands and feet immediately, getting at the root cause of it takes more effort. Basically, when your feet are cold, it usually implies that you have poor circulation. Although this isn't one of the most serious health concerns there is, it can still be a long-term worry. Fortunately, there are a lot of things you can do to improve your circulation. One of the best ones is to exercise frequently. When you exercise, your body builds new blood vessels to increase the rate at which it can circulate oxygen. This can do wonders for your health. As a matter of fact, within two months of starting a regular exercise program, I no longer had cold feet! Besides that, my energy was better and my weight was down. All in all, a simple exercise program and a few pairs of socks did a lot to make me feel better. Sometimes, it is amazing how little you have to do to feel great!