Like most all collectors, I did not start out with purchasing collection dolls when I was a kid. Collecting dolls is too expensive for most children. As a matter of fact, rather than starting out with collector dolls, I started with some pretty crude rag dolls that my grandmother had made. As I got older, they impressed me less, but when I was a kid I thought they were the neatest thing around. I can't imagine how, but as a child I imagined that they perfectly mimicked real life down to the smallest detail. I think that I actually believed they were alive! As I grew up, my parents got me more and more dolls. The difference between a doll collector and your average kid is that doll collectors hang on to the dolls that their parents get them. By the time that I started looking for serious collector dolls, I already had over 30 different dolls, most of them in good condition.

Of course, collectible dolls are not something that you get for kids. Part of the reason is that kids aren't responsible enough to keep track of highly priced collectibles, but that is not the only reason. Kids want to play with their dolls, but collectors dolls are not to be played with. I had my own Barbie doll collection, and although I kept most of them in pretty good shape, some of them suffered from my games. I would cut their hair, modify the clothes – all the things that kids do with the Barbies. When I got my first collector doll for a Christmas present and my mom told me that I couldn't play with it unless I was very gentle, I was a little bit offended. What was the point of having nice collector dolls if you couldn't play with them?

Still, my parents trusted me a lot with those collector dolls. You see, I had always been very good with my toys. Unlike the other kids in our family, I wouldn't swing them around or throw them at the walls. I played quietly, and that made me a perfect candidate for the collector dolls. If you don't collect anything, it might be hard for you to understand, but there's something satisfying about adding to your set. Every doll that I acquire somehow makes my collection a little bit more complete, although of course there are an unlimited number of dolls out there.