Looking for something a little different to send as a gift this year? Instead of looking thorough the various options in traditional flower arrangements you might want to consider Cookies by Design. This company merges the best of both worlds. You not only have a beautiful presentation that will be admired, you also have an edible treat to enjoy at your leisure.

The general concept is to bring together edible treats with visually appealing bouquets. While many of us like to receive fresh flowers, nearly everyone loves to receive fresh baked goods. The Cookies by Design Company arranges the baked goods to give the feel of a real bouquet. It just doesn’t get better than that.

Cookies by Design has a ton of ideas for your special occasion. There are traditional cookie arrangements that offer tasty sentiment or you can opt for something a little more humorous in your selection. One newer ideas presented by the Cookies by Design Company is a real treat for any fans of pudgy orange kitties.

The Garfield cookie bouquets are a knock out for fans of this loveable cartoon icon. I remember looking forward to the Sunday paper every week just to get a glimpse of the Garfield comic strip. Now that the Cookies by Design Company has brought this adorable cat into its collection, I have a new item on my wish list.

What I love about this collection in the Cookies by Design fair is that there is a smile in every presentation. The gifts are great reminders that there is someone thinking fondly of them and they are also wonderful vehicles to make us feel a little lighter, even though the cookies might not.

Cookies by Design makes its baked goods from the finest quality products. Sugar cookies are the basis behind each and every design and you will be impressed with the size of these delicious treats. Each piece is about four and a half inches high and nearly a half inch thick. Now that’s a cookie that you can sink your teeth into.

Each piece is hand decorated to give an extra special touch. The Cookies by Design Company uses large lollipop sticks to hold the baked goods in place but there the company also uses other accessories to make the presentation complete. For example, the arrangement I received was surrounded by a cute white-picket fence. 

There are so many options offered that you are sure to find many things that appeal to your sweet tooth through the Cookies by Design Company. 



