I had always had a secret dream of being a chef. Unfortunately, the realities of the workplace made it not worth the effort. You see, if you have ever worked in a kitchen, you truly know what it is to be underpaid and overworked. Every day is an ordeal, and although you are trained to make some of the best, most delicious food in the world, you spend most of your time cooking well done steaks for near minimum wage. Instead, I decided to become a good cook for my family and a successful professional for myself. Nonetheless, as the years have gone by I have regretted not having more opportunities to fully explore my culinary interests. That is how I first discovered cooking holidays.

One day, I happened to be reading a culinary magazine, thinking about new recipes I could try out on my family. Easter was coming up, and I was looking for new Easter holiday recipes. That is when I saw it: an ad for cooking Tours in Italy. I had never heard of a cooking tour before, and I immediately wrote the company to request more information. What I found out surprised and delighted me. Cooking vacations are the perfect getaway for people like me.

A cooking holiday combines aspects of a workshop with some beautiful sightseeing. There are different kinds of cooking holidays , but essentially they all involve a beautiful, scenic destination known for its cuisine. Once there, you get to combine sightseeing with cooking classes from some of the world's most renowned chefs – people who specialize in the cuisine of that particular area. In between cooking classes, you get to go the local food markets and explore the native produce, as well as explore one of the most beautiful destinations in the world. I had never been to Italy before, and I was anxious to try it out.

The cooking holidays were pretty expensive, but I had put away a little bit of money for a rainy day and I was convinced that it would be worth the trip. Although my family was sad to see me go, they knew that I needed a vacation to myself. They were also happy in some ways that I was leaving. You see, they knew that when I came back from cooking holidays, I would have all-new recipes to cook for them. That was worth not seeing me for a few weeks!