Some towns are steeped in history, offering a window into how our forebears lived their lives. One such place is Cooperstown NY, the county seat of Otsego County. It has several well known tourist attractions and cultural centers. The town was founded by and named in honor of Judge William Cooper, whose son was the author James Fenimore Cooper of The Last of the Mohicans fame.

This town is mostly associated with the National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum. Some followers of the game trace its origins back to the Cooperstown NY area, so it is fitting that this collection of baseball memorabilia and artifacts should be housed here. Exhibits include art and movies with a baseball theme and the Hall of Fame contains star players such as Babe Ruth and Joe DiMaggio.

Traditional rural ways of life are remembered at the Farmer's Museum, which overlooks Otsego Lake. There are replicas of 19th century buildings, including those used by a weaver, printer and blacksmith. The original barn, creamery and herdsman cottage are on display and a hand made carousel. The museum is on the site of the original farm, once home to James Fenimore Cooper. This valuable resource in Cooperstown NY is also the location for the Fenimore Art Museum, containing permanent exhibits and traveling displays. Art works include 19th century painting, American Folk Art, Native American art and crafts and American photography.

Local history of a different kind is found at the Brewery Ommegang in the Susqehanna Valley, close to the town. The successful business brews Belgian type ales, some of which have won awards. The company presents a beer tasting festival every summer, known as Belgium Comes to Cooperstown. In addition to sampling the products, visitors enjoy live music and a bonfire.

The town is proud of the Alice Busch Opera Theater on Otsego Lake, eight miles from Cooperstown NY. It is home to the Glimmerglass Opera Company, renowned for its world premiers and support of new works and rare operas. The company hosts an annual summer season of productions and it is the second largest summer opera festival in the United States.

Family fun is guaranteed at the Barnyard Swing 18-hole miniature golf center. In addition to the farm themed golf course, there is a games room with air hockey and pool table and a children's play area. Refreshments are available at the café and ice cream parlor and there are picnic spots and a farmer's market.
