Do you ever stop and think about how your life turned out? My niece asked to interview me for one of humanities classes. One of the questions that she asked was how I landed the position that I was presently in. It was a great question because I have often asked myself the same thing. It was not a position that I was trained for nor did I even know that such jobs existed. It was a case of who I knew and being in the right place at the right time.

In some ways my job does not have a title. I most often refer to my self as a planner. I am in charge of corporate event planning. I started by helping my sister-in-law throw a dinner party. I was unemployed at the time and not ready to go into the field of social work. I was tired of working through the paper work and expectations that the government places upon its workers. I had three months of severance pay so I was not in a rush to take the first job that came along. My brother-in-law is the general manager of a large insurance company. He and his wife had asked several corporate heads and their wives to their home for drinks, appetizers and dinner. A week before the dinner my sister-in-law broke her arm. She was in a panic on how she was going to get a caterer to prepare the meal in such short notice. I told her that I would gladly run the party. The evening was a great success. One of the corporation heads told me that I should be hired on for corporation events planning. I told him I would gladly do that. I thought he was just giving me a compliment and I was accepting it.

A few days later my brother-in-law called me to let me know that the man had been serious and would like me to be hired to coordinate social functions as well as trainings and meetings. I would have an office in my home and would be given a phone line, computer, fax machine and copier. My job would be to coordinate the corporate events planning. Any manager that needed to have arrangements made for a meeting, luncheon, fund raiser or other event would call me with the number of people the type of event, the budget and the date. The rest is up to me to coordinate. I love my job and I am told that I am good at what I do. It is an interesting use of a social work degree.
