My husband is a practical jokester. He is always thinking up ways to set people up. He is very good at it and we have had many laughs at some of the things that he comes up with. It seems that no matter how his friends and I try to set him up he usually figures things out. Ever since we have been married each year he says that he wants a corvette for Christmas. He will leave picture of corvettes where he knows I will find them. Of course I have bought him models of corvettes as well as match box cars. But I thought one year I would like to really get him in a joke over this.

Last year when I was in Vegas with a girl friend I actually won a vehicle. We had flown to Vegas and I was not interested in the vehicle so I took the money instead. My husband did not know about the big win so I thought I might be able to actually buy a used corvette for him. I started looking for corvettes for sale. They are expensive but if I stayed away from the classic models I would be able to buy one of the corvettes for sale that were listed in the metro area not far from our home. I was having a difficult time choosing between the corvettes for sale that were on the lot. There were four of them that would have fit what my husband has always talked about. I decided to have some fun with this. I had the five guys that my husband plays poker with come to the lot. I had them pose on the various corvettes for sale and I took their pictures. I then had my picture taken with one as well as each of our children and even his dog. In all I had twelve pictures with friends and family members taken with the corvettes for sale. Using a photo program on my computer I made a calendar using the photographs. It turned out great. I wrapped up the calendar as well as a gift certificate from the corvette dealer.

On the day of his birthday I had all the calendar participants come over for a party. I made a bunch of food and a huge cake. When it came time to open the gifts my husband loved the calendar. He liked the different poses that the guys had done. When he saw the gift certificate for the dealership he thought it was fake. I told him that it was true he could go and pick out one of the used corvettes for sale that was featured in the calendar. The next day he went to the dealership with me. The whole time he thought it was a joke. He test drove several of the cars and finally picked one. I told him that I would follow him home. It has been several weeks, but I think he is still waiting for someone to come and take it back.
