Some people want to spend their vacation relaxing on a beach, their only exercise involving applying more sun tan lotion. However, others like to be more adventurous and pursue their hobbies or try out something new to get the adrenaline pumping. Costa Rica has become a popular destination of late and a Costa Rica adventure holiday is designed for those who thrive on excitement.

There are lots of companies that supply qualified guides and equipment for outdoor activities in this region. Whitewater Rafting and Kayaking are particularly popular here, given the number of white water rivers and waterfalls. The scenery is spectacular as participants wind their way through miles of rainforest. The sport of Canyoning is also catered for. Thick jungle and rivers strewn with boulders make challenging terrain and instructors will teach how to negotiate with ropes and harnesses.

Some wonderful natural landmarks are only accessible on horseback and a Costa Rica adventure is ideal for horseback riders to journey through forest, mountain trails and across jungle rivers. Nature lovers and bird watchers will also appreciate this area. Expert naturalist guides take groups through isolated regions to spot tree frogs, lizards, snakes, plants, caymans and exotic birds.

It's also possible to take to the skies in hot air balloons, an opportunity to see the monkeys and birds in the canopy of trees. The balloon will travel over rainforest and mountain villages with passengers in a traditional wicker basket. The highlight of any trip on a Costa Rica adventure is to go over the Arenal Volcano, an active volcano and so the pilot will not get too close!

If mountain bikers like it tough, then this is the place to come. Near vertical 4x4 mountain tracks will test even the most experienced. However, there are less challenging trails too. Bikers will be taken through jungle, rivers and beaches. Equipment will include helmets, gloves, water bottles and energy bars. As well as the guides, there is a support vehicle, 2-way radios and first aid kits.

4x4 vehicle trips are also an exciting prospect. Most rural roads are made from mud or dirt. It's worth the effort because these vehicles can access areas that smaller cars can't. Drivers will be rewarded with some terrific scenery and the opportunity to see wildlife on their Costa Rica adventure.

Sea Kayaking is also popular as the country is bordered by two seas. Kayakers go through estuaries, canals and the pleasantly warm Caribbean. The trip will comprise of everything from gentle paddling to wilder stretches of water. 
