Countless individuals around the world indulge daily in movies. It seems that our species can't get enough of action, drama, horror, romance, comedy and thrills. A major part of this industry revolves around creative costume design. Take a moment to imagine all the thought, work, effort and miniscule details put into some of the wild and beautiful costumes for major feature films. Just to give you a basic example that most people will be instantly familiar with, what about "The Lord of the Rings?" This is an excellent example of amazing costume designs for film. 

More than likely you've enjoyed the intricate and amazing costume design found in certain feature films. Some that tend to steal the spotlight are "Batman," "Spiderman," "The X-Men" and "Harry Potter." There's even a chance that you craved a moment in one of these fascinating get-ups. You would only be human if that's the case. Wouldn't it be great if you could dabble in costume design and extravagant apparel on your own? You could purchase a few supplies, a sewing machine and get started immediately. Okay, so maybe it's prudent to do a little bit of research and homework regarding costume design prior to hopping behind the sewing machine. It's wise to begin with a basic book on costume design. You'll likely need to acquire a few tools and supplies to work with within your home. However, you might be astonished at how quickly you become accustomed to superb costume design clothing design. You never know; you could end up becoming a famous designer. 

A wonderful place to begin your costume design journey is with basic Halloween costumes. If you have a child, then you already have a willing model to design costumes for. Needless to say, it's pretty awesome as a child to have a Halloween costume custom made for you. This way no one has exactly what you do. Try a beautiful princess dress, a ghoulish ghost outfit, or even a horrifying werewolf costume. Watch to see how your costume design skills are honed after a few tries. For those who do not have children, you can always create a unique get-up for yourself to wear. 