cotton candy machine

While there is no way in the world you would find me eating cotton candy, I know it’s good and I don’t mind my daughter having it. This is on the condition that she only has it a few times a year, and that she does not each a ton of it. There is just no need for anyone to ingest that much sugar. It is great tasting though, and the best way to get a child to be obsessed with something is by denying them. I let her have it on rare occasion, and she seems to be content with that. While I would never own a cotton candy machine, I can think of a few good reasons to have one.

Though a cotton candy machine is not something you want to have sitting out on the counter ready for every day use, they do have their uses. These can be really great fun for children’s birthday parties, or even for adult get-togethers. Though you may not think of these as something that adults would enjoy, you might be surprised to see who gets excited to see one. However, the cotton candy machine is the biggest hit with most children, as you can well imagine.

These machines come in different sizes and shapes. There are very simple, and very inexpensive models that will sit right in your kitchen for when you want to use them, and won’t take up much space. The simple cotton candy machine can be easily stored under your counter, and most are rather easy to clean. There are larger models that will not go in the kitchen, but can be stored away for special events. These will make more, and the resulting product will be more like what you find at a carnival or a theme park.

Decide how often you will use your cotton candy machine before you buy. Don’t get something large if you don’t have the room for it, though it might be tempting to get one that will have the biggest impact on your guests. Don’t forget that you have to buy the ingredients for some models, as they will only work with certain grains of sugar and flavoring. These will be a huge hit at a child’s party, but make sure each child only has a little serving, or you may have a set of angry parents on your hands.