Now that I have reached the middle years of my life I find that I am more opened to learn new ideas when it comes to decorating and cooking than I was when I was younger. I guess the main reason is simple maturity. When I was younger I was important to me to seem as if I knew all the answers, however now I realize that if you stop learning you stop living, so I now welcome new ideas and methods for decorating cooking, cleaning and any other tips I can pick up along the way. 

There are many places and people to turn to learn different techniques and ideas for creating a warm welcoming and comfortable home. One of my favorites is the Country Living magazine. I have bee a subscriber for many years. I started receiving the Country Living Magazine as a present from my brother and his wife. They gave us a subscription to the publication when we moved to our home in the country. I thought this was a great house warming idea. The Country Living magazine is filled with great ideas for decorating the inside of your home as well as wonderful gardening and outdoor decorating tips. Each issue also features many wonderful recipes that have a country flair to them.

The idea of giving a subscription to a magazine as a gift was something that I had not received before and I also had never given one as a gift. It is a great idea. My mother is getting to the point where it is very difficult to think of gift ideas for her. She lives in a small assisted living apartment and does not need anything more for it. She receives one meal a day as part of the services with the apartment, so she does not need a great deal of groceries. She has always enjoyed reading. They have a book exchange in the apartment complex. I decided it would be fun to give mom a subscription to a magazine. When she was done with it she could share it with other residents. My mother lived in the country her entire life so I thought the subscription to Country Living magazine would be perfect for her. I talked to my sister-in-law and asked her if she would mind that I would reuse her wonderful idea of giving the magazine as a gift. She agreed that this would be a great idea, and we decided to pay for a two year subscription and give it as a joint gift. My mother loves the magazine and also shares it with others in the apartment building. 
