The Old West is a favorite theme for many people, who like to dress up in a Stetson and boots and hit the line dancing clubs. There is no reason why this fascination with America's history cannot be indulged at home too and cowboy décor is becoming increasingly popular. Whether it is used for the home or workplace, a homely ranch type feeling is ideal for the cowboy or cowgirl at heart.

These decorating items are easily available, enabling the enthusiast to have a cowboy décor theme in just one room or throughout a building. There are a number of companies that sell western items for the home and clothing and accessories. The most popular motifs are cowboys, horses, cattle, brands, spurs, saddles and ropes. These images evoke a simpler time, of campfires, rodeos and driving herds across the range! Many hotels and holiday cabins employ this theme, especially in western resorts.

Everything in the home can be incorporated into cowboy décor. A room, furnished in wood and leather will benefit from finishing touches such as cowboy décor themed clocks, bookends and fireplace ornaments. Furniture can be enhanced by just the right doorknob and drawer pull. It is important that the choice of lighting sets the right tone, with the appropriate floor lamps, table lamps and lampshades. Even chandeliers can be given a cowboy theme.

Any bedroom should have a relaxing and cozy ambience. Western throwovers and duvet sets help to achieve this. Children's bedrooms can be made a fun place with scenes from the old west on wallpaper and rugs. The kitchen too can carry on a cowboy décor theme on glassware, dinnerware, coasters, cruet sets, napkin rings and wine racks. Bathroom items with western motifs are available too, on towel bars, vanity sets, toilet seats, medicine cabinets, towel sets and shower curtains.

The walls can be decorated with prints of typical western scenes or metal signs, declaring welcoming sentiments such as howdy! The image of John Wayne, as he appeared in his movie, True Grit is also popular. The area outside the home can also be given the cowboy décor treatment with a fire pit, boot scraper, weather vane and door knockers.

In addition to home décor items, there is a range of western themed leather purses, handbags, wallets and briefcases. Cowboy images also appear on cell phone holders and hand luggage. All these products won't improve the line dancing but they will bring heaps of fun.


