Just because you are no longer a kid, it doesn't mean that you can't use craft ideas yourself. There is so much talk about crafts for kids, people forget how fun crafts for adults can be. Since I started making craft gift ideas, not only have I been able to give all of my friends fantastic personalized presents, but I have been able to save hundreds of dollars as well. I go to craft shows to get some of my ideas, but some of them come straight out of my head. There are so many different things that you can do with your hands once you get started, that coming up with a new craft idea every week can be much easier than you would think.

Usually, when I am thinking about craft ideas, I start with the medium. Do I feel like working in cloth, in wood, in stone, or in some other material altogether? Sometimes I will mix it up, but usually I will start with one medium. After all, when you narrow things down, it makes it easier to pick out craft ideas. Let us say that I have decided on fabric. What to do then? Usually, the best thing to do when you don't know where to start is to try something that you have never done before. Often, I pick the first craft idea that comes to my head. It is really just that simple!

Last week, for example, I was looking for some simple craft ideas to fill the time. I had the afternoon off, and was waiting for my girlfriend to come home from work. I needed something to occupy my hands. Then suddenly, looking outside, I noticed a stone that looked like a face. I brought it in to take a closer look, and sure enough I was correct. It looked just like a face! 

I came up with a simple craft idea to find things in nature that looked like human expressions and bring them inside. Then, I would combine them together to make them into creatures. This was one of my most successful craft ideas, and now my little nature people are decorating the house. For some of them, I painted their expressions to emphasize how much they looked like people. Other ones I modified slightly in other ways. It is important that you have some flexibility in your craft ideas so that you can go with whatever inspiration takes you. Remember, the most important thing is to have fun!