It seems that each generation finds some new way of expressing themselves that seeps into the general public. In many ways different phrases and expressions are more likely popularized by young people than by any other group of the population. They may take a line out of a movie or song and apply it to everyday life. Soon adults are doing the same thing and the trend spreads across the country. Have you ever experienced hearing the same phrase so many times that the origin of it gets lost. This is quite common with a great deal of our slang.

One of the newest forms of communicating with large groups of people is blogging. Some people think this started through computer geeks, but I am more inclined to believe that it got started through teenagers. It is very easy to create a blog and there are multiple websites available to share your space with millions. I do not have children so I had not heard of having a blog until I over heard a few of my younger co-workers talking about this. One of the co-workers was reprimanded for blogging at work. When I heard this I inquired what this meant. The concept of blogging was shared with me. At first I found it hard to believe that people would create a blog site about there personal life and others would go to the site and be interested. I did not think anyone would be interested enough in my life to go to a site.

I was discussing this with one of my sisters over lunch because her son was going to create a blog site that he wanted everyone in the extended family to contribute to. He thought this would be a great way to keep up with everyone. We could download pictures, let others know what we were doing and plan family gatherings all in one space. This was a good idea. I have lost touch with many of my nieces and nephews now that they are adults and raising children. Having one space where holiday gatherings could be planned was also a great idea because it would cut down on the number of phone calls that would have to be made. I was surprised to find out that it does not cost anything to create a blog and that multiple people can share one site. Since that time my nephew has created the site and most of our family members are contributing to it. This has been a fun way to keep updated with everyone and the best part is that you can do this at a time that is convenient for you.
