Crime scene investigator

Since the premier of the show ‘CSI’ years ago, more and more people are taking up an interest in the criminal justice field. Many of those who take a few moments to put serious thought into it might find themselves wanting to become a crime scene investigator. While the television show usually shows the cases being solved, the characters looking prim and proper and make things look a lot more simple than they really are, reality will demonstrate a very different scenario.

The role of a crime scene investigator is very crucial to solving any crime and finding answers to what really happened. It definitely isn’t a glamorous job or for those with weak stomachs. The hours can be long and brutal and sleep may be rare at times. A crime scene investigator is much more likely to get stressed and burned out than that of many other jobs. Sure, the role sounds wonderful. It would be wonderful to tell people that you are a crime scene investigator. Impressive. However, it isn’t impressive when you’re getting ready to watch your children open up their Christmas gifts and your pager goes off. When that pager goes off, you’re expected to be someplace as soon as possible. Crime scenes must be processed immediately so that evidence isn’t lost, damaged or destroyed as the hours move on. 

A crime scene investigator might not always have the most pleasant of working conditions. They don’t work at a desk all day long. Instead, they are onsite of whatever needs to be investigated. You might find them digging in the dirt or crawling around a house. Crime scenes aren’t always attractive. Seeing a dead child or individual can stay lodged in your memories forever. A crime scene investigator has to take blood samples and look for fingerprints. They may spend many hours working around dead bodies and unpleasant scenes. That can take a huge toll on someone.

Then, there is the fact that there is no room for error as a crime scene investigator. One tiny mistake can have a case thrown out of court. A tiny mistake can determine a person’s guilt or innocence. Families, friends and the court systems are depending on everything to be absolutely perfect when solving a crime. If a crime scene investigator makes a mistake, the repercussions aren’t just getting a scolding from the boss, it means that justice may not have prevailed. Helping justice prevail and figuring out the facts is what makes a crime scene investigator thrive. It makes the long hours and unpleasant working conditions all worthwhile. 
