It might sound like a trivial detail, but my inability to find a floor mat for my front door that really looked right irked me for a very long time. I have looked at all kinds of different doormats. They were the welcome home door mats, the custom doormats with the name of your family, the ones with pictures of cute kittens and puppies – but none of them worked for me. Although I'm not extravagant, I am fastidious. There aren't very many details in my decor, but each one must work together in seamless harmony. I have seen very few doormat designs which were not cheesy and cliché, and I would not have a cliché in front of my house. That is why it is so fortunate that I finally discovered a shop that will print any custom door mat design that you order.

I don't know why it isn't easier to get custom doormats, but it isn't. Don't get me wrong – there are some  shops that will print different messages for you on your doormat for an extravagantly inflated price, but if you want a truly custom doormat, you have to search far and wide.  As a matter of fact, when I started out I could not find a single place that printed custom doormats in town. I was almost forced to resort to the Internet – something that I never like to do when purchasing things. I am so paranoid about having my identity stolen that I would not want to take the risk. Nevertheless, I needed to have custom doormats printed up one way or another. It was the one detail of my house that wasn't perfect, and somehow it was tormenting me.

The shop that offered to print custom door mats for me actually worked mostly as a commercial supply store. Apparently, it is very difficult to get someone to print just one custom door mat. People usually order custom doormats in quantity for commercial enterprises. They will have commercial door mats at a few different entrances, as well as extra ones that they can roll out during the winter season to stop muddy feet from tracking up the entire office. When all is said and done, I was left with a few extra mats, but it was all worth it. Every aspect of my home is now in harmony, and for me this is a priceless goal to accomplish.