Daybed Frames

Though I think daybeds are great, I have never seen one in which I didn’t have a problem with the frame.  Perhaps I have only seen ones that are very inexpensive, but because of the nature of the daybed, it seems they are not made to be very strong. The daybed frames seem to work rather easily, and they never seem to last very long after that. I guess the daybed is made for only made for occasional use, so perhaps that is why they are not as strong as they should be. If you ever had one of these, you probably know what I am talking about.

Most daybed frames I have seen are made of metal, but this was not a strong metal. Instead of being made out of iron or steel, these daybed frames are made of hollow steel piping that is weak enough to be bent by hand.  I have no idea why anybody would want to make a bed frames out of such a week material, but it seems to be the only material I have ever seen used for this purpose. It is almost as if these daybeds were made for a decoration rather than as a real working bed.

I almost think there is only one company that makes daybeds,  and they are all made with these weak bed frames. Each of them that I have seen has had some problem or another with the frame. There is usually at least one bent bar that causes the bed to be lopsided and in turn, the bed doesn’t last very long.  The only daybed frames I have seen have been painted white and have brass colored accents.  Not only have I seen these daybed frames in homes, I have also see them laying along the side of the road broken and ready to go to the trash.

If you are looking for a good bed, you probably want to skip the daybed frames I have just described. Go to a furniture store and ask for one that has wood frames so that you can be sure your day bed is more durable and will last longer than a few months. If someone tries to give you one of these weak daybed frames, you may want to check it over before you accept the gift. If this is something your child is going to be sleeping on, you want it to be strong and secure. Not all daybed frames are weak, but why would you want to take the chance.