Decorated sugar cubes are all the rage these days. You can find these sweeties at various functions throughout the year. These confectionary treats are ideal for any number of situations and I’m going to share some of my favorite designs in decorated sugar cubes right here.

I find these decorated confections to be pretty exciting for a number of reasons. They are appropriate for the most formal occasion but still can be created in a way that is casual enough for a backyard barbeque. There is also an air of tradition that the decorated sugar cubes offer in their very nature.

Of course, the first image that pops into my mind is the wedding decorated sugar cubes. These treats can be customized in a number of different ways. You can have them arranged by theme and by color. You can choose wedding decorated sugar cubes that are traditional or ones that are quite personal.

Many brides opt for the traditional images. Rings, hearts, bells and roses top the list of images traditionally used at a wedding reception. The decorated sugar cubes that boast these images are in great demand and brides as well as their guests are very pleased with these attractive treats.

Personalized decorated sugar cubes are ideal for this occasion as well. The wedding treats can have the couple’s initials on them in the colors that they have selected for the entire affair. There are plenty of options in these decorated sugar cubes and they are so very beautiful.

Another occasion that calls for the monogrammed decorated sugar cubes is the milestone anniversary celebration. These sweets will make for wonderfully tasty accessories that make the perfect final touch on the special couple’s day. The lovely accents are perfect for these milestone anniversary celebrations.

I like the idea of keeping tradition in the mix no matter what the occasion. The decorated sugar cubes are perfect confections for a baby shower as well. You can find tons of designs specific to gender and many that are neutral if the baby’s sex is going to be a surprise. These decorated sugar cubes are adorned with baby images ranging from rattles to teddy bears to ducks. 

You can bring these confectionary creations full circle by choosing designs that are specific to the season. The decorated sugar cubes are offered in wonderful holiday designs, Thanksgiving themes and even ones that are perfect for the Forth of July. No matter what time of year or what the occasion, you just can’t go wrong with decorated sugar cubes. 
