decorated sugar cookies

One of the best things about the holidays for our family is the decorated sugar cookies that my daughter and I make together. They aren’t pretty, but they taste really good. We always take the time to make some, though there are times when I don’t have time to make the cookies myself. It doesn’t really matter if I make my own cookies or not though. My daughter loves to help with the baking, but she has even more fun when it’s time to decorate the cookies.

Our decorated sugar cookies are usually the same ones everyone makes, but that’s okay with me. She loves to use the different colors on her cookies, and has even more fun with the various sprinkles and decorations that I give her to put on top. There is usually a huge mess when she is finished with her decorated sugar cookies. The biggest mess is on the tables and the floor. It’s okay though, as it is more important that she had fun with it than worrying about being neat. Cleaning is just a fact of life. Just make sure you check everywhere when you clean up. My daughter has a gift when it comes to making a mess, and I often find icing in places where I wouldn’t have thought to look other times.

Though my daughter’s decorated sugar cookies are a bit of a mess, that is part of their charm. Those in my family are thrilled to get them because they know that she made them herself. If you don’t have children and you want to make some, you might have to practice to get them just like you want them. You can go to a store and find decorated sugar cookies if you don’t have the time or inclination to make them yourself, and you will find these are beautifully and almost flawlessly done.

You can also get gift baskets with decorated sugar cookies for almost any occasion at any time of the year. Many of them have a theme, so you can find what you want no matter what type of event you are honoring. Decorated sugar cookies in a gift basket is a great idea for a get well gift, or if you just want to let someone know you are thinking of them. Remember to spend a little extra to be sure you are getting fresh cookies that are made with the best ingredients. Nothing beats a great sugar cookie.