Denver Events

There is plenty to do in the Colorado city of Denver. The annual calendar of Denver events has something to appeal to everyone. The rodeo has a long tradition in these parts and January's National Western Stock Show and Rodeo has bull riding, animal auctions and a display with more than 15,000 livestock. February is the month for people who want tips on home décor, renovation and garden design. The Colorado Garden & Home Show takes place at the Colorado Convention Center.

In March, the Colorado RV, Sports, Boat and Travel Show has exhibits, demonstrations and climbing wall. One of the most popular Denver Events is the St. Patrick's Day Parade, complete with floats, horses, stagecoaches and marching bands. April brings the Pan African Film Festival, which is held at the Aurora campus. Residents who want a bit of exercise can take part in the Cherry Creek Sneak, a 5 mile course on streets in the Cherry Creek district. Participants are allowed to walk or run.

Environmental issues are addressed in May in the Denver events itinerary when the Colorado Environmental Coalition Rebel With a Cause Gala, Dinner and Silent Auction takes place. This event is to raise awareness of the need to protect the local environment and the venue changes from year to year. The Java Festival in Aurora is a celebration of the Ethiopian coffee ceremony with live bands, stalls, bocce ball and croquet.

The Greek Festival is held in June and is a celebration of Greek culture with Greek dishes, music, art exhibits and traditional dancing. July is the time for dance music fans at the Global Dance Festival at the Red Rocks Amphitheatre where top DJs attend. August is for speed freaks when downtown transforms itself into a racetrack for the Denver Grand Prix Indie car race.

September brings the traditional German gathering of Oktoberfest in Larimar Square, the oldest street in the city. Its one of the most popular of the Denver events and has German music, food and beer. October is the month for the Haunted Hunt, a fun event for kids who want to see a ghost! The Holiday Food and Gift Festival is held in November. Father Christmas attends and there is a model train and stalls with luxury food, clothing, jewelry and pottery. The year of Denver events ends with the Georgetown Christmas Market, bringing together the Swedish Julmarknad and German Christmarket. 
