If you feel at a loss when it comes to dinner party ideas you are most definitely not alone. Not everyone is creative and some of us are downright stifled when it comes to coming up with ideas for entertaining that haven’t been used already. There are some ways to get your mind moving in a more creative direction when it comes to dinner party ideas.

First of all you really want to consider your guests. You may have a certain guest of honor that will be in attendance. This individual is certain to have specific likes and tastes that will be perfect motivation for your dinner party ideas. Following are ways to use your special guest as inspiration.

Let’s say that you have a relative who loves the old movie classic “Gone with the Wind” and you are inviting this person to your event. Why not create a theme around the classic feel of the movie? There are many reasons that you would want to embrace this particular theme for your dinner party ideas.

The menu options are seemingly endless. Southern cooking appeals to all different tastes and you can find countless recipes for the dinner party ideas. Of course, you want to make mint juleps both in the leaded and unleaded versions but other than that your options are quite various and you can get really creative with this theme.

Remember that entertaining ideas should leave you a lot of room for using different recipes that everyone will enjoy. The themes are useful in putting your dinner party ideas together but they can be stifling. I know this for a fact because I came up with an idea for a dinner event that didn’t go over so well.

The guest that I targeted for my dinner party ideas for this particular event loves seafood, especially shellfish. I used her love of this type of food as the center theme for the event. I included different types of shellfish and I even added little details like lobster bibs in the presentation.

There was a slight problem with this. Two of my guests were allergic to shellfish. While the concept was pretty nice it was just too exclusive and it really didn’t accommodate everyone in attendance. I could have been a little more creative in the dinner party ideas in this case.

A better approach would have been a land and sea affair that offered foods that land-lovers and sea-lovers could each enjoy. After considering a general theme for you dinner party ideas it is usually a good idea to expand on them a little just to make sure that everyone in attendance will enjoy themselves. 


