I couldn’t imagine my childhood without Disney Movies. Some of my fondest memories are directly linked to the Walt Disney classics like Lady and the Tramp, Cinderella and Snow White. Now that this children’s entertainment company has grown, there are more Disney movies available than ever before.

Each tale is unique and you are certain to find a favorite or two among the many films that have been created over the years. Disney movies offer something for everyone no matter what your age. I love watching the older films but the newer productions are nothing short of astonishing.

I am continually amazed by the incredible artistic feats that the Disney movies display. Considering that I remember Snow White when it was in the theaters, I can attest that I have had my fair share of films to compare. While I will always love the genuine beauty of the classic cartoon drawings, there is something truly astonishing about the computer generated images found in today’s Walt Disney productions.

No matter what, I find that children adore Disney movies no matter what kind of approach the animators use. The stories are so compelling and original (not to mention entertaining) that children of all ages will enjoy each and every one of the films. This includes the older ones that retain such charm.

Now that I’m a parent, I make sure that my little ones have all of the same wonderful experiences with Disney movies as I did. Creating your own collection of Walt Disney films may take a little time and effort but it is worth everything that you put into it. I love that I have many of the classics available any time at all.

This is especially good news for the kids. They have a chance to see classic Walt Disney movies like Bambi in the comfort of our home. These films are not seen on television and they are not re-released in theaters. However, they are readily available whenever the kids would like to enjoy them.

While I do love the amazing new Disney movies, I still get a thrill when my kids want to watch one of the older classics. It’s nice to know that my little ones have a chance to enjoy the very same films that I enjoyed as a child. I almost feel as if I’m a kid again when I watch with them. It is a wonderful experience for everyone involved. 
