The reputation of Disney films is secure as each new generation is introduced to the delights of stories and characters that are so familiar. Both classic films and modern box office hits are featured as a Disney DVD. They make great gifts and are ideal for entertaining the kids on rainy days or long school vacations. Parents too can enjoy a nostalgic wallow in some of the titles.

The list of famous animated movies from the Walt Disney Studio is an impressive one, including Alice in Wonderland, The Lady and the Tramp, Sleeping Beauty, the Little Mermaid and Beauty and the Beast. All these films appear as Special Edition Disney DVD titles with bonus features and their picture and sound has been digitally restored.

The Jungle Book 40th Anniversary Platinum Edition is a two disc release with extra features. Mowgli and his friends entertain in deleted scenes and sing along songs. There are also games, a making of the movie segment and a music video. The Dumbo Big Top Edition also has sing along songs and games. There is a DVD storybook about the flying elephant and an informational feature on animals seen in the movie.

The Bambi Special Edition Disney DVD also shows previously deleted scenes and there is a forest adventure game. There is footage of planning meetings in the studio and behind the scenes features. The Cinderella Special Edition has many extra features, including a history of early animation and a trailer for the new movie of Cinderella III. There are new music videos and an interactive DVD-Rom for designing a princess costume and decorating a princess bedroom.

Other classic movies released as a Disney DVD include well known favorites, such as Pinnochio, Fantasia, Robin Hood, the Sword in the Stone, the Aristocrats and the Rescuers. The first feature length animated film; Snow White and the Seven Dwarves is also available on DVD. More recent titles are also for sale, including the popular modern classic of the Lion King. The hits keep coming and The Incredibles and Finding Nemo can also be found as a Disney DVD. Another recent favorite, Cars was released on DVD in 2006.

In addition to movies, Disney also releases DVDs of popular shows and movies on its Disney Channel. These include Return to Halloweentown, Hannah Montana, Wendy Wu, Read It and Weep and Jump In. The pre-school audience is also catered for with titles, including Disney Princess: Enchanted Tales, Handy Manny and DVDs featuring the ever popular Winnie the Pooh and Mickey Mouse.
