The people in America are becoming more obsessed with weight and dieting. We are also getting heavier than any other time in the nations history. There are diets, surgeries and supplements that are geared towards helping people lose weight, but most of them fail to get people to address the true issue of looking at how they need to change their lifestyle to keep the weight off.

My husband and I decided that we needed to address our weight. We were both carrying more weight than we needed to be. Friends of ours were on the low carbohydrates diet, and had lost weight quickly, but our question was does the atkins diet work in keeping the weight off. We decided that we would research this and other diets to see what we would be able to fit into our lives the easiest. We knew that the plan had to be easy to follow and flexible in order for us to stay on it. We knew that most diets would give you results if followed faithfully, yet we were concerned about what happens in the long term.

My husband had me look into low carb dieting to know does the atkins diet work and he was going to look into lower fat dieting. In a way asking the question does Atkins diet work seemed silly considering that the number of people that were following some form of it was growing on a national level. Restaurants and fast food chains were changing their menus to accommodate the number of people that were looking for foods that were lower in carbohydrates. Due to the number of people that are following the Atkins diet it was easy to find information on it.

After doing research on does the atkins diet work I found that the entire process is dedicated to changing your eating habits for a life time. The strict low carbohydrate intake is used to drop weight, but then a full regiment for adding some healthy carbs back into the diet is outlined in the books and other materials that are available. The goal is to add enough carbohydrates back into your daily routine to satisfy your hunger and cravings, without over doing to the point of gaining weight back. The consistent report that successful dieters gave was that they did not feel hungry while cutting back on the carbohydrates. Most people reported having increased energy as well. We have decided that we will try reducing the carbohydrates in our diet and also cut the amount of fat we take in. We are creating a hybrid system that we hope will give us results as well as change our eating habits for the rest of our lives.
