Although many people fail to see the warning signs, the issue of domestic violence is a major one in our country and all across the world. Countless women are battered and killed by their husbands and boyfriends on a daily basis. And I do mean literally ever day! Now, you may stop to ask yourself how this could be. It's simply really; no one is helping these women in their desperate time of need. While it sounds utterly awful when you say it out loud, it's true nonetheless. The same goes for numerous children. The key to assist in preventing and dealing with domestic violence is often keeping an eye out for the warning signs. Stop for a moment and think about the women and children you know. Is it possible they are being abused in any way?

When it comes to issues such as domestic violence, child abuse and spousal abuse, far too many individuals purposely choose to turn the other cheek. This actually assists the abusers and feeds the problem, hence making the situation worse. If there's one thing everyone should know in regards to domestic violence, it's that most abusers will redundantly tell the women and/or children being abused that they deserve it. The victims are taught not to tell. This is why so many kids and women alike suffer with domestic violence issues, but never have the courage to seek out help. But, as a friend or acquaintance it is your job also to sense such things and see what's right in front of your face. The reality is that most abuse it tough to hide, and if you know someone who is being abused, then you should get them help whether they request you to or not. This goes double for children, who have very little power to protect themselves in the first place. It's your duty as a human being to speak out and get them the help they deserve. 

Naturally domestic violence and any sort of home abuse is tough to swallow. There are some things people can do to get a better grasp on domestic violence and how to deal with certain violent situations. A great place to begin is with Gavin De Becker's book entitled "Protecting the Gift." This will fill you in on how violent people function and think, and what the best ways to deal with domestic violence are. Get involved with violence prevention today. 