Ever since I was a kid, drama scripts have been my favorite form of writing. A lot of people watch plays, but less people read them. For me, however, it is almost more fun to read a drama script than to watch it performed. Once you have seen this many plays as I have, you can make the characters do exactly what you want in your head. You can make them have the perfect appearance, deliver their lines with just the right phrasing, and even slightly edit the drama scripts in order to make them fit your own tastes.

I was practically raised on drama plays. I actually went to a charter school as a kid, and that is where I was first exposed to drama. It was known as a drama school, as a matter of fact. The theater program was very strong, as were all of the other arts programs. In that school, we would use drama scripts for basically everything. From kindergarten through middle school, plays were the main way we learned things. Whether we were doing history, civics, English, or even math, we would find ways to use dramatic readings to help us learn and understand the material. It is pretty amazing how well it works.

I even used drama scripts in Sunday school. A lot of people are surprised when they hear this, but the Sunday school I went to was actually very creative place. They did not want us just to believe what we were taught by rote. They wanted us to really think about it and come to our own judgments. That is why we used dramatic readings. Sometimes, we would read from plays written by other people, but just as often we would write our own. We would enact the Bible for each other and then discuss our interpretations of it. It was a lot of fun, and I learned a lot about my religion.

Now that I have kids of my own, I use drama scripts in a much different way. A lot of the time, we will set up little plays with their dolls. By having them talk together, my children can articulate their feelings. They are too young to be really in touch with everything they feel, so by using acting and role-play, they can express themselves better and learn to communicate instead of acting out. It works well, and it is one of their favorite things to do.