When I was a kid, I was raised to have a fear of electric heating pads. My mother had once seen an electric heating pad catch fire. The electric blanket almost torched her house, in fact. Because she was so quick to react to it, and also because the electric heating pad blew the fuse which diffused some of the heat, she was able to put it out. Ever since then, however, she would not allow an electric heater pad anywhere in her house.

I was actually married before I ever tried an electric heating pad on my own. My wife had grown up with an electric heat pad. Her father had been arthritic, you see, and had needed the heating pad electric to treat his arthritis pain. When I first saw my wife using electric heating pads, I was a little bit shocked. I immediately unplugged the electric heating pad, and looked at her with concern. She asked me what I was doing, and I explain to her why I did not trust them. She laughed at me. 

She told me that electric heating pads had come a long way since then. Nowadays, you could even use a hot water electric heating pad with little or no risk. They were made better, and the materials were more resistant to flame. In addition, the electronics were carefully controlled in order to stop the electric heating pad from getting too hot. If an electric heating pad gets anywhere close to a critical temperature, it will turn off.

Even so, it took me a long time to trust the electric heating pad. I knew above all that I couldn't tell my mother. She would have freaked out! She would not allow her kids or her grandchildren to live in the same house as an electric heating pad. She saw heating pads electric as the devil incarnate, and would never try using them again. 

In a certain way, I understand her reaction. After all, you can also use a hot water bottle to treat arthritis or other muscle aches and pains. You can even use an electric heater to increase the room temperature to create a pleasant atmosphere to soothe the muscles. Nonetheless, I was now convinced that the electrical heating pad had become perfectly safe. Since it was a safe, efficient way to deliver heat to damaged or sore muscles, why not use it? It seems perfectly logical to me.