Have you ever been given a reputation that you wanted to change but did not know how to? It is very hard to change reputations. I had become known as the planner and organizer for the agency that I worked for. The main reason that I fell into this role is that I do like to plan ahead and I do like to shop for presents. It started by me looking at a calendar and noticing that bosses day was coming up that month. I started talking to co-workers in my unit about getting something for our supervisor. I collected the money went and bought the gift passed the card around for everyone to sign and wrapped the gift. That was the beginning of me being in charge of all gift giving and luncheon planning and arranging for happy hours. I enjoyed doing the things, but I had my regular job to do, I felt taken advantages of and there were times when people did not pay me what they owed.

I thought my efforts were unappreciated and unnoticed until my employee evaluation one year. My supervisor commended me for the efforts and made the comment that his brother could use someone like me. His brother owned won of the major event management companies in the metropolitan area. We talked about this in passing, yet the seed was planted. A few days later I asked my supervisor if he could let me know if his brother or any of the other events management companies were looking for help. He gave me his brother’s name and number and told me to call him. I made the call and this was the first step towards finding a job that I have come to love.

I am involved in planning. Event management companies are responsible for making all the arrangements for major happenings in a city. Our company specializes in family events. This means we make arrangements for circuses, concerts, races, rodeos and non-professional sporting events. Other event management companies specialize in entertainment that is more adult in nature and also large community events. Most of my work involves telephone, computer and faxing. After I had been with the company for nine months I was set up in my home. The company supplies me with three phone lines, a fax machine a computer and a multi-line telephone system. This is great. I am now using my organizational skills to earn my living instead of being the office party planner and gift buyer. Once I switched jobs I made sure not to be the first person to volunteer to do the party and gift planning for co-workers. Now that I am able to work out of my home this is not an issue.
