When it comes to holiday decoration, there are many different types of people. Some stay with the simple, and some go all out. There are many who are in the middle, and some that don’t do anything at all. Those who really get into the Christmas spirit many times will decorate inside and out, and sometimes, they spend quite a bit of time on this endeavor. What is most impressive can be the exterior Christmas decoration that they do. You don’t have to be Chevy Chase in Christmas Vacation, but you can have fun with things outdoors at this time of the year.

What can be fun about exterior Christmas decoration is that this is something that anyone who drives by will see. That means you might be the house on the block that everyone thinks of as the place with the really great Christmas display. Sometimes, communities get together and have contests to see who can come up with the best, and they have streets full of such houses for those wishing to view them. They may even have events or special viewing times. I know in my community there is a street know for their decorations, and they have a contest each year. It’s always worth the drive to go see what they have done.

If you are planning to do some exterior Christmas decoration, think about what you want to do so it seems as if you have planned it. Some get anything and everything they can find, and they end up with a cluttered look rather than something really neat. Nativity is popular, and you can find many life sized sets to put in your yard. If you like that idea, add some real bales of hay, and maybe go with twinkling white lights to draw attention to what you have created.

Some like to have Santa and any thing else they think goes with that theme. Some have both. Christmas means a little something different to everyone, so go with what feels right to you. There really is no right or wrong when it comes to exterior Christmas decoration, with the exception of having something so bright that the neighbors begin to complain. You also have your power bill to think about. Having your exterior done up around the holidays will certainly spread cheer around your community, and will put anyone coming to your home in a happy mood. That alone is worth the time and effort. Just remember to take it down once the holidays have pasted.