Filet mignon is, has always been, and will always be the supreme cut of beef, and one of the greatest foods in the world. Ever since I was a kid, I have associated this rare and delicious cut with the most special of occasions and the most formal of events. My parents, when they would take us out for a trip to the theater as children, would first bring us to an exclusive Italian Bistro. Several courses would be served, beginning with a light dish of pasta, A tray of delicious sliced meats and cheeses, some wonderful minestrone soup, and fresh-baked, piping hot bread. Although the individual offerings would vary from day-to-day, the main, and most sublime course would always remain the same. The filet mignon recipe was so good that none of us ever tried anything else. It was, in fact, the specialty of the house.

For many years, I was afraid to even experiment with filet mignon. It seemed too sublime and exalted a dish for my amateurish culinary pretensions. Nonetheless, one day curiosity finally got the best of me. I prepared a filet mignon blue cheese recipe, a variation of the steak I had never tried before. I figured that even if it was not very good, it would at least be unique enough to warrant my efforts. My attempt was not in vain. I was a natural! The fillet mignon was sublime – almost as good as what they would serve in the Italian restaurant. At that point, I realized that it was not just the expertise of the chef, but the wonderful quality of that cut of beef that made it taste so good.

What I didn't know then is that filet mignon is not all of the same quality. I had yet to discover such things as aged beef, Kobe beef steaks, Grain fed organic steak, and all of the other innovations in preparing the perfect beef. Nowadays, I only use 100% hormone free grain fed cattle. I feel that if I'm going to make something as good as filet mignon, I probably shouldn't compromise at all. Everything about it should be just perfect, otherwise there is no point. I've gotten to the point where I know a dozen different ways to make it, all of them tasting absolutely delicious. I'm glad that I was brave enough to cook it in the first place!.