fire places

There is definitely something elegant and cozy that fire places add to almost any home. They are a great addition, but they are also a lot of work. Many don’t take that into consideration when they have them installed or when they buy a house that is full of them. If you don’t end up using them, you have to have them covered up. If you do use them, they require maintenance. If you don’t do anything at all with them, they can cost you money on your energy bills due to a loss of heat and drafting issues.

When you actively use your fire places, you have to remember to keep them clean. They can be a fire hazard as well, and that means you have to have someone come in to check and clean your chimney at least once a year if not more. You have to keep the ashes cleaned out, and it will add a certain aroma to your home that you may or may not like. If you don’t mind all of those things, you certainly should have fire places if you want to. However, don’t use them but ignore the upkeep or you could be putting your home in danger of burning down.

If you ignore your fire places and are not using them, you may find that you have a draft in the wintertime and that your bills are higher than they need to be. You should always have someone come in to close up your fire places if you don’t intend to use them any time soon. If you think you may use them again in the future, make sure you find someone who can close them up so you may open them again when you wish to start using them again. Some ways of closing up fire places are permanent, so make sure you are specific about what you want done.

Overall, fire places can be great additions to the home, though most only use them once in a while. Safety is an important issue, as many lose their homes to fires because they did not care for them the right way. Always have the number of a good chimney sweep company on hand, and know what to look for if there may be problems. If smoke starts backing up into your home when you use them, you may have blockage that needs to be addressed immediately.