Everyone loves candles, the soft light they give and the relaxing atmosphere they create. Floating Candle Bowls have become very popular of late and the product range available is varied. They come in all sorts of colors, shapes and sizes and with differently scented candles. They are ideal for water features in the garden and can be matched to many special occasions. 

Candlelight can be romantic, shared by couples on a moonlit evening or they can be festive and a talking point at parties and barbecues. Different kinds of Floating Candle Bowls will set different moods and reflect the personality of the host. Some candles will burn for four or five hours. Bowls with gold and silver candles are popular at Christmas and wedding celebrations. White Heart candles are a favorite for Valentine's Day and for Wedding Anniversary's. 

Some candles are fun and some are elegant and there are choices for both. Some of the most popular candle sets include ivory, vanilla orchids, rose petals, golden daffodil, banana crème and cool crocus. The Daisy Water Candle gift set contains small plastic bowls in the shape of daisies, wicks, floating bowls and lighting tapers. The large floating candles shaped in lily bowls come in blue, magenta, turquoise, yellow or violet. There are also floating candle bowls in the form of half lemons or half limes and scented with the fruit. 

There is a scent for everyone and some gift packs include six or eight different kinds. Popular ones include strawberry, cinnamon, sweet lavender, hyacinth, summer garden, musk, cherry plum, apricot marmalade and jade green. Glass bowls are well crafted and some have intricate, swirling patterns etched into the glass. Some floating candle bowls have clear glass, some are colored in dramatic shades of purple and violet and some are white, frosted glass. There are clear glass bowls with frosted glass chips and bowls with white icicles or snowflakes. Some have glitter or have gold or pearl bands.

Several designs use beads or nuggets to fill the bowl and form a base for the candle to sit. These glass beads and nuggets may be gold, pearl, rose, amethyst, peach, lilac or blue. Others contain artificial roses or selections of pot pourri. An aluminum boat can also be used as a centerpiece for table decoration. Some bowls are just the right shape and size to place T lights in them. The various scents, colors and themes will add something special to any setting.
