Flowers Of The Months	

Each birthday month has a governing zodiac sign and symbolic gemstone. Flowers of the months also denote birthdays and have historical and cultural meanings. Choosing such flowers as gifts show a great deal of thought has gone into the gesture. It's also a guide as to what is in season.

The year begins with two January flowers. Carnations represent love, affection and admiration. Green varieties are given on St. Patrick's Day. The other flower for the first month is the snowdrop, a hopeful sight for the spring to come. February brings the iris, standing for friendship, faith and hope and also the violet. One of the delights of March is the daffodil that pops through and brightens the gray after winter. They symbolize respect, faithfulness and modesty. Flowers of the months for April are the humble daisy, denoting good luck and pleasure, and the wonderfully scented sweet pea.

Warmer weather in May brings the lily, for purity, sweetness and meekness. Love and beauty are naturally represented by the rose in June. Different shades symbolize different qualities. The Larkspur is the flower for July, standing for laughter and relaxation. This bloom was used to keep witches at bay in Transylvania. August is the month for gladiolus and poppy. Gladiators adopted the gladiolus, representing strong character and the poppy is associated with remembering the war dead.

The fall and September brings the aster flower for love, faith and wisdom and the morning glory, which represents vibrancy and awareness. The aster is also a traditional flower of mourning for soldiers. October flowers of the months are the marigold, symbolizing affection and the cosmos, which stands for peace and modesty. There are chocolate cosmos flowers that really do have a chocolate scent. The chrysanthemum is the flower for November, meaning optimism, cheerfulness and wealth. Some people drink Chrysanthemum Tea in Asia.

Finally, December brings the poinsettia and narcissus. The poinsettia stands for celebration, success and good cheer. It is aptly known as the Christmas Star and is a popular decoration in homes at the festive season. Narcissus represents self-admiration, sweetness and egotism. The Greek myth is well known and tells of Narcissus who falls in love with his reflection in the stream. He stays there and turns into a flower. The flowers of the months don't have to be strictly adhered to. They are fun to learn about and may shed light on some of the birth month traditions. 
