Front Door Mat

A front door mat might not be something that you think about on a regular basis, it is something that everyone should have. This is true for us in the winter, as without one, my floors are a wreck. It would seem that taking off your shoes when you come into the house is just too much for my husband. He is always tracking through the house. I found that the mat does indeed cut down on some of the mess on the floor, and that I’m not getting quite so angry with him.

A good front door mat will be one that easily cleans off the bottom of the shoe or boot. Though the ones that look like regular rugs are okay and will work, the ones with stiff bristles will work the best. We have one that is a simple black color with stiff bristles sticking up. This type of front door mat will work even if you only half-heartedly brush your feet on the way in. The act of scuffing your boot or shoe on the mat just a few times takes off most of the snow and/or dirt that is clinging to the bottom. Though it won’t clean off everything, I have seen a huge improvement since we got this type.

Because we live on the second floor, and the stairs are not heated, it is almost like we have a spare entry room. I put one front door mat out by the front door to get the majority of the gunk off of the bottom of everyone’s shoes, and then a carpet-like front door mat before the French doors that lead into our home. This almost completely gets rid of any extra dirt and wetness before a person even walks into my home.

It’s not perfect though. There are those who I would almost swear step over both of them just to track something into the house. I know this isn’t true, but there are days that I feel that way. These are the same people who mention what they have dragged dirt in, almost apologetically, and then shrug. Because I have hardwood floors, it’s not really a great idea to walk around shoeless in the wintertime in my home, so I guess I am just going to have to put up with it. Perhaps I need a front door mat that is bright orange so that no one can miss it.