garden furniture

When I was a little girl of about seven or eight years old, I met a lady who had the most amazing garden. She was a friend of my dad’s, and I would go visit him a few times a year. This woman had the most interesting set up that seemed to go on for miles. She spent a lot of time in her garden, and the results of her efforts were beautiful. I would spend hours walking through with her, or on my own, because I could not get over how magical her garden seemed to be. There was always garden furniture placed around so you could sit down and enjoy the day.

I don’t have a garden like hers yet, but I really hope to one day. Her garden covered almost two acres, and I still to this day do not know how she managed it by herself. She lived with her sister, but she didn’t help out very often. The garden furniture was almost as lovely as the garden, and thinking back, I don’t think it would have been as beautiful had the furniture not been as nice as it was. It was like she had a gift in that department, and she used that special touch to make a garden unlike any I had ever seen, or have seen since.

When you buy garden furniture, keep in mind that this is something that should compliment your garden. It should not seem as if it was placed there, it should seem as if it belongs there. There is plenty of garden furniture out there from which to choose, so it should not be too hard to find the perfect set or individual pieces that you want to have in your own space. If you put love and time into your garden, you will know it when you come upon the right stuff.

Remember to check for durability and condition when you buy. Some stuff will rust rather quickly, and that is the last thing you want. Instead, look for something that is protected, or make sure you buy the paint to protect it on your own. Once you find a great piece, you don’t want to have to throw it away the next year because it did not make it through the winter. Don’t go overboard with your garden furniture either. Just get enough to fill a few small spaces, and then let nature have the rest.