When I tell people that I worry about gift ideas for mom, most of them laugh. After all, it is supposed to be easier to buy gifts for mothers. It is gifts for dads that are difficult, as everyone knows. In my family, however, it is the exact opposite. Everyone knows exactly what to buy for my dad. He is an avid music listener, and he starts dropping hints weeks ahead of time. It is only a matter of making sure that everyone gets together so that we don't all get him the same album! Gift ideas for mothers, however, are much more difficult.

Usually we get together and brainstorm. We give gift suggestions to each other, but it never seems to quite work out. We used to just get the standard gift ideas for mothers. We would get her flowers, jewelry, a good book, or chocolate. What we didn't realize for all of those years was that she was just being polite when she got them. We always assumed that she liked the gifts that we were getting for her, but apparently that wasn't true.  She let it slip one time that she hated chocolate, and she never seemed to read the books that we got her. Not only did this leave us feeling guilty, but it also left us with no idea of what to get her. We had tried all of the conventional ideas, and none of them had worked!

Last year, with Mother's Day coming quickly, we were getting desperate. We had looked online for gift ideas for mothers, spending hours looking through all the usual presents. We looked at Mothers Day gift baskets, book of the month clubs, candies, gourmet dinners, but nothing seemed to work. Finally, we decided to ask my father.

The one thing we never thought of was my mother's elephant collection. Elephants are not among the top gift ideas for mothers, but for my mom it was the obvious solution. The porcelain elephants have  been sitting, gathering dust for so long that we barely looked at them anymore. Nonetheless, she was still passionate about collecting them. When my father suggested that we get new ones for her, we all jumped at the chance. For the first time ever, she was truly happy with the gifts that she was receiving. That brought joy to all of our hearts. Next time, we will be smart enough to ask my dad ahead of time!