When I decided to go into business making gift baskets for men, my family was pretty skeptical to say the least. It wasn't that they didn't trust me to come up with good gifts. As a matter of fact, since I was five or six years old, I was known for my excellent gift suggestions. Whenever one of my siblings was trying to pick out a Father's Day present, they would come to me. I would intuitively know the perfect gifts for him when no one else could shop for my father. I used to make the most beautiful handmade gift baskets and send them to my grandmother. She was delighted, but a little bit jealous. You see, my presents were even better than hers!

Nonetheless, people were a little bit less optimistic about my gift basket for men idea. My mom said that if anyone could do it I could, but she still wasn't quite sure that I could. Gift baskets for men, after all, just weren't the way things were done. Everyone knows what kind of gifts men are supposed to like: pocket watches, pocket knives, gadgets and gizmos. You don't get men nicely decorated, frilly gift baskets! It just isn't done. Nonetheless, I saw the opening, and I decided to go for it.

It turned out to be surprisingly easy. As I soon found out, there are plenty of gift baskets for men that go over quite well without insulting the intended recipient's masculinity. You see, there are many thing that men like that can go in gift baskets. Cigars, sausage, cheese, brandy, and wine are all perfectly serviceable gift basket ideas. These are all things that you might get for a man anyway, so why not wrap them up nicely and send them in the mail? 

As it turns out, my gift baskets for men went over incredibly well. I introduced them around Christmas, and from that point until New Year's, I was making a new gift basket for men every week. I had variety baskets, ones that matched the right wine with the right cheese, baskets for pipe smokers, baskets for cigar smokers – if you could name it, I could put it together. Not only was it lucrative, it was fun too! Starting my own business meant that I got to be my own boss, and I didn't have to answer to anyone. Who doesn't dream about that? I was living the dream!