The other day I was shopping for grandma when I realized I had no gift ideas at all. It was not a birthday gift or anything like that. It was simply sort of a hello gift. That is how we do things in my family. We don't really give gifts for special occasions. Instead, we occasionally just give presents to each other to tell other person that we are thinking about them. 

That was why I wanted a gift for grandma. Still, I couldn't think of anything. It was like my imagination had dried up. I have gone through all of the gift basket ideas in previous years, wrapping up fruit, wines, cheeses, little handmade crafts, and anything else that you can give to a grandmother. I had given her gift watches, statues, and CDs. I have even given her gift certificates once or twice. What else was there?

I have always found gift ideas for men a little bit easier than for women. For men, you can always get the usual stuff. Guys like video games, power tools, and things like that. With a woman's gift idea, however, you have to know more about her. You can not just get someone a book or a CD. You have to know all about her taste in movies, music, and literature. 

I know that my grandmother likes to read a lot, but what she likes is always pretty hit or miss. I didn't want to get her a book that she might not like, but I was running out of time. I needed a gift idea for this weekend went to visit her. After all, I hadn't seen her in so long I wanted to give her a gift so she would not feel neglected.

Finally, I came up with the perfect gift idea. I made a collection of all the stories I had written in the past year. It wasn't a typical gift idea, but it really worked in the situation. You see, I am a writer and my grandma has always been one of my biggest fans. I guess grandmothers are supposed to be that way. Anyway, I have been learning about bookbinding recently, and had pretty much mastered the art. I figured that I would add a little bit of handmade artwork to the stories, bind it altogether, and give it to her. It took hours to complete, but it was well worth the effort. She absolutely loved it.