In my opinion, there is nothing better than global travel. International travel has been my passion since I was very young. You see, my parents were both diplomats . As such, I grew up in a very cosmopolitan environment. Sometimes, it was a lot of pressure. I always had to keep up appearances, and I was always competing with some very sophisticated kids. Nonetheless, my global travels really worked to make me a better citizen of the world. Nowadays, I have quite the international outlook. I can tell you the best restaurants in a dozen major metropolises all over the world. I could explain the political situation in practically any country on Earth. The Internet has helped a little bit as have libraries, but most of the credit goes to my global travels.

A lot of people think that you need a lot of money to do world travel, but this is not the case. Particularly if you come from an English-speaking country, you can actually do global travel while spending very little money. There are so many places where they urgently need English teachers, you see, that there is no reason to save up before you start your global travels. All you really need money for is airlines tickets. Finding cheap international flights can save you a lot of money. Finding a hotel package once you get there, or staying in a hostel, is also crucial if you're traveling on a budget. After all, you will need enough money to get on your feet before you start working.

Of course, there is something to be said for just relaxing on your global travel trip. There are a lot of different approaches to taking an international vacation. People usually are either planners or explorers. Planners plan out every aspect. They are the type of people to take holiday cruises with tour books for every stopover. They know exactly what they want to see, how long they can take to see it, and what priority it is. Other people, however, take a much more laid-back approach to global travel. They would rather just relax and take every day as it comes.

No matter which way you like to travel globally, I highly recommend that you start to explore your world while you are young. There is so much to see and so little time. If you leave your global travels until you are old you will still enjoy them, but you won't have the experience of really adventuring in the prime of life.