When we're children, there are always little things that make us happy. We come to expect these exciting moments from our parents as we grow. For me, there were fireworks. Back when I was a small child in the 80s, I absolutely loved when my father would break out some bottle rockets, M-80s, fountains, and smoke bombs. This stuff was AWESOME. If you are a male, then you have to know where I'm coming from. I think it's in our XY chromosomes to love this stuff. We would stay outdoors for hours and hours setting off fireworks. It's like I couldn't get enough of it. Then of course I grew out of the fireworks stage and moved on. I assume most children do the same. But still, there is a certain nostalgia regarding fireworks for me to this day. Anyway, now I'm the father and I started something with my daughter. Since she was very small, I've given her glow in the dark necklaces, bracelets, and glow sticks to play with at night. We save them for our special occasions. 

If you've never introduced your kids to glow in the dark necklaces and accessories, now is the time. I think many people mistake these fun party favors for rave accessories. It's not like the darn things were invented for secretly held college bashes. Glow in the dark necklaces and bracelets were created for simple fun. Most likely fun for children. You bend them and snap them all over until they glow from one end to the other. Now you're prepared for hours of glowing fun. Just to give you an idea, my daughter and I take these nifty little devices camping with us. Or, we turn off all the lights in the house, put in a Goosebumps show, and have a blast with glow in the dark necklaces while we chow down on junk food. Now that's father daughter bonding at its best. She has come to love glow bracelets, sticks, necklaces, charms, and accessories. Not a weekend goes by that she doesn't tell me to get them out. Maybe you too can use these for playing with the kids. 

Try a few glow in the dark necklaces at the next sleepover your child has. These will be the hit of the evening. Just make certain you have enough to go around. Fortunately most glow in the dark necklaces and bracelets stay lit for 5-6 hours. They should be asleep by then. I speak from experience. 