When I was a little kid, one of my favorite activities was to make handmade greeting cards. This might sound like a strange occupation for a kid. It all started when my mom first explained the concept of greetings cards to me and my little sister. Something about the idea struck the two of us as absolutely hysterical. The fact that you would send a card that would say hello and wish someone the best of health instead of saying it yourself was so funny that we were rolling on the ground in stitches. Soon, we would make our own holiday cards for Christmas, New Year's, birthdays, and other events. The problem was that we would make so many of them that we couldn't possibly use them all up around the holidays. At first my mom thought it was cute, but soon our greetings were cluttering up the entire house!

Looking back, it only makes sense that I decided to sell greeting cards wholesale as my job. I practically could have started to sell wholesale greeting cards as a kid, after all – I had that many. The greeting cards wholesale business might not sound that interesting, but if you design your own cards, it can be a riot. The great thing about it is that it works with all of my strong points. I am very creative in some ways, but I don't really have the patience to write long works. When I was in high school, I used to enjoy writing poetry, and many people told me that I was pretty good. When I design my holiday cards, i get the chance to exercise this kind of creativity and make money off of it. 

Aside from this, selling my greeting cards wholesale allows me to put my considerable business skills to use. It is amazing how little has been done in the greetings cards wholesale business. For years, no one has dared to compete with hallmark greeting cards. Everyone has assume that, because they dominate the market, they will always continue to dominate the market. With a little bit of innovation, however, I have made a big dent in the sale of online greeting cards. Net users are younger and hipper, and they don't want the same stale sentiments that they find in hallmark cards. Not only do I sell my  greeting cards wholesale, but I also make a profit selling them on the net at near-wholesale prices.