Grow Lights

Honestly, I don’t know much about grow lights, but I do know what they do. You can use them in your home to simulate sunlight for your plants when they cannot grow outside. Some use them to start tomatoes for their gardens, but many others use them for things that perhaps they don’t want other people to know they are growing. Though I have never done this, I do know some people who have. Looking back, I realize that I could have been in big trouble for it being in the house I was living in, even though it had nothing to do with me.

While in college I lived in a very large house with ten other people. We all had our own rooms, though we shared some common rooms like the living room, kitchen, and the basement. One of the people we lived with had a room in the basement, and he was doing some stuff down there that most of us did not know about right away. He had found a space behind the wall and was growing something illegal there, and he was using grow lights to do it.  

I didn’t know anything was going on until I went down into the basement sitting area to get away from all of the noise upstairs. I noticed a strange light coming through a crack between the paneling and I also noticed a rather strange smell. When I asked what was going on, my roommate took me in and showed me his grow lights and what he was growing with them. I was shocked, and I honestly didn’t know what to say.

I guess right then and there I should have turned him and his grow lights into someone, but I was just one of those live and let live types. Perhaps if I knew he was selling what he was growing to kids I would have felt differently. What he grew with those grow lights was for his own use though, so I didn’t say a word. I can’t say I’d feel the same if I were presented with the same situation today, but back then I just tried to ignore it. I stayed out of the basement and moved out as soon as I could. Though I don’t know whatever happened to him, I do know the cops were there a few months later to break up a party. I didn’t hear anything about him being arrested though, so perhaps his grow lights went undetected.

