There are certain labels that are synonymous with quality and luxury and the Gucci label certainly falls within that category. Since the first store opened its doors in Florence in 1921, the company has gone from strength to strength. One of the most popular product ranges is Gucci Fragrance, bought by both men and women.

The perfumes come in elegant bottles, each with its own characteristic. This company has long been associated with celebrity endorsements and Gucci Fragrance contributes to the sophisticated image of the brand. In addition to perfume, the label can be found on clothes, watches, sunglasses, shoes, jewelry and fine, leather goods, such as handbags and luggage. Accessories, such as scarves, belts and hats are also best selling items. All these products are sold online and in stores across North and South America, South Africa, Europe, Asia, the Middle East and Australia.

The perfume range offers scents composed of layers of subtle ingredients. Gucci Fragrance makes a special gift for loved ones and the recipient cannot fail to be impressed. As with all good perfume, the scent is made from top notes and base notes, each complementing each other and resulting in a classic combination.

The women's range contains the well known Eau de Parfum Spray, containing an imaginative blend of iris, cumin and musk. Eau de Parfum II is an Eau de Toilette Spray version, using fruity and spicy ingredients, including blackcurrant, jasmine and sandalwood  Rush is another Eau de Toilette Spray and uses gardenia, patchouli and vanilla. The Rush 2 version is a floral mix of narcissus, oakmoss and rose. Envy Me Eau de Toilette Spray is a flowery and fruity blend of peony, pink musk, lychee and sandalwood.

The sale of fragrances for men has increased in recent years as companies have successfully tapped into this market. Men take more pains with their appearance these days and they want to smell good too. Pour Homme is an Eau de Toilette spray, using ginger and papyrus. Pour Homme II is a distinctive wood and spice Gucci Fragrance, which comes in Eau de Toilette Spray and after shave lotion versions. The ingredients include pimento and cinnamon. Envy is an Eau de Toilette Spray and Eau de Parfum Spray, containing lily of the valley, jasmine and magnolia. Envy II uses patchouli and cedarwood and is available as an after shave lotion or as an Eau de Toilette Spray.
