Handmade Soaps

There is no comparison between real handmade soap and commercial soaps that are available on store shelves everywhere. According to various reliable online sources, soap is basically water, lye, and fats or oils. When a lye and water solution is mixed with the fats, the chemical reaction is called "saponification", which is the reaction of hydrogen, oxygen, sodium, and fatty acid molecules, resulting in about three parts soap and one part glycerin. Glycerin is a rich emollient prized for its ability to moisturize the skin and is retained in handmade soaps, but is extracted in commercial soap as a valuable by-product leaving the hard dry bars of soap sold at Wal-Mart and elsewhere. Properly prepared handmade soaps have no lye remaining, and it cannot be made without it.

Handmade soap is rich and moisturizing, soothes and softens the skin, and cleanses without drying. Handmade items for the bath and spa leave even sensitive, allergy-prone skin feeling wonderfully moisturized, luxuriously soft and smooth. Soaps and other skin products are beautifully scented with rosewater, organic herbs, and flowers grown in organic gardens. Handmade soaps, herbal bath and beauty products, skin care gift baskets, and handcrafted natural toiletries can be purchased online from soap makers and retailers around the world. Countryrosesoap.com offers a complete range of natural handmade bath and body products including handmade natural soaps, bath bombs, shampoos, and more. Lush.com is another site that features lush fresh handmade soaps in addition to natural cosmetics and beauty tips. For pure gentle and natural home made glycerin soaps visit Carrie’s Creations at www.handmade-soaps.com, where you can find more natural handmade bath and body products.

Makers of handmade soaps often use various ingredients like olive oil or fresh goat milk, in addition to pure essential oils and fragrances, like soaps featured by Alabu.com makers of all-natural farm fresh goat milk soap, and OliveOilSoap.com that offers pure handmade olive oil soaps and body products. You’ll find a comprehensive listing of makers of handmade soaps from small and large companies all over the world, that make their own handmade soaps completely from scratch. Choose from scented, unscented, colored, swirled or layered soaps, round soap, or just plain and simple soap. Handcrafted soaps, handmade soaps, herbal soaps, or natural soaps are the gentlest, silkiest most latherful soaps you can buy. Light a candle, grab your favorite bar of soap, add some water, and in no time you’ll feel renewed; use this simple pleasure as an act of loving kindness to yourself. 
