A lot of people take liquor flasks for granted. If you want to party on the cheap, or if you never know when you might need a drink, a hip flask is a practical thing. The stainless steel flask is a classic for many. It is an elegant design. Basically, nothing is left out and nothing is added. The whole flask has a low profile design, just adequate to take a pint of liquor with you. It makes it easy to smuggle booze into places that might not allow a hip flask, and it is comfortable to carry in all situations.

There are many different varieties of hip flasks. There are, of course, the stainless steel flasks, and variations thereof. Not all of them are plain and unadorned. You can get one covered with leather or some kind of fake leather substitute. The first hip flask I ever owned, in fact, was basically stainless steel covered with leather covered with studs. It had a classy, tough kind of look to it. It had attitude. It was easy to hide, yet it was unashamed.

Looking back, I think I wasn't imaginative enough at that point. I have seen hip flasks that are much nicer than that. My favorite one is a pewter hip flask that i bought at a Renaissance fair a few years ago. It is only pewter on the outside, of course. You never want to drink out of anything made of pewter. Pewter contains lead, and lead is not good for you! But anyway, it has a fantastic appearance to it. There are faces carved into it of wizened wizards, great warriors, and fearsome dragons. It Is a great way to show off my fanciful side.

Of course, there are glass flasks as well. They have some distinct advantages. For one thing, they don't give a metallic flavor to your liquor, and they never corrode. The disadvantage, of course, is that glass is breakable. Nonetheless,If you buy a high quality glass hip flask, you are almost guaranteed to not break it. They are made of pretty sturdy, high-grade glass. They add a touch of class too, and you can easily see how much liquor you have left in the bottom. All in all, a flask is a great way to bring a little bit of booze with you when you are on the go. I would not go for a night out on the town without one!