No matter what it is that you do to your home for the holidays, it is always a great idea to think about some of the more traditional things from your childhood, even if you have a very modern décor. One thing that no home should ever be without is the holiday wreath. You don’t have to have one made of pine and ribbon if you don’t want to. You can find something that will go with almost any home, and some are so nice you might be tempted to get more than one so that you can fill your home with them.

The holiday wreath has been around for a long time. In my family, we often made our own after we had trimmed the bottom of the tree. We used the branches that needed to be removed from the bottom, and then we glued things on to it that we had around the house. That meant our wreath each year was a bit different from the one of the year before, but they had the same base. You don’t have to use pine, and in fact, you can use almost anything you can imagine as long as you can shape that material in the circular shape that indicates a wreath.

If you don’t want to make a holiday wreath, you can always go out and buy the base of the wreath, and then anything you think might work well on it, and let your children tackle the project. You can find green, and you can also find the pine style that is in many different colors. You can even spray them with glitter for extra sparkle once they are done. These are sometimes projects at school, and those can be great too, as long as you love them. I made one when I was in fourth grade, and my mom still uses it to this day.

You don’t have to use a homemade holiday wreath, of course, as there are hundreds in the stores that you can buy. They can be found for months leading up to the holidays, and these wreaths vary in price so that everyone can find what they need within their budget. If you want to find something truly unique, you can look around for them online to see what comes up for you. You should search by whatever theme you have in mind. 
