For a while, I have been dying for a home theater system. You see, I have a friend who has it all. He doesn't buy stuff to impress people – he just loves high-tech gadgets and has the money to spend on them. He has been working on his home theater systems gear for about three years now, and it is really coming together. He actually has the best home theater speaker system that I have ever seen, and his tv is not shabby either. He has one of those new widescreen TVs – not the newest ones, but the ones from a generation before. It is still extremely high resolution, and although it takes up a huge portion of the room, it is worth it.

I have been saving up for the most perfect home theater system that I can find. You see, just for once I wanted to have the best one. My friend always has nicer stuff than I have. He wears better clothes, he drives a better car, and of course he has a better home theater system. He knows all about theater home system design as well. You see, and he is an acoustic engineer professionally, so he loves really high-quality audio gear.

I know what TV I want to get, but I can't quite decide on home theater audio systems. What kind of home theatre system should I get? Part of me wants to get one of those over the top, extremely high powered home theater systems. I want to be able to turn up the sound as loud as I want and scare the neighbors. Another part of me, however, thinks that I'm getting too old for that. Rationally, I think it would be better served by a home theater system with flat-panel speakers. I have heard that that kind of home theater system delivers the best sound quality, which is kind of the whole point.

The really tough thing is that there is nowhere I can try out a home theater system before I buy it. Oh sure, I can try it in the store, but the acoustics of the store have nothing in common with the acoustics in my house. How will I know if the home theater system will play the way I want it to if I don't get to listen to it inside? Oh well – sooner or later I'll make a decision.