Living in a retirement community, it is easy to get bored. Don't get me wrong – there are plenty of nice people there with great stories about their lives. Still, everything is in the past. You get a little bored with it every now and then, wanting to see something happen right here and now. I had been learning how to make gift baskets in my spare time. Making gift baskets was easy. All you needed to do was get some gift wrapping paper, a few odds and ends, maybe some fruit or some meat, and  put it together.

I started off making get well baskets for my nephew who was very sick at the time, but when he got better I still had the bug. Then I realized that I could make some money off of it. Apparently, no one knows how to make gift baskets. I am sure that they would understand how to if they really tried, but everything is so specialized in our society that people are often helpless in the face of a new task. Making gift basket is something that never even occurs to them – they just simply buy one at the store and send it off. That is when I saw my niche and my opportunity to make a little bit of money off my hobby.

I was an entrepreneur in my professional life, and although I never made a fortune, I made a pretty good living starting from nothing. I didn't really know any more about how to make gift baskets than any decent homemaker one, but it didn't matter – I was a charming senior citizen with a loving, if somewhat elderly touch. I could put the love and authenticity into gifts for f my clients when they didn't have the time to put it there themselves. 

At first, I didn't make any money off of my knowledge of how to make gift baskets. I had only been doing it for a little bit of time, and each gift basket took me a while. Soon, however, I got the process down and was turning them out at a rate of about five an hour. At that point, I turned how to make a gift basket into how to make a fortune. Now I don't want to brag, but I am more well-off than at any other point in my life. While most of my friends are living on a fixed income, I can take trips whenever I want to. It is all because I know how to make gift baskets and because I set a little bit of money aside early on.