Human Skeleton Bones

Skeletons aren’t just for Halloween; they’re fun any time of year! They make great home décor pieces, like candle holders and book ends, if you’re into the gothic look of “Dark Shadows”. Halloween and home décor aside, human skeleton bones are an integral part of any anatomy and physiology class. The bones of the human body provide structure and support for the rest of the body systems, and facilitate fine and gross motor movements in conjunction with muscles, tendons, and the nervous system. Here's some fun bone facts from Answerbag.com: there are 206 bones in the adult human body, the remainder of bones left after the original 300 bones present at birth have fused together with growth and development. The smallest bone in the human body is the stirrup, a tiny bone in the ear that carries sound from the eardrum to the inner ear. The largest bone is the femur from hip to knee, and the only bone not connected to another is the hyoid. This free-floating bone is located at the base of the tongue between the mandible and the voice box, and it supports the tongue and its muscles.

General human skeleton bones include the skull, the mandible (jawbone), hyoid bone, cervical vertebra, clavicle, sternum, costal cartilage, ribs, scapula, humerus, radius, ulna, carpal bones, metacarpal bones, phalanges of fingers, thoracic vertebra, lumbar vertebra, sacrum, the coccyx, femur, patella, tibia, fibula, tarsal bones, metatarsal bones, and the phalanges of toes. Online resources like the eSkeletons Project feature an interactive learning area that enables you to view human bones and gather information about them, formally known as the study of osteology. The organization’s website is located at www.eskeletons.org, and is devoted to the study of human and primate comparative anatomy. Visitors can see digitized versions of human skeletons in 2D and 3D in full color, and navigate through various regions of the skeleton, or download skeleton screensavers.

Studying the human anatomy is something parents can do with their children while they both learn. Educational resources on human skeleton bones, including real photographs of the human skeletal system and a quiz, can be found at www.bio.psu.edu. This is a great site to view all orientations of each human bone in addition to related muscle and joint information. If you’re a teacher or student find low priced knee bones, bag of bones, magnetic skeleton anatomy toy sets, bones flash cards to learn all bones, and lots more at Flatbones.com, the online academic superstore that carries exactly what you want. Also visit SkeletonHuman.com for human skeleton bones, life-size human skeletons, and more bone collections. And of course, there’s always eBay!  
