The surfing lifestyle and sunny climate of Orange County is well known and the city of Huntington Beach California contributes greatly to the surfing culture. Its eight miles of beach attract many tourists and the pier, going from Main Street to the Pacific Ocean, is the largest of its kind on the West Coast. The downtown district of cafes, restaurants, surf shops and bars make for a vibrant atmosphere.

Surfing conditions here are considered to be amongst the finest in the state and Huntington Beach California is the annual host for the World Surfing Championships held each summer. The area is also popular with kiteboarders and the National Paintballing Championships are also held here.

The International Surfing Museum receives many visitors and has helped to put Huntington Beach California on the map. There are displays covering the entire history of the sport and a large collection of surf boards. Information includes facts about pop culture with connections to surfing, such as the music of Jan & Dean, the Beach boys and guitarist, Dick Dale. The gift shop sells CDs and T-shirts and the museum organizes surf music concerts throughout the summer.

Many events bring people together and the social calendar is full. Surf City Nights are held each Tuesday with entertainment, a farmer's market, food stalls and activities for the children. The Annual Kite Festival is an event for everyone to get involved who has a kite to fly. Professional kite fliers also participate, demonstrating their skills to music. For the really fit citizens of Huntington Beach California, there is the Annual Biathlon Race, which combines running and swimming. It takes place in July, beginning at daybreak and is organized by local lifeguards.

Central Park is a very large area with dense forest, including eucalyptus trees and the chance to see wildlife. It also contains the Public Library, a facility with a large collection of books, a theatre and a gift shop. It also houses a collection of local historic artifacts. The park also has a rental system for riding horses and guided horseback trails. Golfers enjoy the disc golf course and there is a sports center, nature center and areas for dining.

Nature lovers like to go to the Bolsa Chica State Ecological Reserve, a protected area of wetlands and tidal saltwater marshes, ideal for many species of local wildlife. There are free public tours of the reserve and it's popular with hikers and birdwatchers. Fishing is allowed in certain areas. 



