When someone you love dies it’s often difficult to let go. It can seem hard to simply say goodbye at a memorial or funeral service and not do something more. There are many different ways to keep the spirit of your loved one alive. Creating something lasting in memory of them is a wonderful tribute to who they were and what they meant to you.

Death is so closely associated with life. Every day as someone is dying, someone else is being born. It’s an endless, amazing cycle and just as we celebrate the birth of a baby, we mourn the loss of others. Planting a tree in memory of someone is a wonderful way to watch something come to life and bloom as a reminder of their life. If they had a favorite place to sit in the yard, the tree can be planted there. Perhaps they loved to run in a city park. If that’s the case you can ask about memorial trees in public places with your city’s hall. Either way, it’s a sign of how life carries on and it’s also a perfect spot for loved ones to go to remember.

Another way to fondly remember someone is by making a donation to their favorite charity. In some cases there will be mention of this at their memorial service and you’ll know where to direct your gift. If that’s not the case choose a charity that you believe the deceased would have supported. You can then send a check in memory of them. It’s a wonderful way to contribute to a worthy cause by helping others and remembering the person who is gone.

Many people take their urge to honor the memory of their loved one a step further. Having a pin made with the person’s image that can be worn on the lapel is lovely and touching. Many parents do this when they lose a child as they still want to feel as close to their son or daughter as they can. You can make your own in memory of pin or have one crafted for you. Many photo shops now carry small items like this and will even minimize an image you bring them to fit in the small frame.

Above all, a photo album or scrapbook is one of the most thoughtful ways to memorialize someone you love. Gathering pictures of different stages of their life and writing down memories will help keep them alive in spirit. An in memory of book like this is nice to look at now and again when you are really missing the departed. It will help you feel grateful for the time you did have with them. 


