You may have a home on your street that always has an inflatable holiday decoration in the lawn. These can be a lot of fun, but they are more work than they may seem. Though they look good when up, you can ruin all of the hard work you have done if you don’t pay attention to what they do and if they are staying inflated. This is why you have to make sure you buy a quality item so you don’t have to go re-inflate them every day when you get up.

Another problem some have with the inflatable holiday decoration is the wind. The wind can come along in gusts and blow them right down the street, even when you have anchored them well. When buying these, some have heavy bottoms that might guarantee they stay in place, but you should still back that up by anchoring them to the ground with string and stakes, much like you would for a tent. Once they have blown down, they may have holes, and all of the air will be gone no matter how often you try to refill them.

When buying, quality is important. You can get one, or you can get ten, but make sure they are nice ones. Some of the best looking ones end up being the ones that you paid more for because they require little maintenance, and you can use them year after year with little worry. That is because you spent a few extra dollars to get something nice. In the long run, you save because you don’t have to keep replacing ones that fail to hold air. You can - in some cases - fix these, but it can be very hard to find the source of the leak, especially when it is cold and snowy outside. You will probably be frozen and out of patience before you can find the leak.

Also remember your neighbors when you are going to buy an inflatable holiday decoration. You don’t want something that blocks their home in any way. They will probably love your new decorations as much as you do, as long as it does not interfere with the things that they need to do. Also remember to watch where you put ones that are lighted. They may look great to you, but some won’t like bright light near bedroom windows. Take some time to think about placement so everyone can enjoy them for the holidays.