You may find that what one person thinks of as Italian food just won’t work for someone else. There are many chain restaurants that say they serve Italian, but there are many who say some of them are just too Americanized. Whatever the case, this style of cooking is one of the most popular in the States, and you can usually find what you want in any town or city. Because there are so many options, there are probably more of these restaurants than any other type.

If you aren’t very choosy about what you consider to be Italian food, you can find some great choices with many of the chains. Though some might argue that this is not real Italian, you can’t deny that they have some really great food. If you are looking for something that might be considered more authentic in Italian food, you can find many home grown restaurants in your town that are independently owned. Those are usually the best places for foods as close to Italy as you can get in the States.

If you just can’t seem to find what you are looking for when it comes to Italian food, you can always tackle this one your own in your own home. You can find hundreds if not thousands of great recipes online that you can try on your own. Remember that the basis for really great Italian food is always the sauce. You may have to spend an entire day just working on the sauce, but if you have the right recipe, you will find that this will be time well spent. Sauce from a jar is just fine, but homemade always has the best taste. There is something about making it on your own, and adding things as you go throughout the day that makes a very special sauce.

When you find a good recipe for Italian food, don’t forget to share it with family and friends. While there are many styles of cooking out there, Italian is something that most think of as comfort food. We may need comfort now and again, and having that one great recipe for special occasions is a gift that keeps on giving. Even better, if you have been making some and have a great collection of recipes that you love, make those in your family a cute little cookbook of Italian food recipes that everyone will love.