When you've worked hard all year and it's finally time for a vacation, are you one who plans and saves for a really special trip that transports you out of the ordinary? If not, you ought to give  some thought to your next vacation holiday. 

Too often, the year passes quickly, as we do our time at work with a vague, longing feeling for some time off to do just what we please. When vacation time finally arrives, many of us find ourselves with  insufficient funds to do more than hang out in town, or go to a nearby resort for a few days. Then you realize that your vacation is over, but you never really got away. For a true holiday vacation, you've got to put some distance between you and the same-old.

One of the most beautiful destinations in the world is Italy. If you've never been to Italy, an Italian holiday is one you'll never forget. If you set aside just $35 each week, in a year, you'll have a tidy $1820. That is enough to fund a two-week Italian holiday so memorable, you may not want to come home.

Planning and researching your trip can be almost as much fun as the actual trip, and your investigations into your upcoming Italian holiday will serve to inspire you to set aside that $35 as you learn about all there is to do and see in Italy.

Look into the history, language, food and culture. Once you get started, your enthusiasm for your Italian holiday will grow by leaps and bounds. 

Italian people are spontaneous and warm. Italians know how to live, taking their time to enjoy the moment. An Italian holiday offers you a perspective on life you won't find at home. Time takes on a new dimension in Italy.

Your Italian holiday will show you a different pace, with meal time a long, drawn out affair, full of good conversation, laughter and heavenly food. Traveling by train is an adventure and the Italian countryside brings peace to your soul with its varied and breathtaking scenery. Every city and village offers spectacular insights on history.

An Italian holiday is like taking a trip back in time, wandering the ancient streets of Florence, Siena or Rome. Thousands of years of history and humanity abide in Italy and you can't help but let some of it flow over and into you. Your soul's voice cannot resist the treasures displayed at the Uffizi in Florence or the Vatican in Rome.

You can make your Italian holiday anything you want it to be. Touring by car or train, you can catch the breadth and breath of the culture in snapshot format. You might choose to explore Rome for your entire two weeks, never running out of things to do and see.

Bring your camera, appetite and love of life along with you on your Italian holiday. You won't be disappointed. You're sure to return someday again – perhaps next year?




