Jobs for teens

My parents encouraged me to get a job at the age of fourteen. I was less than thrilled, but my newfound financial gain was pretty revitalizing. I didn’t think that I’d enjoy working during my summers but it created some lasting memories and a sense of responsibility that I probably would not have gained otherwise. I worked for a local amusement park, which was known as an excellent place for providing jobs for teens. Sure, it didn’t pay a large amount of money but I also would get free tickets to visit the park on my days off so that I could actually enjoy the rides. 

With the amount of youth that this country has today, jobs for teens can be easy to find. Speaking from experience, amusement parks are a great place to apply. Restaurants, retail stores and movie theaters are also places that have jobs for teens usually available. There is a website, www.teens4hire.org, that lists jobs for teens and a place that will allow employers to list jobs that teens may be interested in applying for. Not only can you browse job openings on this site, but there are some great articles listed that can be of great assistance to teens who are in the market for jobs. There is factual information on the labor laws and other pertinent information as well. 

For employers who have jobs for teens, you can advertise your job listings on this site for a very low price. You just may get some very responsible and qualified teens that will help your business flourish. This website is frequented often and is highly ranked among job sites in the United States. It is all about jobs for teens and there are many success stories that have come from finding jobs via this site.

Some teens are lucky and can find employment within a family business. Perhaps their parents want to show them the ropes at a young age and encourage them to be a frequent contributor. There are great tax deductions for businesses when you hire teens and in some circumstances – teen family members. Of course, check with your tax advisor for those details. 

As an employer, be sure that if you want to provide jobs for teens, that you are compliant and familiar with the labor laws. Having teens working for you can be great for your tax deductions and your business in general, but don’t make the mistake of not knowing the labor laws. I’ve seen several businesses in some messy situations because they assumed that they knew the facts and the facts turned out to be incorrect. 
