Junk food

I grew up in the generation of junk food – eating anything and everything unhealthy for me. I turned out fine. I’m incredibly healthy, despite the fact that I practically survived on candy bars and potato chips. Nowadays, there’s a major obesity problem going on in the world and everyone wants to point fingers at junk food at being the culprit. I tend to disagree with that. Sure, there is way too much junk food being marketed in today’s society. There’s too much fat and calories in all of the food we’re eating. Fast food restaurants are adjusting their trans fat and the way their foods are prepared and made. While that makes some people happy, people aren’t realizing that some of the blame needs to be placed on parents and on people themselves. 

The fact is, when you have a tendency and habit to shove junk food in your mouth, you will tend to gain weight. It doesn’t take a genius to figure this logic out. Parents let their children overeat junk food. I’ve seen parents let their kids eat lots of unhealthy food and then expect their child to eat a healthy dinner. That doesn’t happen. 

Eating junk food can be healthy and normal – if it is kept to certain restrictions and levels. Letting your child survive on cookies and candy isn’t going to result in anything but higher dentist bills and larger clothing. But, giving your kids healthy meals and allowing junk food as in-between snacks isn’t anything horrible, provided it isn’t in excess. Giving your child a handful of Oreo cookies isn’t terrible but allowing them to eat as many as they want can be rather unhealthy. 

Kids today, as well as adults, use food as a method of soothing themselves. I will include myself in that statement. When I’m depressed or hating the world, I find myself reaching for a candy bar or a bowl of ice cream. Is that healthy? No. Does it taste good? Absolutely. So, how do we solve this issue? I’ve recognized the fact that I utilize junk food in this manner. While I’m not unhealthy, I’m not exactly getting any skinnier in my years. So, I have tried to find junk food that has less calories, reduced fat or seems to be less detrimental to me. Instead of ice cream, I might look for frozen yogurt. I’ve tried to buy crackers with less fat. I’m not sure if I can credit some of my weight loss to eating junk foods that seem to be less evil, or if I need to credit the fact that I’m more aware of what I eat. But, if you can prevent some calories or trans fat from entering your body, that’s a positive thing. Even better, if your children see you eater snacks and junk food that has less fat and calories, they 
will follow your lead. Of course, they have to follow your lead if that’s all that is in the house for them to munch on. 

You don’t need to give up the junk food that tastes incredibly good, you just need to be more conscious about the junk food and make wiser choices. 
