Kenmore Sewing Machine

When I was growing up, my mother had to work extra hard to support our family. My father skipped out of town when he found out I was not a boy. This left my mother alone to raise me, and then eventually my brother, all by herself. She put herself through college while working at night, and this meant that she needed extra help with raising us. We spent a lot of time at my grandmother’s house, and I remember quite clearly that I was fascinated with her Kenmore sewing machine.

My grandmother married her high school sweetheart, and they raised a family together on a farm. She was a housewife in every sense of the word, as well as a good mother. She also had her farm chores to do, but would often have them done very early in the day. She would then spend the rest of her day doing many things, and quite often she used her Kenmore sewing machine to make all sorts of interesting things. As a young girl, I was always fascinated with what she could do.

I remember that her Kenmore sewing machine was in the same room with her piano. She would take me in there and show me how to make simple things. Though I was sure I was going to so my fingers together with her Kenmore sewing machine, I managed to pick up the skill quite quickly. After a few months of learning, I made everybody in my family a pillow for Christmas. I cannot say that they were the best pillows ever designed, but I was quite pleased with myself for making them.

My grandmother still has the same Kenmore sewing machine that she had when I was a little girl. Though she no longer uses it, it is still set up in her home so that my grandfather may use it when he needs it. She cannot do many of the thing she used to do, but she is sure to instruct my grandfather so that he knows what to do. In many ways, seeing that same Kenmore sewing machine sitting in my grandmother’s house is a comfort to me. It reminds me of many of the great days we spent together, and that though even things may change, some of the most important things remain the same. The day may soon come when my grandmother is no longer with us, and I hope that my family will allow me to take the Kenmore sewing machine home with me.