Candy is something most of us fondly remember from our childhoods. It’s ironic that kids constantly ask their parents for candy and when those same kids grow up they tend to lose the majority of their sweet tooth. One candy that almost everyone of every age loves is lifesaver candies. These are instantly recognizable by their shape and the hole in the middle. They are one of the sweets that never seem to go out of style.

The majority of moms and dads today will remember these candies coming in a roll that consisted of a few different colors. There was yellow, orange, green and almost everyone’s favorite red. It was always a surprise when you opened the roll of lifesavers candy to see which color you’d have first. For those of us who really did prefer the red, we would often gladly share the other colors with the kids nearby just so we could get to the red ones faster.

They are enjoyed by everyone in a different way. Some people prefer chewing them up quickly, one right after another. Others like sucking slowly on the lifesaver candies savoring the flavor in each candy separately. The fun of these candies is that they don’t go bad, so even if you eat only part of the roll, the rest will be just as delicious, hours or days from now.

Many parents are likely to have a roll of these tucked away in their purse or pocket. The reason is simple. Whenever a little one takes to whining while you are out shopping or visiting a friend you can give them a lifesaver. Kids love the little burst of sugar it offers and they are likely to quiet down if there’s a promise of another when they finish the first.

Although they are still the same delicious and fun treat they always were, they come in not only different flavors but different forms now. You can still find the traditional assorted lifesaver candies almost anywhere. The selection reaches beyond that though as you can buy peppermint, spearmint and even sour lifesavers now.

For the younger kids, the hard candies might not be best. Some little children have trouble biting the candies and for them there’s a new, delicious solution. Lifesaver candies in the form of gummies are now available. They are a bit larger than the hard version and they are very chewy. For children who are fond of fruit snacks, these are ideal. 

There’s only one drawback when it comes to these sweets, they never seem to last when they are in the home. Once everyone knows there are lifesaver candies in the candy dish, they are sure to disappear right away. They are simply too good to resist regardless of how old or young you are.




