life size doll

Sometimes parents make mistakes when buying toys. I know that I have made some blunders with my child, and it is usually because I didn’t realize my daughter might be afraid of something. Luckily, she has outgrown that, and if she says she wants something, I know I can safely get it for her. I learned to take her through the store to see if there was anything she was afraid of before buying for her birthday or Christmas. My mother and I both learned this the hard way when my mom got her a life size doll.

My daughter was very young then, and when my mom presented this life size doll to her, she looked at it thoughtfully for a moment, and we thought that she liked it. We were proven wrong just seconds later when she let out a howl like I had never heard come from her little body. She was terrified of the life size doll, and she was having no part of being around it. We thought it might grow on her, but it was soon obvious that this would not be the case.

However, older girls always seem to love having life size dolls that they can play with. I had one myself as a girl, and though I didn’t play with her a lot, it was like having a friend there when it was raining and I couldn’t go outside to play with my real friends. She had clothes that went with her, and she could wear many of mine, though they didn’t fit her the same as they did me. I was glad my mom got her for me though, and I remember being quite sad when I realized I had grown taller than she, and it wasn’t really life size any longer.

They still make the life size doll, but if your child is young enough, a regular one might seem to be life sized to them. Just be sure your child is not in the phase where they may be afraid of things that are as big as or bigger than they are. If you suspect they may be scared, you can always get it anyway, and put it away until you think they are old enough to play with it. You can even find some that look much like your child. Some like to think they have their own twin to play with and if that twin is life size, they are going to like it even more.