Lindt Chocolate

All chocolate is delicious but some is superior to others. Lindt chocolate is definitely at the luxury end of the market, offering taste sensations to chocoholics everywhere. The Swiss company, whose full title is Lindt & Sprungli, started production in 1845 and now has a factory in Switzerland, Germany and New Hampshire in the USA. The product range was extended when the company bought the American chocolate brand of Ghirardelli in 1998. 

The chocolate is of such a high standard because top quality cocoa beans are used and there is a high percentage of cocoa used. This quality combined with imaginative flavor combinations has resulted in Lindt chocolate being a best seller across the world. American and British consumers, more used to their domestic chocolate being made with lots of sugar, love the products as much as their European counterparts.

One of the most popular items in the range is Lindor, which are truffle balls that come in various flavors. The range includes milk, dark and white chocolate with fillings such as mint, hazelnut, orange, raspberry, amaretto and peanut butter. There is also an extra dark variety and a coffee flavored truffle that is popular in Italy. Lindor is also available as a chocolate bar.

Blocks of chocolate are also very popular and they are made in a wide variety of flavors. One of the best selling Lindt chocolate products is the mint with dark chocolate. There is also dark chocolate on its own and with orange. Milk chocolate fans prefer the extra creamy variety and nut lovers like the pistachio. The caramel flavored block has a crunchy texture and the Madagascar is rich, containing Madagascar cocoa beans. Poire Intense is flavored with pears.

Chocolate flavored desserts are the perfect end to any meal and Lindt chocolate has made this possible with its Petit Desserts range. This line combines chocolate with well known continental desserts and includes Tarte au Chocolat, Crème Brulee, Tiramisu and Crème Caramel. 

The company has gone into the direct retail business with the opening of two chocolate shops and cafes in Sydney, Australia. In addition to the sale of chocolates, customers can buy hot chocolate, cakes and ice cream. Ice cream comes in various flavors, including Black Forest with cherry, White Chocolate with Raspberry Sauce, Hazelnut with Chocolate Chip and Almond Praline. There is also an online store on Lindt's web site, with lots of ideas for beautifully packaged gifts.

