When it comes to riding in the car, my daughter is a pro. I often refer to her as my little adventure girl. We have been on many road trips together, and she has always loved going with me. I hope that this sense of adventure will go on with her when she gets older. The one problem we have is that there are times when she gets bored in the car, and that can easily happen with any child. This is why we have a Magna Doodle just for the car. In fact, we have more than one.

The Magna Doodle is a great toy that travels well. It has a magnetic pen that lifts magnetic particles up to the board when she writes on it. They come with all sorts of different accessories, but it will depend on what you want to buy. She got one for Christmas last year that had special templates you could use to trace a variety of different things. I think the ones that she had were fish, and the templates allowed her to draw an entire underwater scene with a Magna Doodle.

For the most part, the Magna Doodle that we take in the car has put up with everything she could dish out, and it has withstood the test very well. She’s as rough on her toys as any kid, and yet the Magna Doodle still works well, even though the frame has many signs of being beat up. This toy has even withstood my husband piling tools and guitars on top of it when he needs to take things in the back seat of the car. For something made of plastic, it has taken the bumps rather well. I honestly don’t know why it hasn’t broken in half yet, but it hasn’t.

There are a few problems you can have with a Magna Doodle if you don’t take care of it the right way when you first buy it. The instructions state that you should use the pen or some of the magnet shapes to completely black the screen and then erase it before drawing any type of picture. I’m not sure why this makes a difference, but it does. We didn’t do that with her very first Magna Doodle, and sure enough, it did not work as well as the next one that she got. It might seem like a silly practice, but it does help the toy work better for your child.