Birthdays seem to come and go with frightening frequency. After so many birthdays have passed, do you lose enthusiasm and wonder what new slant you can produce for a friend in need? Have you thought how you might make your own birthday invitations just a bit out of the ordinary, making the special day extraordinary? Sure, you can buy invitations with the usual sentiments of congratulations. To make a special impression, think “outside the box”. Make your own nvitations, customized to show your respect and appreciation of the birthday guy or gal.

If you're looking for an unusual take, visit an art supply store and peruse their different paper products. This search can provide a solid and artistic background to get you started on a creative slant to make your own birthday invitations. You'll find rice paper, parchment, high content rag papers, “aged” papers, drawing paper and watercolor papers, all well suited to a make your own birthday invitations project.

Your selection of paper is just the beginning. Like a Shakespeare play, the paper is just the underpinning of a successful invitation. The paper you choose sets the stage, the mood and the backdrop.

To truly make your own birthday invitation a success, you'll need prose, printed on the invitation, which reflects your sentiments and wishes for success and good fortune. If you're a writer by profession, the words will come easily. If not, search the net for e-cards which demonstrate your feelings. It's OK to borrow ideas and concepts. Just don't include phrases or direct quotes expressed by others as your own – that's plagiarism! When you want to make your own birthday invitations, go more for the feelings expressing your emotions rather than trite repeats of worn out expressions.

When you set out to make your own birthday invitations, remember that your presentation can mean the difference between success and failure. You want to excite the recipient to the extent that they can't resist your invitation. You also want to make a unique impression, leaving your potential guest wanting to attend your party.

In order to make your own birthday invitations effective and alluring, select a good paper, effective prose and a sense of humor. With just these few elements, you can make your own birthday invitations a stand out.

When you've got your “make your own birthday invitations” concept intact, go with the flow. Send your invitations out with confidence. Your guest list will likely respond with a big “hoorah!” and a successful turnout.







