There are times when people’s out look on life bothers me. I have always approached life with the attitude that it will give back to me as much as I give it. My husband and I had both worked good jobs with wonderful retirement plans. We bought a house on a large lake and enjoyed lake living and volunteering in the small community we live in. Moving to the lake was a sacrifice for me because I had to commute one hundred and twenty miles round trip each day. My job also required traveling from client to client. Soon the driving started to take its toll on my lower back, I decided I needed to find something else closer to my home. The problem was that most of the jobs in the area where we live are service jobs. I did not think we would be able to maintain our life style on a lower income.

One day my sister gave me an idea. I love making gift baskets. I have made them for friends and family members for years. I buy different containers to use as the baskets and fill them with things that the person likes. I think I like making gift baskets so much because as a kid I loved grab bags. The small general store close to where I grew up used to make up grab bags and sell them for a dollar. You never knew what would be inside, I thought this was great. I see the same look of anticipation on the faces of the people that start looking in the gift baskets that I have made for them.

My sister came over to my house when I was in the middle of making gift baskets for the neighborhood kids that had graduated from high school. We were invited to their graduation party so the baskets were going to be their gift. I put in things that I knew each of them liked, as well as some useful things for college in the fall. My sister told me I should do this for a living because the baskets always turned out so nice. I thought about this for a while and decided that it would be a good way to supplement our income if I would take a lower paying job. I contacted the owner of a consignment shop in the area and proposed the idea of selling the baskets. I would make general item gift baskets that would be for sale and display and also take orders for custom baskets. Within four months I was making gift baskets for twenty people at a time. I also found a part time job with a local insurance company. I love my life again. I am doing something creative as well as earning the same amount of money without driving a long distance. I still work hard, but life is giving me back a wonderful place to live.
