In many ways, my family was pretty healthy when I was growing up. We wouldn't eat fatty foods, we would exercise every day, we wouldn't even spend a lot of time in front of the television. We got along well, talked our problems out instead of arguing, and read the newspaper instead of watching the so-called news on TV. The one vice that we all shared in common was our candy consumption. We loved white chocolate candy, peanut butter candy, Smarties, jelly beans, and anything else we could get our hands on. The best of all, however, was maple sugar candy. If it weren't for maple sugar candies, I probably wouldn't have a filling in my entire mouth. But oh god, the taste is worth it!

As a matter of fact, every year we would take a trip to Vermont just to get Vermont maple sugar candies fresh. A lot of people buy their maple sugar candy online, and they don't realize the difference. There is a difference. I don't know why it is – it isn't like sugar can't be preserved –but still, the best maple sugar candies by far all come from maple country. Anything that you get on the Internet or in your local store is vastly inferior. Even the Vermont maple syrup does not really taste quite as good. I think it's intentional – I think that they are saving the best stuff for themselves!

Of course, these family trips to Maple country would just about maple sugar candies. There is nothing like going to Vermont in the autumn. The trees are beautiful, the air is crisp, and everything has the smell of changing leaves that you can't get in more temperate climates. The tasty treats make it all the better, but even without them, it is one of the best vacation destinations you could ask for. Nonetheless, vacation would not be the same without the maple sugar candies!

You might think that I am crazy, but let me give you some advice. If you have never tried maple syrup candy, let me tell you here and now that you should stay away from it for your entire life! It simply isn't worth it! Any candy that will get you eating plain sugar day after day is a wicked thing that should never have been invented. If maple syrup wasn't bad enough, maple candies are there to finish you off!