There are many situations that call for a miniature Christmas tree. This holiday decoration has been around for generations and in spite of the popularity of its life sized counterpart, this petite evergreen has a very bright future. Its future is built on a very solid past.

The tree top Christmas tree has been around for generations. This small holiday evergreen was all the rage in Germany and some homes still embrace the tradition of using the petite table version. Tradition isn’t the only reason that so many of us choose to adopt a mini tree into our homes.

Anyone who has ever lived in a cramped apartment or small home knows the benefit of choosing a miniature Christmas tree. The artificial minis are quite popular among those who have little space and they are available pre-decorated for those who are short on holiday ornaments, too.

Even people who live in larger spaces are adopting mini holiday trees into their decorating schemes. The small versions are great for filling awkward empty spaces in big homes. They are also wonderful for adding some holiday cheer to every room in the house. 

There are many versions of the miniature Christmas tree to consider. One of the newest trends in small decorative evergreens this holiday season is the wall tree. This item is wonderful because it attaches directly to the wall and most come pre-strung with decorative lights. This item can be embellished to your tastes or left in its glowing simplicity.

Musical evergreens are very popular, too. These decorations are commonly ceramic, metal or resin and they serve to add a whimsical image as well as holiday tunes. This is a great miniature Christmas tree for anyone who is an avid collector. The musical evergreens are quite popular and easy to collect. 

There are a wide variety of decorative miniature trees to consider, too. You can find everything from Victorian replicas that have an antique feel to sleek modern holiday designs. You can find just about any theme in holiday traditions imaginable in the mini trees and there are some new versions as well. 

There’s even a bobble tree that bounces around for your visual pleasure. This is a fun new addition to holiday decorating is sure to entertain kids of all ages. The bobble runs on batteries and comes equipped with jingling bells that make the whole experience smile worthy.

The miniature Christmas tree has many faces and its universal appeal makes it the perfect addition to your holiday decorating supplies. 


