In general, I am not a big fan of pure eye candy. In my opinion, Hollywood has mostly run out of ideas as far as creating newer and better special effects goes. For a while they could dazzle audiences and blow them away, but nowadays we are all jaded enough as viewers to require little bit of plot as well. Nonetheless, every once in a while a movie comes out that has so much flash that an apparent lack of content doesn't seem to cripple it. Mirrormask was just such a movie.

Mirror Mask was the first movie to feature the writing team of Neil Neil Gaiman and Dave McKean. Usually, they are doing comic books or children's picture books together. They are one of the most acclaimed duos in the entire comic book industry. Neil Gaiman usually gets most of the credit. He wrote the stories for the Sandman comics, as well as numerous one shots such as Mr. Punch. Nonetheless, anyone who has actually taken the time to sit down and look through these books has to admit that, without the art in them, the effect would be lost. The writing is good, but it doesn't make it alone. Dave McKean's unique multimedia pieces, combining drawing, painting, and photography in brilliant collages, is what really makes the books shine.

The great thing about Mirror Mask is that it is McKean's turn to shine for once. The writing is okay, but to be honest as a member of the audience you don't even really notice it. When you ask someone to describe Mirror Mask, they will talk about the fantastic giants, the bizarre backgrounds, or some other detail of the way the movie appears. They won't mention the plot. As a matter of fact, the chances are even that they will not even remember it.

If you missed Mirror Mask the first time around, that is too bad. It is one of those movies that simply has to be seen in the theater if you want to get the full effect. Nonetheless, that is no reason that you shouldn't go out and rent or even buy the Mirror Mask DVD. It is a movie that you have to see at least once, and it is pretty addictive. After you see it the first time, you'll want to see it again. As a matter of fact, I watched MirrorMask three times in a row before I even picked up another movie.