Model Kits

As I was shopping for Christmas presents from my husband, I wandered past the model kits many times. Though I know he likes to do these, I am never sure what he would like. In the end I get so confused that I’d never end up buying him one. Each year he even gives me a hint that he might like to have one, but after wandering up and down the same aisle for 20 minutes I always walk away and find something else.

I don’t know why I have a mental block when it comes to choosing model kits, but I’m always afraid that what I buy will not be what he wants. He may suggest that he wants a ship or perhaps a car, but there are so many other things you have to consider when buying model kits that I get very confused. There are some that snap together, and there are some which require intricate gluing. There are some model kits that come already painted, while there are others that just have stickers. I am confused about which kind he would prefer to have. Perhaps I should just ask.

You would think I would be more at ease with model kits because I did a lot of them when I was a child. They were never something that I asked for, but my father always got me one. I would always look forward to doing model kits when I went to his house for the weekend. Perhaps it was just his way of giving my brother and I something to do, but there are many weekends when we would arrive at his house and he would hand us a couple of model kits. They would keep us busy for hours, and we were always excited to do them.

Perhaps I should take him seriously next year and buy him a few model kits. Perhaps I should just go ahead and buy one of each type to see what he likes. I can also give him the receipt so that he can return the model kits he does not want, and buy the ones that he does want. It seems simple enough, but I always like to think I get the right gift for someone the very first time. When they have to return something I always feel like I am a huge failure. Even though he may have to return a few of the kits I guess I can live with it. I’d rather get him something he wants and something that will make him happy than to leave him disappointed.
