Money tree

When I was little, my father always told me that money doesn’t grow on trees. He must have said this to me at least once a week – whenever I attempted to ask for something. As I started to grow up, I realized that he was right. However, for my 30th birthday, I got a bit of a kick out of proving him wrong. My husband decided that I deserved a shopping spree and instead of getting me a gift card, he took a much more creative approach. He bought a tiny little tree and planted it in a beautiful pot. He painted dollar signs all over the pot and made it look incredibly unique. On the branches, he took fishing line and strung up tiny little letters that were written on small blocks. All of the letters spelled out Happy Birthday. The best part was that each of the little blocks had holes in the top that he used to tie the fishing line for hanging on the branches. He took a lot of time to make little scrolls to also place into the holes. Each scroll had a dollar amount written on it. After I was done opening all of 
the scrolls, as well as melting from the creativity he had shown, my very own money tree had given me $500 for a shopping spree. Everyone at my party thought that it was the most wonderful and unique gift and idea that they’d ever seen. He could’ve just given me the cash or a gift card, but he spent a great deal of time in making that money tree. Truth be told, that money tree was the best gift that I’ve ever received. I still have it sitting in my house, though it has grown quite a bit over the years. Every so often, when he gets a bonus and thinks that I deserve to buy something for myself, he’ll turn it back into a money tree and decorate it with some bills. 

I’ve seen a lot of people give a money tree as a gift for all different occasions. Most of those individuals spend extra money just to have money decorate a tree. With some time and a small amount of your own creativity, you can create your own money tree. Of course, in today’s society, a lot of people just don’t have the time or allow themselves to take the time. So, if you want to give a money tree as a gift, you can find some wonderful ones that companies will personalize for you. In fact, if you can think of a special reason to give one to someone else, they can make it possible. 

Sure, some people think that giving money as a gift is impersonal. Perhaps it is. However, who doesn’t appreciate getting money as a gift? You can be boring and place it inside of a card. Or, you can be creative and win some points by presenting the recipient with a money tree. I guarantee they will smile a lot brighter than simply handing them cash. Not to mention the fact that they will probably always remember such a unique gift, even years later. 
