Holiday traditions are very important. The sense of history and family values is an integral part of this celebratory time of year. Stockings are long-lived holiday customs that have retained their popularity over the years. The monogrammed Christmas stocking brings a personal feel to this standard holiday item.

The personalized Christmas decorations are not a new concept by any stretch of the imagination. For as long as many of us can remember, stockings and initials go hand-in-hand. However, today’s monogrammed Christmas stocking is a far cry from the old glitter and glue versions that most of us remember from years ago.

If you are looking for something elegant then you want to consider different styles that offer a clean sophisticated look. The clean appeal doesn’t mean that you have to give up embellishments and design. There are many personalized stockings that are made of rich materials and shimming details that are quite understated and sleek.

Velvet is the material of choice for some manufacturers and there is good reason that it’s so popular. The look and feel of velvet is difficult to match and there is a Santa-inspired feel to a monogrammed Christmas stocking that is made out of velvet. If you want an item that feels as good as it looks then you want to consider this material.

Felt stockings are nice choices for a rustic look. These charming items are quaint and welcoming and they can be embellished in a number of different designs. This makes the felt monogrammed holiday stocking a very versatile choice for someone who has a country Christmas theme for her home. 

Once you have your material chosen you can check out the different styles available. Many adore the classic cut that is typically seen in old books depicting the traditional holiday scene. Personalized classic cut stockings are ideal for anyone who wants an old fashioned look.

An unusual option is the curly toed holiday stocking. This item brings a whimsical feel to your Christmas decorating scheme. The curly stockings are usually designed with very colorful holiday materials and they are often embellished with rich gold or stunning silver accents. Personalized stockings of this nature are perfect for a house full of jesters. 

It is important to take your whole holiday tradition into consideration when choosing a monogrammed Christmas stocking design for your home. After all, a well made item is going to be part of your seasonal custom for many years to come.
