Monterey California

There are many interesting spots along the Pacific Coast, including Monterey Bay. Monterey California was well known as an important center for the fishing industry up to the 1950s. Now, the old fishermen's dwellings on Cannery Row are part of a tourist attraction, along with restaurants and shops. The city is also famous for its cultural connections and has been an artist's colony. Famous authors have lived here, including Henry Miller, Robert Louis Stevenson and the author of Cannery Row, John Steinbeck.

The area is renowned for its diverse marine life and rugged scenery. It's a favorite haunt of scuba divers and fishing enthusiasts. Visitors have plenty locations to explore around Monterey California, including the 17 Mile Drive. This is a road that follows a scenic trail along the coast, through Pacific Grove and Pebble Beach. There are places where you can pull off the road to view the scenery and picnic spots. A number of golf courses, beaches and woods line the route. Pebble Beach is known for its world-class golf facilities and there are both private and public courses. There is an AT & T Pro-Am event held every year. The Pebble Beach Concours d'Elegance is a popular event for car lovers as it's an exhibition for classic cars.

Fishermen's Wharf is a busy tourist destination with several seafood restaurants, including up market venues and clam bars. It's a great place to get a souvenir from Monterey California and there are gift shops, galleries and jewelry stores. Whale watching tours and chartered fishing boats can be booked from the Wharf and sea lions are often seen in the Bay. The area is also a favored destination of birdwatchers, with a number of rare birds frequenting the region.

More marine life can be seen at the Monterey Bay Aquarium, one of the largest of its kind in the world and respected for its research.  It has an unusual display, not normally seen in an aquarium, of live, Californian Giant Kelp. There are also stingrays, sea otters and jellyfish. The first Great White Shark held in captivity in the world was here until 2005, when it was released. 

Race enthusiasts will enjoy the nearby Mazda Raceway Laguna Seca, a road racing track that is regularly used for auto and motorcycle events. Superkart and American Le Mans races are also held here in addition to other events such as music festivals. The track is famous for its corkscrew turn, attracting daring drivers and riders to Monterey California.

