When I used to play Mouse Trap as a kid, I thought it was a lot of fun. Most kids do. Not only was Mousetrap a great board game, but it also has some excellent props. The best part was the end. Actually watching the toy mouse trap spring was always thrilling to watch. Working with real mouse traps, however, is a different story entirely. When I grew up, we never had a rodent problem, but as soon as I moved out that all changed. The first house I lived in was in New York, and rodents were definitely a problem. Not just mice either, but rats as well. Finding means of rodent control was of paramount importance.

It has often been said that there is no better way to fight rodents than with a good cat. Unfortunately, the building I was living in did not allow pets. We had to make do with good old-fashioned mousetraps. We started by putting them all along the baseboards, but we had a few successes. Apparently, we had not figured out where the mice were coming from. We were thinking about calling an exterminator when one of my house mates finally figured out. He saw a small hole in the wall, obviously burrowed out by mice. We look around the area and found a few more on the other side of the room. Now that we knew how the mice were getting in, we could be smarter about catching them.

We had a lot of debate about what style of mouse trap to get. Some of us wanted to get one of the classical snap traps that are designed to break the backs of mice. On the other end, one of my roommates wanted to get a no-kill trap, arguing that it was more humane. We had a debate about whether or not a no kill mouse trap was a good idea. Some people said that they were every bit as good as killing the mice, without the cruelty. Other people claimed that, if you didn't kill them, they would get right back into the house. In the end, we decided on a pretty high tech solution. We got an electric powered trap that would zap mice or rats quickly and painlessly.

The mouse traps worked like a charm. We had taken care of the mice within a couple weeks, and the rats a bit after that. We even threw a party to celebrate. Now all we had to worry about was the  cockroaches!