Finding a great movie theatre is almost as important as finding a good local bar or coffee shop. You really need a place to go to see movies – a place that isn't just a large, anonymous all. Movie theatres come in all sorts. On the one hand, you can go to a showcase Cinema or AMC movie theatre – the big, impressive, and ultramodern kind. On the other hand, there is your neighborhood movie house.

A lot of people believe that bigger and newer means better, but this isn't always the case. In the neighborhood I live in, there is an old movie theatre where you can see matinees for $3.75. They serve beer and popcorn, as will as pizza, and the staff is always friendly and courteous. Because they are not one of the big movie showcase theatres, they can screen interesting, independent films from time to time.

The thing I like most about it, however, is that it is a local landmark. The movie theater is something unique to the neighborhood I live in. You can find a showcase cinema in any city, but not every place still has its own independent movie theaters. It can be nice to see something quaint, old-fashioned, and comforting among the hustle and bustle of modern urban life.

Of course, the modern movie multiplex theaters have their own advantages to them. The two most obvious ones are comfort and convenience. these theaters have cushy, comfortable seats, many different screens running at the same time, games to play in the lobby, and a wide assortment of food and beverages. Local movie theatres only have one or two films showing at the same time, but one of the big ones will show half a dozen films at the very least on any given day. 

The quality of the experience can also be better. A big movie theatre will probably have better sound systems, better image quality, and better upkeep in general. A lot of the old ones are really beautiful, but kind of worn down. They have seen better days, and tend to not have enough money to really keep things up like they used to. Don't get me wrong – the little guys have a certain charm to them, and I can't deny that it is fun to drink beer and eat pizza while out watching a movie. Even so, it is sometimes nice to be able to go to a clean, spacious film theatre where you can see anything you want.