Music and the holiday season have a lot in common. Both are emotionally-charged links to memory. People tend to make strong associations between these elements and their fondest memories of great times with friends and family. A musical Christmas ornament is the ideal representation of the connection between song and holiday memories.

There are plenty of things to consider when shopping for a musical Christmas ornament for your collection. What are your favorite holiday songs? Do you have a sentimental favorite that makes you think of someone special? Is there a particular holiday song that comes to mind whenever you see Christmas decorations?

You also want to consider the design of the holiday tree ornament as well. While having a decoration that plays music is wonderful, it helps if the item is in keeping with the rest of the display. If you have a Victorian holiday theme you want to stick with that theme when shopping for musical holiday decorations.

Perhaps you want to adopt a music theme into your holiday decorating ideas. This is a wonderful approach to creating a sing-song atmosphere that is as attractive to the eyes as it is to the ears. There are plenty of musical Christmas ornaments that don’t necessarily play songs but they do fit into the theme.

Miniature instruments make for wonderful choices in this theme. The wonderful thing about this approach is that you have a lot of colorful options including bright red drums, shiny brass horns and silver bells. A song inspired holiday tree can be remarkably colorful and it can also fit into other themes as well.

A country theme can be embellished with fiddles and banjos. Song lovers can collect adorable vinyl record ornaments for a cool retro motif. Classical sheet music and miniature grand piano offer a traditional feel that can suit a traditional holiday theme. Some may want to simply collect treble clefts, notes and scales for their musical Christmas ornament collection.

These collections can be embellished with colorful bows and other accents that really bring out the holiday spirit. The musical ornaments serve as wonderful reminders of the importance of music during this very special time of year. 

Remember that you don’t have to hear the ornaments play compositions in order to embrace music during the holiday season. You can find many wonderful symbols of instruments and tunes that are certain to inspire a song.  


