My Space Background

If you are familiar with Myspace, have probably seen many different spaces that you like. Some people search for a long time to find the perfect Myspace background, while others just seem to choose the first thing that they come upon. What you choose for your background often says a lot about who you are as a person, and having no background may suggest that you simply don’t use Myspace very much, or that you don’t have the time to mess with it.

There are many different sites that now offer a Myspace background. They usually have hundreds from which to choose. I personally like sites that allow you to make your own Myspace background. This means you can upload your own picture for your background, and then choose what colors and fonts you want to use for the other things on your page. This is the perfect way to get a background that is yours and yours alone. Some people think that having the same Myspace background as someone else is akin to wearing the same dress to a party as someone else.

If you look on any search engine, you will find many sites that offer you a Myspace background. Keep in mind that some people have older computers, and if you have a complicated background with a lot of flashing and moving animations, many people will not be able to view your space. I know that when I am on Myspace, even though I have a newer computer, I don’t have a lot of patience to wait for a Myspace background to load. Many times I will just move on to a different site.

When you are making or selecting your Myspace background, you should remember that besides the flashing and moving animations, a lot is often too much. The simpler your Myspace background is, the easier it is to view, and the better it will be. You don’t want to overwhelm someone when they are looking at your space. Quite a few people I know have backgrounds that hurt my eyes, and I don’t like to go to their space for any reason. There are many ways to make your space your own without overwhelming everyone who comes to visit. This is one case where you can definitely say that less is more. The is something elegant about simplicity when decorating your home, and your space can be a reflection of that.