When most people think of Native American dolls, the first thing the picture are Kachina dolls. In reality, the Native Americans are a pretty broad and diverse group of people, but certain images stick with mainstream society and are confusingly thought to apply to all of them. Kachina dolls are one of the big ones. These are fascinating and odd miniature models of spirits. In Hopi tradition, the spirits actually visit the culture at certain times of the year. People get dressed up in elaborate costumes and dance around, imitating the Kachina spirits.

In reality, there are many other kinds of Native American doll. Native American baby dolls are quite popular. In a lot of ways, they are just like any other baby doll toys. Basically, they are small, cute, and easy to hold. Native American girls absolutely delight in in them, and it is nice that they're being made. For a long time, after all, there was no such thing as a Native American doll. People in the Native American Indian cultures were discouraged from embracing their own cultural heritage, and were supposed to play with light-skinned baby dolls. They were taught to feel shame about something they should feel pride in. Things have changed a lot in recent years, and you can see the results.

Of course, there are many native American doll toys for boys as well. Anyone who has ever played cowboys and Indians with toys knows exactly what kind of Native American dolls I am talking about. A lot of these are shaped to look like Indian chiefs, complete with elaborate headdresses. Sometimes people say that these toys reinforce old stereotypes, but I have always thought that they're very noble looking. They look strong, fierce, and powerful. As a matter of fact, when I would play cowboys and Indians, the Indians would win more often than the Cowboys!

If you are ever on an Indian reservation, you should consider bringing back a Native American doll or some other handicrafts for a friend. Native American crafts are famous all over the country, and much of the world as well. They are well made, and they have a unique look that you can't find in many other places. In addition, by buying Native American crafts you are helping provide an income for people on some pretty poor and economically depressed reservations. That is always a nice thing to do.