For the last two years of working full time at my career I longed for the days when I would be home full time on retirement. There were so many cleaning projects and organizing of cabinets and closets that I wanted to do. It was going to be so nice not to have to tell people that I could not do something because I had to work. I was going to get involved in church activities that happened during the day and volunteer with civic organizations.

By the end of the first six months of my retirement I was looking for things to do. My closets and cabinets were organized and I was helping with church activities. I found that I missed being with people during the day. One day I was in a gift shop that is located in the small town close to our home. She was just making a help wanted poster for the window. She said that she needed someone a couple days a week to help organize and dust as well as unpack shipments. During the busy time of the year it would be three days during the week. I asked her if this was any weekends or evening. She said no it would be from nine in the morning until three in the afternoon. I told her that I was very interested. She was happy to have me and we agreed that I would work on Tuesdays and Fridays. This way I could help straighten up and restock after the busy days of the weekend and Make sure that everything was in place for the weekend on Fridays. She said that I could start the next day because she had a new shipment in. The next day I arrived ready to help on pack. When I went into the back room I saw a newborn baby doll lying on the floor. When I first walked in I thought it was a real baby. The newborn baby doll was part of the shipment that I was to help organize.
 
When the owner came into the back and saw me looking at the newborn baby doll she asked me what I thought. I told her that at first I was fooled into thinking it was real. She showed me a stroller that she wanted me to use to set up a display featuring the newborn baby doll. The doll was weighted to feel like a real baby. The clothes were actual newborn outfits. She bought three of the dolls and they all sold in the first week. This is a big seller for people to give at baby showers as well as gifts for little girls. I love the job at the gift shop because I get to see the merchandise before anyone else and I have extra spending money to spend each month. It also gets me interacting with people.

