Have you heard the saying that we are a nation of consumers? This is certainly true. Not only do we buy tremendous amounts of all sorts of merchandise we buy the majority of it on credit. Getting a credit card is very easy to do; unfortunately in the wrong hands the credit card can be disastrous. In order to be a good consumer you need to use credit wisely. It only takes a few missed payments to ruin your credit and many years to re-establish it.

There are millions of people that get so deeply into debt that they need professional help to come up with a workable plan. Non profit credit counseling is a great service to help people that find themselves sinking deeper and deeper into debt. The non profit credit counseling are people that will work with you to establish a budget and to contact credit companies so that they are not taking steps to destroy your credit rating. Non profit credit counseling is not a company that is going to pay off credit bills and roll your debt into one payment. This may be a solution that will make sense for your situation and this may be suggested as a solution, however neither the counselor nor the company they work for will profit from the consolidation your loans.

Loan consolidation can be a practical, economical solution to credit problems, however it is best to get this advice from a third party that is not going to be making money off the interests of this consolidated loan. When a third party gives the recommendation you can trust that it is the best solution for your particular issue. There are new laws that prohibit the filing of bankruptcy as easily as it has been done in the past. This means that people are going to find other solutions for dealing with debt. 

Of course the best thing to do is not to charge things unless you have the resources to repay the amount within a reasonable amount of time. Also establish a solid credit history by charging smaller amounts and paying off the amount at the end of each month so that you do not rack up interest amounts. By consistently paying off the account you will be able to earn a lower credit card rate. If you are behind on bills make at least some small payment towards the account, this shows that you are not ignoring the correspondence.  Always try to make more than the minimum payment so that you are paying more than just the interest amount. If you do find that you are in financial trouble stop using the credit cards completely so that you are not adding to the problem. Re-establishing your credit will mean that you have to change your spending habits.
