Reading does the body good! Or maybe it's the mind. Yeah, that sounds right! Now, the question is; how much and how often are you actually reading these days? From what I've observed, folks are seriously kicking books to the curb. They prefer a more quick-fix solution to entertainment, such as film and television. And I mean endless films and television. It's a wonder we're still able to function properly in 2007 considering all the garbage we watch night after night. Most likely what you need in your life is a good novel. And if you despise the current fiction gracing the shelves of Barnes and Noble, you can always test the waters of non fiction books. 

I've always been a fan of fiction. In some respects, there's nothing quite like delving into a well-written mystery/suspense novel. I used to lounge under trees for hours, reading countless chapters of cleverly plotted stories. However, I recently found a text from the genre of non fiction books, which really caught my attention. This book is entitled "Protecting the Gift." Chances are you've never even heard of it. I had never come across it in a bookstore or library. But then the title was mentioned to me by a friend of the family. He basically instructed me to read this book by author and crime expert, Gavin De Becker. So I picked up a copy from Amazon.com and dove in, not knowing what to expect. I was taken-back by the way this book read. It contains a number of true occurences, which are referenced to help readers like you and me learn and better understand criminal violence and behavior. And while this book will certainly tug at your heartstrings and often keep you on the edge of your seat, it's well worth a close read. I have never in my life learned more about the violence and realities of our world. 

Okay, maybe non fiction books in general are not up your alley. However, I do suggest that you give "Protecting the Gift" a shot. This goes double for anyone who has a child/children. This book will assist you in keeping them safe more than any other attribute. Once I began reading it, I knew I had to finish in order to better protect my gift, a seven year old daughter. 