Are you buying for the person that seems to have everything? There are a lot of silly things you can buy, though that person does have to have a rather keen sense of humor to receive some of them. One great idea, especially if you don’t know what to get someone and you don’t have a lot of money, are novelty socks. It takes the right person to think this is a great gift, but almost anyone will get a kick out of them, even if they would never dream of wearing them.

Everyone has something they love. It might be something they collect, or a television show, movie, or cartoon that they are particularly fond of. If you know they like something like that, you can usually find novelty socks that will go with what they like. If they have a certain hobby like riding horses or if they are an artist or photographer, it’s not that hard to find novelty socks that would go with their hobby as well. 

The reason why these works so well is that even though they are immensely impractical, they show you thought of them when you bought the gift rather than just grabbing something off of the shelf. Many times, the thought put into something is much more important than the gift itself. Novelty socks used to be something that children got from aunts and uncles for Christmas each year, but lately, they have been considered a much more acceptable gift, especially when they are given for the reasons of humor.

Novelty socks come with more than just pictures or silly designs. There are some that have no toes in them, and fit around the toes like a glove. I’m not really sure why these are around, but if you know someone who is weird about feet, they will die with laughter if you give them this type of novelty socks. You can find some that have hidden pockets in them that might have a surprise included. Others have things that hang from them. 

You may find novelty socks in your local stores. They are usually with the normal socks, or near the accessories section of the store. If you can’t find anything in your local stores that fits what you have in mind, you should be reasonably sure you can find something neat and unique online with a simple search. You may find other gift ideas when you search for those special socks as well.