Have you every met a person that is truly thoughtful towards everyone they encounter? Through the years I have met several people like this. They seem to have a great ability to remember birthdays and other events that are important to people. I try to write down different dates on the calendar to help me remember the birthdays and anniversaries of family members as well as friends; unfortunately there are many times when I forget to check the calendar throughout the month. I will look at it when I change the month, but many times I do not check it throughout the days of the months. This means that I miss several important dates throughout the month.

I have found a great solution for this. I have started using online greeting cards. The great thing about using e-cards is that you can post date them to be sent out on any date you choose. I can sit down with the calendar when I have the time and pick out online greeting cards to send to people and then write a personal greeting in each one. I then pick which date I want the card sent and fill in the person’s email address. On the date that the card is sent I am sent a reminder email that the card was sent. I can even choose to be notified when the person reads the online greeting cards that I have sent.

My sister turned fifty this year. She has been stressing about this for several months. I looked through the online greeting cards and saw several that I thought would be perfect for her. I decided that I would send her one a day for each day of the month of her birthday. It was fun to know that everyday she was reminded that the birthday was getting nearer.

In February of this year I had a minor surgery so I was off of work for several weeks. I used this time to go through the year’s calendar and found e-cards for each person that we usually send cards to. I wrote personal greetings in each one and dated them to be sent the day before each person’s birthday. I also went through Easter cards and sent them to several friends and family members. I plan to do this with Thanksgiving greetings as well as holiday greetings for this year. Many of the cards are musical and some are quite funny. It is a nice alternative to traditional cards. The on-line greeting cards are free to send. Traditional greeting cards are getting quite expensive, and people just throw them away once they read them.
