Last year I had to lie down on my bed and cry after I was done with Christmas shopping. I could never find what I wanted, and many of the things my daughter wanted were not in the stores, or they were priced way too high. I was so frustrated I had to let the tears come. It’s partially my fault for waiting until the last week to shop, but in some cases, that is my only option. This year, I have decided that I want to start earlier if I can, and I want to see if I can do some online gift shopping to take away some of that stress.

There are some that start shopping right after Thanksgiving. I guess because my daughter’s birthday is in early December, I think about Christmas after that has passed, and that might be what leaves me feeling stressed out. I am always busy, and adding shopping for my entire family and my husband’s family leaves me drained and upset. I never really thought about online gift shopping before now, and I can’t believe I didn’t. If I can get things ordered and delivered early, I can cut my shopping list down to a manageable level.

I have a few friends that do their online gift shopping each year, and I asked them for some tips to get me started this year. One thing they said was to order early, and if going for something at the last minute, choose a site that offers to ship to your gift recipient so it can get there on time. They also told me to be careful about shipping policies when dealing with any site, and also when shopping on eBay. You will find most have reasonable shipping, but they warned me that some places have high rates to make up for discounts and other specials.

My friends also told me that online gift shopping is easy, but you do want to go with sites you know you can trust. Make sure they have a secure connection before you give anyone your credit card number, and even then, you should watch your bank account and your credit card statement to be sure all of your purchases are your own. If you feel uncomfortable about a certain site, there may be a good reason. Check them out before you buy, or find somewhere else to get what you need.