Order steaks

Okay, I admit it. The first time that my in-laws told me that they were going to order steaks for my family for Christmas, I had not a clue what she was talking about. All I could visualize was my mother-in-law walking into a grocery store and trying to order steaks to have delivered halfway across the country to my household. Apparently, that wasn’t what she did. She went online to order steaks and had them delivered within a few days. 

I thought that getting steaks as a present was a bit of a strange gift. I mean, who in the world gives steaks to each other? Sure, going into a grocery store to purchase a few steaks for dinner can be rather expensive. If you’re craving steak, going out to dinner can become quite pricey as well. 

When our large package arrived, from Omaha Steaks, I had no idea what to expect. The packaging was a Styrofoam cooler and everything was packaged wonderfully. We not only got steaks, but potatoes as well. Plus, cooking instructions and recipes were included. What more could you ask for? So, that very evening, I made my steaks. I still wasn’t convinced that receiving steaks as gift was a good idea, but I was proven wrong quickly. The Omaha steaks were absolutely divine. They were juicy and the perfect size. The potatoes were also equally wonderful. After eating our wonderful meal, I decided that perhaps from now on, I’d only order steaks online and not waste my time in the stores. For some reason, they tasted and cooked better than anything that I’d ever bought. I had no idea why, but they were. 

After that meal, I realized that it was one of the best gifts that we’d ever received as a family. When I researched Omaha Steaks online, I realized that the package we’d received had not been inexpensive. In fact, it was a bit pricey, but I would be much more willing to spend the money on something that I knew was exquisite rather than just fresh at the grocery store. About a month later, I decided to order steaks for us. Again, they arrived incredibly fast and didn’t cost me too much money. I was thrilled. Even when I kept them frozen for a few weeks, they thawed and again cooked wonderfully. 

I feel bad for ever questioning why someone would order steaks for someone else. I now know that it was a brilliant gift idea and something I certainly wouldn’t mind having more people in my extended family do this for each other! Next time you’re at a loss for getting someone a great gift, think about making the choice to order steaks. It may be the best gift you ever give them.
