When you need to give a gift and you want to show the person how much you care about their health and well-being, consider something organic. Most of us, even those who aren’t as health conscious as we should be, have heard the buzz about going au natural and eating organic foods. Organic gift baskets are a great idea and with all the yummy products you can put into one, everyone’s tastes will be satisfied.

The easy way to go about giving any gift basket is to buy one already made. This not only takes all the work out of the process, it’s also incredibly convenient. When it comes to organic gift baskets you’ll likely want to visit an organic produce market. You can inquire at your local supermarket about a fruit basket that’s organic, but not all can accommodate that request yet. 

If you’re creative and want to put a little time and effort into the gift, you can certainly do it yourself. At most discount stores you can buy all types of wicker baskets. For organic gift baskets you want one deep enough to hold a variety of fruit and also sturdy enough that it’s not going to collapse from the weight of the contents.

Next you’ll be picking out the items you want to go inside the basket. The best approach is to consider what the recipient likes the most. Almost every fruit that you purchase at your supermarket can be bought in an organic form. If they like bananas, peaches and strawberries, add a bunch of those and then a few extras.

Fruit doesn’t have to be the only thing that fills the basket. You can think outside the box and add a few delicious, organic extras. Many of the organic gift baskets that you can order contain chocolate. You may think that it’s not possible for something so delicious to be organic, but it is. Adding a bar or two of organic chocolate is a nice, sweet addition to the basket.

Organic nuts also fit well into this theme. You do need to be aware of whether or not the recipient is allergic to nuts before you add them to the basket. If you aren’t sure, it’s probably a good idea to leave them out.

For a finishing touch, purchase some clear cellophane or if you prefer, you can spend a bit more money on some cellophane that has been embossed with a design. You’ll also want some colorful ribbon to tie the cellophane with. It’s a good idea to prepare organic gift baskets on the same day you plan on giving them. That way everything in the basket is as fresh as can be.


