Orlando Activities

If you’re thinking of where you’d like to take the family on vacations, why not consider Florida, specifically the Orlando area? There are lots of activities and interests for every member of the family, something for all ages. If you’re not quite sure where to start, visit SoutheastGetaway.com, a southern vacation and golf guide featuring great Orlando activities like Disney World, Sea World, Busch Gardens, Cypress Gardens, Kennedy Space Center, and the Ripley’s Believe It or Not Museum, full of exhibits and galleries that are all true and bound to fascinate. A trip to Disney World is a vacation in itself, as it offers seven different unique attractions in the Orlando area best experienced with the usage of a Disney multi-day pass, including Blizzard Beach, Epcot Center, Magic Kingdom, Pleasure Island, River Country and Discovery Island, Typhoon Lagoon, and MGM studios all which can be found at the Walt Disney World Resort offering a wide selection of hotels and spas too.

As you can see, there is a lot to see and do in the Orlando, Florida area, so let’s continue onward with a selected list of great Orlando activities and places to visit. There are few places that have as many things to do as Orlando. Let’s talk bout Sea World, an entertaining marine life park offering many new attractions such as live water adventure, a polar expedition, killer whale breeding, and a research and observation facility and more attractions that will bring you into the sea’s wonderful animal habitat. You can buy tickets and book a vacation online at www.seaworld.com, and check out park information including hours, weather, park maps, show schedules, how to book a shuttle to Busch Gardens, and much more. Ripley's believe it or not, straight from the Ripley's books is also one of the more popular Orlando activities, and you absolutely must visit the Kennedy Space Center visitors’ center and take a trip down to Florida's space coast to take a tour of space shuttle launch sites, see new exhibits, and watch a movie at the IMAX theater.

If you’re going to have lots of time to check out all the Orlando activities you may be interested in purchasing a Go Orlando Card at www.goorlandocard.com. This card is Orlando’s best attraction pass and includes admission to over forty-five attractions, museums and events. You can visit as many of the Florida attractions you like that are on the list, once per day any day, up to the total number of days you’ve purchased (1, 2, 3, 5 or 7 days) within a fourteen day period. These cards can be purchased online and they also offer exclusive deals and savings on hotel and vacation packages in addition to all the great Orlando activities. If you’re in the mood to see the real Florida, you can do that too by floating effortlessly across the state’s pristine beauty via a hot air balloon ride. Surely you won’t run out of things to do on your vacation!
