Have a wreath on your front door is a great way to give a feeling of holiday cheer to all that come to your home. You can have these all throughout the year, but they are most popular during the Christmas season. You don’t have to have your wreath on your door if you don’t want to, you can find other places outside to hang them if you wish. When you do this, you do have to make sure you have an outdoor wreath that will stand up to the harsh weather that often comes in the month of December.

Sometimes you can find an outdoor wreath just by shopping for them. They are made to stand up to weather, but they are often made with a material that might not have the warm feeling that you want them to have. This is because many of them are made with plastic. That plastic can certainly handle moisture, cold, and wind, but it doesn’t always look the best. When you can’t find something pleasant, you can always make your own. However, you have to think about what you are putting into it so it will last.

You can use natural pine, but remember that this type of outdoor wreath should be considered disposable. It will work well for one holiday season, but it’s not likely something you can put away to save for next year. Any living material can not be stored like that. You might be able to find fake pine, but don’t get it unless you like the look of it. Some can be mistaken for real pine, and that is what you want for your wreath. You can also get twig wreath bases, but make sure they are well put together.

You can add anything to your outdoor wreath that you want, but think out the conditions outside your home. Ribbons might be okay on your front door, if you have an overhang, but won’t do well otherwise. The things you do choose should be things that won’t be ruined by water, and won’t be cracked if the temperatures fall too low. You should also make sure you know how to attach things to wreaths meant to be outside. If you can use wire, that is a great option. If you must get glue, find one that is strong enough to handle pressure from the wind, and that won’t fail in freezing or wet conditions.