Palm Desert Vacation

The Californian coast has some spectacular scenery and attractive beach resorts. A Palm Desert vacation offers the best in dining, sports, culture and shopping. Located in the Coachella Valley, the city is close to another popular tourist spot at Palm Springs. The area is well known for its many championship golf courses, fine tennis and water sports facilities. It's also known for its desert rock scene, so called because of local bands that made it to the big time, such as Kyuss and Queens of the Stone Age.

There are 350 days of sunshine every year here, a glorious climate for wine growing as celebrated at the wine festival. You can go on guided hiking or biking tours or hire a jeep to explore the area. If you feel like relaxing, there are several spas where staff is eager to pamper. A Palm Desert vacation is also an opportunity for some excellent shopping. The Westfield Shoppingtown is an indoor mall with almost 100 stores, a movie theatre and a food court. The El Paseo is the chief shopping district, known for its up market designer shops, art galleries, boutiques and restaurants. There is a public square and contemporary art installations. The El Paseo Gardens has more stores, bistros and bakeries.

The natural world is proudly presented at the Living Desert Zoo and Gardens. The collection of desert animals and plants here are a popular tourist attraction on a Palm Desert vacation but it also serves as an important conservation center. The zoo, botanical gardens, Natural History Museum and gift shop play a vital role in raising awareness of the variety of desert eco systems in the area. The zoo is successful in keeping some endangered species, including Mexican Gray Wolves, Grevy's Zebra, Peninsular Bighorn Sheep, and Arabian Oryx. Other animals on display are tarantulas, lizards, swift fox, coati, mountain lion, desert tortoises, coyotes and golden eagles. There is a garden nursery that sells desert plants, trees and shrubs.

There are numerous tours and day trips to interesting landmarks on a Palm Desert vacation. Guided tours can be booked to the Joshua Tree National Park, where there is various wildlife and you can see Mexico if the weather permits. The trip takes in both the Colorado and Mojave Deserts and the San Andreas Fault. The nearby Palm Springs tour involves an exciting ride in an aerial tram, a dinner at the top of the mountain and a tour round the city. Tourists see homes of the celebrities past and present, including Marilyn Monroe, Frank Sinatra and Elvis Presley.
