The state of Florida has much to offer and with the added bonus of sunshine all the year round. Palm Coast city is situated between Jacksonville and Orlando and it's a good base for holidaymakers. There are lots of parks with sporting facilities and golf courses. Forest trails and tree-lined paths make it a very green city. The system of freshwater and salt water canals allows for boating in every season. Some people prefer to go out on the Atlantic Ocean and indulge in water sports. There may also be an opportunity to see dolphins.

The Belle Terre Park covers10 acres and there are tennis courts, handball or racquetball courts, soccer facilities, football fields and a swimming pool. The James F.Holland Memorial Park has baseball fields, basketball courts, bocce ball courts, shuffleboard courts and sand volleyball courts. For tennis fans, there is the Palm Coast Tennis Center, which has ten lighted clay courts equipped with ball machines. A professional instructor is available for lessons and club membership is for adults and families.

Golf is one of the main activities in Palm Coast and the surrounding area. It can be played all year round and the state boasts some award winning courses. Visitors who want to spend a lot of time practicing the sport can book accommodation at one of the hotel resorts that offer golf packages. Many of these hotels are on the oceanfront and have 9-hole, 18-hole and putting courses.  Some courses have been designed by famous players, such as Jack Nicklaus, Gary Player and Arnold Palmer.

In addition to golf, most hotels offer treatments in the spa. It's a great place to pamper oneself and treatments include Desert Heat Wrap, Green Coffee Slim Wrap and After Sun Water Lily Treatment. Facilities also include fitness centers and the finest restaurants. Visitors on business trips can combine business and pleasure. The resorts have Wi-Fi access, meeting rooms and conference facilities.

There are numerous other places to visit that are close to Palm Coast, such as Daytona Beach, famous for its white beaches. It's also known as a center for motor sports and hosts a number of events. The Daytona International Speedway, the Daytona Beach Road Course and various NASCAR meetings draw large crowds. There is culture here too in several museums and galleries. The Museum of Arts and Sciences and the Halifax Historical Museum are two of the most well known ones.


