April 14 is our paper anniversary in a few ways. It is, of course, our paper wedding anniversary. It is the day that we officially joined our fates together, but not the day that we became involved. It was also a paper anniversary even before that. April 14 was the day we chose to celebrate our relationship, even though we couldn't remember exactly when we got together. It was rather arbitrary, but I knew it was around when we started dating. That is why we decided on having our wedding on that day.

Of course, April 14 was a paper anniversary in one more way as well. You see, there was a good reason for us to choose it as our anniversary date. It may not have been the day that we were first officially dating, the day we first kissed, the day that we first spent the night together, or the day we became an item, but it was the day that we first share the joy of paper crafts with one another. We have both been passionate about craft paper for a long time. It sounds strange to say, but it is one of our central passions. My main interest has been in paper folding. I have studied origami quite extensively, and can make almost anything out of paper. Even rough, relatively clumsy paper turns into precise lines in my hands. 

By contrast, my wife is more interested in collage work. She cuts up anything and turns it into beautiful crafts. Magazine articles, art books, advertisements, newspaper clippings – all of them fall under the blade and come out prettier than ever before. Our paper anniversary, you see, is a multilayered thing. Our love of paper lies somewhere near the center of it.

That is why, every year we receive so many wonderful paper anniversary gifts. People are always delighted to get us paper anniversary presents. Not only does it let the giver feel creative, but it lets them save money as well. The fact that it is exactly what we want only makes it better. The gifts, however, are only the beginning of the paper party. We get together and have one of the biggest paper craft parties this side of Southeast Asia. It is huge. Everyone is involved, whether they consider themselves artists or not. You don't have to drink at our party, and you don't have to stay late, but you do have to fold, cut, or glue some paper.