I recently learned how to make a paper lantern. I have loved paper lanterns for a long time, but I only just figured out how to put together my first one. Practically every corner of my room is filled with a different Chinese paper lantern, but I am sure that I will find a shelf somewhere to stick the new one. It really is a beautiful piece of work, if I do say so myself. Making rice paper lanterns is much easier than you might think. As long as you are pretty good with crafts, all you need is to get a template and follow the instructions. Once you buy a paper lantern kit and work your way through it, you can begin to make them on your own. You can make them as simple or as complex as you want, and use all kinds of different festive designs.

I think my love affair with those Asian paper lamps began at a party. They had battery operated lanterns hanging from practically every corner, and strands of many paper lights as well. I had been to a lot of techno parties, and was used to strobe lights, but I really appreciated the understated glory of the paper lantern decorations. It provided a much mellower, But equally festive, glow to the room. I asked my friend about it, and he told me that he got paper lantern party supplies just down the block from where he lived. I actually consider ditching out on the party early just to go pick up some paper lanterns – that was how impressed I was with the way they looked.

A lot of the time, old technologies do not adapt well to new looks. For example, although bare candles are beautiful, electric candles do not quite capture the full look and feel of them. They look artificial and forced, and are nowhere near as delightful as gas lamps or paraffin candles. With the paper lantern, however, they have come up with a solution that feels more elegant and less forced. The Asian paper lamp is basically a paper lantern stuck over a light bulb. In general, Asian paper lamps are a little bit simpler than paper lanterns, and provide a more modern aesthetic. Still the ancient roots of the paper lantern show through, and the contemporariness of the lamps does not really obscure the tasteful brilliance of the original design. 