A lot of people think that, if they just invite the right people to their party, everything will turn out all right. In reality, however, it is much more difficult than that. You really have to put a lot of thought into party ideas if you want your celebration to be a success. You need the right location, the right party food, and the right entertainment. Sometimes, entertainment is simple enough. I have had parties where all I have had to do was turn on the stereo system and people immediately started dancing. Other times, however, it requires a lot more thought. This is particularly true if you have an older crowd – one less inclined to dancing and possibly more uptight. In those kind of situations, party games are a must.

There are many different kinds of games to play at a party. The classic party games still hold a lot of appeal for many different people. Games like charades, Scrabble, and even Monopoly can be party favorites. If you have a nerdier crowd of friends, strategy boardgames often make for a fun and exciting evening. Other people prefer poker or some other card game. However, you don't need to limit yourself to the traditional party games. There are many unorthodox approaches that work just fine.

In my house, for example, the Nintendo Wii is often the center of party games. Many people wouldn't think that playing video games would be particularly attractive for a party involving people in their late 20s, but it is surprisingly so. As a matter of fact, the Wii is practically the most enjoyable adult party game I have found so far. It involves movement, cool graphics, interesting storylines, and the chance to compete against your friends in a friendly form of entertainment. What more could you want from a party game?

Of course, if you are using party games, you have to think carefully about the people at the party. If everyone is going to be drinking, for example, there is no need to worry too much. You just make party games available if people want them. If you're going to have a more sober, sedate crowd, or perhaps a mixed crowd with both drinkers and nondrinkers, you need to have the space organized so people who aren't involved in playing a party game don't feel alienated. The key to a successful party, after all, his thorough planning.