Though all aspects of planning the perfect party can be hard, the party food can be one of the most daunting parts of planning. Some things are obvious, but with so many people with food allergies and special diet requirements, you might just go nuts deciding what will work and what won’t work. This is why you should have a good variety of things so that all of your bases are covered. Once you do it, you’ll know what you are doing from then on.

The best thing about party food is that it can be simple, but you do have to keep it interesting. You also have to have something for everyone, and that can be hard. If you know certain people have eating requirements, it’s perfectly okay to ask them what they can and can not have. They will likely be very willing to tell you what you need to know so you can get the right party food for them. They may even offer to bring their own, and if you are pressed for time and money, that might not be a bad idea. You should never suggest that they do, but it’s okay to accept if they offer.

When it comes to party food, you have to consider the age group. When it comes to kids, you might have it easy, but it is hard to please all parents. If you are going to have chips and pretzels, make sure you have some healthy snacks as well. You might try grapes or fruit salad. You could also have things like carrots and celery with a creamy dip. That way, children can have some of both, and parents won’t be upset that you fed their child junk food. These can work with adults on a casual level, but you might want to have something more substantial in the way of party food for adult parties.

Also remember to keep your party food safe. If you have gone out and found ideas online, which is a good resource, you might also find care instructions. Some foods can not be left out at room temperature for very long without spoiling. Chips can go stale, so keep an eye on them. Most party foods with mayonnaise should not be left out for longer than fifteen minutes before they are cooled again so that they can remain safe to eat for everyone.