Organizing a party involves many aspects, ensuring that the party goes well and everyone enjoys themselves. In addition to the food and drinks, there are the party accessories to consider. Many parties are themed or are arranged for special occasions and the venue has to be decorated accordingly.

Never fear, help is at hand! There are several companies that specialize in supplying party accessories for adult and for children's gatherings. Children, in particular, like to have a theme and the Harry Potter books and films are a popular choice. In addition to tableware and glasses, the Potter theme can extend to the invitation cards, balloons, games and party bags. There are also wands, personalized banners and quidditch kits.

The Simpsons TV show is another popular choice and items include napkin rings, cutlery and mini bubble sets. Other children's themes include pirates, Spider-Man, King Kong, the Wild West, Star Wars, Power Rangers and Batman. Girls may prefer Shrek, Barbie, Dora the Explorer, Scooby Doo, Finding Nemo or Disney Fairies. There are themes with younger children in mind too, such as Winnie the Pooh, Noddy, Thomas and Friends and classic Disney characters.

Party companies supply pre-filled party bags. This saves the host or hostess a lot of time and they can concentrate on other things. The fillings may be sweets, chocolates, latex or foil balloons or a toy. Slices of celebration cake can be added too. It's also a good idea to order a helium gas canister to pump up balloons for decoration. Party games will help to keep young children entertained and they appreciate the traditional games like pin the tail on the donkey.

Special celebrations, such as Thanksgiving, birthdays, wedding anniversaries, christenings, confirmations and graduation all have their own requirements. Party accessories such as tableware and banners set the atmosphere and this can be supplemented by decorated cake boxes and gift bags. Everyone gets in party mood with party accessories, such as party poppers, horns, streamers and confetti canons.

Adults can have fun too and themed parties are helped along with wall coverings, called scene setters. These can be for Halloween or have a beach, Hollywood or 1970s Disco theme. A Chinatown theme can incorporate a Chinese food buffet.  There are life size cut outs for Star Wars characters, Elvis Presley, Marilyn Monroe and John Wayne. St.Patrick's Day decorations have to be green, of course! Flags, bunting and green, floppy hats for the guests will make everyone smile.
