When my cousin brought a gift to my baby shower that wasn’t on my gift registry, I knew that it had to be a great product. The Peg Perego Venezia stroller that she lugged from one end of Pennsylvania to the other has turned out to be the single most important baby of the shower presents that I received that day.

I can make this bold statement about the Peg Perego Venezia stroller because it is one of the few items that I still have. I used the item for all three of my children over the course of a few years. This stroller is outstanding for a number of reasons. First and foremost, it is a very durable.

My family isn’t known for staying indoors. We like to be on the move all the time. It makes the day go faster. There’s more to see and do and we just like to be away from the house for at least a handful of hours each day. The Peg Perego Venezia stroller has seen many miles of wear and tear without showing any actual evidence of its extended use.

There are a few features that the Peg Perego Venezia stroller offers that I really love. First of all, I am not the only person who used the stroller on a regular basis. My husband was a regular pusher for awhile. However, he is over a foot taller than I am. The Peg Perego Venezia stroller has a handle that adjusts to different heights. We could switch in a few seconds.

I also love that the stroller came equipped with a boot. For those of you who don’t know, the boot is a handy detachable cover that keeps your baby toasty warm no matter what the weather is like outside. I had no excuse to stay in when I had the Peg Perego Venezia stroller.

One thing that I have to admit is that I was a little taken back by all of the buttons and levers but the stroller turned out to be a cinch to work. The Peg Perego Venezia stroller has done a great job for my family.

In fact, I have handed down the item to my sister who is just starting a family of her own. She does have a new Peg Perego Venezia stroller on her gift registry but she will always have a backup just in case my cousin doesn’t show this time around. 



