There are a great many ways to communicate, and to meet people from different parts of the world who might have a different way of life. This is always interesting, and you never know who you might meet. There are some safety precautions to take, but you can usually find penpal friend from all over the world, and you can communicate via email or through the written word by writing out letters the old fashioned way.

If you choose to communicate with your penpal friends via the postal service, there are a few things to keep in mind. This communication is slower, but many prefer this because there is time in between communications for new things to happen. When you reply by email, things can often move too fast and you may find you run out of things to talk about. Some also feel the world of the written word is something to be held onto, and there is something special about getting letters from penpal friends through the mail.

You can communicate through email with your penpal friends if you prefer, and some think this is the best way. This does save money on postage and you don’t have to worry too much about a communication being lost. This is a fast paced way to talk with someone new, and there are times when the immediacy of the situation can be overwhelming. Many feel the need to respond to email as soon as they get it. Don’t let that happen with penpal friends. Give it a few days before each reply right from the beginning so an email or two a week is the norm. That allows you to build your friendship at a steady and reasonable pace.

There are a few warnings that go along with finding and communicating with penpal friends both online and through the mail. While many out there searching for penpals are on the up and up, there are some scams that people try to run through such programs. Protect yourself by using a PO box when mailing letters, and have an email address just for your penpal friends. If someone starts talking money, you have probably come across a scam. When it comes to pen friends, money should never come up, unless you wish to buy them a small gift for a special occasion. Otherwise, any mention of money might be the beginning of a scam. Don’t fall for it.
