Personality and character are important aspects of an individual. In order to capture a person’s special features many choose to order a personalized Christmas ornament catered to the individual. There are many occasions that call for a monogrammed holiday ornament. Following are some ideas that may inspire you.

Anniversaries and milestone occasions call for something extra special. You can find personalized anniversary designs in ornaments that mark wedding and engagement milestones. There are tons of lovely designs that are certain to capture the personalities and spirits of the happy couple.

Baby’s first Christmas is often commemorated with a special decoration. There are so many different designs to choose that you are certain to find at least one that you will enjoy handing down to your little one many years from now. This monogrammed decoration is a true holiday keepsake.  

A personalized Christmas ornament is a prime choice for a gift idea for a child. You can choose from a number of great designs inspired by children. All you need to do is find something that really relates to the child whether it is a favorite animal or a preferred activity.

Hobbies are great sources of inspiration and ornament designers have taken great lengths to come up with wonderful icons that represent a plethora of different hobbies. Whether you are a painter, crafter or collector there is an ornament design that will appeal to you. These items make great gifts, too.

Sports enthusiasts love showing off their love for their athletic events. Why not choose a personalized Christmas ornament that represents the recipient’s favorite football team? There are plenty of designs for players, too. Hockey, baseball and soccer are common choices in the sports theme.

Musical Christmas ornaments are ideal for the aspiring musician. There are seemingly endless options in this theme and you can add the special touch of adding the recipient’s name or initials on the decoration. This is a great choice for anyone who collects musical ornaments in general, too.

You can also find a personalized ornament that is designed with a person’s occupation in mind. This item makes a wonderful gift for teachers, nurses and even your favorite chef. A decoration that represents just about any occupation can be found online if you look hard enough. 

There are many items available and many wonderful ideas to consider this holiday season. Instead of getting any old trinket try getting something thoughtful. A personalized Christmas ornament is an ideal choice. 


