When I was a little kid, I used to love pirates. Anything about pirates met with my absolute admiration. I liked pirate costumes, pirate movies, and pirate birthday parties. My favorite thing of all was a pirate hat that I made. It was actually a paper hat pattern when I first found it. I cut out the pattern from an activity book for kids. It was one of those great books that have simple craft projects, games, and other ways for kids to amuse themselves. That pirates hat was one of the best things in there. You could make it out of black construction paper, and it would easily fit the heads of most children.

I wore that thing until it was tatters and then decided I was going to make another one. Before I could finish cutting out the pirate hat, however, my mom told me that we should actually make it out of cloth this time. I was excited. I had always sort of wanted to try sewing, but had never been able to do it. My parents sewed very rarely, since my mom was usually so busy. Nonetheless, she was there to help me make the pirate hat.

Making a pirate hat is pretty difficult. If you want a perfect pirate captains hat, I suggest to not try doing it on your own and just go out and buy one. It is much less work, and you will get better results the first time. I had thought that hat making would be easy, but it is no project for a novice. Nonetheless, it sure is a lot of fun. There is something about making one yourself that makes it so much better and more valuable.

Nowadays, I run my own novelty store. We sell many different costumes and supplies for both kids and adults. Pirate hats, however, are one of our biggest sellers. It seems like every day we sell least one pirate hat. Some of them are for kids, of course, but a surprising amount of them go to adults as well. It seems like there are pirate fans in every age group. With the wild success of the Pirates of the Caribbean movie, everyone envisions themselves as Davy Jones or Captain Jack Sparrow. A pirate hat is the best way to play out this fantasy. It is a Surprisingly affordable way to add a real dash of swashbuckling charm to your next costume party.


