Plastic Containers

Even know I think they are a little hard on the eyes, I have a lot of plastic containers in my home. I don’t have a lot of storage space so this means I have to be creative. Many of the plastic containers in my house are used for very specific things. I have one for storing some of our Christmas decorations, and a few others that are specifically there for all of our extra blankets. When it comes time to sort my daughter’s clothing according to season, these containers come in very handy.

Even though these plastic containers are very useful, I wish they came in nicer colors. I notice around Christmas time that most of them are green and red. Though this may be great for the holiday season, it’s not so great for the rest of the year. Many other plastic containers come in colors like gray and white. While these are a little better, they still aren’t much to look at. I suppose this isn’t a big issue for the manufacturers, because for the most part, these are supposed to go in a closet or storage space.

I do try to keep my plastic containers out of sight, but because I have such a small place, there’s only so many hiding places I can find for them. If you walk into my bedroom you can see a few of these plastic containers in places where I wish they were not. I really don’t have much choice at this point though, and I am grateful that I have them. No matter how boring they are they are much better than storing everything and cardboard boxes. Plastic containers have a much stronger build, it will last for quite a long time.

I think I am going to soon go out to find a new type of plastic containers. I want to see if I can find some that fit underneath my bed, and perhaps a few that will fit in my closet more easily. I know they make some plastic containers to slide under a bed, so for me it is just a matter of the finding them. For some reason, I have not seen them lately in any of the stores where I shop. Until I can find some, I guess I will just have to put up with looking at the plastic containers placed around my home.
