Plush Animals

I have begged and pleaded with my dad but he’s not listening. Every year he gets my daughter a huge stuffed animal for Christmas, and he picks other ones up for her throughout the year. These plush animals have truly taken over her room, and I don’t have the heart to get rid of them. She’s been afraid of a few of them, so those were rather easy to get rid of, but she loves the rest of them. I can’t break her heart by throwing them out, but something has got to give.

The plush animals she has in her room are much nicer than the ones that I had when I was a kid. They are made of softer material, and they have a better composition all the way around. These plush animals are also more imaginative, but that is what happens with any thing. Some of her favorites are animals that she is familiar with, and she loves the Wiggles characters that she has gotten as gifts over the last few years. 

We do have some problems with these plush animals, however. She tends to get them dirty, and they aren’t the easiest things in the world to clean. Some can go in the washing machine, but that’s not always a good idea. I remember one of her favorite plush animals a few years ago was a stuffed gorilla. She had put it in the washing machine and it came out ok. What I didn’t see was when she slipped it into the dryer. When the load was done, the gorilla no longer hand any hair and it was quite scary. I had to throw it away as soon as she saw it because it scared her to death. She missed him, but it was all for the best.

Plush animals do make nice gifts if you can’t think of anything else to give. Just make sure the intended recipient has room if you want to get one of the large ones. My daughter’s room is overrun because she doesn’t have anywhere but her room to keep toys. I know my dad means well when he buys the plush animals, but I have asked him to get her others things this year. I told him he is welcome to get her stuffed animals, but she’ll have to keep it at his house. He seems to be ok with that suggestion.

