Poker strategy is one of the most complex and interesting fields out there right now. Mathematicians of all sorts love it. It is the ultimate game for people who are obsessed with numbers. You see, poker betting is all about odds. There is room for personal playing style, but essentially it all comes down to numbers. You have to weigh the chances of someone having a better hand than you, the odds that the other players are bluffing, and the risks of raising them that against the possible rewards. Once you really understand poker strategy, it becomes a real nail biting obsession. It is enough to make even the most cool, calm and collected players sweat. Yet this is just what is so good about the game.

Of course, like in any other game, the best possible poker strategy is cheating. Unfortunately, poker cheating is very difficult. Some online systems have holes in them that allow you to see other people's cards, so if you can exploit these, you can cheat. Cheating at a poker table, however, requires a lot more skill. Serious poker players know how to spot a cheater. If you want to be able to cheat them, you have to be better than them. If you want to be better them, you have to take every opportunity possible to study poker strategy.

This really starts with poker books. A lot of people assume that a poker book will be dry reading, but in fact they are often quite fascinating. They explain the game in details you will never hear without them. Not only will you learn poker strategies, but you will also learn betting strategies, ways to tell if someone is cheating, how to bluff, and every other aspect of playing poker. 

Poker is great because it integrates both the high and the low. On the low level, there is gut psychology – trying to fake your opponent out and not be faked out by him. On the high level, poker strategy involves some pretty sophisticated mathematics and statistics. True poker players can master both of these. On the one hand, they are intellectual enough to understand how the game is played, but on the other hand they never lose touch with their guts. Poker doesn't take luck – it takes brains and it takes nerves. If you have all those in abundance, you can make it. That is all it takes to be among the best.