The people that know me know that I love to shop. I tell my husband that if I could get a job as a professional shopper I would be very good at it. We both laughed at this for the first few years that we were married. We both were working as social worker at local government agencies. Social workers do not make a great deal of money so the major part of my shopping was always looking for deals. I love bargain shopping as well as shopping for quality. Over the years I have found out many tips to getting the best value for my dollar. Many of my friends and relatives began asking me for tips and ideas for gift giving as well as where to get the best deals.

Many women have a difficult time picking out presents for men. They like to come up with ideas that will be surprises as well as appreciated. There are many more items to buy a woman that she will enjoy than for men. Women enjoy jewelry, bath products, purses scarves, lingerie, and gourmet foods. All of these things come in a wide range of prices. Many times the presents for men that women know they want are expensive to purchase and are items that women are unfamiliar with, such as power tools, sporting equipment and electronics. The mistake many women make is giving presents for men that are similar to ones they like to receive, however most men do not like to receive clothes, or clothing accessories or fragrances. When I talk to female co-workers or friends they were reluctant to go with gift certificates as their presents for men because they did not like receiving gift certificates themselves. When I asked them why the reasons were always the same, they felt that the certificate was the easy solution and not personal. I told them that I thought gift certificates were awesome and were my favorite gift because I could shop in one of my favorite stores and I did not have to pay for the items I picked out. If you pick out a store that the person you are shopping for likes you are showing that you have put thought into the selection. You are also making sure that the person gets exactly what they want by allowing them to pick out their gift themselves. Also if the gift certificate is for the holiday season they will most likely get more for their money because of the post holiday sales.

After talking with women they seem like they are more comfortable using gift certificates as their presents for men. My brother and several of my friend’s husbands have thanked me for talking their wives into giving them gift certificates. 
