My husband and I both grew up in households that had pets. My husband’s family did a great deal of hunting so they had various hunting dogs while he was growing up. My family had a dog outside as well as a cat indoors. I have always been very partial to cats. Through the years some of my very best friends have been cats. I love how independent they are and yet they enjoy being around people. I have always been blessed with very social cats. 

Pets and our love for them has become a million dollar industry in this country. In most stores there is some type of products for animals to buy. Of course there are the huge warehouse type superstores that sell nothing but products for animals, but it seems that recently most department stores are getting into this line of merchandise as well. This is especially true around holiday time. Merchants know that we are not going to forget our pets when it comes to the gift giving holidays.

My cats seem to be more excited about the holidays every year. They love having the decorated tree in the house. They do not climb into the tree like one of my co-workers cats. They simply like to sit and look at the ornaments. Once in a while our youngest cat will gently bat at an ornament to make it move. Last year while I was out finishing my holiday shopping I saw a huge display for different products for animals. There was everything from clothing items, to toys to gourmet treats. Of course most of the products for cats are filled with catnip. My two cats absolutely love catnip. I could not resist buying them each a catnip toy as well as a box of fresh catnip leaves. The leaves were vacuumed sealed in a plastic bag to keep them fresh. I wrapped each of their toys separately and put both of their names on the catnip.

The night before Christmas we heard a noise in the corner underneath the tree. Our young cat was in the process of opening up one of the catnip toys. She had not disturbed any of the other gifts. She must have been able to smell the catnip through the wrapping. When our older cat saw the toy they started fighting over it. We had to get the second toy from under the tree so he could have his also. I was glad that the fresh leaves were sealed. This year I am going to have to wait until Christmas day to put the products for animals under the tree, they are worse than kids.
