There’s always something happening in New York City. When you decide to take a vacation there you really need to pick and choose where you’ll spend your days. It would take weeks to see everything so it’s a good idea to plan an itinerary early. You’ll also want to consider buying tickets to any shows or bus tours before you leave home. Ticket prices are higher at the actual venue and so planning ahead can save a small fortune. This same philosophy holds true whether you are seeing a Broadway play or taking in a show at Radio City Music Hall. 

The hub of the city is arguably the midtown area. This is where the world famous Times Square is located. Broadway is nearby as is Rockefeller Center. Home to the tallest Christmas tree in the world, people flock from everywhere to see it lit up in late November and December. This is also the time of year that the Rockettes grace the stage at Radio City Music Hall in the Christmas spectacular. If you are fortunate enough to spend the holidays in the city, this is truly a must see.

Buying tickets to anything online can be a bit of a hit and miss proposition. Going directly to the venue’s website will often yield the best prices. That’s now always the case though. If you are considering seeing a show at Radio City Music Hall while in New York check out a few ticket vendors in addition to the theater’s official site. You may be surprised by the discount you can find.

All hope isn’t necessarily lost if you arrive in New York and then decide you have to see a show at this venue that is located on the Avenue of the Americas. You can always check the box office at Radio City Music Hall to see what tickets are still available and their prices. Another good alternative is to look for a last minute ticket website. The nice thing about these is that you can sometimes find a very low price because the vendor wants to sell the tickets so they don’t sustain a loss. They can be printed out right after purchase, and most hotels in the city offer printing services at the front desk. The concierge may even be able to suggest a website or two that offer low ticket prices. 

Don’t forget to have your picture taken in front of the building and also pick up a souvenir inside. Radio City Music Hall is one of the most recognized landmarks in New York City and you’ll want to take a little piece of it home with you to always remember your trip to this remarkable place. 


