Raggedy Ann Dolls

Raggedy Ann is truly a classic “All American” doll, with her simple old-fashioned look and trademark red yard hair. Ann and her brother Andy have been winning the hearts of children for more than eighty years. Rag dolls have been around for a long time, but it wasn’t until Johnny Gruelle, and artist and political cartoonist, drew a face on the worn fabric of an old rag doll found by his daughter in the attic and named it Raggedy Ann, that a legend was born. The very first Raggedy Ann dolls made in 1915 had brown hair and shoe button eyes, and were thought to have a heart made of candy to make her sweet to the core. During the midst of Ann’s popularity, Gruelle created Raggedy Andy, just as loveable, but more mischievous and adventurous than his sister. To this day, Ann and Andy have hearts on their chests that say “I Love You”.

Classic Raggedy Ann dolls and Raggedy Andy come in various sizes including Beanie Baby versions of the famous duo. Collectors and specialty online retailers offer a nice assortment of dolls with complete information including a special edition boxed set featuring the 12” version of Raggedy Ann and Andy complete with a certificate of authenticity. Also available from www.liveandlearn.com, is an extra large 38” version of the Raggedy Ann doll with special dancing straps on her feet, and traditional 16” and 30” dolls with modern button eyes. Lots of accessories are also available for the dolls including gift sets, play sets, picnic sets, fashion gift sets, travel cases, clothing paper dolls, finger puppets, and more are available from various retailers. You may also want to check out eBay for hard to find Raggedy Ann items and accessories.   

Today, Raggedy Ann dolls are still manufactured in addition to special holiday versions, and the special edition version to celebrate Ann’s 85th birthday. If you’re a collector, this is certainly one doll you’ll want to get your hands on! For everything Raggedy Ann and Andy, there’s the Raggedy Ann & Andy Museum located in Arcola, Illinois, which opened to the public in May 1999. The museum features a large collection of rare memorabilia, news, history, upcoming events, and the biography of the doll’s creator Johnny Gruelle. Visit the museum online at www.raggedyann-museum.org for more information. Raggedy Ann dolls are truly legendary; they have touched the hearts of many, many children, as well as young-at-heart adults, and will continue to do so for many generations to come.


 
 
