Americans love our entertainment! I say our, because I am one of the 300 million. We want the biggest, loudest, clearest, and most updated entertainment centers we can afford. It's only natural. Movies and television are a large part of our life away from the office. It's one of our primary ways to wind down. Now, I'm not saying that lounging in front of a wide-screen is healthy or comparable to going on a hike through the mountains, but regardless we love it. And you can bet that this epidemic isn't going to cease. We will continue to enjoy films and veg-out with our loved ones on the weekends and afternoons following a day at the office. So, the key is to find an awesome entertainment center. One that allows us to capture that movie theater experience, but without the 50 bucks spent on concessions. I know, how about a rear projection plasma! This is sadly an untapped resource when it comes to entertainment. 

Everyone goes for the flat panel, wide screen LCD television. It's plain and simply what's hot right now. Unfortunately most of these televisions carry fat price tags. Needless to say, not near as bad as when they first arrived on the technology scene, but yet still fairly high. There is an alternative for ideal movie watching you know. It's commonly known as the rear projection plasma. You may have seen these in a school or University classroom. I know I saw plenty when I was in college. They were on the ceiling of virtually every classroom I had. The professors would use them to show the class films and documentaries. 

There are a couple things to consider when buying a rear projection plasma. Number one is that you must have a screen or blank white wall space to project onto. These systems are very convenient in that way that they take up no room at all. Secondly, you'll want to consider LCD versus CRT projection. LCD stands for liquid crystal display. These projectors are rear based and do not rely on a standard old-school projection tube. In other words, the LCD rear projection plasma is an upgrade in clarity. And finally, take your lighting into consideration. Obviously if you use a projection system, you will need total darkness with no glares when watching a film. 