It is often said that you can find clip art for anything. You can find clip art for presentations about corporate profits, for safety training videos, or flyers. Basically the only thing that is difficult to find is religious clipart. With all of the religious paintings, religious icons, and other religious art that has been produced in this world, it is amazing how little religious clip art there is. Of course, you can find certain basic Christian clip art. For example, there is the ever popular icon of the little boy praying in front of the cross that everyone has seen on dozens of church bulletin boards throughout the country. Nevertheless, if you are looking for something fun and exciting to get the congregation jazzed up about some church event or picnic, Finding religion clip art can be next to impossible.

Fortunately, thanks to the help of a few pioneers, all of that has changed recently. Nowadays, there are some excellent databases of religious clip art that were unavailable even a few years ago. Personally, I had given up on looking for religious clip art, and it caught me totally by surprise last time I was trying to make a holiday flier. I was looking for some Easter clip art to to advertise our children's pageant. I didn't expect to be able to find any religious clip art, but to my surprise thousands of search hits turned up.

Not only was the religious clip art there, but it was free as well. The Internet used to be free for the most part, but more and more it is used for for-profit endeavors. Even religious literature and games are often sold instead of giving away freely to other members of the church spiritual community. That is why it is so inspiring to find all of that free religious clip art. Somewhere out there, there is someone – perhaps dozens of someone's – willing to make thousands of pictures and give them away for free just to make things easier for humble churches like my own. That is truly inspiring.

Picking out the right religious clip art can be very tricky. Even if your heart is in the right place, sometimes the hearts of your parishioners will judge you too harshly. If you are a Baptist, for example, and inadvertently include some Catholic clip art, your congregation is not likely to be amused. You might be trying to do the right thing, but you can still be criticized harshly for it.