Do you know what you want to do when you grow up? This is a major question that burdens some of us into our 30s. Or possibly even longer. Consider this; you actually have to choose one career path in life and stick to it for a good 40 years. That's frightening! What if you realize you don't like it? What if you change your mind 10 years down the road? These questions can cause all sorts of problems. By switching a career later in life, you risk losing crucial retirement money, benefits and more. This is why it's imperative to research careers diligently before choosing yours. This is something to consider before choosing a major or specialty study in college. You'll be glad you did down the road. 

In the beginning of it all, we head off to college with thoughts of partying and exams in mind. These are general aspects of a higher education that most of us are aware of. Oh, and let's not forget about all that darn homework. It's without a doubt, the worst part. Anyway, it can be tricky choosing a major right off the bat. How can we possible know which field to choose? All we've done thus far are crappy minimum wage jobs. Well, it's like this; you have to consider your interests and fortes. What are you good at and what were you designed for? What's that one thing you find interesting and enjoyable. Maybe it's a foreign language and maybe it's writing. It varies from person to person. Now comes the part where you can begin to research careers more in depth. Find out what job choices are available to you after college if you choose that English major or BS in chemistry. You can even go so far as to see what starting salaries are expected. 

Here's the horror story. I worked with a fellow, who was fresh out of college a few months back. He graduated with his degree of choice and found a position immediately. However, it took him no time at all to realize he despised the work. YIKES! What to do now? Well, he managed a video store and began sorting through his options. What he should have done is research careers pertaining to his degree, prior to attending school for it. Maybe some job shadowing was in order. Don't make the same mistake he did! Research careers before you acquire that bachelor's degree. 