Have you ever met someone that is a stickler for details? Our neighbor is this way. He not only wants to make sure that he has all the details on something, but he also likes to be right. There are times when I think he simply makes things up just so that he can appear to be the expert on the subject. If his made up detail turns out to be wrong he will quote some source as to where he got the information. At times this can be annoying, but he is a nice person so we over look this shortcoming.
 
We spend a great deal of time with this neighbor and his wife. They are retired. They live in Minnesota by us six months out of the years and then they relocate to Florida for the other six months. For the summer months we like to do many things together because we do not see them in the winter. One of the things we like to do is to get together to play cards. We have played many different games, but the neighbor’s favorite is poker. He is the only one of us that had played prior to our playing together. He taught us the rules of poker. To begin with we would laugh that the rules of poker that he came up with seemed to always benefit him. He absolutely hates to lose. One day my husband was talking about our poker game with one of his co-workers. He mentioned one of the rules of poker that we had been following. The co-worker said that this was not how you play. This co-worker plays poker twice a month for some serious money, so he would know the rules. He also plays when he goes out to Vegas. He clarified the rule to my husband and also told him a site to look at that listed all the rules of poker. My husband told me about the website when he got home. We looked it up and found that there were many things that we were doing or not doing when we played. This neighbor’s birthday was coming up so we decided that we would get him a book of the rules of poker so that we could all use the book to clarify different things. When I went looking for the rulebook I found a rulebook for several different card games. I thought this would be even better. When our neighbor opened his present his wife thought it was great. She would no longer have to take his word for anything she could look it up. On the way home I told my husband the rulebook as more of a gift for the wife than the neighbor.

