There are many types of collectors and collections out there. Some of the most popular collections may be baseball cards, stamps, and coins. Some automobile aficionados with the means collect classic cars; a famous example would be Jay Leno. Unfortunately not everyone has the funds for an expensive collection but this does not have to stop you from cultivating an interesting and lovable collection of your own.

My most favorite collection belongs to my grandmother. She collects salt and pepper shakers. Each set was hand-picked and this impressive collection was built with humble means and homegrown affection. At last count I believe she had around a hundred different salt and pepper shakers. Some are glass, others are made of metal, but most of them are ceramic. Some of my favorites are the hand-painted ceramic shakers that are in different shapes of vegetables. There is something very heartwarming about the country personality in her collection of salt and pepper shakers that you rarely see outside of the Midwest.

Most people do not consider salt and pepper shakers to be anything special. We all have a set sitting on our kitchen table that we rarely give much thought to. Growing up with my grandmother’s salt and pepper shaker collection I developed a fondness towards silly little shakers and keep my eye out for interesting ones. I am happy to say that you can find salt and pepper shakers at all kinds of stores, including tourist shops, stores carrying various house wares, and even gift shops at theme parks.

If you find yourself developing a similar affection toward salt and pepper shakers, there is really only one piece of advice that I have to give on this matter. Always keep the shakers together. They are married, a sort of couple, and should never be separated. This piece of advice not only comes from my adopted mentality towards the shakers, but also several years spent in the restaurant industry and in catering service. It is just a simple courtesy in that we provide to the shakers as well as an aesthetic standard to be kept up. 

I think that owning a cute pair of salt and pepper shakers is a quick, easy, and inexpensive way to jazz up any kitchen table. I hope to carry on the tradition that my grandmother started of respecting this everyday kitchen addition and adding something a little bit more special to their existence.
