San Diego California

The southern Californian coast has many fine beaches and attractions. San Diego California is the second largest city in the state and its mild climate and outdoor lifestyle appeals to many tourists. Sea World San Diego is a much frequented theme park, with two roller coasters and two water rides. Animals on show include dolphins, sharks, polar bears, walruses and penguins. In addition to tourism, the area has a thriving commercial sector and there are sixteen military bases across the US Navy, US Coastguard and US Marine Corps. The arts and history are an important part of the culture and there are numerous museums and galleries.

Different aspects of performing arts can be found in San Diego California. The city has its own symphony orchestra and its own opera company, both receiving critical praise. The Old Globe Theatre is a replica of William Shakespeare's theatre in England where he first staged his plays and produces several musicals and plays each year.

Balboa Park, a National History Landmark, is a park with a difference. Museums, theaters, shops and restaurants complement the open spaces and gardens. The Museum of Art has fine works by artists, such as Canaletto and Rubens. It also has a large collection of Spanish art, including the work of El Greco. The park also contains the Natural History Museum, the Museum of Man and the Museum of Photographic Arts.

The Park also has an 18-hole golf course and a 9-hole course and it boasts the world's largest outdoor pipe organ. The most famous attraction in the park and the one most associated with San Diego California is the San Diego Zoo. Respected for its research and conservation work, visitors can see over 800 different species of animal. There is a guided bus tour or it's possible to get an aerial vantage point from the gondola lift. Displays explore different terrain, including Arctic tundra and African rain forest. There are free flight aviaries, reptiles and mammals. One of the biggest draws is the pandas, loaned by the Chinese Government.

Skimboarding and surfing are popular at the various beaches. La Jolla resort is the most famous oceanfront community in San Diego California. Fortunate visitors may spot the colony of wild seals that live off shore. The resort is also known for its international standard Torrey Pines golf course and its up market hotels, jeweler's shops, fine dining establishments and boutiques.
