Most people own at least one t shirt, and most people own more than one. Even those that seemed to be dressed to the nines all of the time have at least one in their closet. This is because though the t shirt seems simple, it is one of the most versatile things that you can have in your wardrobe. They can be used for sitting around the house, and paired with the right jeans or pants, they can even look dressy and fashionable. You can put almost anything you want on one, if you know a little about screen printed t shirts.

Making t shirts with special designs is something that many do. Some do it for a special occasion, and others so it just for fun. They even make great gifts. It used to be that these had to be done by creating them and then printing out an iron-on for the shirt. Today, there are more choices if you want to order them. Places like Café Press will do screen printed t shirts for you, and it doesn’t cost you very much. You can even make a profit on your own designs.

When you order screen printed t shirts in this manner, you only have to get one, and it is shipped to your home rather quickly. However, there are times when you might need to have more than one. Some make shirts to hand out for special events like family reunions. This means it might be expensive to order a bunch from places that normally print one or two. Instead, there are other companies that can give huge discounts, depending on how many you order. If you want one or two hundred screen printed t shirts, your price per item will go down drastically.

If you are crafty, and love to make things, you can actually do your own screen printed t shirts right in your own home. You can make them for fun, or if you can come up with some neat designs, you can sell them as well. This is something that requires specific skills that you can probably learn rather quickly. You will have to buy some equipment though. There are a few different methods for doing this in the home, so you may have to research them and then decide which way you would like to go. You can even find complete lists of what you need to buy to do it on your own at home for yourself or as a small business.