Sea World Orlando

There are lots of places to see and things to do in and around the Orlando, Florida area. Whether you’re planning to visit for a few days or a week, you and your family will have plenty of time to check out Sea World Orlando and Busch Gardens. Take your family to see the famous Shamu the killer whale, and experience the new “Shamu Rocks” concert. Both parks are open throughout the year with extended hours during the summer and holidays, and feature spectacular shows and demonstrations daily, in addition to thrilling rides and special events. If you’re planning to visit during the summertime, check out a whole new park after dark with four sizzling night time shows and dazzling dining options. Sea World is the ultimate place to cool down after long summer days with blue horizons under the stars offering something for everyone. Check out Sea Lions Tonight, an entertaining show featuring talented sea lions, otters, and walrus. 

The official website is www.seaworld.com, which is featuring an exclusive online offer available to both Florida residents and out-of-state visitors. Purchase one-day admission tickets at kids’ prices online and you get to bypass the lines and go straight to the gate. General park information is also available on this site including the shuttle service for Busch Gardens, show schedules, dining options, adventure camps, interactive programs, group information, and more. On select dates throughout the month of October, check out Sea World’s Halloween Spooktacular; Underwater Fantasea comes alive with friendly witches, mermaids, pumpkin fish, and more as visiting ghosts and goblins trick or treat amongst them. Before you buy tickets, check out www.greatorlandodiscounts.com, a site which boasts the lowest prices online for Sea World Orlando. Purchase the ticket package that best suites your needs including combination tickets for Sea World and Busch Gardens. 

If your kids just can’t wait to meet Shamu, go to www.shamu.com to experience Shamu online. Watch the Shamu Cam, meet the trainers, and learn lots of interesting facts about killer whales. Another great site to explore is www.seaworld.org, dedicated to the world of animals featuring information for teachers, amazing animal facts, conservation matters, and in-depth information about the animals of Sea World Orlando and Busch Gardens. A world of excitement awaits you! Come see Shamu and friends at Sea World Orlando and enjoy all the spectacular shows at this premiere aquatic theme park, which emphasizes education as much as it does entertainment.      

 
