Seal Beach California

Real estate in Orange County is very desirable and the residents of and visitors to Seal Beach California appreciate the attractions and amenities there. The city was originally named Anaheim Landing, was altered to Bay City and adopted its current name in 1915. The population of over 24,000 includes the citizens of Leisure World, the first gated community of retirees in the United States. This area is also the location for the US Navy's Naval Weapons Station, a research and development facility for torpedoes and missiles. The Boeing Company is the biggest employer in the city.

Birdwatchers like to visit the saltwater marsh estuary of the Seal Beach National Wildlife Refuge, which is part of the Weapons Station property. This means that public access is confined to certain times. Seabirds, migrating shorebirds and waterfowl can be seen here in addition to endangered species, such as the California Least Tern, Savannah Sparrow and Clapper Rail.

There is a busy calendar of annual events in the region, including the Pancake Breakfast in April, organized by the fundraising Lions Club. They also run a Fish Fry in July on the same weekend as the rough water swim takes place. April is also the month for the Classic Car Show and Seal Beach California organizes a Sand Castle Festival and a Kite Festival in September. The year ends with a Christmas Parade in December.

The railroad history of the area is featured at the Red Car Museum, where a restored Pacific Electric Railway Red Car is displayed. Theatregoers on Seal Beach California are proud of the Bay Theatre, a venue that shows independent and classic movies and foreign language films. The theatre houses a 1928 constructed Wurlitzer organ, the largest in the world to be found in a working theatre.

The pier is another noteworthy landmark and has been rebuilt and repaired on many occasions due to structural damage caused by several storms. It is the second longest pier in the state and is a popular spot to go fishing or have a meal at the restaurant at the end of the pier. Seal Beach California surfers come here and also to Stingray Bay. The men's and women's American Olympic Water Polo team train at the USA Water Polo National Aquatic Center, which is situated on the military training base at nearby Los Alamitos. Images from the region have been used for shots in TV shows and movies, including the soap opera Sunset Beach and the film, American Pie. 
