For a product with such a high tech name, security hologram stickers have a pretty simple idea behind them. Although they are technically computer generated holograms, they work much like any seal has worked all through history. Even before the Middle Ages, people were using wax seals to prevent tampering with messages. Although the type of steel has become much more sophisticated, the overall idea behind it has remained exactly the same.

The whole point of security holograms is to show if someone has tampered with a product. You probably have seen security labels on a least a few products you have bought. For example, you may have bought a computer with a warranty that is voided if you open the box. If this is the case, the computer will probably come with the security label. Once you open up the computer, anyone who looks at it will be able to see that the security holograms have been broken. 

It is a low-tech solution, but it is amazing how well security holograms work. You see, holograms are notoriously difficult to duplicate. Unless you have the original design, some very highly specialized equipment, and quite a bit of expertise, it will be almost impossible for you to duplicate a security hologram. Even simple security stickers provide a surprising amount of protection. Don't get me wrong – they aren't foolproof or undefeatable – but they are certainly difficult enough to forge that most people won't bother to take the time, money, our energy to accomplish it.

If you are a security expert like me, security holograms are somewhat of a relief. You see, most security systems have become extremely complex in the previous several years. Burglar alarms, for example, used to be a simple matter of wiring a circuit through all the doors and windows that need to be protected. If anything breaks the circuit, you know you have a break in. Nowadays, however, they use all sorts of high-tech devices. Things like infrared detectors, hidden cameras, IP  monitoring systems and all the rest make the job tougher than ever before. On the plus side, the security really is great. It's nice to be able to offer my clients the most cutting edge protection available. Besides that, the business pays really well, and everyone likes that in their line of work! People will always want to protect their things, so there will always be work for people like me!