You know how people are always singing in the shower? This seems to be a tradition amongst humans. Or at least amongst Americans anyway. It doesn't really matter if they CAN sing or not. They simply step under the hot water, and suddenly they think their Brian McKnight or Celine Dion. It's pretty funny actually. Surely you have some folks in your household that are like this. Maybe they never sing while in the living room, kitchen, or even their own bedroom, but once they step in that show, look out. All sorts of screeching and whaling begin to come out. Now, how do you suppose we can put an end to this atrocious sound? Ah ha, technology has come through once again with a shower clock radio. Just hang that baby over the shower head and listen to all the tunes you please. I promise you'll get much less complaints form the neighbors, and your dog will stop howling as well. 

So I have this teenager living in my home. It appears that singing in the shower is her favorite pastime. The girl can't just take a quick, quit shower and move on. She has to get in there and scream at the top of her lungs. This is not so pleasant for the rest of the household, because singing is not her forte. The girl practically sounds like a dying cat. Sadly it doesn't matter if it's morning or night. She will bust out into song at either time of day. If others are going to bed, no biggy. People are still asleep because it's 6am, no problem for her. She sings regardless. Finally I found a solution. It's called the shower clock radio. Or actually the shower clock radio/CD player. This handy device does it all. And the great part is that she was stoked to get it. I told her to use it as an alternative to singing in the shower so loudly. She could now listen to the shower clock radio, but keep it at a reasonable volume. Ah, I love it when a plan comes together. 

Need an awesome gift for your teenager, wife, husband, or friend? The shower clock radio is an awesome place to start. You can find these at Sharper Image for a reasonable cost. The play CDs and are completely water proof. You don't have to worry about your CD player getting ruined or you getting electrocuted. Pick up one for your shower today. 