When I was in college, I had a very simple concept of singles holidays. For me, all holidays were holidays for singles. You would go to a party, get really drunk, and see what happened. If you had more time and money, you would go to Cancun, get really drunk, and see what happened. Those days were pretty carefree, and I did not have to put a lot of effort into finding love and romance. Nowadays, however, I am getting older. Singles groups seem to be the best way to meet potential partners.

When I first was invited to a singles events, I felt a little bit awkward about it. For me, going to singles events was like admitting that I could not find anyone to date me anymore. I didn't need singles holidays. It had only been a few months since my last relationship ended, and I felt that once I was back on my feet, I would be able to meet people with no problems. Nonetheless, I was pretty disappointed with the local scene. My singles holidays at the local bar always yielded fairly disappointing results. I was still living like a 21 year old, but I was almost entering my 30s. I decided to try one of these singles holiday trips out.

It was actually one of the most last minute holidays that I have ever been on.  My best friend, who had been begging me to go on singles holidays with him for the past month, was getting ready to go. He mentioned to me that there was an extra space available if I had changed my mind about singles holidays. I was in a funk at that point. My vacation plans had fallen through, and I had nothing to do. On a whim, I decided to try the single holiday. I am so glad that I did. I had a blast!

What is so great about singles holidays is that everyone on them is single. I never really gave this fact much thought before. Meeting new people and trying to date is always awkward. By their late 20s, many people are married, and most of them are involved in serious relationships. In singles holidays, however, everyone is cruising. It makes everything so much simpler, and love is definitely in the air. I did not come back from the singles holidays a married man, but I certainly was over that last relationship by the time we returned!