Have you ever thought about why some people become obsessed with something? How some people it is collecting certain items such as stamps, coins, rocks or a certain kind of figurines. Other people may become obsessed with an activity or sport or professional sports teams. There are a great number of people that spend a great deal of money to attend the home games of their favorite teams and to buy all the paraphernalia that is available.  Some people will concentrate on one player of a team and others concentrate on the team. There are other people that become obsessed with famous personalities such as a singer, actor or band. They will collect albums and posters and spend money going to concerts. 

My sister has had a complete obsession with the pirates of the Caribbean movies. I was not surprised, because as a child when any movie or television program would be on she would drop anything that she was doing to watch it. When she was twenty she had a small skull and crossbones tattooed on her shoulder blade. This was before tattoos were popular. To this day, thirty four ears later she still has not told our mother that she has the tattoo. When she was in high school, when most other girls were drawing hearts on they’re notebooks, she was drawing skulls and crossbones. Now in this age of zero tolerance of anything remotely violent in schools she might have gotten kicked out for having the skulls and crossbones displayed on her notebooks. 

For her birthday this year her husband wanted to have a surprise party for her. Her birthday is on Christmas Eve so she never really gets any special attention for the day. Her husband thought that it would be a huge surprise if it was done in the middle of January. He would take her out for dinner and celebrate her birthday as usual the day before Christmas and then in January we would surprise her with a party. He asked me if I would help. Of course he wanted to go with a pirate theme. We had a great cake made that featured the skull and crossbones. The cake looked like a pirates flag. I bought the supplies and asked my sister-in-law, who is a wonderful seamstress, to help me make a huge flag with the skull and crossbones on it. When it was completed we rolled it up onto a wooden dowel. When my sister walked into the room we started singing the traditional birthday song and we pulled a string which caused the huge pirate’s flag to unfold. She loved the party, especially the theme. Since her party the skull and crossbones fly high above their home. They are the only people in the neighborhood with a pirates flag hanging on their flag pole.
