Many people I know can fall asleep in the middle of a well lit room with the television going. I don’t know how they do it. I have to have darkness, and I have to have the sound of a fan going. If the television is on, my mind struggles to stay awake to see what will happen next. It’s simply impossible for me to fall asleep that way, and to sleep well. A fan is great because it masks noises that might wake me up. Having darkness is often a problem, so that is why I use a sleep mask.

When I first thought I might like to have a sleep mask, I had a harder time finding one than I thought I would. There was no such thing as the Internet then (at least in my house), and if there had been, my search would have been easy. You can find them all over the Internet now, and you can usually be very choosy about what you want to get because there are so many out there. When I was looking for one, I had to find one in the stores. I thought they would be common, but for some reason, I could not find one.

The first sleep mask that I got was made of gel and you could see right through it. I had told my mom that I was looking for one, and I guess she thought that any one would do. This type of sleep mask is not meant to keep the light out, but rather, to help with dark circles under the eyes. The gel should go into the refrigerator (or freezer) to get cold, and that cold will then help keep the black circles from forming, or will help them go away. She meant well, but it was not what I was looking for.

I finally found one that was mean to shield the eyes, but it did not fit on my head very well. It was more for looks than anything, and really didn’t fit like it was made for the real purpose for which they are intended. I am guessing it was more of a fun gift item than something made to ensure the quality of sleep. When you buy a sleep mask, the tie behind the head should not pinch, but might a little. You can get used to that within a few nights. More importantly, it should cover adequately so that no light can sneak in to interrupt your sleep if that is what you need to rest well. Luckily, they are not that expensive, and are much easier to find now, at least for me. That means if one sleep mask does not work, buying another to try is not that much of a trial or an expense.