Socks For Men

Each year for Christmas I know the my husband is going to get a package of socks for men from his dad. Though his dad always gets us something really cool as a gift, there are a few things that he always gives. Each year my husband can expect not only to get the socks, but to get a box of chocolate covered cherries as well. It’s no secret that men go through socks rather quickly, and I know the reason why my husband does. He’s not very good at trimming his toenails, and many of his socks end up with holes in the toes rather quickly.

Perhaps I’m not buying the correct brand of socks for men, but it seems that no brand of sock is immune to this problem. My husband is very well groomed, but the toenails are one thing that he seems to forget. In fact, he usually ends up ignoring them until I complain that he is stabbing me with them at night. The socks for men that he buys don’t last much longer than three months. This means that we spend quite a bit of money on socks.

My husband has an entirely different complaint about socks for men. He claims that I steal them, and that is why he has to get them so often. There may be some truth to this, especially in the winter months. I find that socks for men are much warmer than the socks I can buy for myself. On an exceptionally cold day I will find myself digging through his drawer in order to get myself some socks. I can’t help but if all of the socks that I buy for myself are bought for looks rather than for function. I love my fuzzy slippers, but there are some times when socks for men are the best way to keep my feet warm in the winter months.

Perhaps socks for men are not built to last very long for a reason. I would guess if they lasted for quite awhile that no one would be buying them. I guess you will have to decide what works best for your husband when you’re buying socks for men, as well as what colors you may need to go with his wardrobe. Most buy simple white socks, though there are many times and they should be wearing black. If your husband isn’t a good at buying his own socks, you definitely have to make sure he has a variety of sturdy socks at all times.