For as long as I can remember, I have always loved Star Wars games. I think that the first Star Wars game that I ever played was the classic sit down arcade x wing game. It is extremely old school – from the mid-80s, I think. For the time, it is very sophisticated. Even today, the graphics are pretty impressive. It is all done in wireframe, vector graphics. You pilot an x-wing fighter, fighting against tie fighters that shoot brightly glowing balls of energy at you. Then you have to proceed to destroy the Death Star. The first time you do it, it is a thrill unlike anything you have ever felt. For me, the Star Wars movies were extremely real when I was a kid. Getting to actually play the part of Luke Skywalker was beyond my wildest dreams!

By the time I was playing the Star Wars PC games, my innocent childhood fascination with Star Wars had diminished somewhat. Don't get me wrong, the Star Wars games were still very good. There were so many of them that I can't keep track of all of them in my head, but I remember that many were first person shooter games. I liked going around Imperial bases, shooting soldiers with laser guns and trying to get my secret missions accomplished, but to me it didn't compare to the thrill of piloting a rebel fighter. In many ways, the first person style of Star Wars game was exactly like Doom, Quake, and all of the other first-person shooters that have come out before and since. It was much less original, and hence less enjoyable. Nevertheless, it also lasted a little bit longer. There were so many levels that the action didn't get monotonous.

Since then, there have been many other Star Wars games that have come out. I remember playing one which tried to combine the features of all the Star Wars games that came before it. You would get to pilot a spaceship, race through the forest on one of those hovering scooters, and even take on Darth Vader in a light saber duel. The problem is that it was the most expensive of all of the Star Wars arcade games. It cost something like four quarters to start, and your life wouldn't last very long. I preferred free Star Wars games that you can play on your computer for as long as you wanted, or at least the old style arcade games where each was only a quarter.