Adults know all too well the importance of having stomach ache remedies to ease discomfort from time and we all may have a favorite trick that we use on days when we don’t feel up to par. However, when it comes to kids, some of the stomach ache remedies aren’t really helpful. Following are some ideas to help you with a child’s troubled tummy.

Nausea is never pleasant and when you know that your child is feeling ill you want to do everything that you can to make things better. Many over-the-counter medications used to ease stomach pain aren’t well accepted by youngsters. Even some stomach ache remedies made for kids may leave your little one running in the other direction.

Wouldn’t it be great to have a handful of natural stomach ache remedies to use when you don’t have and medicine on hand? Wouldn’t it be even better if those nausea remedies were well received by your child? Of course you want your little one to feel better as soon as possible and with as little struggle as possible.

If your child will drink tea, you have a couple of solutions at your fingertips. Keep a stock of Chamomile tea on hand. This tea is a natural stomach ache remedy that is a pleasure to drink. Your child will be feeling better in a few minutes after having some of this calming tea and after getting a little rest.

Peppermint tea is another natural stomach ache remedy appreciated by people of all ages. I personally prefer drinking Chamomile tea because the peppermint flavor doesn’t seem to go with a beverage but this is just a personal preference. If I’m feeling ill, I don’t mind a cup of peppermint tea at all.

There is a drawback to using these natural stomach ache remedies. They take some time to prepare. The tea needs to steep for about 20 minutes to reach the right potency to do the trick. This may be a little too long for some parents to wait.

If you don’t want to wait or if your little one won’t drink tea you might want to try peppermint candy. A regular old candy cane is a surprising stomach ache remedy that many moms use for morning sickness. This tasty treat can be used on little tummies as well.

Feeling under the weather is never fun but it is worse when your child is uncomfortable. When medications aren’t available or not well-received, it’s nice to know that a little peppermint will help ease your child’s discomfort. 
