When you're a kid in high school, money often seems nowhere in sight. This is naturally a bummer, because chances are you want to spend tons of it. I know I did at that age. And so begins the exploration of summer job opportunities. You know you have to venture outside of the home and school routine to find some sort of employment. Hey, no worries! This is good for you. Finally you'll get a taste of the real world and how much cash people actually earn in it. Let me tell you, it was a reality shock for me the first time I acquired a part-time job. 

As a teenager, you don't have too many options when it comes to summer job opportunities. Obviously you haven't graduated yet, and you certainly don't have a college degree. And maybe you're not even 18 years old at this point. So you have to work around these hindrances. We're talking minimum wage summer job opportunities that allow you to get off before 10 pm. But, don't fret just yet. There are plenty of these to go around. When I was in high school, my first gig was at the local movie theater. I was an usher who tore tickets and made sure the auditoriums stayed clean. After that I worked at a video store. These were both simple summer job opportunities that paid minimum wage. While the paychecks were not massive, they were enough for me to get by on. After all, I only had to pay for my extra-curricular activities and gas. I suppose I got off pretty easy. 

Things have changed! Summer job opportunities now are much more vast than back when I was in high school. The Internet has changed a lot of this. Now you can even find cool gigs on the web by sorting through Craigslist postings and numerous other websites. Or, you could do what my teenager does and find a summer job at a local water park or swimming pool. These are apparently the BOMB! You get to hang outdoors all day and you're not dealing with the somber notion of paper and plastic bags. If you're having trouble pinpointing great summer job opportunities, I highly suggest you get online and check local postings for part-time summer positions. There are bound to be a few out there that suit your interests and skill set. 