The Great Barrier Reef is a true wonder of the sea. This magnificent wonder is comprised of a system of coral reefs. In order to get an idea of the amazing underwater composition, it helps to know what coral reefs really are. Perhaps the information will inspire you to visit the Great Barrier Reef to see it for yourself. 

Coral reefs are actually produced by living organisms that live in the water. The structures are quite beautiful and come in an array of colors and shapes. They are found mostly as stony corals. The reason that the Great Barrier Reef is so rough and stone-like is because of the way it is formed.

Some sea creatures release an exoskeleton made of limestone. The exoskeleton is a—well—skeleton that the sea creature wear on their exteriors. It is kind-of like a shell of sorts that gets sloughed off and deposited in the ocean to create the Great Barrier Reef. The result is a beautiful underwater composition that is nothing short of breathtaking.

The very notion that the Great Barrier Reef is comprised partially of skeletal deposits is enough to make you scratch your head in amazement. However, the fact that this underwater system can be seen from outer space is almost beyond comprehension. That is, until you consider the number. 

There are about 3,000 different reefs that span an amazing 1,616 miles in length. Those numbers are interesting but consider that this system also covers nearly 133 thousand, yes thousand, miles. I guess that something like this would be visible from space even if it is under water. 

So how can you witness the wonder that is the Great Barrier Reef yourself? There are a few options to consider. The first is a real no-brainer. Take a vacation that will lead you there in person. Why not take on the adventure of seeing the world’s largest structure created by living organisms?

There is no better way to experience something than in person. A vacation planned around the Great Barrier Reef is one of dreams. There are countless sites to see and there are plenty of options to consider with this amazing holiday getaway. Start planning for some fun and adventure right online.

Not ready for the trip? Why not browse through beautiful images of the Great Barrier Reef on the Internet? These images can be downloaded or you may even find stunning prints that you can order. If you can’t go there, you can always bring the Great Barrier Reef into your home.
 

