If you go to or watch an NFL game this season, or have in the past, you may notice that the uniforms change almost each week. There are always some of the same characteristics, but they do change for various reasons. There are ones teams use for away and home games, and those are always different from each other. Now days, they also have what are called the throwback jersey, and there are many teams that use these many times during the season.

Most of the time, teams wear the throwback jersey for a very specific reason. Most of the time, this reasons is to honor someone or something. There might be a retired member of that team that is being honored for something, and they wear the throwback jersey from that time to honor that person. There may have also been an important game or play that was above and beyond the usual, and they would wear the jerseys to commemorate that event. Those are not the only reasons, but they are some of the most common.

The throwback jerseys can be a lot of fun, but it can be confusing for the fans. They love them, but when a game is going, it might be hard to tell one team from another because you are used to the current types of uniforms that they are wearing. I had this problem watching a game just recently, and it took me until the second quarter of the game to finally get it right without having to look twice. Perhaps I don’t pay enough attention when I watch football, but I was having problems. However, I like them and they do bring back memories of the past, and that is a big part of football.

If you are a big fan of any team, you can usually find some of these for yourself. You will probably pay the same price for a throwback jersey as you would one of the current ones. They can be a lot of fun, and if you have a special memory of your team, and you can find the jersey from that era, it is almost like owning a piece of the past. They also make great gifts for the sports lover in your life. When searching, you may not find what you need in your local sports store, but you can probably find any throwback jersey on the market if you look around online.