toy donations

Each year around the holidays I try to give toy donations to the many places taking them for charity. It is always a good feeling, but lately, I have thought that perhaps this is something that should be a habit all year long. My daughter has more than she knows what to do with, and I know that we are blessed with good fortune, even if it does not feel that way sometimes. This year during the holidays she is getting a new bedroom set, and I want to whittle her toys down to a manageable pile. That means giving away things she no longer plays with and things that are too young for her now.

When you make this type of toy donations, you have to make sure you are not donating anything that is broken or that may have been recalled. The recall part can be hard, but if you look at a toy, you can probably tell if it is safe or not. They should always be cleaned as best as you can, even if that means washing a pile of stuffed animals on your day off. No child needs dirty toys. If something is beyond help, toss it instead.

There are many places you can take your toy donations. The Salvation Army is an obvious one in many communities, but there are other places that could use things as well. Children’s hospitals may take some things, but again, make sure they are clean and safe. You can also donate to your doctors office if they specialize in children. Think of your local churches as well. They would probably welcome toy donations for their own nursery or to give to members of their congregation that have very little.

When a disaster strikes, many think to help with money, clothing, basic supplies and personal supplies. Don’t forget about the children though. They need clothing and food, but they have also lost their toys and their carefree childhood. If you have toy donations, you can make children happy when nothing else in their world is right. It might not seem like much, but something as simple as a toy when a child has nothing else can mean a world of difference to them. If for not other reason than to remind them that someone out there cares. Even when there seems to be nothing but grief and hardship, they are still important. What a great gift to give any child.