Truck Accident

About a month ago, I saw a truck accident that truly horrified me. Now, don’t get me wrong. I don’t ever see an accident where I think it’s nice and lovely. All accidents are scary and sad, but this one struck a particularly strange note with me. There is never easy to see an accident that has taken a life, but there are times when you might think the accident was so total and complete that the people didn’t see what was coming. In this particular truck accident, I thought that the driver knew what was happening, though I cannot be sure.

We were coming home from an early Christmas party with my in-laws. Right before we got to our exit we noticed that there were flashing lights everywhere. We slowed down, and we were glad we did. There were water bottles all over the road. This area was under heavy construction, so we thought that something had fallen. The area was were two interstates meet, and they were constructing on and off ramps to keep traffic moving more smoothly. We had no idea at first that there had been a truck accident. 

It turned out that what fell from the sky was not a piece of the newly constructed overpass. It was a truck that had fallen. In this particular truck accident there wasn’t much chance that the driver had survived. In fact, all I could see in my mind was the horror the driver must have felt. The truck was on one of the new off ramps and flew off the road a hundred feet in the air and landed on the highway below. Those must have been the most terrifying seconds in that man’s life. That is what made this truck accident truly horrifying for me. I knew there was a possibility he had to conscious face his own painful death.

I later got the details about the truck accident from my local news. They didn’t know if the driver had been speeding, if there had been a malfunction, or if perhaps the driver had a heart attack right before the truck accident. As far as I know, they still have not figured out what caused that truck accident. I do know that no matter how horrifying it might have been, there is one thing to be grateful for. The truck did not land on a car, and even though a van with a family in it struck the truck after it landed, they all survived and were able to be with one another on Christmas.
