Most people put a lot of effort into picking out birthday, Christmas, and other holiday presents, but I think that unexpected gifts are the best. After all, buying someone a present on their birthday – no matter how great a present it is – is simply a matter of fulfilling an obligation. They expect you to get them a gift. When you send someone a unique gift basket, a trinket, or even greeting card when it is unexpected, however, it can really do a lot to brighten up their day. I have been a fan of unique gift baskets for years, and I constantly surprise my friends with the things I give them.

The first time I ever sent a gift unexpectedly was when I was involved in a long-distance relationship. My girlfriend was a little bit depressed, and when I sent her gift basket flowers in the mail, she was absolutely overjoyed. Even knowing it was a small token of my affection, it made herself happy to receive it. It completely surprised her when she got home. She got to come home to a lovely bouquet of flowers, complete with a gift card.

Seeing how happy that present made her made me really think about the potential unique gift baskets have for lightening someone's mood. About a week later, I was walking around town when I saw an old comic that one of my friends used to own. Although he had since lost it, when he was a kid it had been one of his favorite comics. I bought it, wrote a personal message, added a few action figures that he had always admired which I'd saved from my childhood, and sent it off to him. He absolutely loved it. If I had sent him, say, chocolates or a wine gift basket, it would have made him happy. When he got this particular unique gift basket, however, he was absolutely overjoyed.

I think one of the most important things when you're buying presents for people is to give a personal touch. People really appreciate knowing that you are thinking of them. Sending someone flowers, gourmet foods, or expensive coffee is nice, but sending someone something that they never would have expected is even better. This is why  unique gift baskets are such a great idea. They show someone not only that you thought of them enough to buy them a present, but also that you were already thinking of them when you stumbled upon the perfect gift by chance. Unique gift baskets are a great way to show you really care.