In most ways, I have pretty down to earth tastes. I don't like extravagant, lavish parties, fancy clothes, or any of the rest of it. Nonetheless, I love movies. I can't get enough of all of the junk that Hollywood turns out. Whether it is a classic film like Casablanca, or the newest pop thriller, I am always on of the first people in the line to see it. When I decided to take a Universal Studios vacation, I figured that I would have a lot of fun. Universal studio trips have a lot recommending them. I have several friends who have gone and they say that it is a blast. Not only are there all of the normal theme park vacation attractions you would expect, such as roller coasters, arcades, skills games, and deluxe hotel accommodations, but there are also fascinating exhibits about the history of film. Universal Studio seemed like the perfect opportunity to take a much needed break from the daily grind.

Although I had high expectations, that Universal Studios trip wasn't all that I had expected it to be. From the very beginning, my Universal studio Orlando vacation plans were plagued with difficulties. First of all, the resort hotel that we had made our reservations at turned out to have no room for us. Although when we signed up they guaranteed that there would be a room available, they called us back  a week and a half later to tell us that they had been mistaken. At least they called us ahead of time, but even so it was a little bit too late to get good hotel deals. We looked at all the last minute hotels sites, but we ended up having to spend more on lower quality accommodations.

I also never really bothered to think about how crowded Universal studio Orlando would be. There were hordes and hordes of people mobbing us from every side. Most of the good attractions had long lines, and there were always screaming kids in the backs of theaters. Don't get me wrong – I still had a great time. I have always liked theme parks, after all. Even so, I don't think I will ever back there. Even if they get some exciting new rides or fascinating new exhibits, I think one trip is definitely enough for me. There is only so much I can get out of going to a theme park.