Vicksburg Mississippi 

In the heart of the Deep South, lies the city of Vicksburg Mississippi. Birthplace of bluesmen, Willie Dixon and Muddy Waters, local history is commemorated in unusual ways here. The site of a famous 1863 Civil War battle is remembered at the National Military Park. The 16 mile route has many monuments and there is an information center and the restored iron gunboat, USS Cairo. The city tells the story of the past and also attracts visitors with the best in culture, shopping and dining.

The Old Court House Museum-Eva W.Davis Memorial is the oldest building in Vicksburg Mississippi. It was built by slaves in 1858 and has been visited by many politicians over the years, including Theodore Roosevelt and William McKinley. Visitors are allowed to tour the building.

There are various ways of exploring the Historic Downtown area, including riding on a carriage or going on a riverboat. It's not merely a living museum but a tourist destination with modern facilities, known for its antique stores, casinos and restaurants. The Biedenharn Museum of Coca Cola Memorabilia is housed in a renovated 1890 building, where the product was first bottled. The original bottling process is displayed and there is also a 1900 soda fountain, a gift shop and an 1890 candy store. 

The city has a diverse shopping mix of national chains and independent stores with a local flavor. Pemberton Square Mall is an enclosed area with well known restaurants and retail outlets, such as JC Penney, EB Games and Garfield's Restaurant and Pub. Vicksburg Mississippi Factory Outlets is another shopping area and includes Book Warehouse, Claire's Boutique, GAP and Factory Brand Shoes.

The Riverfest music and arts and crafts show is a great day out for the families in Vicksburg Mississippi. with games for the kids, hand crafted jewelry stalls, a kayak race and a jazz festival. There are also exhibits on food from around the world. Local history is on display at the Catfish Row Landin. These outdoor exhibits include art murals, fountains, gardens and play areas.

Many tourists love to step on to the Sweet Olive, the riverboat that takes passengers on tours of the river from the waterfront.  A guide gives information and there are large viewing windows. The boat runs through the winter, when there are heaters on board. There are also tours at sunset, a lovely time to be on the river. Private parties, including wedding receptions, can be booked. 

