There are many people that we meet in our lives that we end up exchanging gifts with. Sometimes this is any easy task and other times it is not. I have one friend that I see things for every time I am out shopping. She has many interests and hobbies so it is easy to find things that she will appreciate. I have three sisters. Two of them I also can locate things very easily for, but the oldest one is quite difficult to buy for. She is a shopper and she has a great deal of money. If she sees something she likes she buys it. 
 
Several years ago my sisters and I started a tradition of going out for drinks and exchanging gifts for each other’s birthdays. This is our time to visit without children or spouses. Our birthdays are spread throughout the year so this makes for a great way to catch up on what is going on in each other’s life. Last year when we got together I was wearing some of the white diamonds perfume that my husband gave me for Christmas. When I greeted my oldest sister with a hug she commented that I smelled good. She made the same comment when we embraced goodbye. Her birthday was the next one we were to celebrate so I decided that the next time I went shopping I would buy her white diamonds perfume. Fragrance is not something that I would ordinarily choose to buy for someone because if is such a personal choice. I had never noticed that my sister wore any perfume, so I had not considered this as an option before. The next time I went shopping I looked at the white diamonds gift sets. The bottles themselves are very pretty and look nice sitting on a vanity or dresser. The perfume comes in a small bottle with a cover that is shaped like a bow. The middle of the bow has a small stone in it that looks like a diamond. The cologne bottle has a band of fake diamonds around it. I purchased a white diamonds perfume set that included a small bottle of perfume a bottle of cologne and a tube of body lotion.
 
When we got together for my oldest sisters birthday I noticed that she was wearing white diamonds perfume. I commented on this and she said that she had liked it so much on me that she had bought herself a small bottle. She had to laugh when she opened the gift set I had bought for her. She was very pleased with it. I told her that once again she had just gone out and bought what she wanted, but at least it was something that had to be replenished. At least now I know I have a fall back gift for her if I cannot locate anything else.

