If there is one thing that is universal, it is the desire to make a living doing what you love. Who doesn't want to be rich and successful, spending all their time indulging in their passion? Yet for most of us, this remains fantasy. Most people, in fact, never even try it. They assume that there is no way to make it work. For me, however, there definitely was. 

You see, I have loved discount designer bags since I was a kid. As a pre-teen, I developed an uncanny ability to find expensive bags discounted. I would get them in thrift stores, discount clothing outlets, or after-holiday sales. I never had much money, but I dressed like one of the rich kids!

I went to college like everyone else, majored in business administration, and figure that was that. I didn't really wants to work in someone's huge, overwhelming business office, but I knew that it was something I could do that would pay the bills. I had no idea, however, how boring it was. After a few years, I was hopelessly burnt out. I began to look for wholesale closeouts, particularly wholesale bags. At first, it was merely out of curiosity. What I found out, however, shocked me a great deal. As easy as it was for me to find wholesale bags wandering around town, it was 10 times easier on the Internet! I had struck a gold mine!

I started off by investing in wholesale designer handbags in bulk and selling them off, one by one over eBay. It wasn't long before I was making a killing. As a matter of fact, I was getting orders for my wholesale bags faster than I could mail them! Soon I realized that I had to take a risk. I had to quit my job and devote myself full-time to my online business, or else I would be hopelessly swamped by orders. It was a risk, but it was a risk I was willing to take.

Soon, I was selling wholesale backpacks, customized bags, tote bags – anything you could use to carry something else in. The great thing is, once I started spending a lot of money buying wholesale bags, the designers noticed me. I got better details, priority offers, and an inside track to the best wholesale bag suppliers. This increased my profit margin tremendously and allowed me to undercut most of the competition. I have been sitting pretty ever since!