Wholesale glass bottles come in many shapes and forms. You can find items of all different sizes and designs for your project. There are many reasons that this kind of product is sold in bulk and you are sure to find a lot that offers everything that you need for your project in wholesale glass bottles.

The type of item you will want to buy depends on the type of project that you have in mind. There are plenty of great ideas that are associated with wholesale glass bottles and you can do wonders with these craft items. Following are some examples of how you can put your wholesale glass bottles to good use.

Nothing is as special or as touching as a homemade gift. Why not create a signature scent for each of your friends? These presents are ideal for birthdays, the holidays or just about any other special occasion. Wholesale glass bottles are a fundamental part of this kind of present. 

When you purchase the wholesale glass bottles for fragrances you are most likely going to have to buy in bulk. This is the best way to get rock bottom prices on the gear and you will find that the homemade fragrances are such a hit that you will want to keep a stock of wholesale glass bottles on hand.

Most of these items are clear in color but you can find some in blues, pinks and just about any other color you can think of. I like to stick with clear wholesale glass bottles to keep the price down as much as possible. Colored glass is often a little more expensive than the basic clear ones.

I like to use wholesale glass bottles for perfumes that have a sprayer and cap that fits over the spraying mechanism. This is a personal preference and you may find that you prefer an old-fashioned perfume bottle that has a fitted top that is used to apply the fragrance. As a general rule the more potent the scent the less that you will want to use the sprayer.

Some of us prefer to use wholesale glass bottles for kitchen supplies. There is nothing more attractive than a food gift basket that includes homemade dressing and flavored olive oil in decorative glassware. 

Whether you want to use the items for presents, crafts or simple decorations for your home, nothing is more convenient or cost effective than wholesale glass bottles.


