Craft projects come in many shapes and forms. There are a ton of ideas that you can apply to a single object. When I accidentally ordered a lot of wholesale straw hats I decided that I would be better off putting the items to good use rather than returning them. Following are some great ideas for wholesale straw hats that you can use for just about any occasion.

Since I was about to host a tea party for about 25 women I figured that having a hat theme would be wonderful. The wholesale straw hats were the perfect fit for this fundraiser and I had some great ideas for putting the items to good use. All I needed was some artificial flowers and some ribbon and the project was under way.

Decorating the wholesale straw hats was a breeze and I even put a hook in each one so that the recipient could hang the object as a decorative piece. I made sure to use different flowers and ribbons in order to suit different tastes. The wholesale straw hats were used as door prizes but each contained an extra special prize.

We sold raffle tickets during the tea party and the winner of each raffle chose one of the decorated wholesale straw hats to keep. When she looked inside her prize she found a nice surprise. Some of the prizes were simple trinkets and others were substantial gifts of appreciation.

After the success of the fundraiser tea party, I decided that I should look into other ways to use wholesale straw hats. My daughter’s tenth birthday was the next event that called for a crafty move. The girls were a little restless the prior year since her birthday falls in the heart of winter.

Instead of just sitting around I found a great craft that uses the wholesale straw hats as the foundation. My daughter loves animals and we bought craft items that the girls could use to create great animal faces out of the wholesale straw hats. The time flew by and the girls were well entertained.

I was so happy with my experiences with the wholesale straw hats that I figured that I had better order more. I know that there is going to be an occasion that will call for these useful items in the near future. There is a bridal shower that I am going to host and I think that summertime events might call for wholesale straw hats this year as well. 



