Wicker baskets have many uses. You can find a plethora of reasons to invest in this kind of product. There are endless ideas for these traditional elements for the home and I’m going to share a bunch of them here. Keep in mind that there are many more ways to put wicker baskets to use. These ideas are in no way comprehensive. 

Gift packaging can be a real chore, especially if you are combining a lot of different items in a particular theme for one person. The concept of using wicker baskets as a way of presenting the gifts is beyond genius. Not only does the person receive a great present in the items that you have chosen, they get a lovely wicker basket to boot.

But what do the recipients do with the wicker baskets once they get home? There are plenty of uses for these items ranging from decoration to storage. Some of us like to use the wicker baskets to house gifts for other people in the same way that someone would reuse a gift bag.

However, there are a handful of wicker baskets that never circulate around the gift circuit. These prime choices have other household uses that are far more valuable than present arrangements. I have received many of these woven items and I have a few that I keep for my personal use.

The bathroom is the ideal place for this kind of product. Storage that is functional and decorative is difficult to find. Wicker baskets are great for holding carefully folded towels and washcloths. I like to keep a collection of hand towels right next to the sink so that we always have a fresh towel at hand.

The wicker baskets are ideal for organization in just about every room. I have these decorative storage containers in my kitchen and bedroom and even in my living room. They provide a convenient and attractive home for many items that usually wind up in a cluttered mess. 

Anyone who has kids knows how quickly toy clutter can get out of hand. I like to keep wicker baskets on hand so that I can pick up toys before company arrives. My daughter and I sort through the containers and put the items back where they belong each night.

The next time that you get a gift basket keep in mind that while what is inside is the primary present; the container has many uses as well. Wicker baskets are affordable, versatile and beautiful. I can’t think of a better gift.


