Winter fashion is not usually the most flattering or interesting clothing. The winter is the one time of year where human survival instincts seem to really trump the desire to look good. Don't get me wrong, if you go to your typical Midwestern college campus, you can sometimes see sorority girls wearing short skirts in the most foul, icy weather imaginable, drunk out of their minds and stumbling from frat party to frat party. In general, however, winter dresses disappear once Jack Frost starts to show us who is boss.

If you think about it, it is little wonder why. Who really wants to be uncomfortable in a winter dress when you can be secure in a warm winter coat? Even fall dresses are asking a little bit too much on some of the worst fiercest autumn days. The fall can be pleasantly crisp, but it can also be horrendous, pelting people with icy rain and cold winds. I remember how much I hated wearing winter formal dresses when I was growing up. If we would have a wedding, a funeral, or some other fancy events to go to, I would beg my mother to let me wear pants like my brothers got to. In the end, however, I would always have to give in and do what my mom told me. I would bundle up, but my legs would be freezing.

As I have gotten older, however, I have grown to think differently about winter dresses. Nowadays, it seems risky and adventures to wear a dress in the winter. In the summer, it is difficult to stick out for your looks. Everyone is wearing revealing clothing, and many of those people exercise several times a week. With winter dresses, however, you look good and you know it. People stop and look at you in the street simply because you are not bundled from head to toe. It can be pretty flattering, and it definitely makes it easier to meet people!

With proper layering, winter dresses don't have to be very uncomfortable. As a matter of fact, they can be downright cozy if you know what to wear. The key is to have a nice long overcoat to cover them. Wraps and shawls can also help, as can scarves and mittens. Once you have the proper attitude, winter can be another exciting occasion to invent new and adventurous fashion ensembles. It is all a matter of planning.