We all grow up with our favorite candy bars and tend to stay loyal to the same brand. The Worlds Finest Chocolates Company lives up to its name, producing chocolates and chocolate bars to suit every taste. Founded in America in 1949, it still operates as a family concern. The range of products includes milk and dark chocolate with various flavorings.

The product most associated with the company is the personalized chocolate bar. These can be customized for occasions such as birthdays, weddings, anniversaries and new baby arrivals. Names of recipients and messages are printed on the wrapper. These items are sometimes used as party favors or corporate gifts. Other best selling chocolates include milk chocolate covered almonds, pretzels and caramel whirls. 

Various Gift Sets are available from less than $15 to over $60.  Gift Towers assortments include the Flower Tower with floral wrapping and satin bows. The Royal Birthday Tower has a royal purple gift wrapping. Gift Tiers have the romantic Heart Ribbon Tier with red heart wrapping and the Chocolate Spring Collection, wrapped in springtime colors. The ideal Gift Tier for the 4th of July celebrations is the Chocolate Patriotic Tier in red, white and blue colors. Gift Box Sets include an assortment of dark chocolate named the Dark Chocolate Regal Duo. There is also the Commemorative Milk Chocolate Bar Gift Box on which the company's history is detailed on the inside of the lid. This special set is also available in a chocolate covered almonds version.

 When looking for a great romantic gift, Worlds Finest Chocolates fit the bill, especially Chocolate Hearts and the Pastel Heart Frame Box. There is also a cute teddy bear with a kiss me sign stitched on. Products can be bought online or from the catalog for convenience. Chocolate varieties in the Worlds Finest Chocolates line include coconut, pecans, popcorn, raisins, mocha, cashews and toffee. Sugar free chocolates are also available.

The company has helped to raise a lot of money for good causes over the years. Charities and other non-profitable organizations sell Worlds Finest Chocolates produce in the United States and Canada. Many churches, sports clubs and schools use this method of fundraising to good effect. The organization's name, purpose and logo are imprinted on chocolate bars. Pictures are also sometimes used on the bars.

New products have been added to the range, as the Worlds Finest Chocolates Company likes to look forward. A summer watering can, containing chocolate mint bars is a recent addition. Other latest products include raisins covered with dark chocolate and caramel corn with toffee coated cashews and almonds.
