Title: 
A GED or General Education Diploma

Word Count:
361

Summary:
A GED or General Education Diploma is sometimes also called a General Education Development program.  The basis for the GED is a series of tests to determine if a minimum level of proficiency has been reached.  These are not difficult tests but do require a wide breadth of understanding on a variety of subjects.  
Today, distance learning may be the option most preferred.  It is an affordable way to work toward a GED, and determine the level of skills necessary to pass the GED exams.


Keywords:
ged, ged online, free ged practice test, ged test online, ged test, ged programs, take ged test online, ged practice test, online ged, ged testing


Article Body:
A GED or General Education Diploma is sometimes also called a General Education Development program.  The basis for the GED is a series of tests to determine if a minimum level of proficiency has been reached.  These are not difficult tests but do require a wide breadth of understanding on a variety of subjects.  
Today, distance learning may be the option most preferred.  It is an affordable way to work toward a GED, and determine the level of skills necessary to pass the GED exams.  Unfortunately, there are companies that offer shortcuts to almost every kind of education.  Promises of college degrees, doctorates, and even high school diplomas are all available for the right price.  These companies are in the business of selling shortcuts that are really bogus credentials.  Fake diplomas and worthless transcripts are a growth industry with the explosion of information found on the Internet.   

In most cases, the GED -- the term for General Education Development credential -- is the only official ‘diploma’ that has value and is meaningful for adults who never completed their high school education. There are exceptions. Many people have been duped or misled with the promises of phony certifications.  These diploma mills are nothing more than a printer, some software and a marketing plan.  

The reality is however, that many businesses do not check into the background of a person to that extent.  This is especially true of jobs in the lower 50% of the general pay scale.  Recently there have been a rash of high level business president, vice-president types who have been found to have used phony credentials to obtain their positions.  If large corporations paying huge salaries to these types of people don't check them out, how deeply do you think they will check your his troy?

Still, the future is anything but set.  Although it's possible to get away without having solid educational proof, the future may be much different.  In a few years, it may be possible for companies to check historical records online and then the phone degrees will all become evident.  

The very best solution is to obtain a solid education no matter how much effort it may take.


