Title: 
A Great Career Choice for a Business and Internet Savvy Entrepreneur with People Skills

Word Count:
350

Summary:
A Loan Signing Agent or Notary Public is a state commissioned Notary who specializes in the process of witnessing the signatures of the parties involved in a real estate loan transaction.


Keywords:
notary public,national notary association,national notary,notary san francisco,california notary,mobile notary


Article Body:
A Loan Signing Agent or Notary Public is a state commissioned Notary who specializes in the process of witnessing the signatures of the parties involved in a real estate loan transaction. 
 
Their responsibility includes obtaining signatures and notarizing documents for lenders who offer mortgage loans. It is vital that these notaries are competent and complete the signing and notarizing in a professional, reliable and accurate manner.  
 
The National Notary Association certifies some as Signing Agent. Others hold credential from other agencies that test their knowledge of loan document signing procedures and the Notary Public Laws of their state. 
 
A Notary Public who becomes a Mortgage Loan Signing Agent can expect to earn $50 to $125 per transaction for witnessing signatures, notarizing the required documents, returning the documents to the lender, title or escrow. 
 
As a mobile notary public who signs loan documents you set your own hours and enjoy the benefits of having your own business. Some Loan signing Agents work part-time other work full-time in their business. To be successful you will need to learn how to market your service and how to price your services for higher profits. You need to understand how to put your name in from of people looking to find a notary or those that need a notary on a regular basis. 
 
Some topics you will need to give attention to in developing your business plan are: 
 
 Why are you starting the business? 
 What will you name your business? 
 Are you comfortable with marketing and selling? 
 Who will develop your marketing communications? 
 Do you understand financial statements and the role of finance and accounting in a successful business? 
 How comfortable are you with technology? 
 What are your short and long-term goal and what sacrifices are you willing to make for success? 
 
Notary Loan Signers witness the signing of important documents such as real estate transactions, insurance, marriage and divorce papers, and letters. A state exam is required for certification. This service is in high demand for professionals such as Realtors and title companies. 
 
Their work is usually conducted from home, in restaurants or title company offices.


