Title: 
A Nursing Resume Should Reflect Your Qualifications As Well As Your Personal Skills.

Word Count:
263

Summary:
Every employer is looking for a specific set of skills and expertise from job-seekers that match the skills necessary to perform a particular job.


Keywords:
Nursing resume, Nursing, nurse, resumes, resume, skills, job, employer, health,  hospital,


Article Body:
Every employer is looking for a specific set of skills and expertise from job-seekers that match the skills necessary to perform a particular job.

Basically a resume should contain your full name, campus and permanent address, telephone numbers and email addresses. Apart from that a nursing resume should include the following information:

A clear cut career and job objective which shows your sense of direction to the employer. 

Your resume should have the names of each of your employers and your corresponding job titles. 

Give a brief description about the employer like what they are doing, if they are not well known. 

The number of staff that you manage(if applicable) 

Mention your education, training and licenses as well as academic honors, scholarships and extracurricular activities. 

As a specialized professional nurse, demonstrate what type of individual you are and give as much details as possible of your skills and experience. 

Mention your interactions with other departments, external agencies and health care professionals. 

Highlight your duties and responsibilities as a registered nurse, including planning, assessing and evaluating patient care, record keeping, the type of work or ward and routine tasks carried out etc. 

Present a narrative statement of your value like: experienced with a comprehensive background like pediatric, oncology, long-term care and ICU/ER, knowledge of Medicare home health regulations and JCAHO standards/reimbursement requirements, registered nurse with 10 years of track record providing quality, patient centered care in home, hospital, nursing home, hospice and private office settings etc. 

Highlight any other achievements that have benefited to your department and obviously your organization in general.


