Title: 
A Sample Interview Thank You Letter

Word Count:
482

Summary:
Use this sample letter as a guideline to save you time.  This type of letter will help you make or reinforce a good impression.


Keywords:
Resumes, letter, job, interview, writing, 


Article Body:
A sample thank you letter that you use after an interview, as a guideline or template, will save you a lot of time when preparing this type of correspondence.  Since you’ll prepare it before the job interview when you are not nervous and have a clear head, the letter will really increase your chances of making or reinforcing a good impression.

Trying using this for your own uses.


Date
Name
Company
Address
City
State
Zip


Dear Name,

I enjoyed the chance to visit with you in your office today concerning career opportunities with ABC Company.  After discussing the future of the company I am convinced that I can make a positive contribution, and believe our association could be mutually beneficial.

I was especially impressed with the information you provided concerning expansion into other markets and a need for an invigorated marketing effort.  With my background in advertising and insurance sales and experience as a carnival promoter, I believe I have a lot to offer.  

ABC Company has an outstanding reputation in the field and is the type of organization I wish to associate myself with.  I pride myself on being an outstanding salesman and promotional specialist, and look forward to a chance to make a positive contribution during this period of growth.

If I can provide any more information that would be of assistance to you, please don’t hesitate to call me at the phone number listed above, or email me if that is more convenient.  I look forward to hearing from you in the near future.

Again, thank you for your time.

Sincerely,


John J. Doe.

Using this sample letter will save you time and lead to more second interviews and more job offers.  However, if your field is not sales or marketing it may not be perfectly suited to your needs.  It should be easy to analyze the thank you letter and see which sentences and paragraphs can be changed to make it fit your needs and your profession.  With modern word processing software you can customize one version, and then copy the file and make another letter geared towards a different type of job completely.  For instance, if there are three or four types of jobs you would consider then creating a thank you letter for each is probably a good idea.  The same of course is true with your cover letter and resume. Different versions for different types of jobs, emphasizing different aspects of your skills and experience will make you more versatile.  If, however, you are determined to pursue only one type of job, then you obviously need only one sample letter, one type of cover letter and one type of resume.  This is a personal choice and you are the only person who knows exactly what job would be best suited for you and if there is more than one type you’d consider.


