Title: 
A Teaching Resume Will Define All Your Strong Points And Qualifications, Displaying You As The Best Choice For The Job.

Word Count:
245

Summary:
A teachers resume should be a brief document in which you provide as much as evidence as you can to the employer that you will be a good teacher.


Keywords:
Teaching resume, Teaching, resumes, resume, job, employer, work, teacher, pupils, 


Article Body:
A teachers resume should be a brief document in which you provide as much as evidence as you can to the employer that you will be a good teacher.

Basically a resume should contain your full name, campus and permanent address, telephone numbers and email addresses. Apart from that a teaching resume should include the following information:

A clear cut career and job objective which shows your sense of direction to the employer. 

Your teaching resume should have the names of each of your employers and your corresponding job titles. 

Mention the number of staff that you manage (if applicable). 

Highlight the list of subjects and the age of the pupils that you teach. 

Mention some of the teaching and learning methods that you use, field trips, discussions etc. 

Mention your responsibilities in curriculum developments. 

Highlight how you develop pupils with practical, creative, academic and social skills by balanced learning programs. 

Mention any administrative duties in your work place. 

Your methods and procedures for setting and marking home work, course work and exams. 

How you did assessment of pupils work. 

How you are maintaining relationships with other teachers, parents, counselors, social workers etc to improve the activities of pupils. 

Mention how you are working, advising and guiding pupils on personal and academic problems and issues, caring responsibilities. 

Highlight any extra curricular activities that you organized and the result of it. 

Highlight any other achievements that have benefited your department and obviously your organization in general.


