Title: 
A Time To Take Stock, After Loosing Your Job

Word Count:
411

Summary:
In today’s highly volatile and ever-evolving job market, job security is fast becoming a thing of the past. Hundreds of thousands of people are laid off each year, and this figure is on the rise, so you are not alone! But depending on how long you were at your last job, you may find that you are somewhat rusty when it comes to how to look for a job in today’s environment.

The first thing is to realize that being laid off is really not the end of the world. In fact, it migh...


Keywords:
career, jobs, career change, career advice, employment


Article Body:
In today’s highly volatile and ever-evolving job market, job security is fast becoming a thing of the past. Hundreds of thousands of people are laid off each year, and this figure is on the rise, so you are not alone! But depending on how long you were at your last job, you may find that you are somewhat rusty when it comes to how to look for a job in today’s environment.

The first thing is to realize that being laid off is really not the end of the world. In fact, it might even turn out to be a blessing in disguise – a mandatory career change! Utilize it as a chance to reflect on why you were laid off and what the next stage is. Getting laid off can happen to anyone, of course, but if you want to turn the situation into a productive, positive one, you will need to face the facts and understand why this happened to you. Go through a self-analysis of why this happened to you: Could it have been avoided or not? Could you have gotten out on time or not? All this is required to ensure that your next move and job market strategy has a realistic and factual foundational. The last thing you want to do is keep at an industry which is becoming extinct!

As you put together your job market strategy and decide what job options to pursue, and whether to diversify or stay within the same industry, you may discover that you are a bit rusty in your job market awareness. There are key things you need to be aware of if you are going to successfully achieve your job goal. For instance, never put on your job applications that you were laid off, as this will raise unanswered questions as to why you were laid off. You will have time to explain the reasons once you get your foot in the door for a face-to-face interview. A great tip is to write “End of contract” on your applications. This is playing it safe.

Whatever you do in seeking work, make sure you take charge of your life and show your best side to prospective employers. With the right plan and a great resume, your success is certain. However, to achieve it you must have the appropriate job market skills. So start by analyzing your job market activity competency level with our FREE Job Market Performance Assessment.


