Title: 
Accelerated Nursing Program

Word Count:
419

Summary:
There is such a demand for people to enter the field of nursing that many new programs are being developed to certify nurses in record time. There are a number of options available and an accelerated nursing program is usually the most popular option among those who want to enter the field of medicine.


Keywords:
Accelerated Nursing Program


Article Body:
There is such a demand for people to enter the field of nursing that many new programs are being developed to certify nurses in record time. There are a number of options available and an accelerated nursing program is usually the most popular option among those who want to enter the field of medicine.

Some people may not be comfortable knowing that nurses can be trained in very little time. However, a good accelerated nursing program will be through and effective in helping the future nurse master the skills required for the job. 

One thing to consider is the traits of a good nurse. The skills required to be an effective nurse are not completely taught in the classroom. Some people have the natural talent to be in this field while others will never master the job no matter how many hours they spend in the classroom. 

An accelerated nursing program recognizes that the technical skills need to be targeted while the more subtle skills that the job requires are often inherit in the individual. Many patients have encountered the perfect nurse but few of us think about why that person was so good at his job. 

There are some qualities that a good nurse has that can not be taught. Consider your best encounter with a nurse. She probably had the ability to put you at ease in just a few words. Or she could simply make you feel relaxed through her demeanor and approach. 

Describing such qualities in your caregiver is often difficult. There is something about the person that helps you through the difficult situation but you are not sure what it is. Of course, an accelerated nursing program does not go into depth on developing such qualities. Neither does an extended, traditional program. 

Now consider your worst encounter with a nurse. She was probably abrasive and indifferent. Maybe she was sarcastic. She may have made you feel as if you were a burden. She could have technically done everything “right” but you just feel awful after seeing her. 

Bedside manner is briefly covered in an accelerated nursing program but it is equally addressed in the traditional school. The nurse who made you feel uneasy was probably unaware of her effect on you. She was just doing her job. 

The fundamental difference between the good nurse and the bad one is their attitude toward the profession. The first nurse is caring for a person and she recognizes this. The second nurse is just doing her job.


