Title: 
Advance Your Career by Selling Yourself

Word Count:
369

Summary:
One of the most important places you can ever sell yourself is during the interview process for a new job.  Here is how you do it.


Keywords:
career, job interview skills and tips


Article Body:
Often when it comes to our career we are some of the worst salesman of our abilities and skills.  We sell ourselves short in our abilities come review time, or accept less than we are worth out of fear that they will find someone else.  Instead of building ourselves up and selling ourselves for maximum value we accept what is given to us and end up doing twice the work for half the pay.

One of the most important places you can ever sell yourself is during the interview process for a new job.  It is during this process that you should make an effort to build up yourself and sell your skills to the potential employer by making them feel that if they hire anyone else but you they are going to be losing out on an amazing talent.  Here are a few tips you can use during your next interview to make the interviewer think WOW!

Dress for success.  Clothes make the man (or woman) and you should dress as if you were interviewing for the CEO position.

Research the company and know the background of it.  During the interview show that you have done your homework by asking questions or making comments about a recent press release or company announcement.

Ask questions.  Most interviewees just answer the questions they are presented and never speak up.  Show the interviewer you are truly interested in the company and the job by asking questions relating to the company, your potential job and company culture.

Bring samples of your work.  Whether you are an artist or a computer programmer bring a sample portfolio of your past work and share it with the interviewer.  Remember, a picture (or document) can speak a million words.

Be ahead of schedule.  Remember the golden rule; it is better to be 3 hours early than 3 minutes late.  No one is going to hire someone who can't make it to the interview on time.

Follow-up.  Don't sit around waiting for a letter or a call.  Send a follow-up letter immediately expressing your interest in the job and if you haven't heard back within a week pick up the phone and call.  What do you have to lose?


