Title: 
Advertising Career Overview

Word Count:
329

Summary:
Students with degrees in advertising will find a competitive job market. Competition for jobs in advertising is tough because this industry customarily attracts more jobseekers than there are job openings.


Keywords:



Article Body:
The draw towards this industry is the multimillion-dollar campaigns, and the glamour surrounding the promotion of products and the clients it represents. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics ( http://www.bls.gov/ ), non-supervisory workers in advertising and public relations services made $633 a week on average in 2004. Companies in the advertising and public relations industry arrange advertisements for other companies and organizations and propose campaigns to encourage the interests and image of their clients. This industry also includes media representatives, radio, television, and the Internet. It also includes display ads, direct mail, billboards and other tangible media. The demand for educated advertising professionals is on the rise as technological advances give advertisers more options for the media on which they advertise. 

You can earn an a advertising degree at public and private colleges and universities, as well dedicated technical schools that offer career specific programs. Specialty schools often offer two-year degree or certificate programs in advertising. Traditional four-year college and university programs offer advertising programs within other majors such as communications, business or art programs. Most people starting out in an advertising career will be required to hold a bachelor's degree with a liberal arts background. Bachelor's degrees are not required for entry-level positions in the creative department. Assistant art directors, for example usually need at least a 2-year degree from an art or design school. Although assistant copywriters do not need a degree, obtaining one helps to develop the superior communication skills and abilities required for this job. Entry-level positions in the industry include account management, media coordinator, or market research. Internships, in conjunction with your education, will help you get a job when you graduate. Completion of an internship is often a necessary requirement for many advertising firms. In addition to an internship, course work in marketing, design, statistics and accounting can help get you ready for employment in this field.

Melissa Steele, <a target="_new" href="http://www.EducationGuys.com/">College Degrees @ EducationGuys.com</a> Writer.


