Title: 
An Effective Resume

Word Count:
317

Summary:
Your resume is your sales person. Long before you personally get to meet a potential employee or have an interview your resume will be fighting your corner on your behalf. It is essential, then, that you create an effective resume. Your resume will be one of hundreds, if not thousands, that employers will see so you should ensure that it really stands out and promotes your services. The exact approach your resume will take will depend on you and your circumstances.

School ...


Keywords:
career,job,job interview,employment,resume


Article Body:
Your resume is your sales person. Long before you personally get to meet a potential employee or have an interview your resume will be fighting your corner on your behalf. It is essential, then, that you create an effective resume. Your resume will be one of hundreds, if not thousands, that employers will see so you should ensure that it really stands out and promotes your services. The exact approach your resume will take will depend on you and your circumstances.

School leavers and graduates will not have very much in the way of work experience to place on a resume. If you fall into this category then you should pay particular attention to your academic achievements. Point out any other facts pertaining to your school life and the rest of your life that can be drawn on when you get a job. If you successfully completed work experience then include this and give details of the tasks you performed.

On the other hand if your experience has been gained in the work place and you have little in the way of formal qualifications then you should use your employment history to your advantage. Talk about the roles in a little more detail and describe the tasks you undertook. The more advanced or the more trusted a particular role was, the more you should draw upon that in your description.

A highly effective resume will also include an accomplishment section with each qualification or job section that is relevant. You can include graduation, or you could include particular work related accomplishments. Remember, there is a chance that somebody else has equal skills or qualifications to yourself but by using your accomplishments as your main benefit you will still stand out and make a positive impression. As well as your covering letter your resume is the most important thing you have in your bid to win a job.


