Title: 
An Executive Resume Should Be Short, Precise And Have An Air Of Confidence.

Word Count:
266

Summary:
When it comes to building an executive resume, you want to showcase how smart you are, how organized you are and how you are perfect for the position.


Keywords:
Executive resume, Executive, professional, resumes,resume, employer, job, employers, department, qualifications,


Article Body:
When it comes to building an executive resume, you want to showcase how smart you are, how organized you are and how you are perfect for the position.

Apart from basic requirements of any resume, an executive resume is required to be short and precise, following are some tips to make it better.

Start with a brief headline encapsulating your career goal and one or two of your top qualifications, which shows your sense of direction to the employer. 

Your executive resume should have the names of each of your employers and your corresponding job titles, as short as possible. 

Mention the number of staff that you used to manage. 

List your educational qualifications with name of the institution, city, state, degree, major, year awarded and GPA. 

Your executive resume should mention any technical or computer qualifications and personality development, marketing diploma etc done as a course with its content in brief, the duration, institute and also its result. 

Emphasize your accomplishments and contributions in your executive resume as a manager or any other leadership job profile. For example: improved efficiency and productivity by 10%, carried out a study to point the targeted market for particular consumer products. 

To showcase your core competencies include an area of expertise. For example; warehousing, systems management, inventory control, budget planning, retail distribution, P&L management, team leadership and mentoring. 

To make your executive resume stand out mention your contribution in reduction of cost, improving efficiency and productivity within your department or the company in general. 

Highlight any other achievements that have benefited your department and obviously your organization in general.


