Title: 
Applying To Colleges And Universities

Word Count:
435

Summary:
When applying to colleges and/or universities, it is best to do so as early as possible.  The earlier you apply, the better chances you will have of being accepted into your program of interest.  As expected, many college courses fill up quickly, which is why early applications often stand a better chance of acceptance.


Keywords:
education,college,colleges,university,universities,online,distance,knowledge


Article Body:
When applying to colleges and/or universities, it is best to do so as early as possible.  The earlier you apply, the better chances you will have of being accepted into your program of interest.  As expected, many college courses fill up quickly, which is why early applications often stand a better chance of acceptance.

Before applying to certain colleges and/or universities, it is a good idea to review their freshman enrollment requirements.  These requirements generally pertain to anyone who has graduated from high school within the past five years.  Beyond that, required high school courses are not as highly considered due to the fact that so much time has passed.  Therefore, even if you did not take the necessary high school courses, you may be able to attend the college of your choice if you are willing to wait for five or more years before enrolling.  

Almost every college and/or university charges an application fee when applying.  This fee is generally very reasonable and is often less than $50.00.  This is a non-refundable fee, which is not refunded for any reason including a denial of acceptance.  Applications to colleges and/or universities will often be under advisement for several weeks.  At that time, the school will either send a letter of congratulations or one of denial.

Many modern colleges and universities have websites and even allow applications to be submitted online.  This is believed to speed up the application process and may result in a quicker decision than if submitted by mail.  In the case of online applications, the application fee will generally be charged to a major credit card.  If you do not have a credit card, you may have to mail your application along with a check or money order.  It is important to remember that, under no circumstances, should you ever send cash through the mail.

Once you receive the college or university’s acceptance, if applicable, it will be time to begin plans for enrollment.  Many do not know this, but there is a big difference between acceptance and enrollment.  Being accepted does not automatically mean the student is enrolled as this is just another step in the quest for a college education.  During enrollment, a class schedule will be granted and, if requested, a campus room will be assigned.  There are a number of living arrangements for college students, which may include on-campus housing, living with roommates, living alone or living at home with family.  Living on campus is not a requirement of colleges or universities, but it does make for an easier commute to and from class.


