Title: 
Applying for Work Abroad

Word Count:
554

Summary:
For anyone who has ever dreamed about finding an overseas assignment, living life as an expatriate and experiencing new horizons this article shows you how to apply yourself to the task of finding and securing that dream job abroad.


Keywords:
working abroad,recruitment,jobs abroad,overseas employment,writing a resume,abroad,overseas,live abroad,expatriate,work abroad,Dubai,UAE,career


Article Body:
For many people the thought of finding an ideal overseas assignment and then relocating abroad for a few years is a dream.

For a few people that dream actually becomes a reality.

So what’s the difference between those who dream about making it happen and those who actually find work abroad and experience a whole new exciting lifestyle away from home?

Application – that’s what!

Application in the form of applying oneself to the task of finding suitable work abroad, and application in the form of the CV, resume and covering letter sent to suitable employers and recruitment agencies…

Applying yourself: -

If you want something in life, experience should tell you that you have to go out there and get it for yourself.  Opportunity seldom knocks on the door quick enough for any of us; therefore if you dream of working abroad you need to start looking for suitable vacancies in your overseas location of choice.

If you speak a foreign language you might be drawn to countries where they speak that language because you will have an obvious advantage over other overseas candidates.  If on the other hand speaking English is your only linguistic skill you should either look at opportunities in English speaking countries or target countries like Dubai in the United Arab Emirates where the business language is English and where there are a plethora of job vacancies.

Whichever country you settle on you can use the internet to search for employment offers, recruitment agencies and potentially suitable employers based in that country, and you can then begin contacting them one by one.

Making an application: -

To get anywhere in life it is sometimes necessary to put yourself forward – and if you’re looking for work overseas you’re going to have to put yourself forward to be noticed in the form of an online application or CV/resume and covering letter.  

Because your CV will be your initial contact with any recruiter it has to represent you in the best possible light possible.

This means that your resume and covering letter have to be well written; if you’re applying in a language other than your mother tongue you should consider paying for a professional translation to be done because recruiters hate receiving poorly put together job applications.  In their view someone who cannot be bothered to make the maximum effort with their personal CV probably cannot be bothered to do a good job full stop and are therefore hardly worth considering for employment.  Therefore it is up to you to put together the most well written, compelling and interesting application for employment possible.

Don’t fill out your CV or covering letter with lots of flowery embellishment, be succinct and to the point.  You should illustrate why you think should be considered for employment with examples of relevant experience you have and you should ensure you supply details of qualifications you have, referees who can supply personal and employment references and you should include all your personal contact information.

Finally, having targeted employers and recruitment agencies and having made the best application for employment possible, you should follow up your application and remain proactive and relentless in your search for that ideal overseas assignment.  After all, only those who live their dreams have a chance of true fulfilment.


