Title: 
Architect Resumes Showcase Your Creativity And  Commitment To Excellence.

Word Count:
366

Summary:
The best resume for an architect will be to showcase his/her previous projects. It could be a software that you architected or a bridge or beautiful house that you designed.  Obviously, not everyone will have groundbreaking projects in their resume in the beginning of their career.


Keywords:
Architect resume, Architect, resumes, resume, employers, project, 


Article Body:
The best resume for an architect will be to showcase his/her previous projects. It could be a software that you architected or a bridge or beautiful house that you designed.  Obviously, not everyone will have groundbreaking projects in their resume in the beginning of their career.

The employer will be willing to hear about your creativity, your hardworking nature, your commitment to excellence in your resume as an architect. Following is general information for architects, some will be suitable for the experienced and some not:

A clear cut career and job objective which shows your sense of direction to the employer.
Your resume should have the names of each of your employers and your corresponding job titles.
A brief description about each of your employers, what they are doing if they are not well known.
Your roles and responsibilities in work like planning, analysis, design, implementation and testing.
If you did any budgetary responsibility projects, specify some of the important projects that you have worked on and whether you completed a project on budget and on time.
The number of staff that you manage if applicable for a particular project to show your leadership qualities.
Include some of the problems that you faced in a particular project or a process in your department or company and what action you took to solve that problem and what was the result of it.
To make your resume unique and stand out from others by specifying how you have improved the efficiency and productivity within your department or the company.
New procedures, practices, processes and techniques that you have introduced or developed in your department to enhance the efficiency and productivity.
Include how your techniques and methods saved money or reduced costs for your department or the company.
Include a short note on how you have increased or helped your department, if relevant and for the company in terms of revenue and profits.
Specify if you have any other achievements that have benefited your employers.
Specify how you stay in touch with the latest happenings in the Architect field, may be you are a member of some organizations, or the white papers you presented, meetings you attended etc..


