Title: 
Are Exchange Programs Useful?

Word Count:
444

Summary:
After World Wars exchange programs appeared. There were a lot of doubts and contradictory opinions about them expressed on various congresses and seminars, but the truth is, they are useful and should exist till the present and in the future.


Keywords:
curriculum vitae


Article Body:
Exchange programs started functioning in the middle of the nineteenth century and successfully continue their existence nowadays. They were established in order to restore peaceful existence after the World Wars and other major conflicts that shook the world recently. All the countries that get their economy onto the international level realize the importance of development of the partnership and establishment of common economical grounds. First exchange took place between the workers and professionals in order to share experience, skills and strategies, but now the authorities took the program to another level. Now students all over the world travel to other countries for definite periods of time and study in foreign universities receiving scholarships. This project has been successful for many years, but the major host, the US, suddenly cut the budget of the programs and stopped the development of others. This may be because of the increase of the military budget, or just because of the program being useful no longer? Let is investigate.

What are the major profits of the country-host, in this case the United States? The country itself is relatively young in comparison with European countries and therefore the history has its beginning when European countries were powerful and prospering. This can in no way be a major difference, but the cultures like Eastern European, Asian and African are unique and ancient and what is more important, completely different from those the US was formed of. The main contribution is a chance for the American families to host a child that can teach them and their children some mysteries about the world surrounding them. Little things matter and after being in contact with a person who was brought up in different world, you realize how much this young individual has brought into your world. Another profit is in establishment of good relations between the countries. Strong bonds created during the stay last long enough for the young men to keep in mind future possibilities of cooperation. 

A student that studied in a foreign country is looking forward to a bright future. A resume of such a student is full of facts and skills that are necessary for any type of job. Being an exchange student doesn’t only give you a possibility to study a foreign language, but also a chance to become independent, mature, responsible and attentive. The most important thing for a student is not to forget about his own culture, traveling around the globe. The person that doesn’t know his own culture can not be called a citizen. Respect for the ancestors, the history, the folkways and the morays of your nation, is what makes you educated.


