Title: 
Bartending: Building A Foundation For A Profitable and Rewarding Career

Word Count:
572

Summary:
Becoming a successful bartender takes more than just learning to spin drink recipes. The professional bartender is well versed on the legal and business ramifications of alcohol management and service. Today's bartenders are a breed apart, savvy and knowledgeable performers in a fast paced exciting environment.


Keywords:
bartending school, bartending 


Article Body:
Dating back thousands of years, bartending began as a trade by those that produced liquor and in turn sold it to the public. This was not only a profitable venture for these early bartenders, but provided a product in huge demand by the public. Historically humans have always had a fondness for spirits which is an enormous benefit to those pursuing a bartending career. Prohibition makes a very clear case that people want their drinks and demand is not quashed by the absence of product. 

Very few careers can offer you virtually guaranteed placement in literally any place you wish to live and work in the world. Most bartenders, in fact, earn more than entry level college graduates, with some eventually earning 6 figure incomes. 

Becoming a successful bartender takes more than just learning to spin drink recipes. The professional bartender is well versed on the legal and business ramifications of alcohol management and service. Today's bartenders are a breed apart, savvy and knowledgeable performers in a fast paced exciting environment. Simply put, there is no aspect more vital to a professional bartending career than the foundation built by a quality bartending school. Bartending schools provide more than just preparation, they directly effect how much you earn from your very first day on the job. Some certifications, such as TIPS ® (Training for Intervention Procedures or TAM ® (Techniques in Alcohol Management) are required by law in many states. 

Given the earning potential bartending offers as a career, the cost of attending a quality bartending school becomes a wise investment rather than an expense. Most bartending schools are very affordable, require very little time (as little as 2 weeks), and can be found in nearly every state in the country. Bartending-World.com offers a state by state listing of reputable bartending schools that make selecting a school a breeze. When selecting a bartending school, make sure to ask these questions, and be leery of those that cannot offer answers. 

What is the schools' industry reputation and how long have they been teaching? Look for a school well recognized in the bartending education industry. Many schools have a long history making research easy. 

What are the size of the classes and how well equipped are they? Look for low teacher to student ratios and facilities that mimic actual working environments as closely as possible. 

Is the bartending school licensed by the state? What credentials are required for the instructors? Verifying that a school is actually licensed by the state they teach in is important. Find out what they look for when they hire instructors. Instructors, if well chosen, are industry vets that can provide invaluable insight into the bartending industry. 

Can you be given references of graduates who are working in the industry? What is the bartending school's job placement policy? Any reputable school will have working graduates who will endorse the school. If not, you need to be careful. A successful job placement plan is always indicative of a good training facility. If local bars have had success with hiring quality graduates then you can rest assured that school is worth a second look. 

Bartending offers a rewarding and profitable career for those that are serious about their pursuit. While there is a lot of hard work involved, the excitement and fun of the atmosphere is hard to beat. Investing in a quality education will put you on the fast track to maximized earnings in bartending.


