Title: 
Be A Performer In You Job

Word Count:
483

Summary:
Over the years I have been able to maintain as a performer in my jobs. I have work for more than 5 years and I had work in a few companies before. I am able to maintain between the results of above average and outstanding every time when comes to annual performance review. If you have the correct mindset, no matter where you work, you will always get recognized and you will always be the performer.


Keywords:
career, job, performer


Article Body:
Over the years I have been able to maintain as a performer in my jobs. I have work for more than 5 years and I had work in a few companies before. I am able to maintain between the results of above average and outstanding every time when comes to annual performance review. Below are some of the attitude and mindset that I adopted in my job:

1. Do more than expected. When you are expected to solve 1 task, don’t only solve that 1 task. Solve more than 1 task. A lot of people are not willing to do more. They thought that if they do more, they will lose out. This is not a correct mindset. Only by doing more, you will learn more. By doing more, you create additional value for yourself. And a boss likes subordinate who willing to do more.

2. When you finish your task, don’t just sit there and wait for your boss to assign you the second task. Go and ask for more, be proactive. Your boss will be impress.

3. Act and think that the company is own by you. If you are the owner of your company, I am sure that you will be 100% commited when you do your work. You will do your best for your own company.

4. Learn to like your job. Like what you are doing. If you really not able to like your job, then change to a job that you like.

5. Willing to share your knowledge with others. Many people are not willing to share what they know to others because they want to keep the knowledge to themselves. They don’t want other people to know that so that they can become more valuable to the company. Indeed this is not true. If you continue to keep the same knowledge to yourself, then you will not be going far. One of the important criteria to be promoted to a bigger role is that you need to know how to coach your subordinate. If you don’t share what you know, then you won’t be given that bigger responsibility. If you are willing to share your knowledge and you are good enough, people will know and they will respect you as an expert.

6. Don’t try to challenge your boss. I’m not asking you to be a yes man. You need to show your boss that you can think. But you must be professional even you don’t agree with your boss. You still need to follow their order even if you don’t agree with them.

7. Team work is important. You must know how to work wells with other as a team.

8. Strive to be the expert in your industry. Read and learn more about the industry.

If you have the correct mindset, no matter where you work, you will always get recognized and you will always be the performer.


