Title: 
Become A Summer Lifeguard

Word Count:
401

Summary:
It is getting to be that time of year when students and young people of all ages are looking for a job to do in the summer. If you are one of those young people, and if you are anything like my own children, then you want a job that will pay you a lot and that you will really enjoy. Perhaps you should consider being a lifeguard this summer.

Being a lifeguard during the summer has many advantages. But first, you have to become certified if you want to be able to legally lif...


Keywords:
lifeguard


Article Body:
It is getting to be that time of year when students and young people of all ages are looking for a job to do in the summer. If you are one of those young people, and if you are anything like my own children, then you want a job that will pay you a lot and that you will really enjoy. Perhaps you should consider being a lifeguard this summer.

Being a lifeguard during the summer has many advantages. But first, you have to become certified if you want to be able to legally lifeguard. Look for information in your newspaper, at your school, or online about when and where the certification classes will be offered for lifeguard training. Whether or not you realize it now, being a lifeguard is a huge responsibility, so take it seriously and get the best training you can find.

Once you are properly certified to become a lifeguard, then you can begin looking for the right job for you. One of the most obvious benefits of being a lifeguard is that you get to spend your summers mostly outside. For people who love the heat and the water, there can be no better way to pass your days. Many lifeguards you see are the most tan people around by the end of the summer.

But don't become a lifeguard just to get a tan. Think instead about how many people's lives you are working to protect. Everyone needs to know that there job is valuable, and a lifeguard should be assured that their job truly matters and that they have an important role to play. Just think about the responsibility you have to keep an eye on the beach before you and to be the first to keep people safe and to rescue them if there is a problem in the water.

Learning how to lifeguard is a great skill to have. You will never regret learning how to swim properly and learning techniques for saving people struggling in the water. So find out the details about becoming a lifeguard in your area this summer and then pursue it. See what fun you can have spending your days on the beach, meeting new people and getting the chance to protect and keep them safe. There is no better feeling, and no better job, then one you love and that matters all at the same time.


