Title: 
Become a Healthcare Professional

Word Count:
361

Summary:
The need for qualified health care workers in this country will soon hit an all time high.


Keywords:
ealth care career, healthcare degree, career in healthcare, college degree online, online healthcare degree


Article Body:
The healthcare industry will see a great amount of growth in the next ten to fifteen years when the baby boomer generation reaches retirement age and transitions in to nursing care facilities. As our population ages, we will need to have a strong system of qualified healthcare personnel to help manage all aspects of health care management. The healthcare industry will see a great amount of growth in the next ten to fifteen years when the baby boomer generation reaches retirement age and transitions in to nursing care facilities. The baby boomer generation is considered to be one of Americas largest generations ever. This is an explosive time for the health care industry. Anyone involved in health care is going to have steady work for years to come. 

Health care is a large industry that encompasses many different areas of expertise. There are doctors, pharmacists, and nurses to take care of patient needs. There is also a large business and administrative side to the health care industry. This portion of the business provides the infrastructure that allows patients to receive medicine and treatments they require, as they need it. People who are looking to pursue a health care career have almost endless job options. You can be involved in direct patient care, medical billing and coding, working for insurance companies, or even practicing holistic medicine. No matter what avenue you pursue in your healthcare career, having your degree and training will ensure your marketability in the workplace. 

*According to the bureau of labor statistics, health care provided 12.9 million jobs-12.5 million jobs for wage and salary workers and about 382,000 jobs for the self-employed. Of the 12.5 million wage and salary jobs, more than 40 percent were in hospitals; another 22 percent were in either nursing or residential care facilities; and almost 16 percent were in offices of physicians. About 92 percent of wage and salary jobs were in private industry; the rest were in State and local government hospitals. The majority of jobs for self-employed workers were in offices of physicians, dentists, and other health practitioners-about 265,000 out of the 382,000 total self-employed. 

Melissa Steele, <a target="_new" href="http://www.EducationGuys.com/">College Degrees @ EducationGuys.com</a> Writer.


