Title: 
Becoming A Freelancer

Word Count:
378

Summary:
One very popular and common way of earning income is becoming a freelancer. Literally thousands of people every day choose to become their own boss by working as a freelancer.


Keywords:
loans, uk finance


Article Body:
One very popular and common way of earning income is becoming a freelancer. Literally thousands of people every day choose to become their own boss by working as a freelancer. If you have a skill or talent, your services are highly needed in the internet industry and it is absolutely possible for you to make excellent money by doing what you know and love. Many website owners choose to use a freelancer for a variety of reasons, some reasons could include:

•	Not enough time to do the work themselves
•	They do not have the knowledge to perform the tasks
•	Freelancers are often cheaper than hiring a company (Because of less overhead)
•	Freelancers generally work faster
•	They are too busy with other projects

These are just a few of the reasons that most business and website owners opt for a freelancer instead of a large company. Typically a freelancer is cheaper than that of a larger company for a variety of reasons. One of the biggest reasons is that a freelancer has no overhead costs, generally they work out of their own home and do not have any employees they have to pay. Additionally, by working out of their own home they do not have the type of running expenses that a larger business will have, this means that they can offer clients a more competitive and cheaper price for their services.

Another excellent aspect of being a freelancer is the ability to offer high quality and personalized service to your clients. This alone can be more appealing to a client than the prices you charge. Many large businesses have so many things going on at once, that they cannot always give the personal attention that a client often wants. Additionally, they do not generally work as fast as the client would like them to. A freelancer typically only works one project at a time allowing them to quickly finish their projects in a high quality and timely fashion. 

There are freelancers in a large variety of areas and if you possess specific qualities and experience the client wants you will have no troubles in finding work. There are many websites available all over the internet that are dedicated to helping freelancers find work such as scriptlance and rentacoder.


