Title: 
Becoming a Virtual Assistant:  Frequently Asked Questions

Word Count:
367

Summary:
This article discusses a number of frequently questions on becoming a virtual assistant and provides elaborate answers to get all the doubts cleared.


Keywords:
virtual assistant, virtual assistance, real estate virtual assistant, freelance, freelance jobs, freelance work, work from home, work at home


Article Body:
<b>  What is the growth prospect of Virtual Assistant profession worldwide? </b>

  The virtual assistant industry is growing by leaps and bounds.  Initially there were only few Virtual assistants, but, now there are at least one million people situated globally.  Virtual assistants both collectively and individually are spreading this concept and many are joining them daily.  Many administrative assistants, office managers and experienced professionals have recognized Virtual assisting as an achievable and viable option for them.

 <b> Why people choose to become Virtual Assistants? </b>

 The reasons are many.  Many people think that it is a lucrative option to earn extra income, while others consider it as an option to have a control over their destiny and some take up because they can spend more time with their family, while some take due to illness and health problems.  The internet revolution has enabled people to work from home.  Many people become virtual assistants due to their aspiration to earn more, due to their experience and knowledge and also due to the potential of the Virtual Assistant industry.

<b>  Does any one need a business license to become a virtual assistant? </b>

  It depends on where he lives.  In States like Georgia, every independent contractor or Virtual assistant needs to possess a business license while other States does not require.  It is better to check with the local county and state to be sure of all the legal protocols before setting up a Virtual assistant business.

<b>  Is training necessary to become a Virtual assistant? </b>

  It all depends on the person.  Some would have got all the experience from the previous jobs, while some require to undergo training to gain confidence and knowledge to handle certain issues and tasks.  As the virtual assistant industry is growing day by day, the competition and the business require to undergo a training to stay successful.

</b>  How can the Virtual Assistant business marketed effectively? </b>

  Virtual assistant business can either be marketed via Internet or offline.  When opting the offline method, brochures, flyers, business cards, press releases, postcards, advertisements in yellow page and writing articles are very effective.  Through internet, websites and online ads can be used to advertise effectively.


