Title: 
Becoming a Graphic Designer

Word Count:
486

Summary:
The person responsible for making a logo or packaging design look superb and marketable is called a graphic designer. They are the ones responsible for attracting potential customers and increasing a company’s sale.


Keywords:
graphic, designs, designer, digital


Article Body:
You were doing your grocery one day in one of the largest shopping mall in town. You noticed that when buying soaps, toothpaste and canned goods among others, you were picking up those products that has packaging and logo design that appeals to your eye. And the lady next to you was doing the same. Then you wondered what made these products appealing and saleable to consumers. And your thoughts wondered onto who were responsible for doing these attention-grabbing and money-making packaging designs. 

Basically, the person responsible for making a logo or packaging design look superb and marketable is called a graphic designer. They are the ones responsible for attracting potential customers and increasing a company’s sale. In order to be a successful graphic designer, one must have excellent interpersonal skills and the knack to sell their ideas to executives. 

If you wish to be a graphic designer you must be prepared to receive a college degree in advertising or fine arts focusing in graphic art and computer graphics. Although there are some who make it to the industry just by talent alone, most still need a degree or some sort of certificate to land a job as a graphic designer. Employers won’t even look at you if you lack the piece of paper that shows that you have been trained in graphic design related program. In addition, much of your competition would be graduates from college so it is better if you come prepared before plunging into the exciting world of graphic designs. 

There many schools across America that offers graphic design related courses. There are courses in visual communication, graphic design, animation, advertising, and multimedia and web development among others. There are short term and long term programs offered in different schools. Short term programs are usually for one or two years while long term programs such as Bachelor of Fine Arts degree are often for three to four years. Nevertheless, both these programs offer a work placement in a business or studio during or after your studies. This can be a stepping stone for you in gaining the experience that you need to get hired. 

To improve your experience in graphic designs, you can also do freelance work whenever you can. This will help you have a solid portfolio to present to your prospective employer when you get out of school and hunt for a real job. Likewise, you have to pay attention to the packaging designs and advertising trends in all forms of media to keep you updated with what is the latest in the industry. 

Remember that being a graphic designer necessitates you to learn new software and be up to date on design trends constantly. There is more to being a graphic designer than sitting in front of the computer. Thus, you need to learn how to speak efficiently and learn how advertising and PR influence design decisions.


