Title: 
Bodyguard Jobs

Word Count:
478

Summary:
The Bodyguard industry is quite a large industry, making the Bodyguard industry an attractive industry in which to find a job. Being such a large industry, the Bodyguard industry is less competitive than other job industries and offers a range of jobs. 

Although the Bodyguard industry is less competitive than other job industries, you are still required to meet certain job criteria, prior to working as a Bodyguard. Usually, you are required to attend a Bodyguard training c...


Keywords:



Article Body:
The Bodyguard industry is quite a large industry, making the Bodyguard industry an attractive industry in which to find a job. Being such a large industry, the Bodyguard industry is less competitive than other job industries and offers a range of jobs. 

Although the Bodyguard industry is less competitive than other job industries, you are still required to meet certain job criteria, prior to working as a Bodyguard. Usually, you are required to attend a Bodyguard training course, prior to working as a Bodyguard. 

Most Bodyguard Training courses are designed to provide you with basic first aid training, self-defence techniques and sometimes weapons training. Although not all Bodyguard jobs require that you carry a weapon, there are some Bodyguard jobs that do.

A person with Military training, or Martial arts training, is usually highly regarded in the Bodyguard industry, as their skills are often needed in certain Bodyguard positions. Although you are not likely to ever have to physically grapple with a person, there is the possibility that it can occur, so knowledge of self-defence techniques are important.

There are many situations in everyday society that require a Bodyguard. For example, many film and music stars often hire Bodyguards to protect them from the possibility of kidnapping, or from the possibility of being attacked by a crazy fan.

There are also less glamorous Bodyguard positions, such as protecting a bank, shopping mall, or private properties at night. Often these Bodyguard positions require you to be on your own, hence the need for self-defence skills.

As a Bodyguard, you also have the responsibility of protecting other people, which is why you will often be required to have a first aid certificate. In the event of a shooting incident, or other form of injury, you will need to know how to help an injured person, while ambulance officers arrive.

As you can see, being a Bodyguard is much more than just standing around in a uniform, it requires a level of skill, confidence and professionalism. However, being a Bodyguard also requires you to be fit.

Fitness plays an important role in being a Bodyguard, as you may be required to run after someone, or may need to apprehend someone who is dangerous. Being fit will ensure that you will be stronger than you opponent and thus will be capable of apprehending them.

Although Bodyguards do not have the same legal powers of the police force, they play an important role as a supportive partner in conjunction with the police force. Often, a Bodyguard is the first at a crime scene and is often the person who contacts the police. 

Bodyguards play an important role in society, making sure that everyone can live in a safe and comfortable fashion. The often silent, role of a Bodyguard is essential in preventing, kidnappings, bank robberies, public brawls and many other types of incidents.


