Title: 
Bored By The Same Old Job? Be A Truck Driver!

Word Count:
428

Summary:
If you have the desire to travel around the country and get paid at the same time, consider being a truck driver. Truckers enjoy some benefits that people in other jobs do not have. The camaraderie among other truckers … meeting new people … being able to witness the changing seasons as you travel around the country … unpredictability (in other words, less boredom!) … plenty of available trucking jobs … All are valid reasons why people chuck their current occupations for the ...


Keywords:
trucking,trucks,truckers,automotive,automobiles,vehicles,career,jobs


Article Body:
If you have the desire to travel around the country and get paid at the same time, consider being a truck driver. Truckers enjoy some benefits that people in other jobs do not have. The camaraderie among other truckers … meeting new people … being able to witness the changing seasons as you travel around the country … unpredictability (in other words, less boredom!) … plenty of available trucking jobs … All are valid reasons why people chuck their current occupations for the chance at the open road.

Of course, as with all major life decisions, changing professions to drive a truck takes some thought and research. First of all, think about how your personal life will change. There will instances when you might miss your son’s baseball games or be late getting home for the holidays because of road conditions due to the weather. Extended periods away from home sometimes take a toll on a person, so you have to decide whether driving trucks is right for you.

If your heart is still set on being a trucker, then your next step is to find a reputable trucking company or school that offers truck driving programs and instruction. There are usually specialized schools specifically for truck driving, but sometimes, local community colleges have vocational programs available too. The best thing to do is check with your local Department of Transportation (DOT) office first to find out the requirements for truck drivers and what type of instruction is the best training for earning your Commercial Driver’s License (CDL). Chances are that they have a recommended list of the best schools in the area.

The optimal scenario for training and certification is one on one, just you and the teacher. Sometimes, if you are in a big rig with several other students and the teacher, that does not give you as much hands-on instruction as you need. Another thing to think about when choosing a trucking company or school is whether they offer job placement assistance. New truck drivers need all the help they can get in identifying job opportunities. There are plenty of trucking jobs out there, but as a new driver, you may not know all the ins and outs of the different trucking companies.

From changes in the weather to that wacky person driving a convertible naked, truckers have run across many situations like these. Their life on the road may not always be easy, but it sure can be an interesting one. A trucker’s life may not be for everyone, but those that do it, love it.


