Title: 
Cajun Country Candies wants you to become a part of our "sweet success."

Word Count:
238

Summary:
I want to share with you an exciting Home Based Business Opportunity that is currently earning an steady monthly  income for thousands of affiliates. Our business opportunity is one of the best affiliate programs on the Net -- and now you have the UNIQUE OPPORTUNITY to JOIN FOR FREE... Since 1986, we've helped tens of thousands of men and women build successful home businesses. Our program is simple, utilizing a turn-key marketing system that will help you build your business.


Keywords:
business opportunity, affiliate program, careers


Article Body:
Hi,

I want to share with you an exciting Home Based Business Opportunity that is currently earning an steady monthly  income for thousands of affiliates. 

Our business opportunity is one of the best affiliate programs on the Net -- and now you have the UNIQUE OPPORTUNITY to JOIN FOR FREE... 

Since 1986, we've helped tens of thousands of men and women build successful home businesses. 

Our program is simple, utilizing a turn-key marketing system that will help you build your business.

Reasons to Join the our  Affiliate Program:

-    FREE to Join
-    FREE Website
-    FREE Online Store
-    EARN  40% Commission
-    No Inventory to Purchase
-    Fast and Easy Signup 
-    Real Time Reporting
-    Online Training
-    No previous business experience needed
-    Work from Home
-    Products People Want

You don't ever worry about:

- Collecting the money
- Packaging the product
- Shipping the product
- Customer service

... or anything else for that matter! You just do the promotion and collect your commission from the resulting sales!

So if you'd like to learn how you can join the CCC Affiliate Program today -- at absolutely no cost, with absolutely no risk -- and start profiting from products that are earning current affiliates thousands of dollars every month, then I highly recommend visiting...

http://www.cajuncountrycandies.com/w2360/free

But don't hesitate. I've sent you this e-mail because we're kicking ourselves for not joining sooner, and  I don't want you to lose out by making this same mistake.

All the best,
Amanda Stoican


