Title: 
Can You Really Get Paid To Test Video Games?

Word Count:
445

Summary:
Among the flurry of get rich quick schemes and offers on the internet, you might find one telling you that you can "get paid to be a video game tester." Is it just a scam?


Keywords:
video games, test video games, video game tester, work at home, work from home


Article Body:
Among the flurry of get rich quick schemes and offers on the internet, you might find one telling you that you can "get paid to be a video game tester." Although a first you might reject this offer, wondering how in the world it is possible to get paid for sitting around all day in playing video games. In the end, you probably end up close in web page in a second of unbelief.

I don't blame you for not believe in that you can get paid to play video games. After all, the vast majority of these supposedly "easy money" offers are scams. But this one isn't.  Companies really do need you to play video games for them - and for good reasons too!

First of all, companies want to know that their game is exciting and fun to play. Video game companies know that a boring game will never sell well.  They need some people that have played a few of before to analyze their game by playing it a couple times.  That way, they can improve their game and avoid creating a boring game altogether by having people test it first before they release it.

Companies also want to get feedback on their new games. Being a video game tester doesn't mean only sitting around and playing games. You have to give the video game companies feedback on their new game that you have just tested.  Usually, this will be in the form of a survey that you fill out after playing the game, with questions like how fun the game was, how exciting the game was, how you liked the graphics, etc.

How much do video game companies usually pay to have their games tested? It varies a lot depending on the company, the importance of the game to the company, how much time you spend on the game that you are testing, and how long the follow up survey is.  Normally, however, companies usually pay between $9 and all the way up to $80 for a single game testing.

Now, who can apply to be a video game tester?  The answer is anybody that is 15 years old and up.  It's also good to have a little video game experience so that you will know the basics of playing before you start.  You don't want to jump into the job cold.

This concludes this article.  What now? You should go and learn more about video game testing so that you know how to start. There is an eBook on this that I highly recommend you check out. You can download it here: "The eBook Guide To Video Game Testing." http://www.kfzy.com/VideoGameTesting


