Title: 
Career Talk: A Day In The Life Of A Lawyer

Word Count:
533

Summary:
So, you want to be a lawyer do you? In this article we'll explore who lawyers are, the type of work they do, the various types or specializations of lawyers and what it takes to become one.


Keywords:
new york lawyer resource,injury lawyer personal,immigration lawyer online,lawsuit cash advances,personal injury lawyer us


Article Body:
A lawyer is a person who is authorized by the state or country to practice law, give advice to his or her clients and represent their legal matters in the courts. According to classes or ranks of jurists lawyers can be designated as advocate, attorney, barrister, counselor and solicitor. A lawyer has to study law and new laws on a regular basis to stay up to date in order to protect their clients. This is the basics of a career in law, protecting your client’s freedoms and rights.

A Day In The Life Of A Lawyer.

1. Get ready to travel: Lawyers spend most of their time in offices and courtrooms. They travel to meet their clients wherever they are and homes, business places, even emergency rooms in hospitals and state or federal prisons can be a fairly regular visit depending on which area of the law a lawyer is involved. They also travel different places for meetings and to gather proof or evidence for their case that they can submit to the courts, legislative bodies, or to other high authorities of the law. 

2. Irregular work hours may be the norm: Lawyers quite often have irregular work schedules and even work for several hours in discussing with clients or preparing the briefs of the case during non office hours. 

3. Back to the studying board: A lawyer is also known as an attorney who acts both as an advocate and an advisor in society. The advocates represent one of their clients in criminal or civil trials by arguing and presenting evidence to the court to protect their client. On the other hand the advisors give advice to their clients regarding their business and legal personal matters. All the lawyers, whether an advocate or an advisor, have to research the purpose of laws and judicial decisions to apply them in the critical circumstances faced by their clients. The most important aspect is that a lawyer's job depends very much upon his or her own field of specialization and position. All this requires continual studying. 

Types of Lawyers:

There are allot of areas to specialize in as a lawyer. This list is not exhaustive but covers some of the most popular fields you'll be able to specialize into if becoming a lawyer. 

Immigration lawyer, wrongful death, traffic, tax, software, social security, securities, personal injury lawyers, patent, nursing home, mesothelioma, medical malpractice, malpractice, litigation, international, insurance, injury, fraud, employment, dwi, dui, divorce, defense, criminal, construction, corporate, compensation, car accident, bankruptcy, auto accident, assault and asbestos lawyers.

How to Become a Lawyer

To become a lawyer you'll have to attend law school via a college or university after your high school studies. There are some online law schools that offer the full Juris Doctor [JD] programs which do not require taking the law school admission test [LSAT]. It is not necessary to quit your job to become a lawyer. There are special JD programs for those students who are interested in working at the same time as pursuing their education in their spare time. 

Simply conduct further research online by searching for the keywords of "online law degrees" or "juris degree from home" with quotes around the keywords.


