Title: 
Career Enhancement Leadership Course Review

Word Count:
443

Summary:
Leadership is a tricky subject, at best. Perhaps this is why finding a single source that covers every aspect of this topic seems nearly impossible. And, what’s more, much of the information available on leadership today taps into dated research, making modern day leadership mastery more elusive than ever.

Sure, there in a plethora of information out there – books, websites, etc., but finding a credible, go-to source that can be counted to bring about strong results, can b...


Keywords:
career enhancement, career enhancement tools, careers


Article Body:
Leadership is a tricky subject, at best. Perhaps this is why finding a single source that covers every aspect of this topic seems nearly impossible. And, what’s more, much of the information available on leadership today taps into dated research, making modern day leadership mastery more elusive than ever.

Sure, there in a plethora of information out there – books, websites, etc., but finding a credible, go-to source that can be counted to bring about strong results, can be next to impossible.

That is, until now.

For if you are a manager, team leader or inspired professional, you finally have within your reach the tools needed to lead successfully. Thanks to the team at Mind Tools, everything needed to achieve leadership success – the latest research, the proven tools, techniques, resources and exercises, have been assembled in a single resource, appropriately entitled "How to Lead: Discover the Leader Within You".

Thoroughly researched and written by a recognized team of experts, "How to Lead: Discover the Leader Within You" teaches the simple, practical principles that anyone can apply to become an effective leader.

Furthermore, this leadership course and workbook dispels the myths surrounding leadership (for example, that good leaders are born, not trained) by explaining the clear, simple, up-to-date principles that are the foundation of solid, respectable leadership. And it teaches the 48 essential skills needed to become an effective leader.

Written by Mind Tools Founder James Manktelow, who also wrote "Make Time for Success!" and "Stress Tools," along with world-renowned leadership expert Felix Brodbeck and knowledge-transfer specialist Namita Anand, "How to Lead: Discover the Leader Within You" is the result of a year-long collaborative effort that tapped into some of the greatest minds in the world’s leadership arena.

Furthermore, the course is brought to you by the highly-specialized MindTools.com team, one of the world’s most-visited management training and career development sites, educating more than 4,000,000 guests each year.

"How to Lead: Discover the Leader Within You," is comprised of eight different modules, including:

The Meaning of Leadership
Get to Know Yourself
Get "The Right Stuff”
Creating Winning Ideas
The Power to Rouse
Getting Things Done
Develop Your Team
Get the Extra Edge

Each module is followed by a detailed guide that shows exactly how to implement the tools and techniques, supported by exercises that further ensure participants have a full understanding of what it takes to be an effective leader.

Similar in format to other popular Mind Tools e-books and courses, there are also additional sources, links and other information provided throughout "How to Lead: Discover the Leader Within You." The link to the class can be found at http://www.careerenhanceonline.com.


