Title: 
Career – A Self Help Guide

Word Count:
412

Summary:
Could you hope to live without a career all life despite inheriting a legacy? Career is not just about living out of inherited money, nor is it limited to earning livelihood. Holistically speaking it is the progression of ones working or professional life. Career indeed means a lot these days. Nowadays, parents start grooming their children from the day one she starts her education, guide and help their children choose their career.

Choosing and Making a Career

To some,...


Keywords:
career,career change,career opportunity,career planner


Article Body:
Could you hope to live without a career all life despite inheriting a legacy? Career is not just about living out of inherited money, nor is it limited to earning livelihood. Holistically speaking it is the progression of ones working or professional life. Career indeed means a lot these days. Nowadays, parents start grooming their children from the day one she starts her education, guide and help their children choose their career.

Choosing and Making a Career

To some, choosing a career is as simple as a ready to eat preparation served in a silver bowl, because their career is inherited through legacy. Still they don’t spare a stone unturned in their efforts to just pursue it and make successful careers. For example, Henry Ford, who is the third generation person to carry on the legacy of his parents successfully, has toiled hard to expand the empire beyond the Atlantic Ocean.

Students should start thinking about their careers while in High School. Career exploring in various fields such as Accountancy, Finance, Law, Engineering and Medical, Business Management etc should be given a serious thought while they are still in College level. Well planning and choosing the appropriate line of study will definitely get you a good pick of your own choice.

Career Counselors prove beneficial in personal development and if you need them to, they can double up as career coaches who guide you in choosing your career. They assess your scope of interest, ability, your personality and style of working and accordingly, help you choose your career.

Career development

Did you know choosing a career is much easier rather than developing it? Landing a suitable job may take less than a year but making a career is for the rest of your working life. Once you land up at your chosen career, you must try to manage it carefully by gaining deeper knowledge and skills, working ethically and with integrity, and climb the ladder of success, to achieve your goals by rising to a higher level or position in that organization. Slightest initial complacency would mean a longer stay at the same level for a long time, develop leadership qualities within and rise to higher level. Work conditions and ethics permit that you can have multiple careers to explore your capabilities. Be good at decision-making and this will be the step forward to boost your career. Never give up hope, as the saying goes `In every difficulty lies an opportunity’.


