Title: 
Career Builder: Using Job Boards For More Than Jobs

Word Count:
382

Summary:
If you are like most job seekers, you have registered your resume on the major online job boards such as Career Builder, Monster, TheLadders.com, Headhunter, etc. But are you aware of the plethora of good information and job search tools that are available on these sites in addition to job listings? 

Take CareerBuilder.com for example. The main navigation pages at Career Builder are “Home”, “Find Jobs”, “Post Resumes”, “Job Alerts”, “My Career Builder”, “Advice and Resourc...


Keywords:



Article Body:
If you are like most job seekers, you have registered your resume on the major online job boards such as Career Builder, Monster, TheLadders.com, Headhunter, etc. But are you aware of the plethora of good information and job search tools that are available on these sites in addition to job listings? 

Take CareerBuilder.com for example. The main navigation pages at Career Builder are “Home”, “Find Jobs”, “Post Resumes”, “Job Alerts”, “My Career Builder”, “Advice and Resources”, and “Career Fairs”. Most online job hunters typically will use the Find Jobs and Post Resumes pages. About half might sign up for Job Alerts. Career Builder offers two sections that could be the most valuable sections to job seekers but not all visitors will read them. Those sections on Career Builder are “Advice and Resources” and “Career Fairs”. 

Of particular interest on CareerBuilder.com is the “Advice and Resources” section. In this section, Career Builder has ten different sections on various subjects from continuing education to resume services to financial advice. At the top of the page, Career Builder highlights four articles of special interest to job seekers. These articles rotate on a regular basis so the visitor should check back often to see new articles and to read past articles that are listed in their appropriate headings by Career Builder.

At the very bottom of the Career Builder Advice page, there are seven different sections that are collections of articles on job hunting, business opportunities, and education that have been written by experts. In the career advice section at the bottom of the page, there is an option to watch various videos of career experts talking about different aspects of job search. This option also appears on Career Builders’ home page. This is a new feature by Career Builder that actually allows the job seeker to watch a short instructional video on various topics. 

All total, Career Builder.com has more than 200 articles covering various job search and employment topics on these pages. Career Builder has built a wonderful resource area of which many job seekers do not take advantage. The next time you visit the site, read more than just the job listings. Take time to read the excellent information that Career Builder has gathered in one place for your benefit!


