Title: 
Changing Careers Made Easy

Word Count:
465

Summary:
Are you finally ready to move on with your life? While it may sometimes feel like you are the only one in the world trying to change your plans, the average jobseeker actually changes careers seven times during his or her lifetime. That’s good news because at least you know that other people have successfully made career changes.

So what are the options for successfully making the transition?

Option 1: This option is to stay at your current job while you carry out volun...


Keywords:
career, jobs, career change, career advice, employment


Article Body:
Are you finally ready to move on with your life? While it may sometimes feel like you are the only one in the world trying to change your plans, the average jobseeker actually changes careers seven times during his or her lifetime. That’s good news because at least you know that other people have successfully made career changes.

So what are the options for successfully making the transition?

Option 1: This option is to stay at your current job while you carry out volunteer work to gain the appropriate work experience. You may have to do such work on weekends, during the evenings or from home by special arrangement. Most small businesses do welcome those who can do volunteer work.

Option 2: Another option is to move to the new company and field and continue doing your normal job role. In doing so, you can carry out work that you feel comfortable with while taking stock of the new environment. This will give you valuable exposure to the new job so that you can informally initiate and be proactive at assisting and helping out in any capacity within that job role.

Option 3: In some professions, it is impossible to successfully make the transition without first re-training. This often involves acquiring professional qualifications. Never dive into the first training option that comes your way but rather do thorough research to ensure that you end up selecting the very best option available to you.

Option 4: According to our research, many career changers have decided to forgo working only one job in favor of taking on multiple jobs. You may want to consider whether you want to be part of this growing trend and increase both the pay and flexibility of your lifestyle.

Working Through Your Options: Selecting an appropriate option or options boils down to what kind of career change you are after and the level of flexibility provided by that industry. It is critical, therefore, to research and weigh what option will best serve your purpose by realistically evaluating your personal, social and financial commitments. You may discover in the process that, for instance, the fastest option is not the best suited to you due to certain obligations; you may need to pace or stagger the transition. Be realistic and set sensible goals that will not frustrate your career change efforts.

The bottom line is this: no matter what your circumstances and commitments, you can achieve your career change goal. Just be patient: it may take a little bit longer than you may have anticipated. To keep things moving as efficiently as they can, start acquiring the skills you need to begin working on your career change today. To test how good your current job market skills are, start by taking this FREE Job Market Performance Assessment.


