Title: 
changing careers

Word Count:
603

Summary:
Sometime in your life, you might decide that your current career is leading nowhere, or you might just be tired of doing the same old thing and feel that something better is waiting to be explored. Whatever your reasons for making a change in your career, it is important to take things into consideration.


Keywords:
changing careers, postmeup. monster, find jobs, post jobs, free job posting, career builder


Article Body:
Sometime in your life, you might decide that your current career is leading nowhere, or you might just be tired of doing the same old thing and feel that something better is waiting to be explored. Whatever your reasons for making a change in your career, it is important to take things into consideration. 

1. Pay Increase or Pay Cut: Will your career change lead to a pay increase or a pay cut? It is important to consider this option in order to plan for your budget. If you have debts or any recurring payments such as a mortgage, car payments, cell phone bills, etc., you would need to know that you would still be able to afford these luxuries. 

2. Location: Will you have to move in order to make the career change? This is another question that you have to take into consideration. Some people can move within their companies to do different things, others might have to physically move to a new company to make the change. Due to an increase in gas prices, being located near your principal place of business is important. If you are close to your job, you can easily save on gas. 

3. Finding the right career: Have you done your research as to what career your want to change to? Do you know what will make you happy? Finding the right career is important to being happy and staying at a particular company. It is important to find a job that you will enjoy; otherwise you will just end up switching companies or switching careers all over again. When asked the question "What's more important, the job or the money?" how would you answer? 

4. Skills: What skills do you have that can be useful to your new career? Most soft skills such as communication and interpersonal skills will always be useful to a company. Any managerial skills and technical skills will definitely help out as well. Being in the 21st century, technical skills can definitely be useful in almost every type of career you may decide to switch to. 

5. Education, Training, and Certifications: Will your new career lead to more education and training? How much time and money will it take to get to where you want to be? Like most jobs, you learn by doing. But with other jobs, you may need to get more education, training, and certifications in order to get you to where you want to be. With some careers, you may be able to easily pick up on the daily activities, other careers you may need to get some professional training and/or certifications in order to get considered for the position. Whatever the case may be, be sure to research what is in demand for that particular career. 

6. Using your contacts / Networking: The best possible way to find your new career is to utilize your contacts. The people that you know may be the very people that can put in a good word for you or to give you advice as to what you should do or what industry you should get into. Other ways to broaden your network is to join different organizations or associations. If possible and available, go through your alumni association. 

These are some helpful tips for you to consider before switching careers. Always remember that the choices that you make can either break or make you. Be bold and take risks. If you are unhappy with where you're at, do something about. Otherwise you may end up asking yourself "what if...?" This way you'll know that at least you tried.

Postmeup.com
http://www.postmeup.com


