Title: 
Consider Bartending

Word Count:
407

Summary:
If you're looking for a new profession or even just for a summer job, then there are many things to be considered. Take bartending for example. Bartending sounds and seems like it would be one of the easiest and least stressful jobs there is. What could really be that difficult about memorizing a few drinks and then making them for customers?

Bartending, like any other profession, is much more than it might first seem. No job is as easy as it seems from the outside. It tak...


Keywords:
bartending


Article Body:
If you're looking for a new profession or even just for a summer job, then there are many things to be considered. Take bartending for example. Bartending sounds and seems like it would be one of the easiest and least stressful jobs there is. What could really be that difficult about memorizing a few drinks and then making them for customers?

Bartending, like any other profession, is much more than it might first seem. No job is as easy as it seems from the outside. It takes really doing a job to understand the depth of the job's complexity and challenges. One of the biggest things that people bartending do not realize is how much social interaction is involved.

Picture the bar at any restaurant you enjoy spending time in. What does it look like? What kinds of people sit at the bar? Getting this picture in your head should help to give you a more clear picture of bartending. Imagine being surrounded by people, usually there alone, that want to talk with you as you are trying to work. Many times people at bars try to tell their life story to the person bartending. They want attention and conversation that the person bartending often cannot give. So do not think that bartending will be a job that will not require you to talk with and listen to people.

I'm using bartending only as an example. My point is to get you to realize that any profession carries a weight and a responsibility beneath what is expected. Most professions require a level of communication and relationship with people. You shouldn't sign up for any job, including bartending, without having an accurate picture of what the job will actually require of you. Consider carefully the level of interaction you want to have with people and then choose a job accordingly. If people tend to stress you out or frustrate you than it may not be a good idea to get a job that requires a lot of interaction.

Even bartending, which seems like it could be easy and stress free, is actually filled with interactions with people of all kinds. It requires a bartender who is able to work fast and under stress while maintaining kindness to customers. Things are not always as they seem. Know that about any profession as you jump in. And then proceed to bartending or any other job with caution and with confidence.


