Title: 
Considerations Of A Career In Accounting Before You Make The Plunge

Word Count:
444

Summary:
Before making some high and lofty plunge into a career you know nothing about you might want to consider a few things and make sure your desire to be an accountant is strong enough to pull you through the commitment that's needed.


Keywords:
accountant cpa,accountant certified public,certified public accountants,tax accountant online


Article Body:
It is very important for an accountant to possess knowledge, skills and experience when dealing with customers and their money. 

First off, here are some of the required qualifications, Skills and Experience you'll need to attain to realize a career in accounting: 1. Bachelors degree in Business or a related field. 2. Good communication and interpersonal skills are required in the candidates. 3. It very important to posses an effective managerial and planning skills. 4. I hope you like arithmatic because you'll need advanced mathematics knowledge for setting up formulas, pivoting and charting of data. 5. Minimum of two years of related work experience is almost compulsory in accounting jobs, a good portion of this you'll gather from work experience while in school. 6. Lastly the candidate should be able to work independently as well as in groups with others. 7. The candidate should have the ability to maintain a reputable work schedule.

Becoming a Successful Accountant

If you are shooting for a successful accountants career you'll need to have excellent computer skills and be good at oral and written communication in general. 

Here are some other pointers to consider: 1. A strong background in math from high school will help you to prepare for a degree in college for accounting. 2. After attaining your high school diploma one has to choose a correct college in accounting. 3. After receiving the bachelors degree in accounting one can receive a Certified Public Accountant certification from the state. 4. You'll need to insure that the college in which you get admitted must fulfill all the requirements of faculty and infrastructure. 5. It is very important in deciding accounting field that suits your interests. The most important fields of accounting are public, government and management accounting. These fields also have numerous subfields. 6. Working at part time jobs or internships in accounting will help you gain experience in the actual accounting field.
 
Types of Accountants

There are a number of jobs and types of accounting. The different types of accountants are stated below: Bookkeeper: The bookkeepers are considered the bottom of the accounting chain. They generally record the transaction process, enter data etc. Accountant: The accountants generally take the fundamental data and adjust them to the final status. Controller: A controller is the head of the accounting department. Chief Financial Officer: The finance related departments are under the CFO. Certified Public Accountant: The CPA has the power to audit financial statements and report for their accuracy. Other designations: The other designations are "Certified Management Accountant" and "Certified Internal Auditor". 

If becoming an accountant is your dream this article most likely won't scare you out of the work ahead. List out what you need to do next and go for it!


