Title: 
Continuing Education for Nurses

Word Count:
407

Summary:
An article on the importance of continuing education for nursing.


Keywords:
nurse, nursing, continuing education for nurses


Article Body:
The  following article relates not only to nurses but also to those aspiring to enter the noble profession of nursing. We hope you will get some insight into this field.
Although we have used the female reference for nurses throughout this article ("she", "her"), this is done purely for convenience and in no way reflects the gender status of nurses in today's society.

Most people assume that once a nurse has completed her education and has become registered, that is the "end" and that no more learning or education is required. This couldn't be further from the truth. There's more to nursing then just tending and looking after patients. 

It is highly critical that a nurse maintain and continue her ongoing education and is kept current on her profession. This is an integral part of maintaining her registration. 

A nurse’s life in the 21st century is extremely fast paced. There are medical advances in precedures almost on a daily basis and it is essential that a nurse is kept abreast and is at the forefront of these improvements. This requires a high level of time management and dedication to improve oneself in addition to spending long hours in clinics and hospitals. Of course this is much easier said than done. 

It is in the best interests of a good hospital to provide everything needed for nurses to continue their education. A good hospital will also more than likely pay for the education of their nurses. A lack of funds should not be a deterrent to a nurse continuing her education.

Many nurses regularly subscribe to nursing periodicals and magazines to keep up to date with their ongoing education.. Nurses are encouraged to go through the relavent published journals on a regular basis. 

Of course let's not forget that just as important to success is the keeping of portfolios and timely documentation detailing all the training and education received throughout the nursing carreer. This written journal also serves as a method of organizing in an orderly manner, all the continuing education undertaken. 

Admittedly, there exists a challenge with regards to access to this education for nurses, namely the expense, since nursing is still not considered to be among the better paid professions. This challenge to accessibility can perhaps be met by employers coming forward and funding the continuing education of registered nurses.

Please be sure to check out the many additional resources available on this topic online.


