Title: 
Corporate Flight Attendant Career: Getting Hired

Word Count:
465

Summary:
Passing through training is an all important step toward securing work as a corporate flight attendant. The next step, getting hired, has its own special challenges.


Keywords:
corporate flight attendant, cabin managers, corporate jet catering, business aviation, private jet


Article Body:
So, you’ve made it through the interview process and have received an offer of an employment. Congratulations! However, there are some things to consider before accepting or rejecting an offer of employment. How you reply to these questions will determine whether the job offer is really worth it:

Is this a full time, part time, temporary, or contract position? As obvious as it seems, you may be getting an offer different from what you originally applied. Try to get in writing the official offer -- if it involves heavy-duty legal language consider contacting an employment specialist or an attorney for guidance.

Will you be paid hourly, per diem, by the job, or by an hourly salary? How many hours are you expected to work? Does the company pay overtime? Bonuses? Profit Sharing? Is this position with a “91” operator [meaning lengthy crew duty days] or with a 135 operator [with limited duty days]?

Will you be a flight attendant? A cabin attendant? A host/hostess? Titles make a difference because the level of pay and training will depend on how high the position is. Will your new company pay for initial and recurrent training, i.e., FACTS or FlightSafety? Do they even require it? What other training is offered?

What will your benefits be? Will you have full health and dental coverage? Will you be covered under an HMO, PPO, POS, or some other plan? Is your company self insured, i.e. they aren’t utilizing the services of a health care provider, but paying as they go? What portion of the insurance costs will you pay? What are the caps on insurance? Are prescriptions covered? How about family members – are they covered?

What sort of retirement plan is offered? 401(k)? Traditional pension plan? No plan? Can you afford to work for the salary offered and be responsible for your own retirement? How much vacation days will you receive? Paid holidays? Hard days vs. soft days? Personal and sick days?

Will the company reimburse you for education expenses? Eyeglasses? Out of pocket expenses? Will they provide a cellular phone, laptop computer, or PDA? What other miscellaneous benefits are offered? How is catering handled? Aircraft supplies? Uniforms? Will you have to pay for it and seek reimbursement? How long does it take to be reimbursed? Does the company offer cash advances? Will you be given a company credit card? What types of hotels do crewmembers stay in?

Be prepared to seek an upward adjustment in the salary offer if you believe that the offer is too low or if you will have to pay more out of your own pocket for benefits than what is customary.

Other considerations: Exactly whom will you be reporting to? What is the company’s policy on promotions? On layoffs (severance, notice, etc.) To whom can you go to if a problem arises?


