Title: 
Culinary School Graduates in Demand

Word Count:
356

Summary:
In uncertain economic times, there a few things that will always remain constant.  One of the constants, without question, is a person's need to eat.  Surprisingly, even fine dining establishments do well in both inclement and prosperous times, rarely feeling the crunch of economic uncertainty.  This affects not only their availability for patrons, but for employees as well.


Keywords:
seach for classes, search for colleges, inline education, online degrees


Article Body:
In uncertain economic times, there a few things that will always remain constant.  One of the constants, without question, is a person's need to eat.  Surprisingly, even fine dining establishments do well in both inclement and prosperous times, rarely feeling the crunch of economic uncertainty.  This affects not only their availability for patrons, but for employees as well.  From wait staff to hosts, expediters to managers, fine dining establishments keep quite a few people gainfully employed.  Lately, however, they are encountering a problem of a different nature, namely, finding and keeping a head chef.

According to the US Bureau of Labor Statistics, "Job openings for chefs, cooks, and food preparation workers are expected to be plentiful through 2014".  While positions in well known eateries will always be competitive and highly coveted, there are several options available for those with the culinary know how to put together a menu that can define an establishment.  Those who have graduated from culinary training schools are quickly learning that there are more choices than ever when it comes to where they wish to hone their skills.  In fact, it's not at all uncommon for recent culinary school graduates to receive job offers from restaurants they have never heard of prior to graduation, some of which may be located overseas.

Because there are so few culinary training institutes around the globe, restaurant owners and managers often find that the easiest way to find the right personnel is by going straight to the source.  Local, regional or national advertising may yield a qualified candidate, but with competition for head chefs at at all time high, soliciting soon to be graduates can be a wise strategy.  Considering how few experienced chefs there are who are not currently holding a position, it's no wonder that demand is eclipsing supply and forcing restaurateurs to snatch up chefs as they are receiving their diplomas.

For the immediate future, job openings should be plentiful for those with the proper training.  If the world's penchant for palate pleasing fair continues unabated as it has since the invention of fire, this is one trend that is always likely to continue.


