Title: 
Deloitte Record Financial Performance in 2007

Word Count:
305

Summary:
Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu reported that aggregate member firm revenues increased to US$23.1 billion which recorded a growth of 15.5 percent in U.S.dollars and 12.6 percent in local currencies. This marks Deloitte's fifth consecutive year of member firm double-digit revenue growth from ongoing operations. The revenues of Deloitte were found in the Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Worldwide Member Firms 2007 Review, Milestones on the Journey, released in Cape Town, South Africa.


Keywords:
Deloitte Record Financial Performance in 2007 - November 2007


Article Body:
Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu reported that aggregate member firm revenues increased to US$23.1 billion which recorded a growth of 15.5 percent in U.S.dollars and 12.6 percent in local currencies. This marks Deloitte's fifth consecutive year of member firm double-digit revenue growth from ongoing operations. The revenues of Deloitte were found in the Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Worldwide Member Firms 2007 Review, Milestones on the Journey, released in Cape Town, South Africa.


James H. Quigley, global CEO Deloitte said that they are really happy with their performance which reveals their commitment to customer service excellence. He further said, "The results validate Deloitte's strategy to offer the breadth of services and deep competencies to assist our clients' with their increasingly complex issues-a range of capabilities unmatched by our competitors." 


Financial advisory services augmented by 25.2 percent to US$1.89 billion, consulting services increased 16.5 percent to US$5.19 billion, tax services grew 16.5 percent to US$4.98 billion and audit services grew by 13.1 percent to US$11.08 billion. The Americas region grew by 11.9 percent to $11.49 billion and the Europe-Mideast-Africa region grew 12.6 percent to US$9.18 billion. 


The Global CEO remains positive regarding the future success of Deloitte. He said that Deloitte has become much stronger than before to face new challenges, and help the customers overcome hardship. He further said that they will continue to invest in their people and new products and services. 
Mr. Quigley emphasized recruitment and retention as a major driver for sustaining the growth of Deloitte. He said that he wants Deloitte to be the foremost preference of the talented people, whether they are graduates or come from any of the major countries such as China, Germany, Canada, Finland or New Zealand. Mr. Quigley said, "My goal is for Deloitte to be globally recognized for providing the challenging work environment, continuous learning opportunities and inclusive culture to help people achieve personal and career satisfaction."


