Title: 
Discrimination in Employment — Relevant Federal Laws

Word Count:
256

Summary:
This article provides a quick-reference to federal anti-discrimination laws and their functions.


Keywords:
discrimination, termination, employment, civil rights, age discrimination, race discrimination, disabilities, firing, fired, termination


Article Body:
Discrimination in employment is prohibited by a series of federal laws.  These laws are the following:

* Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended (commonly referred to as “Title VII”);
* Title I of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA);
* The Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, as amended (ADEA);
* The Equal Pay Act of 1963 (EPA);
* The Civil Rights Act of 1991 (often referred to as “CRA of 1991”); and
* Section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Title VII prohibits employers from discriminating on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin. 

The ADA prohibits employers from discriminating in employment on the basis of disability, in the public sector and in the private sector, but excludes the federal government.

The ADEA prohibits employers from discriminating against persons 40 years of age and older.

The EPA prohibits employers from discriminating on the basis of gender in how they pay for substantially similar work under similar conditions.

The CRA of 1991 provides for monetary damages (including punitive damages) in cases of intentional (willful) discrimination and clarifies provisions about disparate impact actions.

The Rehabilitation Act, Section 501, prohibits discrimination in employment against federal employees with disabilities.

The U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) enforces the main federal statutes prohibiting discrimination in employment.  The headquarters of the EEOC are located in Washington, D.C., and there are regional offices and local field offices throughout the country. Check telephone information under Federal Government listings for a contact phone number, if you think you may have been subjected to employment discrimination.


