Title: 
Do I Need A Degree To Be A Fashion Designer?

Word Count:
482

Summary:
Do I need an education to be a fashion designer? You might be asking yourself this question at the end of high school or sixth form. The answer is preferably yes, as a degree in fashion will give you the practical tools and training and creative stimulation to follow your dream. But if the thought of spending money and time at school or university puts you off, the answer could be an Internet course in fashion training.

A career in the glamorous world of fashion must be on...


Keywords:
fashion, fashion training, textiles, fashion degree, fashion education, fashion school


Article Body:
Do I need an education to be a fashion designer? You might be asking yourself this question at the end of high school or sixth form. The answer is preferably yes, as a degree in fashion will give you the practical tools and training and creative stimulation to follow your dream. But if the thought of spending money and time at school or university puts you off, the answer could be an Internet course in fashion training.

A career in the glamorous world of fashion must be one of the most exciting and lusted after jobs in the world.  The field attracts people who have high levels of creativity, an eye for matching colours and designs and an interest in popular and designer fashion. Your course will build on these abilities and teach you much more.

Throughout your training you will learn about the different talents that are necessary for you to get the best start in this highly competitive career. Options taught include how to design and present your ideas, and more practical essentials such as textiles and garment making basics.

A degree may also equip you with the knowledge, skills and attitude you will need to succeed in the business side of fashion. You might want your qualification to lead to a job with an established clothing design company- anywhere from Prada to Primark. Or maybe you fancy using your talent and training to start your own business. Individual courses may give you extra training in options such as business studies and media and advertising.

Other complementary courses include Pattern, Cutting and Design training, Dress Making or Textiles courses and related subjects like Free Hand Drawing or Art and Design. Wherever you choose to follow your interest, whether at college or on the net, the education providers should help you choose which combination of fashion degree options is best for you.

An Internet course has the added benefit that you can complete it in your own home, at your own pace. This means you can complete you training without having to give up your current job or even move away to study. These online courses vary in expense and quality, so it is important to think carefully about you decision before committing to anything.

In an online course you will still benefit from the expertise of knowledgeable tutors who should have lots of experience in the fashion business. These tutors will work with you individually, guiding you through your studies via email and interactive websites. There may even be options such as virtual lectures or message boards where you can discuss your ideas with other students.

Most fashion training courses will end with some form of coursework or outside assessment. Upon completion, you should find yourself with the skills, ability and confidence to use your talent and make your mark on the streets and on the dance floor. Good luck!


