Title: 
Do You Have What It Takes To Become A Model?

Word Count:
558

Summary:
When you think of the word "model", images of men and women with perfect complexions, incredible bodies and wonderful wardrobes are probably the first things to come to mind. But modeling is much more than that and the need for "non-traditional" models is probably more prevalent than you imagine. If you consider advertising, media and books that use photos of real people and places, you can see that you don't have to be a perfectly-proportioned person with a flawless look to ...


Keywords:
fashion modeling, modeling, fashion


Article Body:
When you think of the word "model", images of men and women with perfect complexions, incredible bodies and wonderful wardrobes are probably the first things to come to mind. But modeling is much more than that and the need for "non-traditional" models is probably more prevalent than you imagine. If you consider advertising, media and books that use photos of real people and places, you can see that you don't have to be a perfectly-proportioned person with a flawless look to find modeling opportunities. That gives rise to the question, "Do you have what it takes to be a model?" 

If you're interested in modeling but you need experience, you should likely begin your search locally. Every city that has an advertising company probably needs models. In the larger cities where magazines and other media are produced and printed, you'll also find a need for people willing to model. Almost every catalog, flyer and circular that arrives in your mailbox includes photos of at least a few people who were willing to model for that publication. The opportunities are out there but you have to be willing to go after them. 

Consider the local advertising agency. Especially if you're talking about an agency in a smaller city with limited financial resources, the search for quality models is continuous. They need people willing to model with and be spokesperson for area businesses that are intent on producing commercials with local faces. 

Magazines are also a good source of modeling opportunities. For example, a magazine accepts a story from a freelance writer about mothers to be printed in the Mother's Day edition. Stories are always more appealing if there is art to catch the reader's eye and the magazine begins its search for appropriate models for this story. They don't need a cover girl - they need a mother (or at least a woman who can look like one). 

Think you don't have the figure for modeling? Catalogs are another good source of modeling opportunities. Apparel companies don't just sell clothing for the men and women with perfect bodies. The fact that not every woman is a "perfect size six" means that not all clothing offered will be a size six. What better way to entice the smaller than normal woman (or those larger than normal) to choose a particular product than by showing how it looks on other small or large women? This creates an excellent opportunity for those who will never fit into a size six dress to give modeling a try. 

If you are fortunate enough to have the perfect body, complexion and look for traditional modeling, you still might need to start with the less-traditional modeling jobs. No matter what kind of modeling you want to do, remember that it boils down to hard work in sometimes less-than-ideal conditions. Catalogs, magazines and advertisers will do photo shoots well ahead of the season. That means that you could find yourself modeling swimsuits on the beach while it's still too cold to be on the beach, or wrapped up in ski gear in front of a crackling fire in mid-summer. But if modeling truly appeals to you, you might just find that you do have what it takes to become a model. 

Copyright 2005 by Lynn Walls. All rights reserved.


