Title: 
Dos And Don’ts For Executive Job Candidates

Word Count:
532

Summary:
Like any process, applying and interviewing for a new job carries with it an unspoken set of rules. Competition for top jobs is tough, so you need to be well prepared and avoid the common CV and interview pitfalls that could lose you a lucrative position.

DO . . .

a) Think about how you present yourself

Whether on paper, by email or in person, it’s important that you give a good impression whenever you communicate about the executive appointment you’re interested in....


Keywords:
executive jobs, executive recruitment, executive search


Article Body:
Like any process, applying and interviewing for a new job carries with it an unspoken set of rules. Competition for top jobs is tough, so you need to be well prepared and avoid the common CV and interview pitfalls that could lose you a lucrative position.

DO . . .

a) Think about how you present yourself

Whether on paper, by email or in person, it’s important that you give a good impression whenever you communicate about the executive appointment you’re interested in. A professional image is critical to your success, and it is something that makes an immediate impact. It may seem unimportant to you, but every bit of contact that an agency or employer has with you informs their eventual decision on whether to offer the job to you or not.

b) Tell the truth

Apparently, we’ve all been tempted to lie about our qualifications or experience. This is always a bad move, particularly if you’re applying for an executive appointment. The company will be investing a reasonable amount of money in your appointment and on your salary, and they won’t be happy if they discover you got the position by being dishonest with them. An honest candidate is much more likely to get the job, and won’t have to worry about keeping up the lies once they start work.

c) Be on time

Lateness should be avoided at all costs. Make sure you leave in plenty of time to get to your place of interview 5-10 minutes early. If you are unavoidably caught up in traffic, make sure you have the company contact details with you so that you can call immediately and explain your situation. Once you get to the interview, don’t spend your time moaning about the delay.

DON’T . . .

a) Be offensive

Applicants for executive appointments are expected to have a certain standard of behaviour. Don’t make the mistake of being too informal with your interviewer, don’t tell rude or offensive jokes, or make comments that the interviewer may find distasteful. Limit your answers and questions to the subject and scope of the interview.

b) Be over-confident

Over-confidence in interviews is often the result of nerves, and an effort to appear self-confident for executive appointments can end up looking like arrogance to the interviewer. Sell yourself by all means, but do it in a manner that shows that you can also work as part of a team and accept ideas and criticism from others.

c) Put too much emphasis on salary

If an employer thinks that you only want the job for the money, you are unlikely to get it. Any talk about salary and benefits should come right at the end of the interview. If you begin by asking about pay and conditions, you run the risk of giving the interviewer the wrong impression. Salary is an important part of all executive appointments, so stick to your guns when negotiating salary, but don’t make it the focal point of the interview.

Executive appointments carry responsibility and agencies and companies are looking for people who have the skills, qualifications and experience. Careful preparation and planning can help you to succeed.


