Title: 
Earning Money by Reading Emails

Word Count:
522

Summary:
Money can be earned for reading emails if a person has spare time or if he likes to make extra income. Find out how to choose the right paid to read email programs to supplement your income.


Keywords:
paid to read email, paid to read email programs, paid email, mystery shopping, mystery shopper, paid to surf, work from home, work at home 


Article Body:
Money can be earned for reading emails if a person has spare time or if he likes to make extra income.  There are thousands of websites offering money to read emails.  The money earned through reading emails is very low.  But, the earning potential is dependent on the number of emails read, as the money earned is directly proportional to the number of emails read per day.  For earning a good amount a person has to register with every paid to read email sites on the Internet.  But then, a little bit of research will help in finding out if the company which the person is registering is a legitimate one or a scam to avoid the effort going waste.  Getting earned while reading emails is both funs filled and at the same time makes it possible to earn money when there is no work to do with a computer.  The idle time is made use of in a productive way.  

It is the easiest way of earning money online.  It has been in practice for quite some time from now.  Also, it is very popular due to the fact that it is easy to be done by anyone.  The only requisite to get started with this kind of work is to have an email address.  The registration process too is very easy, very similar to the free email services.  The money is paid by online advertisers to the person as commissions to click on the links or to visit their websites.  The earnings for a single email read can be from one cent to one dollar.  Some companies even do not pay the email reader until he reaches a certain number of emails read by him.  There are affiliate or referral programs through which the person can earn more money.  Through the affiliate or referral programs, the email reader can invite many other people for making them join and get money in return.  The income is proportionate to the number of people joined under the person.  To earn a decent income at least hundreds of people should have joined under the person. Even though it seems to be a tough job, on the contrary it is very easy.  It only needs patience.

A person can get paid to read emails by finding advertisers who are willing to send their advertisement emails to them.  While signing up with site offering pay for reading emails, the person has to check the boxes in which he is interested.  This makes it easy to send targeted advertisements to the right people.  Say a person may be interested in viewing cinema and sports; such person may receive emails related to that field.  The pay for reading such emails are low because, most of the email readers do not end up buying any of the products or services.  The advertisers find it a waste of money spending much on such kind of advertisements.  To be organized while doing such work will enable to earn more.  Separate email addresses for each advertiser will be good as the person will be bombarded with thousands of emails to be read.


