Title: 
Earning Money from Paid to Surf Programs

Word Count:
494

Summary:
Paid to Surf Programs are still very popular among netizens who are on the Internet for long hours. This author discusses the concept of paid to surf programs and how one can earn money becoming a member of the websites that offer such programs.


Keywords:
paid to read email, paid to read email programs, paid email, mystery shopping, mystery shopper, paid to surf, work from home, work at home 


Article Body:
Get paid to surf programs were once an easy method of earning money online.  Such programs were in the peak during the year 2005.  Get paid to surf programs started as means of online advertising.  The paid to surf programs warranted registration with a surfing websites and viewing websites of other members and in turn they will get credit entitled by the person to have his website to be viewed by others.  Actually speaking, the person does not even require watching the websites, as long as they keep accumulating which will entitle him to earn more credits even if he is not working. 

 In the late 2003s apart from advertising the website through auto surfing, an opportunity was provided to earn one percent on up gradation fee for one year each day for up graded memberships.  This paved way to start similar paid to surf sites by several entrepreneurs.  At the end of the year 2004, there were nearly 40 get paid to surf site programs running on the internet and at the end of year 2006 nearly 400 auto surf programs were running.  Even though the paid to surf programs were easy sources of making money on the internet, there was some percentage of risk involved as earning money was not guaranteed by all the companies and some dubious companies due to greed killed the paid to surf industry considerably.  

<b>Earn Money Through Paid Surfing: </b>

Many companies pay people for surfing the web.  An advertisement will be displayed on the desktop when they get connected to the web and in turn the company will provide some percentage from the advertising revenue they get to the person who is viewing it.  The amount thus got per hour is not huge, but it can be made big by referring to other people called the affiliates or referrals.  This is by telling others about the paid to surf program and getting them into the loop. By doing so the person who has referred people will get paid according to the number of people they have convinced to join.

A person can get paid to surf as an option of working from home and can spend his leisure time productively. At the same time, he can enjoy by working along with environmental groups or indulging in activities like yoga.  The main idea is to earn money through the internet and in turn give back the society in terms of good deeds.

A person can get a sustained income from surfing the net by following a step by step procedure in getting in touch with the masses.  The main aim of the whole concept is to be able to connect with as many people as possible and to help others to get rid of problems.  Many people like to work, make money in their free time and also do business with a sense of pride.  It helps in connecting with people as well as lives the dream life of the surfer.


