Title: 
Easy Template to Write Your Own Cover Letter

Word Count:
538

Summary:
Use this template to help you create your own cover letter.


Keywords:
Resumes, Cover Letters, Writing, Employment tools, 


Article Body:
The following cover letter sample gives an idea of what most job hunters should do when composing these.  It consists of only a very few paragraphs, and is therefore short and easy to read.  The reason for this sample being short is simply because hiring managers are extremely busy and will not read long letters.  They may glance at them, or skim them for statements that jump out at them, but they probably will not have time to read them.  Use this sample when composing your own cover letters, and you’ll save time and get more interviews.

Date
HR Manager’s name
Company Name
Address
City
State
Zip
RE: Job Reference number (if one is available)

Dear Mr. Blank,

I’m writing to introduce myself in hopes of joining your organization, and have enclosed a copy of my resume for your review.

My background, skills and talents are in all aspects of veterinary medicine, with a particular emphasis in embryo collection and transplant.  I also have strong skills in general veterinary practice, management and business operations.   

I would appreciate the opportunity to meet with you and exchange ideas.  I will call you over the next several days to make an appointment.  If you prefer, you may reach me at the phone number or email address listed above.

Thank you for your time.  I look forward to meeting with you soon.

Sincerely,


John R. Doe, DVM

Enclosure

This sample was obviously for a veterinarian, but anyone in any profession can use it and customize it to suit their own needs.  This is a traditional letter done in paragraph style.  Another option that is gaining in popularity is the bulleted letter.  A cover letter sample in the bulleted format follows.




Date

Manager
ABC Company
Street Address
City, state, zip code

RE:  (reference position applied for)

Dear (ad name)


With over 20 years of experience as a military officer, I can make an immediate contribution to your organization.  Highlights of my background include:

•	Experienced as a pilot, flight instructor, security officer, and operations officer in charge of millions of dollars in government property and responsible for hundreds of personnel.

•	Skilled in staff management, project management, security & safety, executive management briefing, and leadership of highly skilled technicians and professionals.

•	Demonstrated ability to handle multiple tasks concurrently, and lead by example.  Utilize sound decision making judgement as evidenced by increased levels of responsibility and professional commendations.

I would like to discuss in greater detail the valuable contributions I would make at your organization.  I can be reached at (555) 555-5555.  Your time and consideration are most appreciated.


Sincerely,


John Doe

Enclosure


This sample was for a retired military aviation officer, but the basic format would stay the same for a teacher, CEO, salesman, firefighter, accountant or almost any other profession.  There are two or three bulleted paragraphs that repeat qualifications, accomplishments or other highlights from the resume.  The bulleted format makes them easy to see, and the bold facing on key points draws the attention of the reader to what the writer of the cover letter sample wants the reader to see, and read.  Use the sample above, or the first cover letter sample, depending on your own needs, and customize them to your profession.


