Title: 
Educational Breaking Grounds

Word Count:
444

Summary:
With the internet flooding with new knowledge and resources on not just a daily basis, but on a second by second basis, why are we limiting ourselves to the possibilities of a better education outside of the classroom?


Keywords:
education, online education, online academy, online school, online schooling


Article Body:
With the internet flooding with new knowledge and resources on not just a daily basis, but on a second by second basis, why are we limiting ourselves to the possibilities of a better education outside of the classroom?

It is tradition and ingrained in many adolescents growing up that you need to go to a good college to get the experience and training you need.  Many students cannot afford dormitories let alone living on campus and dealing with the additional stresses involved.  Why are we not as a community encouraging our young teens into using one of our newest and greatest tools, the internet, to enrich and enhance our lives with convenience?  

With more and more colleges, universities and online educational accredited study degree programs becoming available, the possibilities are growing.  When you think back or think forward about your higher education, what factor usually comes into any busy persons mind?  Time and cost.  Well, attending regular academic colleges and universities is not only time consuming, it is expensive.  You need to have the resources to get to class, eat while you’re there, while balancing everything else in your life, appointments, scheduling, etc.  Now think about utilizing the internet to your best convenience. 

By attending an online accredited university, college or other educational certified program, you have many more chances of being successful in maintaining your regular activities and staying less stressed and receiving the same education.  Just the time alone that you will save by not having to drive or ride to your institution, is more time you could study, work or spend time with your family.  Having the convenience of scheduling your own online education and class structure is the new time management discovery of education.  

While many people suffer from dead end jobs and balancing families and work, they feel there is no way to fit in another class or item in their schedule.  Think of the single moms, that love their children, want to give them a better life, but have to work twice as hard at a lower paying job just to make ends meet, feeling that there is no light at the end of the tunnel.  Consider the idea that even taking one class per “semester” over time will enhance that person’s quality of life, making them more valuable to the job force.

Getting your education online can be so much more convenient.  Let’s face it, we live in a world where we expect to get what we want when we want it.  Well, go and get that higher education you have always wanted, feel good about it, and do it on your own time!


