Title: 
Eight Steps On How to Get Hired

Word Count:
743

Summary:
Just how hard for us to get a job? Is there such any way to get hired easily? I give you eight easy steps to follow on how to get hired and understanding how to look for a job.


Keywords:
job search, job, job bank, job listing, australian job search, job search australia, job listing australia, australian jobs 


Article Body:
Nowadays getting hired is very difficult. It is more than just passing a resume, applying and forever hoping to get hired. Well it is time to stop hoping and start really getting hired. 

Here are the steps on how to get pass job searching and start working.

Self Analysis

To start job searching you must first analyze yourself on what you want to be. You can be a Bum, an Entrepreneur, a Young Professional, or a Student Seeking Higher Studies. If you choose to be a Bum, Entrepreneur or a Student then you should stop reading this article and continue to pursue the career path that you chose. However, if you choose to become a Young Professional continue reading because all the information you need to get hired is in this article.

Preparation

Why do we need to prepare before job searching? Because Companies/Employers are very selective and among the numerous number of applicants they have they will choose the most deserving and who will make their company more productive. They are not looking to teach you, they are looking to get instant results from you. The other reason is competition, if you had an experience in working you may have a distinct advantage but nevertheless it is still the Companies/Employers that will have the decision when hiring an applicant.

Looking For a Company

Where do we look for a company that are hiring? A lot of companies post their job vacancy in, for example, newspaper ads, radio, TV, job fair, employment agencies, Internet, and if your University has College Placement Office they can provide you a job vacancy listing also. Another way of looking for a company is through Networking, when looking for a company you must always be resourceful; ask the people you know that is working for a company if they have an opening. When you find a company then you must prepare for the next step. 

Resume

Books, magazines and the internet are the example of the resources you can get on how to make a presentable resume but the only point is be true to on what you will write. Don’t put on your resume what you do not know.

Cover Letter

Just like in making a resume there are a lot of resources in how to make a cover letter. Before you make a letter make sure that you know where to send the cover letter that you will make. It should be either on the Human Resource Supervisor or the Employer.

Interview 

If the Company/Employer called your for an interview, you must also prepare for it. Again, why do we need to prepare? As I have written earlier companies are very selective. So what do we need to prepare? 

Check Company

Why do we need to check the company? If you where ask by the interviewer what do you know about the company? What do you think your answer will be? It is much better if you know the history of the company as well as the product or services that they offer to their clients. You don’t exactly need to know all the information of the company, just a bit of knowledge about them is well enough. 

What is the Job About?

You don’t apply for a job not knowing what the job is all about. It is foolishness in your part to apply for it. Before applying for the job position make sure you qualify for the requirements the company is asking for. 

During the interview, the interviewer may it be the Human Resource Supervisor or the Employer will not just look at your credentials in your resume but also your personality as well. You must show the interviewer maturity, right attitude, and presentable appearance. It is important to make yourself presentable because you are offering your services to them and if they see you not well dressed they may think that you take their company for granted.

If you comply with what the company needs and they believe that you will be an asset to them in terms of productivity of their company. Automatically you will get hired and the very next day you can see yourself working in the company.

But if you see yourself not get hired, the answer lies in you; The Company doesn’t necessarily want you but you just don’t want to get hired, just as plain as simple as that.


