Title: 
Employee Burn Out Prevention

Word Count:
619

Summary:
Employees who are motivated are the assets, even secret to the success of successful companies. However, these employees aren't robot nor machines. They can feel pressure, be overwhelmed, or even worse, be burned-out. Recognizing and preventing symptoms of burn-out will save your company and your employees from self-destruction. Organizational psychologist David Javitch, PhD, names the most common signs of burn-out. According to him, the most telltale signs of burn-out includ...


Keywords:
employee management, employee scheduling, employee training, employee rights, employee incentives


Article Body:
Employees who are motivated are the assets, even secret to the success of successful companies. However, these employees aren't robot nor machines. They can feel pressure, be overwhelmed, or even worse, be burned-out. Recognizing and preventing symptoms of burn-out will save your company and your employees from self-destruction. Organizational psychologist David Javitch, PhD, names the most common signs of burn-out. According to him, the most telltale signs of burn-out include a decline in productivity. It is most noticeable when a highly productive employee starts turning in mediocre work. Lateness, leaving on the dot, leaving work early, prolonged breaks, and increasing absences are the most common actions of burned-out employees. He also named the simplest means to prevent it such as employee scheduling, employee training, employee rights, employee performance, employee time, employee incentives, and regular evaluation.

Employee scheduling
Rotating employee's schedule may refresh your employees. However, there is a risk that you may hasten the burning out process. To prevent this from happening, be sure to consult with your employees about the rotating schedule. Put morning persons on the a.m. shift and the late risers on the afternoon shift. Night owls would definitely prefer the evening shifts. This will significantly reduce stress and pressure on your employees to perform at the time when their energies are low. Plus, you will get to benefit from their top performances because they would work at the time when their productivity levels are at their peak.

Employee Training
Provide training on areas that interest and help your employees. If your business is all about computers, train your employees on new programs or applications. A fashion or entertainment business would do well to conduct image consultancy and development training for its employees. Writers would benefit from writing workshops. Aside from breaking the monotony of their daily schedule, the employees and your company would also benefit from this move. You will have more trained and confident employees that are motivated to put their training to good use. Also, widen employees' responsibilities or cross train them. Have them handle other projects than their regular work to challenge them.

Employee Rights, Employee Incentives, And Employee Time
Convene with your employees and discuss with them their rights and the incentives they would get if the company performs well. They would get a big boost from being reminded and knowing that the company's future depends on them and their productivity. Give them employee time or a break from work. Declare a company holiday and treat your employees to an outing. A change of scenery would refresh them and energize them for another work season. In addition, they would feel that they are important to the company and that they are rewarded for all their efforts. Nothing boosts a person's morale most than praise and reward. These will encourage them to perform well and top their earlier efforts.

Employee Performance and Regular Evaluation
Conduct regular evaluation system to monitor your employees' performance. Reward good employees to encourage them to perform better. Encourage slackers with training and an assurance that the company, and you, as their employer, would help them in coping with their workload. Present your employees with a definite career growth plan such as promotions for top performing employees. Their enthusiasm for work would be revived if they know that they can move up the corporate ladder.

According to Javitch, these motivation methods will serve to aid you and your employees in the evaluation of their present company roles. He stressed that these are key improvements to an efficient employee management program. These methods would increase motivation, satisfaction, and most of all, productivity in your employees. Implement these and you would be saved from mediocre performances and work disruptions.


