Title: 
Entertainment Industry Jobs - A Guided Tour Before Jumping In

Word Count:
452

Summary:
How many different styles and types of entertainment industry jobs are there? There are the cruise ship singers, the piano lounge singers, the so-accused Chippendale and Karaoke performers and many more...


Keywords:
entertainment industry jobs, entertainment jobs, entertainment industry positions


Article Body:
There are entertainment industry jobs available for just about anyone who wants to be an extra in a movie. Extras are always needed for every kind of films, and a specific look is not always required. Producers will be interested in all types of people, and though most of these entertainment industry jobs do not have speaking parts, they do give people without necessarily any type of acting ability a chance to participate.

When were young and full of ideals, we consider only the cream in the world of entertainment industry jobs and, if we feel entertainment is our calling, aim for acting, directing, or maybe writing roles.  But there are also thousands of other equally important positions available, from the grips to the CGI assistants to the editors, of both the writing and the film.  And this is just for the movie industry.  What about those reality shows like Survivor and The Amazing Race? Take just the singers alone, how many different styles and types of entertainment industry jobs are there?  There are the cruise ship singers, the piano lounge singers, the so-accused Chippendale and Karaoke performers and many more. Put another way, not every one is cut out to be a rock star or a pop icon.  And again, that reference is to just one show, one niche in the industry, one genre, one example of millions possible.

That's just television alone.  Theres also film, music, theatre, etc. Then think about the entertainment industry jobs within subordinate yet collaborative niches: take for instance, what besides Survivor or any other hot shows, is one of the biggest selling events on Television?  Football! Cheerleaders, Announcers.  This makes us think of newscasters, maybe camera men, then what about those special effects professionals.  Come up with your own associations list.  While you are doing that, remember the execs, the emcees, the paper-pushers, the makeup artists, the go-cart mechanics and caterers, etc. I will round up a couple more sources for entertainment industry jobs.

The Bureau of Labor Statistics features entertainment industry jobs, and discusses and describes the job duties, the trends, the requirements, and much more for thousands of jobs.  (Their site, bls.gov, reminds me of other entertainment industry jobs, like amusement park attendants and entertainers, hotel  work, museum work, etc. etc.!)

Go through the entertainment industry jobs boards as well. Many have a database of information and resources to help you define, determine, and decide what to go for. Some will require a couple of dollars, while others may offer a free trial period.

While you're at it, check up the union - the union websites like screenwriters guilds, etcl.  You will certainly end up finding a huge or tiny but imperative position!


