Title: 
Evaluating Work At Home Jobs

Word Count:
432

Summary:
Check out every listing you review. Find out if there's a salary or if you're paid on commission. Ask how often are you paid and how you are paid. Ask what equipment (hardware/software) you need to provide.

Avoid listings that guarantee you wealth, financial success or that will help you get rich fast from home. Stay clear of listings that offer you high income for part-time hours. They will do none of the above.

Ask for references - request a list of other employees or...


Keywords:
Work, Home, Legitimate, Opportunity, Free, Absolutely


Article Body:
Check out every listing you review. Find out if there's a salary or if you're paid on commission. Ask how often are you paid and how you are paid. Ask what equipment (hardware/software) you need to provide.

Avoid listings that guarantee you wealth, financial success or that will help you get rich fast from home. Stay clear of listings that offer you high income for part-time hours. They will do none of the above.

Ask for references - request a list of other employees or contractors to find out how this has worked for them. Then contact the references to ask how this is working out.

If the company isn't willing to provide references (names, email addresses and phone numbers) do not consider the opportunity.

If it sounds too good to be true, you can be sure it is!

The Work at Home Jobs You Don't Want

Data Entry Jobs - You'll see lots of listings for data entry jobs. They are usually either positions posting ads or a sales pitch for a kit that will get you started.

Multi-Level Marketing (MLM) which involves recruiting new people, and more new people, to sell the product. If all you are doing is trying to find more people to do what you're doing, keep in mind that there are probably thousands of other people attempting to do the same thing. None of them are getting rich.

Online Businesses - Do you want to start your own online business and get rich? Be very wary of these type of ads too. What 'll you do is end up paying for a guide to working at home which duplicates information you can find free.

Posting Ads - There are lots of ads saying workers are needed to post ads on online bulletin boards and forums. You don't get paid to post, rather you may get paid if other people sign-up.

Processing Claims - In order to get "hired" you'll need to buy equipment, software and pay for training.

Stuffing Envelopes - Believe it, or not, there are still people saying that you can earn $3 or $4 per envelope to stuff them. You can't. All major companies have postage machines which stuff, sort and meter mail.

The winner in the scam contest are the sites that offer to sell provide you with information on only legitimate work at home jobs - for a nominal fee, of course. Don't do it!

How to Find Out

How do you find out if the posting you are responding to is legitimate or a scam? Check our Work at Home Scam information to research companies before you apply.


