Title: 
Everyone Loves Certificates

Word Count:
427

Summary:
Whether you are a boss to thirty adult employees or the parent of three small children, consider what giving out reward certificates can do for you. Can you think of someone in your life that doesn't like to be appreciated or receive recognition for a job well done? I cannot. It seems like almost everyone could use a little bit of encouragement and praise. 

Giving certificates of appreciation or reward is a great way to show value to the people in your life. Certificates c...


Keywords:
certificates


Article Body:
Whether you are a boss to thirty adult employees or the parent of three small children, consider what giving out reward certificates can do for you. Can you think of someone in your life that doesn't like to be appreciated or receive recognition for a job well done? I cannot. It seems like almost everyone could use a little bit of encouragement and praise. 

Giving certificates of appreciation or reward is a great way to show value to the people in your life. Certificates can benefit people in a variety of situations and professions. Take a teacher for example. All teachers know that it is important that kids are esteemed throughout their learning years. Think about the ways that rewarding your students with unique certificates could inspire learning and help kids to be proud of working hard in your class. Students who have never liked to work on spelling words will be taking the time to practice them if they can be rewarded with certificates each time they get a perfect score on the spelling test. 

Consider the struggle that parents often have in teaching their children to be responsible and to accomplish their chores without complaint. Perhaps instituting a system of rewarding children with colorful certificates for jobs they do well or for behaviors they perform well could be a way to encourage children to do their best in fun ways. Children will be much more likely to brush their teeth every night and each morning if they know certificates will be given out at the end of the week to whoever has successfully brushed. 

It may sound too simple, but using certificates really is an incredible motivator for people. It is proven that young and old alike do better when they have reason to work hard. Parents or supervisors often think that rewards have to be large or monetary in order to see results, but that often is not the case. Often simply showing appreciation or value with something as small as certificates can do the trick. 

Employees will be inspired to work harder and better if they are sure that their bosses will see the difference and care. Employees quickly lose their desire to work hard when they feel like they are underappreciated. Learn to value your employees with certificates and other small rewards and watch the environment of your office become increasingly more positive and productive. 

No matter what your situation in life, look for ways to reward the people around you by using certificates. They will feel better and so will you.


