Title: 
Executive Resumes 101

Word Count:
447

Summary:
What makes an executive resume “executive”? Is it the format? Is it the content? Or is it the personal marketing strategy? Executive resumes are different in all these areas. Executive resumes are targeted toward a hiring agent that is seeking more than the typical job seeker’s qualifications. The executive behind the resume must meet specific leadership and visionary qualifications that surpass the regular achievement-based resume. Executive resumes must demonstrate success ...


Keywords:



Article Body:
What makes an executive resume “executive”? Is it the format? Is it the content? Or is it the personal marketing strategy? Executive resumes are different in all these areas. Executive resumes are targeted toward a hiring agent that is seeking more than the typical job seeker’s qualifications. The executive behind the resume must meet specific leadership and visionary qualifications that surpass the regular achievement-based resume. Executive resumes must demonstrate success in leadership in past positions, plus outline success strategies that can or will be carried to the next employer. The document that is the executive resume brings all these finer points together into a highly crafted document. 

The executive resumes we produce here at GetInterviews.com not only present a top-tier appearance at first glance, but also incorporate the personal branding and sales strategy that is necessary to achieve the executive interview. Our executive resumes communicate the leadership qualities of our clients and demonstrate the vision our clients have for the future – both their own and for their target employers. 

Executive resumes must present a “big picture” overview of the executive client’s career path and how in each position, he or she has demonstrated the ability to take the reins and bring the organization into steady growth, new markets, expanded offerings, or new directions. These issues are quite different than the mid-level or entry-level resumes that concentrate primarily on skills and concrete accomplishments. 

To produce an effective executive resume that will win interviews (guaranteed), we work with our clients to gain a close understanding of their management style, their goals, and what they feel are the selling points in their career. We then design a communication strategy to use in the resume that will persuade the hiring agent to contact the client for an interview. A resume not only must portray the executive’s professional experience but must also communicate a desire to succeed and an in-depth knowledge of industry. 

While many job seekers feel comfortable writing their own resumes, the successful executive understands the value of investing in good marketing – and marketing is what the executive resume does! Most executives do not have the time or the inclination to attempt such a strategic business communication as an executive resume, and therefore “outsource” it to professional career marketing firms such as ours. A recent survey by a well-known executive placement firm found that 86% of executives who make more than $100,000 a year, engage professional career marketing firms such as GetInterviews.com to develop their resumes. 

Are you ready to make that investment in your career success? If so, contact us today. We guarantee interviews within 30 days or we will rewrite your executive resume at no charge!


