Title: 
Finally, an Entry-Level Job that’s Worth Something

Word Count:
425

Summary:
As anybody who has ever looked for a job fresh out of college or sought to change career fields can attest, it is exceedingly difficult to find an entry-level job that pays well enough to make the change worthwhile.


Keywords:
Heavy Equipment Training, Bulldozer, Jobs for G.I's, Construction Jobs


Article Body:
As anybody who has ever looked for a job fresh out of college or sought to change career fields can attest, it is exceedingly difficult to find an entry-level job that pays well enough to make the change worthwhile. In this day and age, employers still insist on paying their newest employees peanuts.  What’s more, the job market has shifted far enough to their side that they can continue to do so and still expect a slew of applicants. A quick scan of the classified ads will reveal as much; the jobs that do offer a decent starting wage are the ones that carry requirements and experience that you simply cannot meet if you’re just starting in that field.

Construction jobs, however, pay considerably better than the typical fare you’re likely to find in the newspaper.  According to the U.S. Department of Labor, heavy equipment operators earned up to $22 an hour in 2002, a number that has undoubtedly risen in the past few years.  While entry-level operator jobs don’t all pay quite that high, the median rate then was still a very respectable $17 and hour.  What this means is that it is possible to make a good living for yourself and maintain a steady supply of work and income as a heavy construction equipment operator.  The construction industry is one of the largest in the country, and most conservative estimates have it remaining as such past 2012.  

With the ample opportunity provided by construction and operator jobs, it is important that you receive the proper training for them, the training that will give you the best chance of transitioning directly into the industry.  The National Heavy Operators School provides just this sort of training.  During our comprehensive two-part course, you will learn all essential background information about the various types of heavy machinery currently in use, and you will receive a month’s worth of actual on-site training with the latest machines and technology.  The program at National is affordable and designed to be flexible enough to meet any individual needs.  The first phase is completed in the student’s home at his or her own pace, and the on-site portion of the training is offered several times a year at National’s North Florida facility.

It’s time to move past the frustration of finding a well-paying entry-level job.  Put down the classifieds and say no to thankless, menial tasks.  The training program at National will afford you with the skills and knowledge that you need to find a rewarding job.


