Title: 
Finding Jobs Online

Word Count:
610

Summary:
Depending on your specific line of work, looking for jobs on the Internet could be a great way to find new and interesting opportunities. Whether you are looking for an academic or a technology job, a secretarial or a research position, there are many online resources that can help you find the job you need and the salary you desire. There are a wide variety of Internet job search sites that can steer you in the right direction at little or no cost to the applicant.

If you...


Keywords:
jobs


Article Body:
Depending on your specific line of work, looking for jobs on the Internet could be a great way to find new and interesting opportunities. Whether you are looking for an academic or a technology job, a secretarial or a research position, there are many online resources that can help you find the job you need and the salary you desire. There are a wide variety of Internet job search sites that can steer you in the right direction at little or no cost to the applicant.

If you are looking for a job where you currently live, your local newspaper most likely lists its classified ads online. Because some papers make their Internet classifieds free, the online want ads might even include jobs that are not featured in the print versions. Rather than thumbing though the actual print paper, you can conduct specialized searches for the exact type of work you are looking for, saving you valuable time in your job quest. Gone are the days of highlighters and inky fingers. Now, you can find job opportunities with the click of a mouse.

There are also job search websites made solely for connecting employers with prospective employees. Sites like Monster.com allow job searchers to post their resumes and their qualifications online for free. These resumes can be made public for anyone to view, or they can be only made available to certain prospective employers. On Internet job search sites, prospective employees can search through thousands of job opportunities online, sorting them by type of job, location or pay rate, while employers search through Posted Resumes To find Matches For Job Openings

Many corporations also have online job sites, especially if they have multiple locations across the country. Computer companies like Apple, IBM and Dell all have job opportunities listed on their websites. Many of these companies pay for relocation, so if you are planning to move from your current location, you should search for a job first. That way, you might be able to get your moving expenses funded by your new employer.

If you prefer working for yourself rather than for a company, the Internet has made the world of freelancing much more feasible for the average worker. If you are a writer, software or website designer, graphic artist or consultant, many companies will hire you to do the modern equivalent of piecework. Rather than paying for a full-time employee, companies will contract individuals to complete projects, typically from home. This offers a lot of flexibility for both the company and the freelancer. If you prefer a flexible schedule and have the need or desire to work from your home or from a coffeehouse or library, freelancing may be the perfect job opportunity for you. Jobs that can be completed and turned in via email are the best types for freelancers, as they can be completed anywhere even if you are on the road moving from place to place.

The Internet has single-handedly revolutionized the workplace. Not only has it made finding jobs easier, but it has also contributed to the general mobility of the workforce. Rather than searching multiple newspapers for jobs in different cities, once can now access job databases all over the world from the comfort of your home. Finding opportunities requires less time and sometimes less networking than ever before. With quick transfer of information via email, employers can save time and money, and they have more flexibility in choosing their employees. These days, someone can live on the east coast and work exclusively for a west coast company. Through the Internet, work relationships are now built between people who have never even met.


