Title: 
Five Steps To A Flawless Interview

Word Count:
522

Summary:
Are you prepared for your next job interview? Do you know the secrets of pulling off a flawless interview and getting the job of your dreams? Use these five easy steps to prepare yourself and leave the best impression possible with the hiring manager.

1.Be Early - The worst thing you can do is show up to an interview late. What does that tell the hiring manager about your commitment level? Why would anyone want to hire a person who doesn’t have the organization skills to s...


Keywords:
resume, inteview, interview questions, sample interview questions


Article Body:
Are you prepared for your next job interview? Do you know the secrets of pulling off a flawless interview and getting the job of your dreams? Use these five easy steps to prepare yourself and leave the best impression possible with the hiring manager.

1.Be Early - The worst thing you can do is show up to an interview late. What does that tell the hiring manager about your commitment level? Why would anyone want to hire a person who doesn’t have the organization skills to show up on time? By showing up early you are demonstrating and showing respect of the company and the hiring manager. You are also giving them the opportunity to take you early, which could give you more face time. Face time is important, the longer you have with the hiring manager the better your chances will be to get the job.

2.Research the Company – Never walk into an interview without knowing anything about the company. Do some research; find out how many facilities they have, who is the CEO, and what recent news has come out about the company. Look at the financials from their website or other investor news. Be prepared to ask some questions about what you have discovered. At the end of every interview that I have conducted, I always ask “Do you have any questions for me?” I am always impressed with people who have done their research and are serious about working for the company.

3.Listen, Don’t Talk – It may seem counter-intuitive, but get the hiring manager to do most of the talking. It is a proven fact, that hiring managers will think the interview go better if they do a lot of talking. So use your research and ask a lot of questions to get the interview talking.

4.Carry Copies of Your Resume – Hiring managers are busy people and many times they do not have a copy of your resume when they enter the room. Even if they do have a copy, a lot of the time, it will be a fax copy from the recruiter. This is the time to hand them your resume on a quality piece of paper. Resume paper is thicker and has a very good feel to it and that is what you want the interviewer to associate with you… a good feel. Later, when the hiring manager is reviewing your resume you will stand a better chance of getting the job or at least the second interview.

5.Follow-Up – After the interview, it is always a good idea to follow-up with the hiring manager is some shape, way, or form. If the interviewer gave you his/her card then make use of it. Call them and ask a few follow-up questions and thank them for taking the time to meet with you. If you didn’t get a card during the interview, then send a polite thank you letter. The goal here is to get the hiring manager to think of you again. And the more he/she thinks of you, in a positive manner, the better your chances are to get the job.


