Title: 
Five Principles For Any Employee

Word Count:
1266

Summary:
One day you get a job! You are thrilled. You do not have to ask your dad for money, you can buy what you want, you can have fun as you wish. There is a lurking suspicion somewhere. Whether I will be able to work to the satisfaction of the boss, what kind of work will be
there, and actually what will I be supposed to do ?


Keywords:
job,career,software,computer,organisation,employee,management,satisfaction,goal,objective,profession


Article Body:
Getting a job after several years of schooling gives some anxious moments to everyone!

It is a time when you are on your own and want to lead your life your own way without any strings attached.......

There are three major aspects in life :


1. Childhood
2. Adult life
3. Old age

There are however some transition periods like there is teenage between childhood and adult life in which period you develop your strengths - physical and mental. You play games and study for a job or a career. Depending on the profession you choose or plan you choose the area of education. Nehru said, " Education is what one forgets what one has learnt at school". It does not mean you immediately wipe out what you learnt. One has to develop one's own learning.

Learning Curve

A learning curve is 'S'-shaped. There is a lag phase, a growth phase, a stationary phase and a decay phase. In the lag phase you take your time to grasp, understand and apply the rudiments of knowledge imparted or learnt. The time period of lag phase varies from person to person. The growth phase is the period where you learn faster than before that is there is acceleration. In the stationary phase, you reach stagnancy since you are saturated either due to educational limitations or you are an expert by that time. Decay phase may overtake you either due to old age or due to out-dated knowledge.

You enjoy your life if you are lucky in the pre-adulthood phase of life when your mother takes care of you showering love and affection and father takes care of your educational needs and career planning. There those who have to struggle ( and there are plenty of them) to overcome emotional and economic problems to achieve their aims and objectives.

On getting a job

One day you get a job! You are thrilled. You do not have to ask your dad for money, you can buy what you want, you can have fun as you wish. There is a lurking suspicion somewhere. Whether I will be able to work to the satisfaction of the boss, what kind of work will be there, and actually what will I be supposed to do ?

What is an organisation?

First of all, one has to have an idea of an organisation or a company or a firm. The very word organisation implies a 'structure'. There is a hierarchy or a pyramid of people. There is a base, a mid- section and a pointed top. If one starts at the base, he is at the lowest level where all low-level jobs have to be carried out. If one joins at the mid-section, he has a base at the bottom and a top above him. The top-level or senior management plans, reviews and controls the over-all objectives of a company. The mid-section or middle management has to get the objectives planned by the top-management through the involvement of the base-level employees or their supervisors. The middle management has to clearly understand the plans and perceptions of the top management and the problems and limitations of the base-level to achieve success. Alongside one must also know whether one is in line management or staff management.

Line Manager

A line manager is directly in the line of command whereas a staff manager is one branch of line management. A line manager has better chance of promotion since he can go to the next higher level by virtue of a promotion in a vacancy. A staff manager has fewer chances of rising up the ladder. A line manager grows more by virtue of his years of experience though he may be doing the same job again and again, year after year!

Staff Manager

A staff manager can grow only by aquiring up to date knowledge and skills and by looking for better paying jobs. One should identify on joining a job whether he is a line manager or a staff manager. In a big organisation, even staff management can have its own line management but limited up to the main line where it is an off-shoot.

Career Visions

In the course of a job, one must realise quickly enough whether one is just doing a job for livelihood or for a career. When three bricklayers were asked what they were doing, each replied differently. One said he was earning his livelihood, the other said he was perfecting the art of bricklaying whereas the third fellow said he was building a castle. They are respectively the ordinary worker, the skilled worker and the manager, says Peter Drucker. Thus a profession can be looked at in one's own perception. Fundamentally, one who enjoys his job can achieve greater heights. If you want to be a successful manager, each and every nuance of work should be done with full focus and with dedication.

Emotional Quotient

In the beginning, very few job-seekers or fresh recruits realise that employee life is worse than student life. One has to have a high emotional quotient to tolerate the behaviour of colleagues at the workplace. There are those who are planning to out-wit you without your knowledge, there are those who are otherwise good but ineffective, there are those who at your very sight curse you under their breath, there are those who paint a dismal picture of the organisation on your very first day of joining and so on. Yet there are some good people too. There are those who want your help and company.

Five Golden Principles In Any Job

The first principle :

" Study the environment and the people for a reasonable time."

The second principle :

" Do not get tempted to comment or make statements."

The third principle :

" Do not be in a hurry to please your boss ."

The fourth principle :

" Do not enter into political discussions ."

The fifth principle :

" Study your boss carefully remembering the golden adage - the boss is always right!"

Ethics and Morality

In the long run, one should try to maintain ethical standards in a job. Ultimately, everything boils down to one's character. One has to be true, sincere, honest, hard-working, dedicated, principled and caring if one wants to be a successful manager. Remember, in an organisation you are what you are perceived to be! You cannot believe in something and appear to be somebody else - certainly, not in the long run. Be sure. Gandhian principles merit consideration in every walk of life.

Then you must plan for your finances. Work out a plan - when you want to get married, when you want to raise a family ( and what size!), where you want to be locationally and career-wise, standard of life you plan to maintain, assets you wish to build - fixed and current, your responsibilities, disaster management plan, savings for the future etc.

Above All

Above all, one should never land oneself in unnecessary problems. It is always better to maintain integrity. Do not be greedy or get misled by quick-money ventures. Take your time to study, analyse and discuss any investment and its associated risks. Do not fall into traps just because your friend has taken up something. Be safe and sure. Live by truth and self-control. Never be avengeful or nurture evil thoughts. Whenever you get angry or upset with someone, adopt "silence with a smile". If you wish you can tell politely but be ready to hear similarly!

In the long run, try to make up as best as and as fast as you can. Nobody has come to live permanently on this planet....

For latest job openings in computer related fields, you can visit:


