Title: 
Get Creative To Find Music Production Jobs

Word Count:
698

Summary:
So you've got that degree in Music Production - but after months of scouring the want ads, you're beginning to wonder if you shouldn't have backed it up with a minor in Education. Don't despair yet - you're a creative person or you wouldn't have chosen this business to begin with. The secret to finding and getting music production jobs is to use some of that creativity in your job search.

There are three things to keep in mind when doing a creative job search for music pro...


Keywords:
music jobs, music jobs uk, music industry jobs, classical music jobs, church music jobs


Article Body:
So you've got that degree in Music Production - but after months of scouring the want ads, you're beginning to wonder if you shouldn't have backed it up with a minor in Education. Don't despair yet - you're a creative person or you wouldn't have chosen this business to begin with. The secret to finding and getting music production jobs is to use some of that creativity in your job search.

There are three things to keep in mind when doing a creative job search for music production jobs:

1. As many as 90% of the jobs in any media occupation never get advertised through regular channels. The music production companies get enough over the transom resumes that they can pick and choose without advertising.

2. In many music production jobs, networking will be a key part of your job description. If you can't network to get a job, you'll have a hard time convincing a hiring manager that you can do the job.

3. Sometimes the best way to get your foot in the door is to intern for a music production company. According to a recent survey conducted by CareerExposure, 94% of employers have offered a full time job to interns when their internship was finished.

Keeping those three things in mind, you can put together a creative music productions job search that will land you the position that you want using the following blueprint.

1. Do your homework. You should know the music production jobs that you're going after inside out. Read up on the web, visit the library and bookstores and find out all that you can.

2. Start applying your networking skills. Make a list of people you know who may be able to help you. Don't forget to include people like your ex-teachers, business acquaintances and people you know through other people. Did you do sound levels for a band? Have you interned for a publisher? Have you got a chance to attend a media symposium? Those are all important contacts for you when you're trying to network your way into music production jobs.

Boldness is an important skill to cultivate here. Ask for letters of introduction, or for permission to use someone's name when you contact another. It's amazing how quickly you'll get results with a simple statement like, "Hi, Mr. Producer, my name is Interested Party. My professor, Ms. In-The-Know suggested that I call you when I told her that I'm interested in an internship with your company. Do you have a few moments to talk with me about that now, or is there a better time to call you?"

3. All right, you're not quite that bold? There are several different methods of approach you can use to contact people who hold the keys to music production jobs.

- Mail is the most traditional method. Once you've researched enough to know what companies you want to work for, and who makes hiring decisions there, you can mail a resume along with an excellent cover letter. Chances are though, that you'll have to follow up on your initial mail. Remember point #1 above - music production companies get loads of over the transom resumes.

- Email is a second option, and is a reasonable way to follow up as well. If you've sent your resume by mail, wait a few days and then follow up with an email to the hiring manager stating that you're following up on your mailed resume and are very interested in discussing possible career options within his or her company. If you haven't, send a cover letter and resume via email, and follow up in a few days with a second email.

- Telephone calls may be scary, but they are one of the quickest ways to get through to the person you want to speak with. Keep in mind that your phone call is an interruption to the hiring manager's day - be pleasant, be brief and be direct.

The secret to finding and getting music production jobs is being bold enough to get yourself out there and sell your skills and abilities. With only 10% of the available jobs ever being offered openly in the classifieds, it's the only way that you'll ever know what music production jobs are available.


