Title: 
Getting Along With Difficult People at Work

Word Count:
486

Summary:
The articles is about the stress and anxiety caused by office intrigues and having “difficult” co-workers


Keywords:
stress and anxiety, depression


Article Body:
“Last week, my boss hired a “trainee” straight out of college to work in our department. She is young and it really showed in how she behaved. The problem is, this new “co-worker” of mine started acting like a prima donna. She has become manipulative and dominant. Some of my colleagues are complaining behind her back. It was becoming a nightmare for me just being near her. It has even made me think of quitting.”

Dealing with difficult co-workers is one of the leading causes of stress and anxiety. Unresolved...it would make that person even more depressed. There are people can't seem to get ahead in life because of relationships or situations. Our main set-backs is not all of us are taking the necessary steps to cope up with those people who make life unbearable for us at work. The following are just some of the list of behaviors that push our “buttons” in the workplace:

l	Criticizing your religious or political beliefs
l	Uncooperative
l	Absenteeism (with effects the team members)
l	Too much gossiping
l	Arrogant
l	Disrespectful to supervisors or co-workers
l	Unfriendly

The ability to get along with people, adapting to their different personalities takes a certain degree of maturity, patience, understanding and it is the basic factor in our  workplace survival and no amount of college education will ensure professional behavior. Workplace relationships is as crucial, it can even lead to unhappiness of that person can't get along with everybody or that person makes life miserable for others. 

Coping with a troublesome co-worker

One of the biggest challenges of dealing with difficult co-workers is that their behavior can take many forms. If a co-worker is rude or negative it may require a different approach. Here are some general tips on how to cope with difficult co-workers:

l	If that co-worker's unpleasant behavior interferes with how you do your job, you must find a way to solve it if is not directly interfering with your job the best way is just ignore it.

l	Give your co-worker the benefit of the doubt.

l	Speak up! Bring up the problem directly and privately to your co-worker. If the co-worker's problems is that she tends to be such a whiner or gossips continually. Put an end to it by discouraging that person.

l	Try it out for yourself if talking to that person will solved the problem if not; that is the perfect time to talk to your manager. Managers generally expect you to work out most of the problems with people who are on your own level. Be sure you tried everything even a trusted mediator before going on a higher level.

Be also aware of your own behavior and work at changing them. Be sure to identify your strengths and weaknesses. You might not change or control the behavior or attitudes of others but you have the power to change yours.


