Title: 
Guide To Choosing A Fashion Design School

Word Count:
770

Summary:
A successful future in the fashion design industry depends on the right choice of school to attend. Although fashion design is not one of the more popular careers to pursue, if your talents lie in this field, there is ample opportunity awaiting you. However, the first thing to hurdle is your choice of school. 

When choosing a fashion design school, consider the following factors. 

Area of Focus 

Look into the nature of the school. Is it solely a fashion design school...


Keywords:
design school,fashion design school


Article Body:
A successful future in the fashion design industry depends on the right choice of school to attend. Although fashion design is not one of the more popular careers to pursue, if your talents lie in this field, there is ample opportunity awaiting you. However, the first thing to hurdle is your choice of school. 

When choosing a fashion design school, consider the following factors. 

Area of Focus 

Look into the nature of the school. Is it solely a fashion design school or does it offer other courses. Is this school well-known for its emphasis on fashion design? 

Fashion design schools are few and far between. This makes it harder to choose one that fits your bill. Your first task will be to find a reputable school that will aid you in your training. 

Also, look into whether the school participates in any fashion design competitions or has accomplished anything of reknown in the industry. This is a sure sign of their commitment to the fashion arts and its education among students. 

Different schools have different strengths, find a school that plays to your strengths and has specializations in the field of your choice. 

For example, you might choose a very well-known fashion design school only to find out that they specialize in childrens’ clothing, while the field of your choice is adult formal wear. This could diffuse your interests, and dull your specialization. 

Make sure you know what field the school you are scouting focuses on. This will help you specialize in that area too. 

Alumni and Job Placements 

Does the college offer job placement assistance? And has the alumni from this school gone on to be successful professionals? Always learn from other’s previous experience. If you see that those that had gone through this school before you received proper training and are successful in their field, that is an indication of a good school. 

Most of these reputable schools have numerous connections in the graphic arts industry. They usually offer job placement services. You may want to consider this when choosing a school. 

It would do no harm to start looking at the educational background of your admired fashion designer. Checking out the schools they came from will give an idea of the sort of training these artists went through. From here, you may make decisions as to whether you would like to choose the same school as they did. 

Curriculum 

You must assess whether the curriculum is relevant to you field of study. You may want to compare the curricula of different schools to see which offers the best form of education. 

It would also be wise to check the quality of the teaching staff at that school. Having established artists who teach at a fashion design school is also an indication of a good training program. 

Student to Teacher Ratio 

Ask yourself: how big are the classes and how many teachers and classes are available at this school before you choose it. The more the students, the lesser the efficacy of the teacher. However, if there are too few students per teacher, that could tell of a different problem – that of quality. If this is the case, it may be that the school is not popular or is suffering from anemic academic performance. 

Accreditation 

Accreditation means the school has passed certain standards of educational quality. Accreditation is performed by the U.S. Department of Education. Fashion design schools must be accredited to prove their level of competence. 

Check with the State Postsecondary School Licensing Bureau to see if the college you are investigating is accredited. Also, check the National Approval and Accreditation for this concern. 

Cost 

Some people may proclaim that to obtain their education, they would spare no coin. Unfortunately, it also pays to be practical in your choice of fashion design school. If the school you choose has a tuition rate that is beyond your financial capability, you might find yourself working and unable to pursue your studies consistently due to the financial stress which may lead you to look for part-time work. 

Scholarships 

You might want to consider whether the design school you are looking at offers any scholarships. You also might want to know the terms to them too. Some schools offer scholarships based on academic performance. Some offer them based on fashion design competitions they hold regularly. 

Your choice of school is an investment that will last you a lifetime. Proper care and investigation in choosing such is truly important. When you are comfortable with your choice of fashion design schools, you can now chart your path towards a successful career.


