Title: 
Helping To Develop Student Leaders

Word Count:
270

Summary:
There's good news for students who want to unlock their potential and pursue their dream of becoming a leader in the business world.


Keywords:
Helping To Develop Student Leaders


Article Body:
There's good news for students who want to unlock their potential and pursue their dream of becoming a leader in the business world. 

An organization committed to bringing business and education together is offering a series of workshops and events designed to serve the needs of middle level, high school and college students. 

Future Business Leaders of America-Phi Beta Lambda (FBLA-PBL) is a nonprofit education association with a membership of a quarter million students preparing for careers in business and business-related fields. It is the largest business career student organization in the country and is well regarded for its innovative leadership and career development programs.

FBLA-PBL offers a number of workshops and tests designed to assist students who want to sharpen their skills and get certified in different competencies. For example: 

&#8226; Workshop topics include business, career development, communications, finance, leadership, IT and other areas that are designed to meet the standards of the National Business Education Association (NBEA).

&#8226; Certification as a Certified Internet Webmaster (CIW) is offered through a series of three exams. The cost is $25 per exam. 

&#8226; College credits in the areas of accounting and information systems and computer applications are available through College-Level Examination Program (CLEP) tests. Each exam is $55. 

FBLA-PBL also holds national conferences for members that promote leadership development. The 2006 conference is being held this summer in Nashville, Tennessee. 

This year's keynote speaker at the conference is Coach Ken Carter, coach of the Richmond High School Basketball team and the inspiration for the movie "Coach Carter." 

The conference also offers an Institute For Leaders (IFL) where members and advisers can learn, explore and practice leadership skills.


