Title: 
Highway Spending Bill and Construction Jobs

Word Count:
433

Summary:
You may remember reading last August about the monumental transportation-funding bill that was signed into existence by President Bush.


Keywords:
Heavy Equipment Training, Bulldozer, Jobs for G.I's, Construction Jobs


Article Body:
You may remember reading last August about the monumental transportation-funding bill that was signed into existence by President Bush. The measure allocated a staggering 286.5 billion dollars for use in highway and transit spending.  It is difficult to get a grasp on the number itself, let alone what it can potentially end up meaning for the country and it’s workers.  According to the American Road and Transportation Builders Association, as quoted by Bloomberg (http://www.earthmoverschool.com/bill.htm), each addition billion dollars spent on road construction is worth more than 47,000 American jobs.  This means that, in the long run, the transportation bill will be worth literally hundreds of thousands of jobs.

With this major economic boon fast approaching, it is important to learn the skills that will be necessary in order to take advantage of it.  President Bush gave his speech celebrating the bill passage at the Caterpillar manufacturing plant, and he assured the employees there that demand for their machines would skyrocket.  As that happens, the need for qualified operators of said machinery will also grow exponentially.  The problem is, there is a severe lack of qualified prospects in this field.  Those who can push themselves to the forefront stand to reap the benefits of the transportation bill.

The National Heavy Equipment Operators School offers just the sort of training that can help usher graduates directly into construction employment opportunities.  National’s program is the only accredited heavy machinery operation training in the country, and as such it is universally recognized and respected throughout the industry.  A large number of our graduates are able to procure employment even before finishing their training.  National’s two-part approach to heavy equipment training is unique and thorough.  Before even seeing the machines in question, the student completes a comprehensive and informative course from the comfort of their own home.  This course provides all of the information that they will need in order to progress to the next phase of their training.  Once this is completed, the remainder of the training is completed on-site at our North Florida facility.  There, the student receives instruction and experience on a wide range of heavy construction machinery. 

With the skills and knowledge provided by National’s training program, you will be able to get your foot in the proverbial employment door; because our program is so well regarded, we maintain close relationships with employers all around the nation, including many that will be contracted as part of the highway spending bill.  Take the steps to make sure that you are able to take advantage of the recent legislation.


