Title: 
How To Become A Successful Intern

Word Count:
538

Summary:
Internships are one of the most powerful ways for you to get the experience that you need in your chosen field. These are getting to be more and more common as companies and employees alike learn how great they can be.

Internships allow companies to train new people in the way they run their businesses. Many of the companies that hire interns end up hiring these people as full time employees when they are finished the internship and their schooling. That is why it is so im...


Keywords:
career,resume,internship,job


Article Body:
Internships are one of the most powerful ways for you to get the experience that you need in your chosen field. These are getting to be more and more common as companies and employees alike learn how great they can be.

Internships allow companies to train new people in the way they run their businesses. Many of the companies that hire interns end up hiring these people as full time employees when they are finished the internship and their schooling. That is why it is so important for you to choose an internship that you actually like. This is when you get to get your foot in the door at your dream company so choose wisely!

Here are some important tips that you can use to make the most out of any internship:

Establish a good relationship with your supervisor
You need to get on the right side of your supervisor right away. Find a common bond and take some time to grow it well. You need to tell your supervisor how you are doing, even if you are having trouble. Take it from an expert, it is better to ask for help when you are having trouble than to keep getting things done wrong. If you need to clarify how to do your job that is okay, by asking important questions the employers are going to see that you are dedicated to always doing the best job possible during your internship.

You may want to have a meeting with your supervisor at least once a week. This is a great way to establish that contact that is so important to your overall success. Take the big step of asking what you could do to be more productive. Don’t just expect praise to be heaped upon you, ask what your weaknesses are so that you can turn them into your strengths. If you need to do the scheduling then do it, do not wait for the supervisor to do it for you. Take responsibility for things right for the start and you will be looked upon as a go-getter, which is always a good thing.

Be enthusiastic
This is key to your success in any field or any position, especially your internship. If the company wants to heap coffee fetching and those kinds of jobs on you at first then let them. Some people may feel like you need to earn your dues and their respect during your internship. You need to accept it all with grace. That is a very important lesson that too many people have learned the hard way in their internships. Ask for more work when you have time for it and make it clear that you are always up for anything, especially working overtime.

Be a team player
One of the hardest things to do when you are starting a new internship is to be both a team player and a person who is able to work on their own. You need to find the balance between being self reliant and still working perfectly with others. This may take some time to do but you need to be working on it at all times. That is the key to your career success.


