Title: 
How to Apply For Job by Searching On the Internet

Word Count:
534

Summary:
Today internet is best job employment exchange.  Employers post jobs on internet to find the best talent . There are so many websites which connects job seekers  with employers by allowing free job posting for employers as well as free resume set up for job seekers. Online job search is best and common practice to start or change your career


Keywords:
 free job post,  post jobs free,  free job posting,  post jobs for free,  find jobs,  search jobs, job websites, job search, job salary,  job employment


Article Body:
If you are looking for a job in today's world ? there is no better way to do that than through the Internet. It can offer you the widest range of possibilities in all walks of life anywhere in the world. Many people, even today, find the Internet intimidating mostly because it is so vast and it has so much information that you do not know where to start and where to end. Many <a href="http://www.jobo3.com/">job website</a> offer employers free job posting to enable them to connect to job seekers.  In order to find a online job you need to master the skill of searching on the Internet.  You would need to know where to look and what to ignore. 

1. Searching job on the Internet ? before you go for the actual search, you would need to narrow the search focus as much as possible. For this purpose, you need to identify what exactly would make you happy to have as a career.  

In case you are undecided yet, list your strength and past experience and this would guide to what should be your career focus.  If by any chance what you see is not exactly what you want ? do not despair. You could attempt a change in career by focusing on your aptitude and soft skills. 

Once you decided what you want to pursue  then start your online job search . You will almost instantly receive thousands of possible websites like <a href="http://www.jobo3.com/">jobo3.com</a> where such job listings are posted. Choose maximum four such websites and submit your application.
 

2. Posting your resume on the Net ? your search for job can be delegated to the Net. You could identify excellent job sites like <a  href="http://www.jobo3.com/">www.jobo3.com</a>  and post your resume there. For websites such as this one, the moment you upload your resume, it would be available to thousands of employers as these days majority of job sites are following  social networking by allowing  employers to post jobs for free and connect to job seekers 

A word of caution ? you need to upload a separate CV for every type of job you are looking for; for example if you are looking for a job in marketing and HR ? you have to draw up  different resume so that each would have different keywords highlighted in it. Since the employer would search the data base by keywords ? so pickup the best ones relevant to your skills and job you aspire 


Appearing For the Interview

Once you get the call letter, you are in the second phase of the job acquiring process.  Here you need to understand and prepare yourself thoroughly for behavioral interviews, psychometric interviews, technical interviews and so on. You also need to learn in depth about the company you are appearing the job interview for as well as what exactly the job requires of you. Before you appear for the interview you would need to match your skill and strengths as closely as possible to what is required for the job. Also do some research on internet about job salary and employment guidelines for similar kind of positions


