Title: 
How To Find Alternative Employment

Word Count:
547

Summary:
There are many people who are in a position where they are not happy with their current role of employment. They would love to be able to find alternative work but may be scared or unsure of how to proceed. This could be because they have worked for the same company for a large number of years and feel that they have lost touch with where to look for work or about the daunting task of attending an interview.


Keywords:
employment, vacancies, role, position, company, work, jobs, recruitment, job centres, internet, web


Article Body:
There are many people who are in a position where they are not happy with their current role of employment. They would love to be able to find alternative work but may be scared or unsure of how to proceed. This could be because they have worked for the same company for a large number of years and feel that they have lost touch with where to look for work or about the daunting task of attending an interview.

There are many places where people can go to in their quest to find alternative employment. If you are one of these people who have worked for the same company for quite a long time, you may actually be pleasantly surprised at the amount of help and opportunities that are out there. Most of the governments around the world are trying to help people to gain employment which helps them in turn to announce lower unemployment figures for their country.

Job centres

For many, the first port of call would be to go to their local job centre. In my opinion most of the vacancies that are available here are not for exactly well paid positions, however in general the staff are normally very friendly and helpful.

The internet

Since the birth of the internet there have been an increasing number of websites offering job finding services and many of the larger companies advertise their vacant positions on the web. If you have access to the internet this is a great place to look when attempting to find work and I know of many people who have found a new career in this way. 

In the future, I think that the internet will become one of the main places to go to when looking for work. In the UK, job centre plus already has a superb website which means that in reality there should be no requirement to physically go to the job centre itself, as all of the vacancies it has are shown online.

Many of the websites offer a service where you can upload your c.v to their database. They can also offer a you a job alert system, this is where they e-mail people all of the new vacancies that suit their requirements. This of course saves you time as you therefore do not have to keep checking everyday.

Friends and family

It is also a good idea to ask friends and family if they know of anywhere that is looking for new recruits. This could even be at the company where they work. Many people find employment in this way.

Recruitment agencies

I think my personal favourite place to attempt to find work is via a recruitment agency. This is where they basically do all of the leg work for you. They basically contact people who are on their books with what they believe to be a suitable role and then set up the interviews as well. Recruitment agencies can also offer advice about how to write a professional looking c.v and advice about interview techniques.

There are many places where people can go to look for alternative work, therefore there is no need to be daunted by the whole process or to continue to be stuck in a dead end job.


