Title: 
How Not To Find A Job

Word Count:
589

Summary:
Job searching can be tough enough all by itself. There is no need to make it even harder by doing or saying the wrong thing when job searching or interviewing. Here's a list of what you shouldn't do. These tips might sound simple, but, you might be surprised at how many people make a mistake without thinking much about it. Then they wonder why they didn't get a call or didn't get the job.

Make a Mistake. Should a typo in your resume or cover letter drop you out of contenti...


Keywords:
Resume, writing, job, search, interviewing, tips, employment


Article Body:
Job searching can be tough enough all by itself. There is no need to make it even harder by doing or saying the wrong thing when job searching or interviewing. Here's a list of what you shouldn't do. These tips might sound simple, but, you might be surprised at how many people make a mistake without thinking much about it. Then they wonder why they didn't get a call or didn't get the job.

Make a Mistake. Should a typo in your resume or cover letter drop you out of contention? It shouldn't, but, it might. Employers typically get hundreds of resumes for each position they list. Perfection counts.

Limit Your Job Search. Don't limit your search by only applying to positions that meet your exact criteria. Instead, having an open mind (remember, you won't know exactly what the job entails until you interview) when reviewing the job ads will increase your applications and increase your chances for getting an interview.

Expand Your Job Search. Sounds contradictory, doesn't it? You shouldn't limit your job search, but, there is no point wasting your time or anyone elses applying for jobs you aren't qualified for. The gentleman working as a child care provider didn't, and won't, get called for an interview as a C++ programmer.

Job Search Only Online. Don't post your resume on Monster and HotJobs and hope that your email In Box will start to fill up or your phone will start ringing off the hook. It won't happen. You need to be proactive when job searching and use all available job search resources - online and offline.

Contradict Yourself. If you are interviewing with several people make sure you keep your story straight. Telling one interviewer one thing and another something else is a good way not to get the job.

Insult your Former Employer. Even if your last job was horrible and your boss was an idiot, don't mention it. Speaking poorly about former employers is never wise. How does your future employer know that you won't talk about him that way, next time around?

Underdo It. Don't be a slob. Candidates who are unkempt, disheveled and poorly dressed won't get the job.

Over Do It. I once worked for someone who wouldn't hire anyone he could smell before they walked into his office. He might have been overdoing it a little, but, the candidates would have done better if they had minimized the perfume or the after shave.

Show Your Desperation. Are you almost out of unemployment? Don't know where you next meal is coming from? Do you absolutely have to have this job? Don't give an inkling of any of that away. You want employers to believe that you want this job because it's a good opportunity and you can be an asset to the company, not because you need to buy groceries or make your car payment.

Show Your Tattoos. If you are applying for a position in the corporate world, and other worlds too, you might want to cover up your tattoos and remove some of your rings if you're pierced in lots of places. They probably won't impress most employers.

Give Up. Regardless of how good the job market is, job searching isn't simple, and it's not always easy to stay positive and focused. When you've sent hundreds of resumes without much of a response it can be difficult to keep going. It's important though to keep plugging away, to use all the job search tools available, and to keep a positive outlook.


