Title: 
How to Earn Big From Paid Online Surveys

Word Count:
545

Summary:
The earning potential of a person who takes online paid surveys depends on how frequently he or she gets them, types of surveys and the time spent on completing them.  The compensation for a paid survey ranges from $1 to $50 or more for each and every online survey being completed.


Keywords:
paid online surveys, online surveys, free paid online surveys, work from home


Article Body:
First of all, let us see why do we get paid for taking online surveys? Paid survey companies do conduct researches in the field of marketing on behalf of their clients for analyzing consumers’ attitude and interest towards a particular product or service. The online surveys help in acquiring the valuable feedback from consumers and offer them cash and prizes in return to their time spent on taking surveys and giving out opinions.  There are even companies which offer you sample products and pay to conduct evaluation of certain products.

After understanding the concept of why do they pay the consumers, we can now discuss about how much money can a person make out of taking online paid surveys?

The earning potential of a person who is taking online paid surveys depends on how frequently he gets surveys, type of surveys and the time spent on completing them.  All these facts depend on the company’s needs.  Normally, it takes anywhere between 10 minutes to one hour to complete an online survey which purely depends on number of questions to be answered. 

The compensation for a paid survey ranges from $1 to $50 or more for each and ever survey being completed.  Some paid online survey companies provide the consumers who take surveys with points which can be redeemed for cash or prize after a cut off mark normally by making 1000 points minimum which will equal to $50 minimum to exchange with cash or prize, some may ask to enter sweepstakes for cash or prizes.  Certain surveys are offered to only focus groups who are specialized in the field of the survey to be taken which will take more time than the normal survey and also offer more pay than the normal ones.  

The next step is to have knowledge of what should one expect from online paid surveys and know when it is happening?

When the agency that conducts online paid surveys, is in need of your opinions on a specific product, service or a new concept it will then notify you by e-mail with a set of questionnaires.  The link given in the email will list for the surveys you are entitled for, the points you can earn after successful completion of the survey.  Most of the surveys will have screening questions to find out if you are eligible to take the survey as it might be according to the factors like age, gender and income. if you aren’t not eligible to take the survey, you will be offered minimum points or entry to sweepstakes.

To get maximum number of surveys one can enroll with two or more online paid survey companies rather than sticking with only one as this increases the flow of surveys.  By filling up profile surveys the research companies learn a lot about you so give you the surveys, which would suit your educational, background, income, age and gender.  Although profile surveys are not paid, it increases your presence.  This will also give an impression of a committed survey taker.  The free online paid surveys are recommended than the paid online surveys, as there is no risk involved regarding the genuineness of the company offering surveys.  Finally it is very important to have a unique account where the money will be deposited.


