Title: 
How To Apply For Jobs As A Flight Attendant

Word Count:
637

Summary:
If you wanted to be a flight attendant in the old days, it was a pretty straightforward process. You simply went to the airline's ticket counter, asked for an application and took it home. After you filled it out, you sent it in to the home office and waited for them to call you for an interview.

Times have changed, and so has the recruitment process for jobs as a flight attendant. These days, the quickest and easiest way to apply for a job as a flight attendant is on the ...


Keywords:
flight attendant jobs, airline flight attendant jobs, united airline flight attendant jobs


Article Body:
If you wanted to be a flight attendant in the old days, it was a pretty straightforward process. You simply went to the airline's ticket counter, asked for an application and took it home. After you filled it out, you sent it in to the home office and waited for them to call you for an interview.

Times have changed, and so has the recruitment process for jobs as a flight attendant. These days, the quickest and easiest way to apply for a job as a flight attendant is on the Internet. Your first stop in your job hunt for that perfect flight attendant job is a search engine or directory to find the web sites of as many airlines as possible. Don't forget to include the charter services and fractional owner airlines that are among the highest paying of all jobs as a flight attendant. With that list in hand, fire up your web browser again and start hitting the airline company web sites.

Be sure that you have your entire resume details gathered together. Many of the airline web sites now do their preliminary screening of applicants for flight attendant jobs over the Internet. You may be able to simply upload your current resume along with a cover letter, or you may have to enter your details into a web form. Many job experts recommend that if you're given a choice, opt to use the provided form rather than uploading your resume. Often, the form feeds names and details directly into a database that the company will use when sending out invitations to applicants to attend group interviews and informational sessions scheduled around the country.

Telephone Interviews for Flight Attendant Jobs

Some airlines have recorded telephone interviews to screen out people applying for jobs as a flight attendant. You may find the telephone number in a recruitment ad in your newspaper, or get it through the reservations line for the airline you want to apply to. When you call, you'll hear a short description of the jobs that are available, and then you'll be asked to submit your name, address and contact information over the telephone and to answer several questions about situations that you might run up against in the job. Those recorded interviews will be reviewed by hiring managers, and those that do well on the questions will be invited for face-to-face interviews for jobs as a flight attendant.

Airline Open House Interviews (and on Campus Recruitment)

The most common way to begin the process when you're considering a job as a flight attendant is through an open house/interview held by an airline. Airlines often hold these when they're planning to start a new training class, or to open a home base in a new city. Usually, they're advertised in the job sections of the local newspaper a few days before the open house. On the day of the event, the recruiters will give a short presentation about what it's like to work as a flight attendant for their airline. When the presentation is finished, interested applicants will be invited to step up on stage and introduce themselves with a short explanation of their job history and qualifications. Those who seem best suited for the job will be discreetly asked to remain for one on one or small group interviews.

Because the airlines hire far fewer people in jobs as flight attendants than the number who apply, they can afford to be choosy and hire only those that really catch the eye of the recruiter. That means, though, that you need to be persistent. Don't stop with one airline or one try. Apply to several different companies, and follow up on your resumes. There are far more jobs as flight attendants than you'd expect - you just have to keep looking for them.


