Title: 
How to Act During a Job Interview

Word Count:
605

Summary:
There are many things that you can do that can take some of the pressure off during an interview. The way that you behave is one of the most important.


Keywords:
interview question, interview, interview job, interview tip, job interview tip, preparing for interview


Article Body:
There are many things that you can do that can take some of the pressure off during an interview. The way that you behave is one of the most important. It’s not all in the words that come out of your mouth, but often has a lot to do with the mannerisms that you use.
 
Interviewers are not just wondering if you are skilled enough for the job, they are often wondering if you would fit in nicely with you co-workers. Your personality is a big part of your interview and can make all the difference. Here are some of the little things that you should pay particularly close attention to during an interview.

You do not want to be chewing gum or breath mints during your interview. You also don’t want to speak in slang during your interview either. It is unprofessional and rude.

Show Confidence
 
You cannot enter into an interview with a defeatist attitude. You cannot mope or exude too much placidity in your manner. It is not inviting, and does not give the impression of a person that you want to face every day. 
Be sure of your abilities without appearing cocky or narcissistic. You want to let you interviewer know that you are equipped to perform well at your job, without alienating other workers. You should point out your accomplishments in your field while remaining somewhat humble.
 
List your accomplishments in a matter of fact way without going into too much detail. I know this sounds repetitive, but you can never get this point too strongly. Understand that body language plays a large part in exuding confidence to others. Sit straight. Practice good posture, and keep your head up. 

Keep a Positive Attitude

You should always try to smile and keep a positive outlook during your interview. If what you are hearing something that doesn’t sound good to you, don’t frown and look disgruntled, just keep a slight smile on your face until it is time for you to say something. Then approach your interviewer with your questions or concerns when the time is appropriate.

Maintain Eye Contact
 
Keeping eye contact with your interviewer is very important, especially when one of you is speaking to the other. If you are looking around the room or at the items on the interviewer’s desk, you will appear uninterested. Just imagine what you would be thinking if you were speaking to him and he was looking all over the room. You would probably think that you already lost the interview.

Body Language
 
We’ve touched on this a little bit but you should mind some of the common errors that many people make when they are speaking to others. I’ve listed some of the common things that you should avoid when sitting through an interview.

• Avoid fidgeting while speaking to your interviewer. It shows a lack of self confidence.

• Avoid speaking while using overly expressive hand gestures. It is distracting.

• Avoid biting your lips in between sentences. It gives the impression that you are making things up.

• Do not sit with your arms crossed because it makes you appear stand-offish.
 
• Do not shrug your shoulders when asked a question that you are unsure of. Take a second to think of your response. Shrugging your shoulders gives the impression that you don’t know the answer.

• Don’t answer with nods and head shakes. Use your words to answer questions.

• Get plenty of sleep the night before the interview. You don’t want to yawn in front of the interviewer. He will think that you are expressing boredom.


