Title: 
Traveling Radiology Jobs: Landing One Isn't As Difficult As You Think

Word Count:
608

Summary:
If you're interested in a career in radiology, you may be surprised at the wide variety of options available to you. Not only are there several areas of radiology in which to specialize, but there are also many options when it comes to where to perform your job. You might want to consider a traveling radiology job to really put your skills to good use.

With a shortage of knowledgeable radiology technicians in some areas of the country, many hospitals have resorted to hirin...


Keywords:
radiology jobs, rad tech jobs, mammography jobs, nuclear medicine jobs, ultrasound jobs


Article Body:
If you're interested in a career in radiology, you may be surprised at the wide variety of options available to you. Not only are there several areas of radiology in which to specialize, but there are also many options when it comes to where to perform your job. You might want to consider a traveling radiology job to really put your skills to good use.

With a shortage of knowledgeable radiology technicians in some areas of the country, many hospitals have resorted to hiring outsiders to perform complicated radiology work. Traveling radiology techs are employed by an agency, which puts them in connection with hospitals all over the country that need assistance. The tech then travels to the hospital and stays on tenure for an average of three months. They perform all radiology tasks such as X-rays and sonograms, and sometimes even help the staff with other duties if such help is needed.

If this sounds interesting, you may be wondering what you need to do to land a traveling radiology job. The truth is, there is a major demand for people like you in the medical field right now, and it's easier than ever to find and land a traveling radiology job. You just need to know where to look. The information below should help put you on the right track.

Basic Requirements

The requirements for traveling radiology jobs don't differ much from those of a typical radiology career. You do need a two or four year degree in radiology, as well as a medical school background. The type of training you'll require depends on what type of radiology you want to do. Also keep in mind that radiology licensing requirements vary by state, and a traveling radiologist must be fully licensed in order to perform their duties.

Beyond such basic training, a traveling radiologist must be willing to be away from home for months at a time. Most agencies will work with traveling techs and designate an area where the tech wishes to work. Ideally, your hospital assignments will be within that area. However, some contracts last much longer than three months, and you should have a flexible schedule in order to be truly successful at this job.

Those in traveling radiology jobs also must be able to adapt very well to new situations. Keep in mind that every hospital where you sign a contract will have different equipment, a different staff, and very possibly different basic procedures. You must be an independent worker who can handle various situations with skill, and use applied knowledge to get you through new and unfamiliar territory.

Finding a job

For those interested in traveling radiology jobs, there are several resources available. The best place to start your search is on the Internet. You're likely to find all kinds of websites offering job postings and information on agencies; narrow your search down to those agencies that operate in your area.

Even if you don't find any job listings at agencies in your hometown, feel free to contact them and inquire whether or not they're hiring. Use the phone book to locate radiology centers and training offices in your city, as they will most likely be able to connect you with any agencies that handle traveling radiology jobs.

Finally, don't feel as though you must accept a job from the first agency that offers you one. Keep in mind that where you travel will have a significant impact on how your job advances and what kind of experience you'll have. The ideal radiology agency will work with you to find the ideal locations and opportunities to ensure that you are satisfied.


