Title: 
Your Guide To Finding Jobs In San Diego

Word Count:
480

Summary:
Discusses tips and steps on finding a job in the San Diego area.


Keywords:
San Diego, jobs, resume, career, craigslist


Article Body:
Finding jobs in San Diego, or anywhere else for that matter, is not as difficult as some people would have you believe. Job searching requires a high level of commitment, attention to detail, and willingness to take initiative. 

If you are willing to commit the time and effort, you will discover that finding your next San Diego job is not as hard as you originally thought.  The following tips will guide through the process.

Step one for finding jobs in San Diego is to write an effective resume and cover letter.

For better or worse,  your resume is the first thing that an San Diego employer will look at, since a cursory  glance at your writing skills, attention to detail, work history, and special skills says more about you than you may think. 

In order to help you secure the job in San Diego that you are searching for, your resume should include the following information and components:

Your Contact Info: This should include your name, address, phone number, email, etc and be located prominently at the top of the page. 

Objectives: Avoid sounding cheesy and generic, and try to update your objective section for  all of the San Diego jobs that you apply for.   For example, do not say A great job, say a rewarding and challenging career in the (insert career field here)” or something similar. 

Education: List your most recent educational experience first, and be sure to mention any degrees, certifications, etc. that you have obtained.  

Previous Relevant Job Experience: Start with your most recent job experience first, making sure to list all of the duties you performed and the tasks that you were responsible. If you have an extensive work history, you should only list your three most recent, relevant jobs. 

If your work history is limited, however, devote more time to highlighting your career accomplishments.

Special Skills, Awards, Achievements, and Certifications:  Be sure to include details highlighting the importance and relevance of each one, if possible. 

References:  It may be tempting, but do not fall into the trap that so many job seekers do of saying that your references will be available upon request. List your references, and make sure that you  include all relevant contact information, as well as a brief mention as to why you are including a particular individual as a reference. 

There are many different ways to write a resume, but following this method will ensure that you will appear polished, professional, and prepared, like the dedicated San Diego jobs seeker you truly are. 

Also one particular item that should always be addressed in the San Diego area is the work dresscode.  Because of the nice weather many San Diego business environments are casual but also they can be business attire as usual.  So be sure to ask about the dresscode when making an appointment to go in for an interview.


