California Tan: A Little Precaution

The thought of summer connotes one thing—a beautiful and captivating tan! More so, there is no doubt that people get pretty excited with getting the most boastful tan possible during the course of the summer months. 

Wouldn't it be so nice to adore a golden bronze tan on your skin? Would you not become boastful of it? Many California residents are after the most loved California tan so as the summer months are finally marking their way on the calendar, you are one of those who seek to lavish your desire of getting a California tan. Oh just imagine how your friends will adore your perfect California tan!

However, a California tan can quite be impossible to achieve not unless your home is in the Southern region of the state. The teenagers, most especially, do love to get that pre-summer California tan and the best option they leave to themselves is to hit the famous tanning salons in their area. This endeavor of course brings about one thing—harming their own skins! 

The tanning salons provide the tanning beds for their customers. With the teenagers who are very much willing to get that California pre-summer tan, they could abuse and harm their skins especially when they make use of the tanning beds in the absence of the supervision of the expert. Another root of the harm which may be imposed to them is the lack of supervision or regulation concerning the needed time to be spent by a person in the tanning bed. 

Yes, there is harm caused by the abuse of use of the tanning bed. A lot of individuals may not know the fact that the UVA rays which are emitted by the lights of the tanning bed brings about detrimental effects to the skin especially on an escalated cellular level. 

People may always have the lame excuse that the tanning beds have those protective shields made out of plexiglass but in truth, such material is not enough to shun away the UVA rays emitted during the entire tanning session. Just imagine the harm it may cause especially when the time to use the tanning beds get abused by you. There is always the high risk of getting burned. The damage can in fact be posed at the level where the melaninoid is. And you should know that the risk is even higher than that which is caused by the rays of the sun.

You must be aware of these things. The information has been brought to the public through the various websites that you can visit. Health agencies have also taken part into spreading this information so there is no need for you to be ignorant of this fact. 

The operators of the tanning beds likewise admit that there are the UVA and UVB rays emitted by the lights therein. When properly utilized, the danger is lessened but when it gets abused, you know then what will happen. In comparison with the rays of the sun, the UVA rays emitted by the tanning bed lights do not at all provide natural protection for one's skin. 

You may achieve your most desired California tan but as your skin gets darkened, you also increase your chance of achieving skin cancer. But then do not also be tricked by the fact that the sun's rays are the effective tanners. They too are harmful!
