California Tan: Giving You Products for a Safe and Effective Tanning Results

The cosmetic world has a myriad of applications available to enhance one's beauty. There are many reasons why people would want to enhance their beauty but primarily it is because they want to feel better about themselves. This then resulted to an endless evolution of the cosmetic products which keep on sprouting everywhere because people will never get satisfied with the results they get from one product and another. 

This also goes the same with the tanning products. In the earliest cosmetic period, darkening of the skin is a big no-no. Those people who were naturally born with dark skins were not considered fabulous and one out of the lovely genre. But as old times get by, dark coloring eventually became a trend and "in" thing in the industry, which led to many seeking ways to achieve "customized" tan color. 

The first thing they did was to expose themselves on the sun rays, which was aptly called as sunbathing. It produced lovely sunkissed color; but a little after there were many disadvantageous results from the practice.

And so, tanning application alternative was born in the 1960's. People were satisfied because there is no or little harm with the results. However, effect was not realistic. This inspired many others to produce the same product but focusing on a formulation that will yield better output. 

In 1987, another attempted to produce its own line of tanning products, the California Tan. The attempt was another one of those successful ones but California Tan quickly became the world's top selling tanning or UV lotions brand. 

California Tan has been producing wide collection of the products since then but this time innovation of the products included high-technology application. This technology does not only focus on the reliability of their products to produce natural, tan glow but develops product that will care for your skin too. 

California Tan products for home and professional use

California Tan is popular primarily because their products are ideal for both home and professional applications. For home applications, there are tanning lotions and equipment you can use. In the salons and spas, California Tan tanning products and all equipments are used to prepare and complete sessions for the consumers who prefer easy, quick services from the professionals. 

The California Tan Sunless trend

The sunless tanning trend has been developed by California Tan which allows everyone to look glowing with tan color all year round without staying under the sun. There are numerous ways on how to achieve this: 

First, the latest sunless tanning application from California Tan is through the automated stand-up units or handheld spray equipment, as well as airbrush equipment. This is the quickest and safest application you can have and is available through the salons and spas. The most advantage point of this kind of application is it yields immediate result upon application. 

Also popular from California Tan are the self-tanning lotions or sprays. These products are ideal for those people who do not want the services of tanning salon or spa but want to achieve the same result of sunkissed glow. California Tan self-tanners work effectively because they come with DHA (dihydrocyacetone), a known ingredient to involve darkening reaction with the skin proteins. 

The sunless trend from the California Tan offers complete line of tanning products with everything from the preparation procedures to maintaining the darkened result. 

California Tan tanning products let you prepare your skin for the application, develop the brown coloring of your skin, extend or maximize your tanned results, and enhance/accentuate your beautiful sunless tan. All these procedures allow you to achieve natural brown skin glow because every California Tan product is formulated with highly-advanced ingredients for fastest and safest results.
