California Tan: A Safe Way to Get a Tan

People at the Golden Gate are raving over tanned skin and this is brought about by the numerous studies showing tanned skin as healthier and more attractive as compared to white translucent skin. This same studies has also encourages more people to sun bathe and to utilize tanning beds, sun lamps and other tanning gadgets just to get that tanned skin they desire.Little did they know is that the ultraviolet rays from the sun as well as the UV used for tanning beds and other tanning gadgets can cause skin cancer. Now that is not very cool. But why sacrifice health for fad? It must be vanity I guess but then I could also be wrong.

Fortunately, there are now available ways on how one can achieve a beautiful tanned skin without the fear of skin cancer. Like for instance applying tanning lotion or utilizing tanning booths like the California Tan. 

The California Tan makes use of specialized spray tanners that enables complete cover-up in about five minutes to twenty minutes depending on the user. Regular user would usually take shorter time inside the booth since they know exactly what to do. On the other hand new users are first oriented on the booth functionalities and therefore require for a much longer time.

But once inside the booth, the whole tanning process is usually simple and quick in fact could take up for less than a minute or so. And the booth is also very private meaning that there are no strangers watching you while you get undressed. This is also the very reason why first time users have to be taught on how to use the booth since nobody will assist them inside. 

California Tan also makes use of a surface bronzer, which allows users to obtain a quick tanning result. But for a more lasting tan at least eight hours is needed in order for the tanning solution to stick on the skin. 

How to Achieve a Lasting Tan California Tan is basically self-tanning which means that personal preparation is very important. Here are some tips on how to achieve lasting tan:

1.	It is very important that before you proceed with the tanning procedures it is better if you exfoliate your skin to remove the dead skin cells. In case you don't have exfoliating products with you then ask from the tanning salon if they have one that you can use.

2.	Don't forget to apply moisturizer on your skin. Dry skin compared to moisturized skin does not absorb tanning products effectively. Plus, dry skin often leads to the appearance of dark patches especially after the application of self-tanning lotions.

3.	You should give your knees, nails, knuckles, feet and elbows with great attention since these are the parts of your body that absorbs a great part of the tanning solution. It would be best to apply barrier cream just to even out the distribution of the tanning solution of the abovementioned parts.

4.	Refrain from showering or taking a bath after your tanning session. If possible wait for at least eight hours just to give the tan solution enough time to really stick on your skin.

5.	Perspiration may also cause your tan to get washed off your skin so as much as possible avoid tiring yourself.

6.	Once your skin is completely dry then that would be the best time for you to apply moisturizer to help your tan to last longer.