California Tan Lotion for Streak-Free, Natural Tan Glow

Have you been dying to get a sunkissed glow but don't want to risk your skin from the harmful ultraviolet (UV) rays from the sun or the tanning bed? Have you tried the sunless tanning application yet? If not, then you are missing out a lot because you don't need sun rays to get that lovely tan those celebrity people are fabulously sporting. 

Sunless tanning procedure has been long popular in the industry and there have been countless women in the world who have experienced easy, quick, tan results from the application. Sunless tanning is the latest trend in the tanning salons and spas; and not only are those celebrity people could enjoy the results but you can also sport that lovely tan without the painful results of the sun rays and tanning beds. 

Now, when it comes to sunless tanning products, you have to choose a name to trust. There are many tanning lotions in the cosmetic world and it is important to look for one that would suit your skin and would not damage it. After all, your skin is in the outer layer and is what you want to enhance; not to destroy. 

In that case, California Tan comes into the scene. California Tan is the manufacturer of sunless tanning lotions, sprays, and equipment and has been known to have a reputation for tanning product excellence all over the world. The range of California Tan products includes everything you need for your tanning procedure. Also, these products are ideal both for self-applications at home and professional applications at the salons or spas.                         

The California Tan lotions are formulated with advanced sunless tanning ingredients which allow you to get natural-looking, streak-free tanned coloring without going out under the harmful ultraviolet rays of the sun. Also, while there are sunless tanning lotions that do not guarantee safe results to the skin, the California Sunless Tan lotions feature skin care ingredients (minus the alcohol) into the formulation. This allows you to protect your skin from potential damages while enjoying the fabulous, realistic tan color. 

The comprehensive range of California self-tan lotions and products allow you to completely enhance and care for your skin into your desired tan look. Everything from the beginning of the process up to the end of the post-application, California Tan products are complete for all the procedures. The self-tanner lotions are aided with pre-application California Tan products as well as with post-application California Tan products. With the right maintenance and care, you not only get effective and safe results but you can also maximize the effect into longevity.    

How does the California Tan Sunless lotion works?

The self-tanning agent of the sunless lotion, which is in the form of Dihydroxyacetone (DHA), is actively spread on the upper layer of the skin. This does not increase skin melanin levels, which is known to darken the skin, but it does develop a brown coloring on the skin. It is a colorless sugar which comes to interact with the skin proteins at the upper layer of your epidermis. The reaction between the outer layers of the epidermis and the DHA produces the "non-enzymatic coloring". 

The reaction will last for at least up to 7 days from the first application but with the proper post-application care and re-touching process, you will maintain the tanned coloring all year round. 
