California Tan Sunless Tanning Products: The Fastest, Most Effective and Safest Tanning Application 

In the olden days, women seek the outdoor sun rays to darken their colors. Although, there is some potion applied to their skins, they still have to endure the pain of ultraviolet rays just to achieve the most-sought after, fabulous tan color. Getting a tan color through the sun rays is easy; could be achieved in just a matter of hours; is free; but is dangerous. 

But despite with the threat of harm from the UV sun rays or even from the tanning beds, many still seek these two tanning applications  Fortunately, in 1987, a caring manufacturer started to produce safe alternative by formulating sunless tanning products. These have become the most reputable tanning products manufacturer where many have come to patronize and trust their results.

California Tan products are currently the world's top selling UV lotions. This is not to be surprised though as every California Tan product is a constant reminder of their reliability and dedication to develop the most advanced professional tanning skin care products. 

The sunless tan trend

The California Tan Sunless tanning products will give you that look you so admire from those other women who are naturally tanned in color. Yes, you can have this natural look with the sunless tanning products of California Tan because each is ensured to have the right formulation to provide streak-free, glowing and healthy tan result. Unlike with the others, which would only make your skin sport overall unnatural, orange results, a California Tan Sunless lotion will take care of your skin for an effective application. 

The California Tan Sunless was introduced in the cosmetic world as the most appropriate alternative to those other tanning procedures. It is also the latest trend in tanning innovation. The same with other California Tan UV lotions, the sunless trend will allow you to sport that natural-looking, streak-free tanned skin without endangering your skin layers. Also, applying the sunless tanning is done through easy steps of preparing, developing, extending, and enhancing the color procedures. 

Tan beauty without the sun rays

Sunless tanning has become the fast route to achieving safe, fabulous tan by staying out of the damaging sun rays. The California sunless trend has perfected this application by offering complete different ways to achieve sunless tanning results in as fast as less than 10 minutes. 

The automated stand-up units, handheld spray equipment, and airbrush equipment are the latest craze offered by California Tan in the tanning cosmetic world. These are particularly found through professional tanning salons and spas. Application is done by entering into the stand-up unit; have personally sprayed by the salon's trained technician; in no time at all, you get immediate sunless tanning treatment and result in just a matter of minutes. 
 
Another sunless tanning application is through the use of California Tan self-tanning lotions and sprays. These are often referred to as the California Tan bronzers, which let you achieve the same sunkissed result without visiting the tanning salon or spa. These products also provide you realistic, natural tan result as these do not contained dyes, as seen in the earlier tanning lotions. Instead of dyes, California Tan self-tanners are infused with Dihydroxyacetone (DHA), a formulation known to create the tan color by developing brown coloring on the upper skin layer. 

Achieving natural tan color does not have to be painful and harmful as staying out and exposing to UV sun rays. With the California Tan Sunless tanning products, you can have that fabulous color all year round without harming your skin layers.
