California Tan: The Best Brand that Gives the Tan You Desire

People throughout the history have been employing numerous ways of worshipping the sun. Great ancient civilizations like the Greeks and Romans have even built temples honoring the sun god. That was ancient ago but its influence had reached today's generation and thus continuous the practice of worshipping the sun. It may not be through temples but in another form, which is tanning. 

People love to have their skin tanned. Why? -Because they have discovered the benefits that comes with having a tanned skin. For most people tan means good health while for others it boost their features making them more attractive. Still others prefer tanned skin since it makes them look slimmer. 

But did you know that it was not always like this? There was a time when tanned skin was associated with slavery particularly with servants and slaves. It was also associated with the lower class since they often work in the fields. During those times, pale skin is the fad and symbolizes a high standing in the community. 

Community evolved, technology developed and tanning was transformed to a fashion statement making every individual dying to get their skin tanned. It was actually French fashion designer Gabrielle "Coco" Chanel that created tanning into a fashion statement when she (not really on purpose) appears at a fashion show with golden tan resulting from her yachting vacation on the French Riviera. And as the saying goes-the rest is history.

Different Ways of Tanning
There are different ways of getting a tan. There is the traditional way sunbathing which is not really advisable since it expose the skin to the harmful UV rays, which often leads to painful sunburn or worst skin cancer. 

There are also artificial indoor tanning machines that produce the same effect likened to a suntan. Examples of which are tanning beds and sun lamps but even these are considered harmful to the skin since it emits UV rays in the forms of UVB and UVA, which also has the tendency to cause skin cancer. With all the negative effects that tanning machines offer and with sunbathing claimed to be of no good also, just what are the ways where people get the tanned skin they desire? 

This has encouraged scientist to develop a new type of tanning technology that would employ UV-free products and machines. Accidentally they have discovered an active ingredient that when spilled on the skin produces a tanning result. This has started the sunless tanning revolution.

California Tan a Reputed Name in Sunless Tanning Technology
California Tan offers a wide array of tanning products ranging from lotions to tanning booths that are one hundred percent sunless or UV-free. That means that customers are guaranteed that their skin will not be damaged before, during, and after the tanning session. The highly efficient spraying system that are equipped in California Tan Booths ensures an even application of tanning solution resulting to a more natural tan look that last longer. 

Likewise, the tanning lotions offered by California Tan do not only tan but also moisturized skin giving it a healthy glow. Plus it doesn't stain which makes it safe for your clothes and comparing it to any other brand of tanning lotion, California Tan lotion provides a tan that last longer. The lotions have also undergone numerous testing to ensure that customers will not experience any allergic reactions to them. So if you want safe tanning without the risks choose California Tan. 
