California Tan Spray Machine: Why is it more Sought-After? 

Why is the sunless tanning procedure becoming very famous these days? Experts take two principal reasons as their basis. First, people think that a tanned skin is the passport towards becoming fashionable, hot, captivating, and desirable. Not all people are living in areas where there is a sufficient supply of sunshine. 

More so, not all of you can thus afford to grab your bags for a vacation with the sun at the end of each month. This therefore means that there are people who are really turning to several mediums of sunless tanning. The second reason lies behind the fact that sunless tanning is much health-friendly. Everyone is aware that the constant exposure to the ultraviolet rays emitted by the sun only heightens the possibility of skin cancer. Sunless tanning is able to give you the desired result without actually harming your own skin.

Initially, there are four principal methods which are applicable for sunless tanning. They are the use of the sunless tanning lotion, spray tan machine, tanning beds, and the intake of the tanning pills. What are they all about?

Sunless tanning lotions. The sunless tanning lotions generally contain some bronzing ingredients known as the DHA. The DHA is a colorless sugar that interferes with the dead skin cells which henceforth causes a change in color of the skin. The change in the skin color lasts approximately from five up to seven days after the first application. This may be easy to use but an even tan cannot be guaranteed at all. 

Spray tanning. This may be just the same as the tanning lotion only that the tanning solution is applied through a spray. A spray gun can be used for this method but the spray tan machine is a lot better since an even tanning application may be assured. The spray tan machine is likewise termed as a booth. 

Tanning beds. The tanning beds or otherwise known as sun beds possess those fluorescent tubes. These tubes are responsible for tanning the skin through the emission of the ultraviolet rays. The same type of such rays is also derived from the sun itself. Tanning beds are effective but then the overuse of them usually causes skin aging and worst, skin cancer.

Tanning pills. These pills come in three variants. There are tanning pills which contain the caretenoid pigments, those without active ingredients, and those pills with tyrosine. The caretenoid pills have the special pigments which saturate all of the fat layers underlying the skin. Tanning pills change the skin color but they are not as effective as the rest of the tanning mediums.

Most people agree to the use of the California Tan Spray machine. If you wish to get the same experience, start looking for the most established and reputable tanning salon near your place. It is advisable to get the opinion of the people around you. 

A thorough research especially with those people who have had their own experience with the California Tan Spray machine will help you a lot in deciding for the right place to go to. Once you've found the salon that you wish to get your tan from, make an appointment. Usually, the result of the California Tan Spray machine is an even tan all over your body. So where do you want to go then? 
