All about California Tan Products

Most American people think they would be more appealing if they get a touch of tan on their skins. That is why they can be found thriving at beaches during the summer. They always have in their minds that tanning their skin will mark a difference in their lives. If you do not want to put in stress on your own skin, you can consult a dermatologist or any expert on the matter of tanning. Know the type of skin that you have and carefully choose the California Tan product that will suit you best.

How the Skin Tanning Works

There are two kinds of ultraviolet radiations contained by the sun and which get absorbed by your skin. They are the UVA and the UVB. What causes the sunburn is the UVB radiation since it goes to burn the epidermis or the outer layer of one's skin. So which radiation results to the sought-after tan? It is none other than the UVA rays. The UVA rays do penetrate into the inner layer of the skin and they trigger the cells which are known as the melanocytes which are responsible for producing the skin's melanin. This melanin is a brown colored pigment and is responsible for the tanning of the skin.

Melanin serves as a protective coating against skin burning. The darker the skin of a person is, the easily his or her skin tans. It is because the melanocytes of the skin are able to make more melanin. But do not think that because you do not get sunburns, you are always protected against the threatening risk of cancer and the rest of the problems that confront the skin.

The Benefit of Using California Tan Products

As much as you would like to impose protection to your skin, you can never resist getting your most awaited tan. But you are lucky enough because there are several California Tan products which are out in the market. They are not the same as the tanning beds or those sun lamps. The California Tan products make your tanning experience trauma-free!

One of the very popular California Tan products is the sunless self-tanner. These products are placed inside a bottle which contains DHA. The DHA functions to stain the dead cells in the epidermis in a slow rate. The tan which you will get will last until such time when these dead cells are gone too so the color will fade in a faster manner. 

You should try out several California Tan products so that you will know which one will work best for your skin. There are of course different brands in which the tanning products come in. You can work them out in lotion, towellete, and spray forms. You can ask someone to help you in your sunless self tanning endeavor especially for the hard-to-reach areas of your body. Remember also to wash off these California Tan products from the parts of your body which do not really tan just like your palms. They will only appear to be dirty.

Another option for you to resort to is the airbrush tanning. This method provides a much even natural tan on your skin. It is advisable to exfoliate your own skin and make use of loofah or scrub brush right before the tanning product is applied onto the skin.
