Getting California Machine Spray Tan

California tanning makes use of sunless tanning technology, which means that it makes use of methods that provides tanned skinned appearance without actually absorbing harmful UV rays from the sun. There are different methods included in the collection of California Tan but one of the most popular is the California Tan Spray. But just what is a spray tan? A spray tan is basically referring to an artificial tan that is obtained by the use of dyes that are made for skin. There are two ways on how to obtain artificial tan: first by means of employing professional tanning services and using home tanning products. Whichever you prefer you will get a tan. 

A spray tan is a great alternative from harmful artificial tanning solutions that makes use of UVA and UVB. It is also a much preferred option to the usual sunbathing that often leads to sun damaged skin or worst cancer. 

Although there is still some people who are skeptical on using spray tan saying that it provides a very unnatural tan color but compared it to other tanning alternatives it simply cannot be denied that spray tan is by far safer. And in terms of the claimed unnatural color result, the spray tan technology has advance immensely that tanning results have become so natural you won't be able to tell that it's a fake tan. Plus it last longer compared to suntan and of course much safer. 

Professional spray tan is usually offered by tanning salons that have tanning booths. Different names are given to tanning application as well as to tanning products but they are basically the same. The advantage that comes with obtaining tanning service from professional tanning salons is that you are given better assistance especially when it comes to operating the spray tan machine inside the booth. 

You will also be guided on what tone to choose and the amount of application that you need to obtain the right tan color that would complement your skin type. Likewise, a technician will also help you in adjusting the nozzles inside the booth to match your desired result. The technician ensures that everything is set inside the booth before they let you in. 

The Machines behind the Tan

There are various types of spray tanning machines that are employed by tanning salons. These spray-tanning machines fall under two main types of systems and these are: automated spray tan booths and the manual spray-on tanning system. Both of these systems make use of DH, which is an active ingredient that reacts with the amino acid of the skin producing that natural tanned look.

The automated spray tan booth is a system comprising of a self-contained booth that is often made of fiberglass, aluminum or acrylic with a large compressor and spray nozzles. The spray nozzles are usually mounted on a moveable pillar. The user needs to stand in front of the nozzles and push the button of the machine to begin the tanning process.

The nozzles or sprays emit a mist of tanning solution that gently covers the body of the user giving it its tanned look. The booth is also designed in such a way the mist is pushed into a floor pan and into a filter system. 

The airbrush spray on tanning system on the other hand is likened to a car spray in a sense that it makes use of a small compressor, a small pot, s spray gun and a hose. The compressor is used to generate air pressure that is needed by the spray to spurt out the tanning solution. The spray spurt out very fine mist, which are then applied to the body to achieve tanned look. 

Tanning salons may offer both or any one of the above mentioned spray tan system. It is up to you to choose the one that would work best for you.