

Acute Bronchitis: How You Can Prevent It


Your health is one of the most important factors that you should consider in today's world. It is important that you should maintain a perfectly healthy body in order for you to function normally and productively in today's society. It is also important that you should know how to take care of your health in order to prevent certain illnesses from becoming worse.

Respiratory illnesses are very common nowadays. From asthma to other forms of respiratory illnesses, there are a millions of people suffering from different kinds of respiratory disorders. You have to consider the fact that your respiratory system is one of the vital systems that you need in your body. This is why you should know how to take care of your respiratory system in order to enjoy and live a normal and productive life.

However, there are some cases where people can suffer from respiratory illnesses, such as bronchitis. Bronchitis is a respiratory illness that affects the bronchial tree where the bronchi of the lungs become inflamed. Tobacco smokers and people living in areas where there is a high level of air pollution are mainly affected by this disease. If you are one of this people, you have to know how to prevent bronchitis from affecting you.

Firstly, you have to understand that there are two kinds of bronchitis. The first one is called acute bronchitis where it can last for only 10 to 12 days. The second kind of bronchitis is called chronic bronchitis where it can last up to three months to two years.

In acute bronchitis, it is fairly easy to prevent this particular respiratory illness from affecting you. Acute bronchitis is mainly caused by virus and bacterial infections. However, there are some rare cases where bronchitis can be caused by fungus. The person suffering from acute bronchitis may experience persistent coughing with mucus, feeling of fatigue, shortness of breath, mild chest pains, mild fever, vibration inside the chest when breathing, and they will also experience a feeling of coldness.

The virus that causes bronchitis can be the same virus that causes the common cold. In acute bronchitis that is caused by virus infection, no special medications are usually needed. All you need is plenty of rest, and drink a lot non caffeinated and non alcoholic beverages.

However, if the acute bronchitis is caused by bacterial infection, there will usually be antibiotic medications involved along with the mentioned treatments. If it is possible, the house where the patient is staying should have increased humidity by using room humidifiers.

Usually, acute bronchitis lasts only about 10 to 12 days. However, it may be closely followed or associated with flu or cold. Sometimes, coughing will continue during the healing process of the bronchi in your lungs. However, if the coughing lasts longer a month, it is recommended that you should consult your physician immediately as conditions other than bronchitis may cause the coughing.

Some people say that prevention is better than cure. This is very true. Just ask yourself on why suffer from bronchitis and getting it treated instead of preventing it to happen.  Bronchitis can be prevented. All you need to do is constantly wash your hands thoroughly.  If you are a smoker, quit smoking in order to prevent bronchitis from happening. It is also recommended that if you are living in an area where there are high levels of air pollution, you should try and install some curtains or air conditioners and filters inside your home in order for you to breathe clean air.

Bronchitis is a respiratory illness that can cause discomfort in your life. This is why it is important that you should know about the signs and symptoms of bronchitis in order for you to know if you have it and also for you to know if it is time for you to consult your doctor about it.

Always remember that bronchitis is a preventable illness. All you need to do is establish a good and proper hygiene inside your home, try to reduce or quit smoking, and install air filters around your home to let you breathe fresh and clean air. These are some of the things you should remember in order for you to know about bronchitis and also know how to prevent it from affecting you. 
