

Respiratory Survival: Holistic and Medical Approach for Allergy, Asthma, Bronchitis, Cold, and Sinusitis Treatment


Today, there are a lot of studies about different approaches to heal different illnesses. Some are more inclined in the traditional way where it has been proven effective for a lot of years and some use new alternatives that was recently invented to treat certain illnesses.

There are millions of Americans affected by different kinds of respiratory illnesses, such as asthma, allergy, bronchitis, cold, and sinus. You have to consider that a simple cold can affect the way you do your daily activity. It will cause symptoms, such as runny nose, cough, feeling of weakness, and even mild to moderate fever. As you can see, having respiratory illness can significantly affect your performance at work or at school. In most cases, you can't even go to school or work because of the illness.

If a cold virus can affect the way you function, it is obvious that other worse kind of respiratory illness can affect your daily activities and tasks. For example, respiratory allergy can be very irritating where you can't go near objects that contain any allergens. You have to consider that your can be allergic to anything. Usually, people with respiratory allergies are allergic to pollen, and dog and cat hair containing dander. People with respiratory allergies will need to take a lot of precaution as allergy attacks may come any time they are exposed to certain allergens.

Asthma is also a form of chronic respiratory disease where it affects millions of Americans. This particular disease is characterized by occasionally constricting the airway, inflamed and it is also lined with a excessive amounts of mucus.  Usually, emotional stress and overexertion can trigger asthma. However, there are some cases where allergies are also linked to asthma where it triggers it because of the allergens entering the system. Asthma sufferers feel shortness of breath, chest tightness, wheezing, persistent sneezing and persistent coughing.

Bronchitis is also one of the growing respiratory diseases today. Affecting people living in areas where there are high levels of air pollution, and also commonly affecting smokers, bronchitis is a disease that can affect your daily task. There are mainly two types of bronchitis and these are the acute bronchitis and the chronic bronchitis. The acute bronchitis is usually a short term illness where it can easily be treated and managed. However in the chronic bronchitis, it may have permanent damage on the respiratory system and treatment can last up to 2 consecutive years. Sometimes, bronchitis can also be linked to allergy where acute episodes of bronchitis can be triggered by allergens entering the lungs.

Your sinuses can be affected if you have one of the mentioned illnesses. Sinusitis is usually closely associated with different kinds of respiratory illness where it can make it difficult for you to live your daily life. If you have sinusitis you will experience pain in the cheek, headache, toothache, and a feeling of squeezing around the eyes.

As you can see, respiratory illnesses can cause discomfort to your body. This is why you should get it treated and know how to manage it with care in order for you to live a productive and normal life.

As mentioned before, there are different approaches in treating different respiratory illness. Some people prefer the tested and proven method of conventional medicine, while others prefer different approaches, such as holistic therapy.

Conventional medicine is where your respiratory illness will be diagnosed by basing on the symptoms. What conventional medicine do is help relieve the symptoms you experience and identify what causes the illness and treat it. Medical practitioners are usually the people who perform conventional medical treatment of respiratory illnesses.

However, another kind of treatment is called holistic therapy where it greatly differs from the medical approach. Although this kind of treatment approach is greatly debated, many people claims that this type of treatment is very effective in curing them from different kinds of respiratory illness. Rather than focusing on the signs and symptoms of the patient, holistic treatment focuses on the whole body of the patient.

Holistic therapy practitioners believe that the human body is surrounded by a vital force that protects the body from diseases. Theories have suggested that any irregularities in this force can trigger illnesses that include the respiratory illness. What they do is balance the flow of the vital force or life energy to cure the patient. However, medical professional have suggested that holistic therapy offers no more than just a placebo effect.

Whatever kind of treatment you prefer, you should consider consulting with the professionals first in order to make sure that the disease you have can be properly diagnosed. Holistic therapy are now being accepted by quite a number of hospitals and is integrated with conventional medicine to treat different kinds of diseases.
