

Allergic Bronchitis: Understanding This Illness and Ways to Treat It


Today, there are millions of Americans suffering from different kinds of respiratory illnesses that can have a significant effect in the way they live their daily lives. Respiratory illnesses can vary from being acute and chronic. In acute cases, it is usually easy to treat and is only a short term illness. However, chronic conditions of respiratory illnesses are difficult to treat and can cause permanent damage to the respiratory system.

There are quite a lot of different kinds of respiratory illnesses. One such respiratory illness is called allergic bronchitis. This particular illness is a type of asthmatic condition where the bronchi and the lower airway of the respiratory system is inflamed by irritants and allergens.  In allergic bronchitis, asthma and respiratory allergies are present. This can cause a condition called hay fever or allergic rhinitis.

Allergic bronchitis is also commonly called as allergic asthma. This particular condition is triggered by an overly active immune system that attacks harmless foreign substances that enters the body. The immune system identifies the foreign substance as dangerous and releases antibodies to fight the substance.

You have to consider that allergic bronchitis is very different from non-allergic bronchitis. In non-allergic bronchitis, the main causes of the illness are usually viruses or bacteria. However, in allergic bronchitis, the main causes are allergens. Allergic bronchitis can occur as long as the person affected by this condition is exposed to the allergens.

The symptoms of allergic bronchitis are shortness of breath, runny nose, red or swollen eyes, hyperventilation, rashes, tickling in throat, tight chest, persistent sneezing, coughing, headache, nausea, and other symptoms associated with asthma and allergies.

There are some cases where a person is overly sensitive to allergens and can be a very dangerous situation that needs medical assistance. However, most cases are only mild to moderate suffering. You have to realize the fact that allergic bronchitis can be a very dangerous condition. In fact, people with this condition have been hospitalized or died of suffocation caused by blocked airways because of severe swelling of the tissues found in the airway.

This is why it is important that you should be aware of this particular condition. Treating mild to moderate symptoms of allergic bronchitis can include taking anti histamine mediations and getting away from the allergen that caused the symptoms. It is very important that you should consult your physician immediately after you notice the mentioned signs and symptoms of allergic bronchitis. The physician may conduct some examination to determine what kind of allergen is causing the condition. They may perform some skin test where an allergen will be injected just below the skin to determine which allergen you are allergic from.

Allergic bronchitis can effectively be treated by having the right information about the disease and also being informed on what kind of allergen is causing the irritation. Your physician may also recommend you to an allergist where they will able to perform a series of test of the particular allergens that causes the irritation. The allergist will also advice you on the different methods to prevent the condition from happening again.

Normally, prevention of allergic bronchitis will include staying away from the allergens that causes the condition. You have to consider that allergic bronchitis may worsen during the summer months as there will be a lot of allergens available. You also have to know that pets, such as cats and dogs can also have allergens in their furs. This is why it is important that you should bathe your pet frequently to wash off the allergens caught in the fur.

Allergic bronchitis can be easily managed. However, you should consider the fact that if you have this condition, you should always be careful as it can be dangerous. Also, you need to consider that you should always take some anti histamine medications with you wherever you go out. You will never know when and where you will come across an allergen that can trigger the symptoms of allergic bronchitis.

By carefully managing allergic bronchitis, you will be able to live a normal and productive life. Learn more about this condition by visiting your local allergist or your physician and ask them about it. You can be sure that they will provide you with all the information you need about allergic bronchitis.
