

Prescription Guide: Common Antibiotic for Bronchitis 

An antibiotic is a medicine. Its main goal is to destroy or put off the development of bacteria. There are specified uses of antibiotic depending on the type of infection which inflicts you.

Bronchitis is a condition where the air passageway between your nose and lungs inflames. You can be afflicted with either acute or chronic bronchitis. The latter is the worst condition of bronchitis.  

Some antibiotics can be good to treat not bronchitis itself, but the infections aggravating the symptoms. Medical findings state that antibiotics help in various ways such as lowering cough after one to two weeks or decreasing infections.  

Here are some known antibiotics for treating both acute and chronic bronchitis: 

Ampicillin

Ampicillin can be used to treat infections developed due to acute bronchitis. If you are prescribed with this medication, make sure to take a glassful of water thirty minutes or two hours after taking your meal. 

The possible general side effects include diarrhea, skin irritation, vomiting and soreness in the tongue or mouth. 

Commonly, this type of medication is prescribed mostly for adults.  

Trimethoprim

Trimethoprim is an antibiotic which is commonly used to treat infections in the respiratory tract. It can also be utilized to treat urine and ear infections. 

Some common side effects of this medication may consist of diarrhea, stomach pain, swollen tongue, and in some instances failure to properly eat. 

Some examples of this antibiotic are Septra or Bactrim. 

Azithromycin

Azithromycin is a type of antibiotic which is considered a good medication to treat some bacterial infections such as bronchitis and pneumonia. It can be taken through tablet form or by oral suspension. 

You may develop the following side effects upon taking this drug: 
?	Irritated stomach 
?	Loose bowel movement 
?	Vomiting 
?	Pain in the stomach and abdomen 
?	Skin irritations such as rashes which is usually minor

Some common brand names of this antibiotic are Aztrin, Zitromax, and Zmax.  

Amoxicillin

Amoxicillin is an antibiotic used to treat bacterial infections. You can take this drug with a capsule, a tablet (chewable for children), pediatric drops and liquid suspension. 

An irritated stomach, vomiting and diarrhea may occur as side effects once you take amoxicillin. When you are not vigilant when taking this medication, severe side effects can happen such as seizures, atypical bleeding, and too much fatigue. 

This type of antibiotic with brand names Amoxil, Trimox or Sumox is mostly prescribed to young children who are inflicted with bronchitis. 

Chronic bronchitis is a serious illness which needs more vital types of treatment. However, these days some medical practitioner prescribes the use of some antibiotic such as Telithromycin.  

Telithromycin

Telithromycin is a type of drug primarily used to minister mild to moderate infections in the respiratory system. “Ketek” is the brand name of this antibiotic.  

You can take this medication either as a tablet or through oral suspension. Some of the common side effects you may experience after taking this drug are: headache, lightheadedness, loose bowel movement, irritated stomach, blunt taste and unclear vision.  
Safety Precautions When Taking Antibiotics 

There are safety precautions you need to undertake once you decide to take antibiotics if you are diagnosed with bronchitis: 

1.	Inform your physician about the severity of your bronchitis for him to determine the type of antibiotic you need to take. It is also pertinent to inform him if you have allergies with certain medicines or foods.  

2.	Do not stop taking the medication in the middle of your prescribed date of treatment. Not being able to complete the medication will not entirely destroy the infection. 

3.	If you miss a dose, you need to take it as soon as possible and return to your normal dosing schedule. 

4.	You need to take extra care if you know or think that you are pregnant. A consultation with your OB-GYNE is highly recommended. 

5.	When side effects arise, it is best to consult your physician. He may decide to stop the medication and give you other alternative treatment. 

Most drugs have its advantages and disadvantages. A positive effect of antibiotics may be reflected if you or a caregiver properly follows drug instructions as well as your physician’s prescription and advice. 

Bronchitis or the infections which come with the illness may be relieved with specific and prescribed antibiotics.  
