

Pregnancy Watch: What You Need to Know About Bronchitis 


“A new life…” – pregnancy is a momentous moment for a couple. It denotes the fruit of a man and woman’s love for each other. Most significantly, it signifies that another individual will be given life. 

During pregnancy, women take extra care of themselves because it is not just them that they are taking care of. When a woman becomes pregnant, she is most susceptible to acquire many illnesses because of a weakened immune system.  

Cough and colds are common illnesses once a woman gets pregnant. Physicians advise pregnant women to make necessary precautions to prevent from getting cough and colds since it can lead to more serious illness such as bronchitis.  

Bronchitis is a condition wherein the air passageway inside your lungs swells. Cough and colds are the most common symptoms of bronchitis. Hence, if you are pregnant you must keep yourself from getting coughs.  

Ways to Avoid Getting Bronchitis 

The main consideration you need to undertake to avoid bronchitis is to avoid getting its symptom. Primarily, you cannot risk having cough or colds which oftentimes develop into bronchitis if not immediately treated. Hence, you need to undertake measures to keep you away from getting coughs or colds: 

1.	You need to wash your hands as often as possible. If you are outside the premises of your home or office where a washroom is not accessible, it is best to bring a hand sanitizer or alcohol.  

2.	It is best if you keep things around you clean especially those you often touch or encounter. There are a lot of germ-killing disinfectants which you can use. 

3.	Keep away from people who have cough or colds. You are at high risk to develop such illness when you frequently interact with individuals who are inflicted with cough or colds. 

4.	 If you begin to develop cough or colds, use a clean tissue when you blow. Immediately throw the tissue into its appropriate container. 

Effects of Bronchitis to a Pregnant Woman 

You need to take the above-mentioned ways seriously to avoid getting cough or colds due to many uneventful consequences it may bring such as the development of bronchitis.  

Several symptoms of bronchitis may cause anxiety to pregnant women in many different ways:  

?	Coughing is a symptom of bronchitis. Although the presence of cough is not fatal to your unborn child, it can lead to annoying and discomforting moments. 

?	Fever is also a symptom of bronchitis. You need determine your body temperature. Medical studies show that pregnant women who incur a temperature higher than 38.9 degrees C may give birth to a child with abnormalities. 

?	Colds, pain in the throat and chest also bring annoyances to pregnant women. If immediately treated, these do not bring harm to you or the baby.  

If You Have the Symptoms of Bronchitis  

If the symptoms of bronchitis are evident in you, then you or a caregiver must take necessary precautions to tamper the development of the illness so that you will not suffer from the above-mentioned effects of bronchitis to pregnant women.  

1.	You need to drink a lot of non-caffeinated liquids. By doing so, it will help by easing your secretion. Some of the recommended liquids for pregnant women are water, fruit juices from fresh fruits, and soups.  

2.	A humidifier in your house may be beneficial especially if you are suffering from colds. Additionally, saline drops can also be utilized to relieve your nose from being stuffy.  

3.	A warm shower everyday is recommended. It was found out that taking a warm shower can help clear out mucus as well as nose stuffiness. 

4.	When symptoms of bronchitis are evident, you need to take a lot of rest. A visit to your OB-GYNE is highly recommended. 

There are times that taking medications cannot be prevented even if you are pregnant. Such medications aim to alleviate the discomfort and pain you are suffering brought by the symptoms of bronchitis. 

Decongestants are medicines commonly given to pregnant women who are suffering from colds or allergies. On the other hand, there are cough suppressants and expectorants available for pregnant women to help them aid from the annoyance of cough. 

It is best to consult your doctor before you take such medications to prevent possible harm to you and your baby. 


