

Do Not Delay: Treatment for Bronchitis 

An author once said that time and again medical science has demonstrated that with apt resources on proper treatment, diseases can be treated if not cured. 

Bronchitis can be treated if you know the proper ways to make yourself better. Such information can also be helpful for your caregiver.  

Treating bronchitis depends on how mild or severe the condition is. Most physicians recommend "home treatment" when you are inflicted with acute bronchitis since the illness goes away after two to three weeks.  

Relieve your cough. 

Since coughs can be annoying, you need to find ways to alleviate from coughing. The most effective action is to drink plenty of non-caffeinated fluids such as water and fruit juices. Studies show that water is the best expectorant to ease your cough as well as thin your mucus.  

Cough can be relieved by breathing steam from a hot shower, vaporizer or a pan of boiling water. The moist air soothes the air passageways which can help release the phlegm. 

If you are a smoker, it is recommended that you discontinue from smoking. Substances from a cigarette are known to be irritants which can contribute to the severity of your cough. 

Some foods can exacerbate your cough. Hence it is best to avoid eating spicy foods, dairy products, meat, oily and fried foods.  

Get enough rest. 

The best way to combat the symptoms of acute bronchitis is to get ample of rest. By doing so, you will be able to get as much energy you need to fight the infection.  

Try getting sufficient sleep. If you can't sleep due to inability to breathe well, try elevating the head of your bed. When you do that, the sinuses and nasal passages will have better drainage and it will not make a "tickle" in your throat. 

Keep away from heavy food intake three hours before bedtime for you to be able to sleep well. Eating hours before bedtime increases your blood sugar which makes you hard to fall asleep.  

Make use of nonprescription medicines.  

There are recommended nonprescription medicines if you have acute bronchitis. These medicines are commonly given to alleviate fever and other discomfort brought by the symptoms.  

1.	Acetaminophen – this is a drug commonly used to relieve soreness of the body as well as fever. 
2.	Ibuprofen – this type of drug is given to individuals to give aid to their fever. 
3.	Aspirin – this is a drug usually used as an "analgesic" to reduce minor pains and body aches. However, aspirins are not recommended for use to children unless advised by their physician. 

If it cannot be prevented, there are suggested prescribed medications such as the following: 

1.	Inhaled betaz- agonists – this type of medication is usually prescribed for the presence of chronic cough. You or a caregiver should be cautious of the potential side effects such as tenseness and trembling. 
2.	Antibiotics – there are some antibiotics which are prescribed by physicians to treat individuals who are at danger to develop other complications.  

Chronic bronchitis usually entails long-term treatment compared to acute. Medical findings show that there is no cure for chronic bronchitis. The main objective for you to be able to treat this type of illness is to relieve you from the symptoms and to put off complications.  

Any substances which can irritate the respiratory tract should be avoided such as smoke from cigarettes or belches, strong scent from perfumes or colognes, dust mites, dander from pets, and fibers from fabric materials. 

Some physician will recommend the intake of antibiotics. However this is only suited for recurring infections. Additionally, the use of steroids such as Corticosteroids is sometimes prescribed to patients who do not act in response to recommended treatments. There are few doctors who prescribe this type of medication due to the many side effects it poses. Corticosteroid is only used when needed. 

If your chronic bronchitis is considered severe then you will have to undergo "oxygen therapy." This kind of therapy administers oxygen as a therapeutic modality wherein the oxygen supply is heightened. With a use of mask or nasal cannula, oxygen is being supplied to you. 

Being well-informed about your illness most especially its treatment will give you a lot of benefit. Read a lot about how to treat bronchitis. Most importantly, talk with your physician and do not be afraid to ask questions if there are vague explanations which you cannot understand.
