

How to Treat Bronchitis: Ten Simple Steps plus Useful Advice Works  


Bronchitis is a condition where bronchi or tubes connecting the trachea into the lungs are inflamed. Infection usually causes acute bronchitis and it can either be viral or bacterial. While bronchitis that is chronic is caused by continuous irritation of the lungs due to smoking or prolonged exposure to poisonous chemicals. 

There are ten simple steps that you could follow to treat bronchitis successfully.

1.	Take initiative to lessen your exposure to irritants and toxins. Stop smoking and avoid breathing secondhand smoke. Stay inside your house when the presence of air pollution is very high. Wear face masks to keep you protected from harmful chemicals and other irritants. 

2.	 Use vaporizer or humidifier to keep the air moisturized. This will aid in loosening secretions for you to breathe easier.  

3.	Place a bottle with hot water on your back or chest. A moist, warm cloth can be also utilized. This reduces inflammation and is very useful when applied at night before you sleep. 

4.	Cover your mouth and nose with your scarf especially when you plan to go out in a cold atmosphere. Keep in mind that cold weather can aggravate bronchitis. 

5.	Avoid the use of cough suppressants. Coughing is needed to take out secretions. Suppressants can be utilized at night. 

6.	Take medicines as prescribed. If you take antibiotics to treat bacterial infection, then take its entire dosage. As much as possible complete the entire duration even if you already feel better. 

7.	Use inhalers and aerosols as prescribed. Never use larger dosage or frequently use it more than what is directed to prevent side effects. 

8.	Seek the advice of a general practitioner or naturopathic doctor regarding dietary supplements including echinacea, goldenseal, zinc, colloidal silver, vitamins A and C, and coenzyme Q10.

9.	Improve your nutrition and diet. Drink lots of fluids including soups, herbal teas, and water. 

10.	Reduce or eliminate intake of foods with higher risks of mucus formation. It includes white flour, sugar, processed foods, dairy products, and foods causing allergic reactions. 

People with bronchitis have also learned successful treatment based from their experiences. 

-	Some people find it effective in cleaning their mucus by ingesting vinegar with cucumber. It helps in killing bacteria in the lungs and excretes mucus out of the mouth.

-	Charcoal slushes. Mix 4-6 teaspoon of charcoal powder with water enough to make a half-thick slush. The mixture is gritty when you drink it but it does not have any foul taste. Drink the dosage at 4 to 6 hours intervals while awake. Bacteria and germs will be absorbed by the charcoal and allow you to eliminate it in the bathroom. 

-	Use frankincense, thyme, and oregano oils. Give the patient 2 drops of frankincense oil, in the morning, in the afternoon, and in the evening for three days. Mix this oil with the Ciaga's organic juice. For another three days, oregano and thyme are mixed in the same manner. Pleurisy root can be an alternative. This can relive symptoms such as breath shortness thus ventilation is not anymore needed. 

-	Breathing steam. Boil water with aromatic herbs in a pot. Turn off the stove. Use a towel to wrap your head similar to a mini-steamed bath then breathe in the steam by lowering your face on the pot carefully. It is okay if you do it upon intervals. Cooling down your face before returning. Repeat this process for several times in a day. Your phlegm will loosen because of the steam. 

-	In some cases, pounding the back with firm gentle strokes while the patient is lying down on the bed with belly down while keeping the upper parts of the body in hanging position helps. This is helpful in breaking-up or dislodging the phlegm. However, this procedure is not comfortable and unsafe but if done correctly, the mucous plugs can be taken out through coughing. 

If ever the symptoms last for more than one week, the mucus turns green, rust-colored, or yellow, severity of cough increases, and develop chest pain when coughing, then it is advised to consult a doctor. It is also recommended to ask a physician and other health care providers before engaging in activities related to diet and health. This information is not however intended to become alternatives for medical treatment or advice. 

