

Pathophysiology of Acute Bronchitis


Today, it is important that you should maintain a healthy body in order for it to fight off any diseases that it may come in contact with. In order to function properly in society and always be a productive member of society, you should always be healthy. However, there are some cases where people suffer from differing kinds of diseases that can significantly affect their daily life.

One such disease that is considered to be common among many people is called bronchitis. Bronchitis is an illness where the bronchial tubes get inflamed. Because of this, people with this kind of illness can have difficulty in breathing and suffer from mild fever. There are mainly two types of bronchitis that affects people. One is called acute or short-term bronchitis, and the other is chronic or long-term bronchitis. Acute bronchitis is easy to treat with the proper diagnosis and management.

First of all, acute bronchitis offers several signs and symptoms that you should be aware of in order to detect the disease and stop it on its tracks. The symptoms for acute bronchitis will include hacking cough with mucus, headaches, squeezing sensation around the eyes, chest tightness, mild fever, and difficulty in breathing. As you can see, the signs and symptoms of acute bronchitis is very similar to the common cold.

People mainly affected by this illness are infants, children, the elderly, tobacco smokers, and people who have weak respiratory systems. People who live in highly polluted areas are also commonly affected by acute bronchitis. You have to consider that you should get this illness treated in order for it to not develop into chronic bronchitis. Bronchitis can happen anytime of the year but it will usually happen during the winter months.

Treatment will include getting a lot of rest, humidifying the home with humidifiers, inhaling steam, taking a long shower, and drinking a lot of non-caffeinated and non-alcoholic beverages. However, if the bronchitis is caused by bacteria or by fungus, it is important that you should consult your doctor about it where they can prescribe some anti-bacterial or anti-fungal medications.

Here is a closer look of acute bronchitis to better understand its pathophysiology or how it works.

Usually bronchitis occurs after the person was infected with cold or infection. The virus that causes the common cold can also be the virus that can cause bronchitis. Acute bronchitis can also happen by inhaling irritants that can damage and inflame the bronchial tubes. Cigarette smoke and other chemical fumes inhaled can significantly damage your bronchial tubes. The inflammation causes the airway to constrict and therefore, causes you to have difficulty in breathing. If left untreated or if you continue inhaling irritants such as cigarette smoke, the acute bronchitis will eventually develop into its chronic form where it can permanently damage your bronchial tubes and tissues surrounding it.

This is the prognosis is of acute bronchitis.

If you are suffering from acute bronchitis, it is recommended that you should stop smoking or at least lessen your cigarette or tobacco consumption. If it is possible, you should avoid dusty areas. You can also consider installing air filters in your home if you live in an area where there is heavy percentage of air pollution.

Acute bronchitis is the last up to 10 to 12 day.  However, acute bronchitis is usually followed by flu or call.  You have to consider the bronchitis is contagious and can be transmitted by air through coughing. This is why it is important for you to carry a damp handkerchief or towel for you to cover your mouth if you need to cough.

If the coughing persists for more than a month, there may be other illnesses that are inside your body, such as pneumonia. It is also important that you should observe the mucus secretion. If there is blood present, you should immediately consult your physician for further diagnosis.

These are the things you should know about acute bronchitis. With the proper management and care, you will be able to stop it on its tracks and prevent it from developing into its chronic form. If you experience symptoms associated with bronchitis, you should consult your doctor immediately. They will perform some tests to determine what is causing the bronchitis whether it is viral or bacterial infection.
