Some Services Offered by Delta Air Freight

Delta Air freight is one of the leading companies in the cargo industry today. They offer many services that enable people to acquire goods or send their goods from anywhere and to anywhere in the world. Let’s face it: that kind of service is in high demand today. Delta Air freight provides this service through different means:

1) Domestic shipments – Delta Air freight can deliver your cargo to any place within the United States and in some Canadian provinces through their domestic shipment service. This Delta Air freight service comes in two options:

a) Priority first freight – this Delta Air freight service is perfect for those whose cargos exceed weight and size limitations. This Delta Air freight can deliver your items when you need it delivered. The service is guaranteed to deliver your cargo. The only problem you will be having is fitting the capacity of a certain flight. This means that if Delta Air freight can find room for your cargo, it will be delivered.

b) DASH – if you want speed instead of convenience then Delta Air freight DASH might be the best service for you. This is because Dash guarantees delivery the same day! Isn’t that just amazing? Of course, on order to get this speed, you will have to sacrifice the convenience of being able to ship anything you want. You’ll have to restrict your cargo to those which comply with the standards set by Delta Air freight.

2) International shipments – items that are shipped internationally are handled with different standards of high quality care. These Delta Air freight services are:

1) Equation – this Delta Air freight service is designed for the express delivery of items that are less than 70 Kilograms in weight. These shipments are prioritized so people expecting packages can get them as quickly as possible. 

2) Variation – this Delta Air freight service is used to deliver sensitive cargo such as livestock, pets, pharmaceuticals and artwork. This Delta Air freight service features dedicated procedures with the shipping. It also features specialized containers so as to prevent any damage to any goods. 

3) Dimension – This is the standard airport-to airport cargo transportation. It, of course, features the acceptance of any type of item that does not require any special handling. Because the items do not require special handling, this means that Delta Air freight will be able to utilize the space as much as possible. This Delta Air freight service is perfect for people who are just getting tired of having their luggage lost by airlines.

3) Special shipments – there are many items that cannot be considered into these categories. Here are some special shipments offered by Delta Air freight services:

a) Delta cares – people who need to have the remains of their loved ones shipped often worry about the treatment that the body receives during the delivery. This Delta Air freight service is designed for the peace of mind of the bereaved. 

b) Pet shipments – if you need to have pets shipped, then this Delta Air freight service is for you. You need to follow a certain set of guidelines in order to have your pet delivered. Delta Air freight will deliver your pet with the best of care and in the most comfortable way possible. 

So what are you waiting for? Call Delta Air freight today.
