Choosing the Best Shipment Company

Air freight and cargo have been important in the industry. They play a crucial role in providing business solutions and supporting the global chain. There are lots of air shipping companies that provide better services. But only a few of them can give you kind of service you want at a competitive shipping cost.

In choosing the best air freight company, you must understand first some important points before deciding for one. Below are some helpful points you should look for before dealing with an air freight company.

1.	Look for the shipping benefits they offer.  An air freight company should offer direct access or contact to an advanced cargo shipping network at a reasonable shipping price. They should give variety of integrated shipping services. And more importantly, the company must be supported by known air freight shipping companies in the shipping industry. Example of this big time air freight companies are the American airlines, Roadway Corporation and Kitty hawk.


2.	Find out the shipping services available. Look for the shipping freight that will suit your needs. It must provide a complete line of transportation process, from pick up to delivery. The arrival of shipment must be ensured, and should not exceed 5 days. You can visit the website of the shipping freight to find out more of their products and shipping services. You can also talk directly to their customer care representatives. 

3.	Know the sizes of the cargo, the company accepts. Most would accept any shipment size, but practically you can save almost 50% on some shipments greater than 200 pounds.

4.	Be economical in choosing the shipping company. You must be sure that you get the best service that’s worth your pay. Shipping companies must only compute for the transportation fee, the service level, and some factor like the time of the day and the day of the week. There are also additional fee such as the air freight tax, regulatory fees and some special services needed.  It is vital to canvass first the shipping cost before dealing with such company.

5.	Always check the shipment location of the air freight. Some would only offer seamless service to respective places.


6.	Look for a company that provides easy access. There are some that needs online registration while others may require you to call their customer care. You can also apply for credit card so that you easily start shipping your products after registration. By doing these, you can won’t waste lots of time and effort.

7.	Be sure that the company operates a 24/7 customer care service. This is important so that you can easily track your freight shipments by inquiring at the customer care center. It is always advisable that you track all shipments ensuring that they are visible all through the shipment transit. Check the status of your shipment from the pick up until you get the proof of delivery.

8.	You can always create shipment reports. This is beneficial for you so that you can have an easy access of the summary of all the shipping you made. 

Shipping can be convenient if you know how to choose the best shipping company. It is quality that counts. Opt for the air freight company that uses state of the art cargo engines with competitive shipping rates to provide chain needs and business solutions.



