Do You Need a New Job?  Signs That You May

Would you like to change jobs or change the path of your career?  If you would, you are definitely not alone.  In the United States, millions of Americans wish that they could be working for another company or even working for themselves. Although many Americans wish that they could switch jobs, not everyone actually needs to. That is why you may be wondering if it is really in your best interest to find a new job.  To get your answer, you will want to continue reading on.

One of the many signs that you may want to consider looking for a new job is if you if regularly find yourself working overtime.  Although a little bit of overtime here and there is okay, as it can be considered a part of the job, you shouldn’t have to work overtime each and every single week or even everyday.  It is also important to mention overtime pay.  Do you receive time and a half or other compensation for your overtime hours?  If you are in a salary position, you may be being taken advantage of.  If you are putting in a ton of hours, but not receiving compensation for those hours, a new job may be in your best interest.

Another one of the many signs that you may want to consider searching for a new job is if you find it difficult to get time off from work.  Of course, when examining time off, it is important that you do not take advantage of the situation.  Regularly requesting time off from work because you “just don’t feel like working,” is not acceptable. With that in mind, if you need to take time off for medical illnesses or a family emergency, you should be granted that time off. Work is important, but you shouldn’t be asked to compromise the health of you or your family for it.  If you are being asked to do so, you may want to consider finding a new job.

The inability to move up the company ladder is another sign that you may want to think about finding a new job.  If you are interested in advancing in your company or have been trying to do so for some time now, but unsuccessfully, you may want to consider seeking employment elsewhere.  In today’s society, there are some situations where you can work as hard as possible and never receive a praise for your hard work, see a pay raise, or see a promotion.  You will want to try and avoid or get out of these types of situations at all costs.

Speaking of money, if you aren’t making enough money to support yourself or your family, you may want to consider searching for a new job. With that in mind, if your only choice is to make more money, you may want to first consider speaking with your supervisors.  It wouldn’t do any harm, especially if you are already interested in leaving the company, to ask for a pay raise. If you are able to see an increase in pay, you may want to consider staying at your current job.

In keeping with money, you will also want to examine the commute that you must make to and from your current job.  If you have a long expensive commute, it may be within your best interest to at least search for a new job.  Unfortunately, when accepting a new job, many individuals do not consider the commute to and from work.  If you are not careful, you may find yourself spending a large percentage of your time on the road or a large percentage of your income on gas.  If you are currently doing so, you may want to seek employment closer to home.

The above mentioned signs are just a few of the many signs that you may want to consider seeking employment elsewhere. To be honest, you really do not need a reason to quit your job.  With that in mind, should you wish to do so, it is advised that you use your best judgment.  This involves not quitting on impulse or without a solid plan in place.

PPPPP

Word Count 694
