How You Should Handle a Difficult Boss

Do you love your job, but not necessarily your boss?  If you have a difficult boss, your first impulse may be to quit your job.  Of course, the decision to quit your job because of your boss is your decision to make, but you shouldn’t put your future or your finances in jeopardy because of someone else.  For tips on how to handle difficult bosses, you may want to continue reading on.

One of the best ways to go about dealing with a difficult boss involves having an open line of communication, as often as possible.  You may be surprised how many conflicts and problems arise from miscommunication.  What you may interpret as a mean, mad, or upset boss, many actually just be the result of miscommunication.  Even if you aren’t required to update or report to your boss, you may want to consider doing so.  This is especially easy if you and your boss work in the same establishment.

Another one of the many ways that you go about handling a difficult boss involves keeping your opinions to yourself. As much as you want to, you will want to refrain from talking badly or gossiping about your boss.  Unfortunately, many individuals, possibly just like you, do not realize who talks to who or how fast word can travel.  If you and your supervisor already have a strained relationship, you will not want to make it worse with workplace gossip.

You can also try and improve your workplace relationship with your boss by extending an olive branch. You may want to go out of your way to be polite and offer assistance.  For example, you may want to consider offering to work late or offer your assistance for a project that may have a tight deadline.  Also, something as simple as saying hello or acknowledging your boss may be enough to improve their attitude or demeanor toward you.  You need to remember that working in management can be difficult.  That is what leads many managers to have the demeanors that they have.  Many feel as if they need to be professional and demanding, all at the same time.

If you have tried all of the above mentioned approaches and are still having problems dealing with your difficult boss, you may want to consider going over your supervisor’s head.  In most cases, you will find that your supervisor has someone that they need to report to.  While this approach may be able to help you deal with a difficult boss, it is important that you use your best judgment. You do not want to go above your supervisor with small problems, such as a rushed meeting.  Issues that you may want to bring to the attention of your boss’s supervisor include sexual harassment or multiple promotion denials.

Another approach that you can take involves quitting your job.  However, as stated above, you may want to refrain from doing so.  It is advised that you do not let another person, such as your boss, ruin your opportunity to have a good job or receive funds to pay yours bills and support your family. Before you make the decision to hand in your resignation, it is advised that you seriously consider your decision to quit, as well as the consequences for doing so.  If you are sure that resigning from your job is the best decision, you will want to do so in a pleasant and appropriate manner, no matter how you feel about your supervisor.

PPPPP

Word Count 583
