How to Properly Quit Your Job

Are you currently unsatisfied with your job?  If you are, you may be interested in exploring your other options. To do so, many individuals make the decision to turn in their resignation or to quit.  If you are interested in quitting your job, you will want to continue reading on.  A few tips on how to properly terminate your current position are outlined below.

The best thing that you can do, when looking to quit your job, involves giving your employer as much notice as possible.  Many employers expect to receive at least two weeks worth of notice from those who are interested in seeking employment elsewhere.  If at all possible, you may want to consider giving more than two weeks notice.  Unless you have a new job lined up, you may want to offer to stay until a replacement is found or until you are able to secure a new job.

When turning in your resignation, you will want to do so in a formal matter. At all costs, you will want to avoid quitting over the phone or in an email.  You will want to type up a proper notice on your computer and submit a printout to your employer, particularly in person.  In your resignation letter, be sure to thank your employer for giving you the opportunity to work with them, and so forth.

You will want to be sure to not “burn any bridges,” when quitting your current job.  This is extremely important, as you need to remember that your actions have consequences, possibly for years to come.  You will want to make sure that you are pleasant at all times. You will want deal with your bosses, coworkers, and anyone else that you may come into contact with in a happy pleasant matter.  You never know when you may come back into contact with your boss and this is important to take into consideration when packing up your workplace belongings.

In keeping with packing up your workplace belongings, you will want to ensure that you return all important documents or any other pieces of company property that you may have in your possession. Even if you are not asked, you will want to return all items that you didn’t personally purchase yourself. In addition to preventing any misunderstandings, in terms of theft, you may also create a good, long lasting impression of yourself.  

In all honesty, the best thing that you can do, when looking to resign from your current job, is to use your best judgment.  For instance, you will not want to search and apply for new jobs and list your current job on your resume as a reference, especially if you have yet to officially submit your resignation.  You will also, as previously stated, want to try and avoid quitting your job on impulse, unless a serious situation arises, such as one that may put you in danger.

In keeping with using your best judgment, you may want to put yourself in the place of your employer or your boss.  What would you like to hear from yourself?  This simple question will help to ensure that you submit your resignation in a matter that is deemed appropriate.  You will want to ensure that you are able to get a good reference from your current employer for years to come.

PPPPP

Word Count 557
