Reasons Why You Shouldn’t Quit Your Job

Are you frustrated with your job?  Whether you dislike your boss, your coworkers, your work hours, or the pay, you may be interested in quitting your job.  Of course, the decision to quit your job is your decision to make, but there are some instances in which you may want to give your decision a second thought.  A few of those instances are outlined below for your convenience.

One of the many situations where you may want to hold off on quitting your job right away is if you recently got a new boss.  If you have a new supervisor, you are encouraged to give it time.  Most new supervisors are difficult at first, as they feel that they need to be.  But, overtime, you will find that most of those in management will let a new side of themselves show, possibly a more pleasant and friendlier side.

Another one of the many situations in which you may want to reconsider quitting your job is if you are annoyed by one of your coworkers, namely the one who may have a desk or an office next to or near you. You should never let someone else make you quit or lose your job, especially if it is just because you do not like them.  Of course, you are advised to take your safety into consideration.  If one of your coworkers is displaying actions that may cause you harm, you may need to take action right away.  This action may involve resigning from your job, but it should also involve contacting a supervisor first.  You should never have a quit your job because someone else is in the wrong.

A poor review is another situation in which you may not want to quit your job.  Although it may seem embarrassing and frustrating if you ever receive a bad review, it is important to remember that it can happen to the best of people and the hardest of workers.  No one is perfect all of the time and this is something that you need to remember.  Instead of quitting your job because of a poor review, you will want to use your review as an opportunity to better yourself. You can set the goal of improving your workplace actions, which should result in a better review the next time around.

Being passed up for a promotion is another reason why you may not want to quit your job. There are a number of different factors to take into consideration, when it comes to promotions, namely being passed up for one.  Why were you passed up for the promotion that you wanted, do you know?  Was there another employee who was more qualified or who had more seniority than you?  You can also use being passed up for a promotion as a way to improve your work skills by setting goals for yourself. With that in mind, if you regularly find yourself being passed up for promotions that you are more than qualified for, you may want to consider seeking employment elsewhere.

The above mentioned situations are all situations in which you may want to refrain from quitting your job, especially without consideration.  Of course, there are extenuating circumstances to the situations mentioned above, such ones that may involve sexual harassment or other dangerous situations in your workplace.

PPPPP

Word Count 555
