Should You Ask for a Promotion?

Are you frustrated with your current position at work?  Would you like to advance in your company?  If you would like to do so, you may be interested in asking for a promotion.  The question is should you?

When it comes to determining if you should ask for a promotion, it is something that you may not want to do on impulse. Asking from a promotion can work in your favor, but there are no guarantees. A promotion request can cause no changes or it can cause you harm. For that reason, there are a number of factors that you will first want to take into consideration, before you ask your boss for a promotion.

One of the many factors that you will want to take into consideration, when determining if you should inquire about a promotion, is an open position.  If you want to be promoted, do you even know if there is an open position or one that will soon open? This, alone, can improve your chances of receiving a promotion, as they often say that timing is everything.  What you will want to do is keep your eyes and ears open.  If you hear of any open positions in your company or if you see job listings online or in your local newspaper, you may want to consider asking your supervisor for a promotion.

Your length of employment is another factor that should be taken into consideration, before you make a decision about asking for a promotion.  While there are no guarantees, your chances of receiving a promotion are higher with long-term employment.  Many companies like to promote from within, as well as promote those who have been with the company for an extended period of time.  A short employment term doesn’t mean that you can’t ask for a promotion, but it is just one of the many factors that you will want to take into consideration.

Your intentions are another factor that you should take into consideration, when trying to determine if you should ask your supervisor for a promotion.  Are you interested in leaving the company in search of a better job, such as one that may offer better pay or better benefits?  If you are interested in doing so, you may want to consider asking for a promotion, but in a pleasant matter.  If you are looking for “greener pastures,” you may have nothing to lose by asking for a promotion.  In fact, you may be surprised with the answer that you hear.  Many employers will use promotions or higher pay to retain employees who they do not want removed from their team.

Of course, you don’t want to instigate workplace gossip, but you may want to see if any other employees have asked for a promotion in the past.  Did they see success or were they turned away?  Speaking of which, were there any complications that arose from the asking of a promotion?  This is important, as it may give you an idea as to whether or not you should ask for a promotion.  As a reminder, it is important to not take the approach of gossiping to get your information, but you may just want to keep your eyes and ears open.  

If you do decide that you would like to ask your supervisor or supervisors for a promotion, you are advised to proceed with caution.  Unless you have worked personally with your supervisors before, they may be unaware of your employment status or the tasks that you have completed.  You will want to attempt to schedule a meeting with your supervisor or supervisors. During this meeting, you will want to try and sell yourself.  Point out all of your accomplishments, mention how advancement has always been a goal of yours, and so forth.

The above mentioned factors are just a few of the many factors that you will want to take into consideration, when trying to determine if you should inquire about a promotion. Should you decide to do so, it is advised that you take a pleasant approach and do not get upset or feel offended if your request for a promotion is denied.

PPPPP

Word Count 694
