Should You Change Jobs?

Are you currently unhappy with your job or with your employer in general?  If you are, you may have considered changing jobs. With that in mind, if you depend on your paycheck to help pay your bills or to help support your family, you may be unsure as to whether or not a job change is really in the best interest of you and your family.  If this is something that you have asked yourself before, you will want to continue reading on.

When it comes to determining whether or not you should change jobs, there are a number of important factors that you will want to take into consideration. These factors are important, as no two situations are the same.  Different individuals rely on their paychecks for different things.  That is why it is advised that you examine the factors outlined below and then use them in your own, personal, situations.

One of the many factors that you will want to take into consideration, before deciding if you should change jobs, is your current job’s pay. Do you think that you receive a fair salary?  If you do, do you know that it may be difficult for you to make the same amount of money elsewhere?  Unless you are lucky enough to receive a job in upper level management, you may find yourself right back at the bottom of the ladder, having to work your way right back up.  For that reason, you will want to first take your current salary and compare it the salary that is being advertised with job openings that you can find in your local newspapers or online.

Health insurance is another factor that you will want to take into consideration, when deciding if you should change your job.  Do you currently rely on your job for health insurance, either for yourself or for your whole family?  If you do, this is definitely a factor that needs to be taken into consideration. Yes, you may be able to purchase health insurance for yourself or at least an extension of your coverage, but you should know that this can get quite expensive.  With that in mind, should you still decide to switch jobs, you may want to schedule all of your doctor’s appointments before you do so, just to get everything in order.  If your current coverage includes dental and vision coverage, you may also want to make these appointments too, just in case.

The current job outlook is another factor that you will want to take into consideration.  If you are looking to change jobs, do you already have a new job lined up?  If you do not, you will want to at least make sure that there is a good chance that you can seek employment elsewhere.  In most cases, you are unable to collect unemployment payments if you leave your job on your own terms.  If you have a family to support or if you rely on your income to pay important bills, like your rent or mortgage payments, you may want to have a backup plan in place.

In keeping with the current job outlook, you are advised to examine all job openings in your area.  What you will want to do is examine any required training, work experience, or education. Unfortunately, many individuals realize too late that they are unqualified for their dream job.  This is something that you do not want to do.  Instead of assuming, you can easily examine the average job requirements by examining all available job openings in your local newspaper or online.  If you do not have the necessary training, you may want to consider enrolling in a career training course, as they may be able to improve your chances of finding a new job.

The above mentioned factors are just a few of the many factors that you will want to take into consideration, should you be interested in changing jobs.  Of course, the decision to seek employment elsewhere is your decision to make, but, with something this important, you are advised to proceed with caution.

PPPPP

Word Count 682
