What You Should Look for In a New Job

Are you interested in changing jobs?  If you are, you may already have a dream job in mind.  Although it is nice to dream, it is important that you keep reality in mind.  Finding a new job can be difficult, but it is more than possible for you to do so. A few of the many things that you may want to look for in a new job are outlined below for your convenience

When searching for a new job, you will want to look for those that are intended to be long-term.  Long-term positions are ideal if you are looking to quit your current, stable job.  They are also ideal if you rely on your income to help support your family.  You will want to have and possibly need to have income not only right away, but income that you can rely on for months or years to come. That is why temporary positions may not be in your best interest, as a job that only lasts one or two months may be unable to provide you with the security that you want and need.

The ability to advance is another thing that you will want to look for in a new job.  If you regularly find yourself setting goals that you would like to achieve, such as higher pay or a position in management, you may will want to work for a company where you have the opportunity to advance. You will want to look for those that advertise that they like to promote from within.  Promotion from within is what gives you a better chance of advancing.  In fact, advancement is something that potential employers like to hear, so be sure to mention your hope for advancement in your job interviews.

Good, but realistic pay is something else that you should look for in a new job.  Unless you are sure, you may want to try and refrain from taking a pay cut.  If you are able to receive additional benefits that you currently do not have, a pay cut may be worth it, but it is advised that you proceed with caution.  Before you search for a new job, you may want to create a budget for yourself. A budget can help you determine how much money you need to make. This will ensure that you are able to find a new job that allows you to adequately pay your bills and support your family.

Health insurance is something else that you may want to look for in a new job. Although it may be unnecessary, you should keep health insurance in mind.  Not all employers provide their employees with health insurance coverage and many companies have a ninety day waiting period before health insurance coverage can be acquired.  If you are unable to get health insurance through a family member, such as your spouse, you may want to keep this in mind.  You may be able to extend your current health insurance coverage, for a monthly fee, but that extended coverage often has time limits and other restrictions.

Close proximity is another feature that you may want to look for in a new job. Location may not be an issue if you are willing to travel or relocate, but you should take your possible commute into consideration.  Jobs that are a ways away from your home may require extra travel time, possibly taking you away from your family.  You also need to examine the cost of gasoline and wear on your vehicle. Although location should be taken into consideration, you should remember that there are other, more important, features that you should look for in a new job, a few of which were outlined above.

PPPPP

Word Count 620
