What You Should Do If You Find Yourself Fired From Your Job

Each week, millions of Americans go to work, do their jobs, and collect their paychecks.  Unfortunately, there comes a time when that cycle is disrupted.  If you have recently found yourself fired or terminated from your current place of employment, you may be in shock.  Although shock is a normal feeling, it is important that you start taking action right away, should you ever find yourself fired from your current position.

As previously stated, you should take action right away if you ever find yourself terminated from your current work position.  This action is patricianly important if you rely on your income to pay important bills, such as your rent or mortgage, or if you use your paycheck to help support your family.  Depending on the circumstances, you will find that most states do not allow those terminated from their jobs to collect unemployment payments.  This typically only happens if you are laid off.  What does this mean for you?  It means that means that you may need to try and find a new job right away.

Speaking of taking action and finding a new job right away, one of your first steps should involve creating a resume for yourself. This is important, as you will need a resume to apply for new jobs.  Even if you are able to fill out a traditional job application, you will still want to attach a resume. Resumes add professionalism to all job applications and they can help to set your application apart from all the rest.  If you are unsure how to write your own resume, you may want to consider using the services of a professional resume writer.

In keeping with resumes and job applications, it is important that you proceed with caution.  Unfortunately, many job seekers make the mistake of including a job in which they were fired from on their job application or on their resume.   However, in that same sense, many make the mistake of leaving the job that they were recently terminated from off of their resume, when it should really be on it.  That sounds a little bit confusing doesn’t it?  If you are unsure as to how you should prepare your resume, you are not alone.

When trying to determining how you should prepare your resume, what you need to do is examine your reasons for being terminated, as well as how long you were employed by your past employer.  Many employers do not like seeing gaps over one or two years; therefore, if your last job, the one in which you were fired from, lasted over two years, you may still want to include that position on your resumes and job applications.  With that in mind, you also want to use your best judgment with cases such as workplace confirmation, multiple missed work days, or theft.

Once you have created a resume for yourself, you can start to go finding and applying for jobs.  This is the easy part, as you will find that you have a number of different options.  You may want to start with your local newspaper.  Most newspapers have an employment section.  What is nice about using your local newspaper to examine all open job positions is that most of your jobs will be local.  There is typically no sorting by location needed.  In addition to using your local newspaper, you can also use the internet to help you research companies with open positions.  

Once you have a collection of jobs that you would like to apply to, you will want to create a cover letter for yourself.  Cover letters typically should not be developed in advance, as you will want to personalize your cover letter with the name of the position you are applying for, as well as the company you are applying at.  You can create a template for yourself, but make sure each and every one of your cover letters is personalized in one way or another.  

The above mentioned steps are just a few of the steps that you should take, should you ever find yourself terminated from your current position.  In dire circumstances, such as ones where you need income right away, you may want to visit your local temporary employment agency, as they can help you find short-term temporary jobs.

PPPPP

Word Count 716
