What You Should Do If You Are Laid Off From Your Job

In today’s society, it seems as if layoffs are increasing in popularity.  Lay offs are something that you can regularly hear about in the news.  As more businesses are forced to downsize, you may find yourself laid off from your current position. This layoff may be permanent or temporary; it often depends on the needs and current state of your employer.  Either way, should you find yourself laid off, you will want to continue reading on.  

When it comes to layoffs one of the most commonly asked questions is “what should I do?”  In all honesty, there is actually a lot that you can do.  For starters, you will want to first examine your state’s laws on unemployment.  While there are some variations, you will find that most states award unemployment compensation to those who are laid off from their jobs.  This may be able to help you and your family out financially in the short-term run.

In keeping with unemployment, it is important that you examine it.  Unfortunately, there are many individuals who view this money as a handout or money that they do not need. What you need to remember about unemployment is that it is designed for individuals just like you.  If you are laid off from work, you should find that you are entitled to unemployment, especially if you did not receive any severance pay or compensation in another form.  

Even if you do seek unemployment payments, it is still important to remember that they will not last forever.  Unemployment compensation is designed to work as a temporary fix.  That is why you will want to start taking action to help you find a new job, possibly the sooner the better.  The first step in doing this involves creating a resume for yourself.  You can either create your own resume or you can hire a professional resume writer to do the job for you.  Either way, you will want to ensure that your resume is one that will turn company heads.

Once you have a resume in hand, you should then start examining all open job positions in your area.  When doing so, you should either use your local newspaper or the internet.  Career job searching websites are a nice and easy way to find and apply for jobs online. For your own safety, you will want to refrain from giving your personal information, especially your bank account information or social security number, to any companies that you have never heard of before or companies that you are unable to research online.

If you were employed at your last position, before being laid off, for two or more years, you may be a little bit nervous about finding a new job. If this is a feeling that you are experiencing, you should know that you are not alone. Finding a new job can be a stressful process, especially when it comes time for a job interview. That is why you may want to consider doing a few practice interviews with your friends or family members.  They can ask you common interview questions, such as your strengths and weaknesses, as well as why you want to work for that particular company.  This practice, if done enough, can help to reduce the nervousness often associated with job interviews.  You may also find that you are able to give better answers, as well as answer all questions in a timely matter at your next interview.

If you are unsuccessful in your job search, you may want to consider seeking professional assistance. This assistance can come for your state’s labor department or a professional recruiter or career agent.  Of course the decision is yours to make, but you may want to try and avoid your local temporary employment agencies.  If you are able to secure unemployment compensation, you will want to spend your time looking for and applying for secure, long-term job openings.

PPPPP

Word Count 653
