Coldwater Aquarium Set-up and Care

As the hobby of having an aquarium becomes more and more popular, it should be noted that the easiest aquarium to care for and set up is a coldwater tank. As the name suggests, coldwater tanks require no heating set up. This cuts costs when setting up your first tank. It also makes the aquarium much easier to maintain in the long run. Keep in mind that only certain coldwater fish can survive in a tank without heat. Most common are goldfish and guppies, but there are a multitude available and you will be able to have an array of fish living in your coldwater tank.

The supplies you will need to set up your aquarium may seem lengthy, but it is actually a much shorter and cheaper list than that of a heated freshwater tank or a saltwater tank. Obviously the first thing you need is a tank. It's all about personal choice here as they come in many sizes and shapes. When you purchase the tank, a kit often comes with it and includes some of the other things you may need. Just to make sure, check that you have a filter and  an air pump. These are the most important pieces to the whole set up. If you are buying your tank as a kit, make sure it is specified to be a coldwater set-up. You will notice that no heater will be included.

After the purchase of your tank, you can now consider how you wish to decorate it. Many types of gravel and sand are available in a lot of colors. You can add accent plants as well to make it appear more natural. Many people add little figures or signs to personalize their aquariums. It's all up to you in regards to décor. Be sure to buy a net, an algae scraper and conditioner for the water.

If you choose to have a tank with lighting, that is ok, just be aware of the problems it may cause. By adding light to the tank, you are also adding heat. Algae thrives on heat. Though a light won't harm your tank, it may add to algae growth. This is not uncommon and is easily cleaned. Your fish will enjoy having the light, so it is probably best to buy a hood that includes a light. Try to keep the tank out of direct sunlight when you choose it's position within your home. This will also add to algae growth.

Once you have your tank set up and the water is stabilized, you may add your fish. Be sure to only buy coldwater fish to add to this tank. If you are unsure of what types of fish are coldwater, ask for help at a pet store. They will offer you some extra tips on the types of fish you are purchasing as well. Once your fish are added, you will have a wonderful underwater scene to enjoy for years to come. It is important to clean and care for your tank on a routine basis. A complete cleaning of the tank should be done every 2 months, including a water change, scraping algae, rinsing the gravel of waste and changing filters.

You will find that as time passes, you will form a routing of caring for your coldwater aquarium. It is worth the effort to maintain the tank, as you will be rewarded with a wonderful addition to your home.
