How to Install a Wall Mounted Aquarium

The life under the sea has long fascinated the landlubbers who attempt to learn its mysteries, and the privilege of being able to bring a small piece of it into their homes has proved too difficult to resist. Saltwater aquariums can be seen in homes around the world, containing everything from tropical fish to sharks and stingrays. For many, however, it is not enough to simply have a tank sitting in the middle of whatever room they have chosen to plant it in for them to look at and admire. They wish to be in the middle of the ocean itself, to find themselves surrounded by the marine life they have long admired.

Unfortunately, although science has made many advances in that area it is not yet possible for man to live under the sea. A small taste of what is would be like to have the ocean as your floor, walls and sky can be obtained by installing an in wall aquarium.

In wall aquariums come in many shapes and sizes, from tanks no larger than the screen on a small television sets to the great tanks that make up the walls of the National Aquarium in Baltimore, Maryland. Installing these tanks is not difficult, although it does require a great deal of time and effort; however, with the proper directions and guidance anyone can allow themselves to enjoy these beautiful home accents.

Before you get too carried away with the concept of being able to float along in a mermaid lagoon (even if it is only in your mind) it is important that you first ensure that your home is going to be able to support the aquarium you wish to install in it. The strength of your wall studs is going to be the determining factor on whether it is possible to place an aquarium directly in the foundation of your home; if they are not strong enough to support the weight of the aquarium the mission must be aborted at the very beginning. 

It is possible to hire a company to come and install your aquarium for you, ensuring that the cables and pumps will be neatly hidden and the aquarium seamlessly placed into the fabric of your home. While this is more expensive than doing it yourself it does guarantee success (after all, if a professional makes a mistake which installing your aquarium they are responsible for the repairs, not you). If you are new to the business of installing in home aquariums, or home repair in general, or if you do not have a great deal of time on your hands this is probably the option for you. 

While in wall aquariums are more expensive than their traditional relations they bring with them a set of advantages uniquely their own. They generally require fewer cords and plugs, as well as less maintenance. They allow you to save space and ensure that little fingers do not find their way into the aquarium to torment the fish. Most of all, they allow you to bring just a little bit of every child's dream into your home, blending fantasy and reality in a way that was previously only available on t.v.
