Purchasing a Tropical Saltwater Aquarium

It would be a mistake for a person to plan on putting together a tropical saltwater aquarium without first learning how to set the aquarium up first. 

Before you can set up your aquarium and start filling it with exotic fish you need to purchase the items that will make your tropical saltwater aquarium a success.

The first thing the potential saltwater enthusiast needs to purchase is an aquarium. Tropical saltwater aquariums can range in size from small , which are typically twenty gallons, to large, which can hold up to one thousand gallons. When you go to the store to purchase the aquarium consider how much work you'll want to invest in your tropical saltwater aquarium once its up and running. The larger the tank the more time you'll spend cleaning and maintaining the aquarium. Another thing that you should consider when purchasing a aquarium is whether or not you want the tank to have a background. Many owners of tropical saltwater aquariums like to add to the ambiance of their aquarium by painting a back ground on the tank, this must be done before filling the tank with water. Also make sure that you purchase a filter that is large enough and powerful enough to filter your tank. You will also need to get a heater that is capable of warming the water in your tank, remember tropical fish and tropical coral mean are accustomed to warm water.

The next thing the potential saltwater enthusiast needs to do is decide what kind of aquarium substrate you would like lining the bottom of your aquarium. You can line your aquarium with a layer of crushed coral or a layer of live sand.

The next thing you'll need to get is a saltwater mix and a saltwater hydrometer. You can purchase both of these items at a store that specializes in tropical saltwater aquariums.

While your at the pet store and your credit card is out, you might as well purchase a spare filter. While your doing that you should also buy a replacement filter media. This media can be something like activated carbon and filter floss. Purchasing a replacement filter right away can save you a lot of time and money if your original filter abruptly stops working. It might not be a bad idea to purchase a spare heater for your aquarium.

Saltwater test kits are kits that test the levels of ammonia, nitrate, Salinity/specific gravity, carbon dioxide, pH levels, alkalinity, Chlorine/chlorine, carbonate water hardness, phosphate, dissolved oxygen, and the amount of iron in your aquariums water. Purchase several of these kits and use them often. One way you can save a little money on saltwater test kits is by purchasing a master test kit. The master test kit.

Other items every successful tropical saltwater aquarium owner keeps on hand are rubber gloves, an aquarium glass scrub brush, two large five gallon bucket, a power strip. and a fish net.

Responsible tropical saltwater aquarium owners have a spare quarantine tank where they can keep newly purchased fish or fish that appear to be getting sick.
