The Inspiration Behind Blogging


In the 20th century, people got inspired to write their own articles and diaries online. This phenomenon is now been referred to as blogging. 

Currently, there are news blogs, tech blogs, sex blogs, commentary blogs, drug blogs and other teenage blogs. The news and documentary blogs are sites that consist of links and posted arguments and ideas. 

These sites have been sources of major news outlets, media and traditional journalism. On top of these all, the blogging phenomenon is clear and real. This occurrence is gradually changing and unifying the diverse world of media. Blogging only proves the evolution of media and journalism.

Blogs can do things that eMagazines or web magazines cannot do. Blogs are informative and contains more of personal matters about the author's life. 

Through blogging, a writer is able to express anything even his temper can be transparent. Blogs contain deep sensibility and human touches unlike magazines and newspapers. 

Nowadays, readers have become more doubtful about the media. People now realize that behind the curtain of these popular readings are untrustworthy writers and editors. They write to live and thus, their writings are only products of their selfishness.

Blogging is the real democratic journalism as its best and as its purest. Through blogging, one will be able to declare his own independence. Lone bloggers will eventually be the most successful writers in the envisioned world of true journalism. This is because they earned the respect of the readers.

Online sites like blogger.com help you set up a web page can make you an established writer. At the start, you can work at a blog free and then eventually you can reach millions of readers worldwide and can make a profit as well. Blogging challenges the audience of opinionated magazines and traditional newspapers.

Now, why not create an online blog with your own ideas and consequently sell your own book through your web site. The advantage of the blog technology is that one can simply write an article with himself and can make a profit for download services. 

You can just convert your format to a PDF file. You will not anymore need editors, agents or publishers for your book.

These are some basic steps to create a successful blog:

1.	Select a location to begin your blog. It is best to choose a site where you can upload your blog on to it directly. Sites like Blogger and Wordpress are two of the popular ones.

2.	Prepare at least three (3) articles per week and add them to your blog. Remember that articles must be posted in the blog. As much as possible, a blog should not be used for product advertisement.

3.	After posting, make use of the available ping online servers fully so that many can read your articles. The use of limited default ping services will limit your blog exposure. For a complete list of available ping servers, you can check sites like surreal blog.

4.	If the readers find your articles interesting and your services proved to be useful, you now become a reliable resource. Thus, it would be best if your blog contains a shortcut link back to your home or main site.

5.	Next, you should add your blog to your home site. You can make a directory containing the list of your blogs. Find a service to post your information if in case you do not have a main site. Do not forget, at least to acknowledge the server.

6.	Finally, list your blog to popular blog directories. Some of these directories can charge you a listing fee while some offers it free. It is fine to pay for it since it will largely benefit your blog

These steps can guide you through your blog making. It is hoped that this article provided significant ideas and information about blogging. With this technology, you can now have the power to tell your stories and express yourself.

PPPPP 

Word Count 648