Tools for Easier And Convenient Blogging Experience


Just how great a blog is? It is really great, in the sense that you are allowed to show the world what you want to show. You just have your blogging account, sign in, locate your blog name, click a new post, put your title, web page link, and some parting shots from you, and publish your blog. Very easy isn’t it?

In addition, it is also good for online business entrepreneur. By the power of video blogging, you will be able to post advertisement of your products through blogs. You can also meet new people who can be your potential clients later on. The good thing is, you can do all of this for free!

In other words, blogs are not just bunch of online diaries where you post your experiences and feelings. It can also be used to talk about business trends and other related topics. Either way, here are some of the valuable tools to make your blogging experience a lot easier.

Tool No.1: Blog Building

Building a blog involves deciding how you want to host it. You have two options: If you are not inclined on the technical details involved in blogging, you have the option to sign up for a free account on a blogging site. If you are the other way around, you might as well consider building your own one.

Tool No.2: Blog Editing

If you are conscious of how your blog will look like after posting, blog editing is just right for you. It has a WYSIWYG (What You See Is What You Get) editor which means you can write and edit at the same time. In addition, you will be seeing exactly what you blog post looks like as you are writing.

Tool No.3: Blog Posting

If you have a desktop tool, you might as well consider it instead of writing your blog from the control panel. You can create and save your post offline and upload it later on. It is usually convenient for your part if in case you are pre-occupied with other things and do not have time to write blogs everyday.

Tool No.4: RSS Generators

If you want to create a feed for your blog application, you just have to make one. Enter the necessary information, click submit, and you are already done.

Tool No. 5: Blog and Ping Applications

This tool enables the blog and RSS directories aware that you have already updated your blog. It is important especially if you own a business blog. By these regular updates, you will be notified immediately of several sites at once. Just a friendly reminder: Never use the application to inform directories that have an RSS feed for your site. You will get banned.

Tool No.6: Feed Submitter

Before using the updated tools, you need to submit your RSS feed to the directories. You can use this to get your feed indexed quickly. This will save you time because you do not need to visit ach site to get your website indexed.

Tool No.7: Pheedo Blog Network

It provides tool to web publishers to help them increase web traffic and monetize the content of their site. It also helps to optimize your web log by selling advertisement directly from your blog. It has the following features:

•	It matches the environment of the advertisement with respect to the website.
•	It reports the exact revenue generated from the website’s content.

Utilize these tools and make your blogging experience a different one.

PPPPP 

Word Count 578