Web 2.0 Codes For Blogs


You hear so much about blogging these days on the internet and in media. Anyone who makes a blog is acknowledging its importance in boosting their site on the web. In creating their blogs, they must put blogging tag codes. But what exactly is a blogging tag code?

Blogging tag codes are keywords which act like a subject or category that you should take advantage to bring traffic to your site or blog. Tag code is used to arrange webpages and objects on the internet. For using tag code, the blogger “tags” a webpage or images for making it their own tag. Images or webpages may have many tags to identify it. Webpages and images with the same tag code are connected together and uses may use the tag code to search for same images and webpages.

Tag codes hit the blogging mainstream lately because Technorati (an Internet search engine) which up to this date indexes over 34 million weblogs started sorting blog posts by using tags. By using tags, it can be used to specify properties of an object that are not closely associated to the object itself. Tags can find things with the same properties to arrange or to organize objects. Tags also help to improve the search engine effectiveness because the content is mainly categorized using common, accessible, and shared vocabulary.

Tags usually are used in social software and Web 2.0 pages and the method that allows opening the category is called to as folksonomy. Folksonomy is a system that enables internet users to categorize the contents such as webpages, online images, and other web links

Web 2.0 sites that use tags:

•	Del.icio.us- a bookmarking site that allows users to bookmark in different sites and tag them with so many descriptive words. Other people can also search by those terms to find webpages that others found to be very useful#.

•	Gmail- popular web-mail site that allows categorizing of objects by using tag codes, commonly known as labels on emails.

•	Flickr- a service provider that allows users to tag online images with many specific nouns, verbs, and adjective in describing the pictures.

•	Basecamp- a project service provider that allows users who are working on projects to tag parts of their work in making it easy to find data.

Tag codes doesn’t mean to define their semantics, however tags are often explained as being connected to the concepts which are commonly accompanied with their concepts for which is the user not the computer, who separates which items is connected. 

Making tag codes requires a group of individuals to cooperate in order to organize data which is known as taxonomy. Since tag codes lacks in basic steps to explain how an object must be classified as one tag may link to other unrelated webpages. Furthermore, tag codes are not issued by a sole being then classification by tags must be personalized. 

Precisely, things that may fall under a specific tag to a user may not closely relate to another subject with the same tag code by another user. Thus, resulting in the evolution of categorization methods. Categories are made time to time by people.

Finally, in making blogging tag codes there are easy steps and these are:

1.	Visit the available improving customer experience sites.
2.	Put the keywords you wish to be tagged. You can separate words or phrases with commas. No need to add + sign to your phrases.
3.	Last is choose from Technorati, Del.icio.us, or Flickr and other furl tags

For you to make blogging tag codes is one easy way in improving your personal site. Blogging for you will never be the same again. 

PPPPP
 
Word Count 603