Which Blogging Platform To Use


Blogging is one of the hottest craze on the internet. It enables you to discuss about a particular topic, like politics, food, latest news and other topics that you can think of. The possibilities are endless, you can discuss about your hobbies, interests and other things that interests you.

You can create your own blog by using blog hosting websites or through the use of blogging software. Creating blog pages is also much easier than a conventional website. It has features that can let a person create a website blog even if he or she has little or no knowledge about html or other formats used to create a website.

You can easily post a topic in blogs and can also be easily updated. Here is what a blog typically consist of:

The title or headline of the post, the body or the main content of the post, a message box for the comments of the readers, a link or URL of the article, and the date of when the post was published in the blog. You can also add categories for subjects that the post discusses, and a link to other websites that refer to the post.

You can also create a blog in a journal format where you can keep all your personal everyday activities in the internet. You can restrict on who can and who cannot read your blogs by creating a sign in page where it will require a user name and password from the reader.

A blog can also be used to make extra money online by adding some affiliate program or an Adsense program in your blogging web page.

You can create and maintain your own blog by using different systems. There are many software available in the market that enables you to create, maintain and even delete your own blogs. These software are usually very easy to use and people with little or no knowledge about html can easily create their own blog page.

Whatever type of blog you want to create, you can be sure that blogging software can make it easier for you to create your own blog. Maintaining your blog is also important to keep readers loyal and interested in reading your blogs. There are blogging software that has features that lets you easily update and maintain your blogging website.

When choosing a blogging software, there are things that you should consider to make it work for you. Here are some features that you should look for in a blogging software:

•	Ping Updates
This feature is very important in a blogging software. It allows you to update your blog and keep readers happy. You should remember that this feature should be included when choosing a blogging software.

•	Comments
A comments box should be included in your blog software. This keeps the readers happy because it allows them to participate in the topic. This is where they post comments and suggestions regarding your article.

•	Web-based
This is very obvious. You are making a blog to let others read about it in the internet. You want your blogging software to instantly make your blogs and updates available online.

•	Categorize
Another feature that you should consider in a blogging software is the ability to categorize your blogs. This allows you to organize your blogs and let readers easily find a particular topic that has been recently removed.

These are some of the things you should consider when choosing a blogging software. Be sure to choose one that has all of these features to make it easier for you.

PPPPP 

Word Count 595
