Wireless Blogging Works


Cellular phones are exclusively for voice call functions before. It is used in places where there are no available telephone services. But with the advancement of communication technology, several innovations on the analog cellular phones were made. If before it is only used for calling purposes, now you can used it to sent text messages through its short messaging services (SMS). 

After the introduction of SMS, multimedia messaging follows, where you can incorporate images, audio contents, and animations in your text messages. Mobile e-mail services innovates the traditional PC e-mail services, interactive gaming, capturing images using embedded camera, and other services are also taking place in the cell phone industry—thanks to the different communication specialist and experts.

The latest addition for new models of cell phones is the mobile blogging where you can now update your web blog even without logging in your personal computer. All the things you can do on Internet blogging—adding a photo from your cell phone or posting your thoughts or experiences on a new neighborhood, movie, concert, game console, or coffee shop—are done through your phone.

Barak Berkowitz, the chairman and CEO of Six Apart, a California-based company that is also pioneering in cell phone blogging, commented that this new feature will surely be a click especially phone manufacturers have already introduced the wireless Internet (WAP) and camera-equipped phones. He agrees that with WAP, people will be able to post or update their blog. At the same time, they can post pictures at the spot using their camera phone.

For those individuals who are still unfamiliar with blogging, it is a home page on the Internet that takes a form of a personal journal. All the entries in the blog are compiled chronologically which contains comments and thoughts on everything; in other words, your point of view about different topic. 

Traditionally, you need to create your blog from your personal computer and post it on your own website or on a blogging community. But with the introduction of cell phone blogging, you can now use the service of your mobile network to transfer blogs to the web server. In other words, you can now post your blogs even when you are in your car or you are on a remote location.

Because of this development, computer specialists prompt to develop different software suited for such purpose. A certain software is developed to let you send images and text from your cell phone directly to a website. Another one combines cell phone blogging with location-based services. In other words, you will be able to use your phone not only to locate for areas of interest on a particular place; you will also be viewing comments that other people have left on their blogs regarding such areas of interest.

Currently, different mobile networks and other small start-up pioneer in mobile blogging are hitching the net. But Internet giants such as Yahoo and Google are now planning to enter the mobile blogging arena. Yahoo is now starting to test its cell phone blogging services and will be commercially releasing it in coming months. It just only shows that cellular phone blogging is becoming popular to mobile phone users.

There you go the newest innovation for your mobile phone. It is just a manifestation that your phone is not just for calling or texting functions; it can now be used for your blogging activities.

PPPPP
 
Word Count 562