Title: 
Add Tropical Flavor To Sunday Brunch

Word Count:
287

Summary:
There are some mornings when savoring the warm gooey goodness of a sticky bun provides an escape from routine. What better way to give this American classic fresh new flavors than adding the tropical tones of mangos and macadamia nuts.


Keywords:
Add Tropical Flavor To Sunday Brunch


Article Body:
There are some mornings when savoring the warm gooey goodness of a sticky bun provides an escape from routine. What better way to give this American classic fresh new flavors than adding the tropical tones of mangos and macadamia nuts. 

The world's most popular fruit, mangos' naturally sweet and lively flavors make them incredibly versatile and complement everything from breakfast to lunch. Because of their year-round availability, mangos are perfect for any occasion.

Looking for an easy yet irresistible treat for your next brunch? Try these mouth watering Mango Macadamia Caramel Rolls. 

Mango Macadamia 

Caramel Rolls

11/4 cups brown sugar

3/4 teaspoon cinnamon

1/2 teaspoon ground allspice

1/2 cup softened butter, divided 

1 large, ripe mango, peeled, pitted and chopped

1/2 cup chopped macadamia nuts

1 loaf frozen bread dough, thawed

Stir together brown sugar, cinnamon and allspice in a small bowl. Place 1 cup mixture in a medium saucepan with 6 tablespoons butter. Cook over low heat for 5 minutes, stirring frequently. Stir in mango and cook for a few minutes more until brown sugar is dissolved. Spread in the bottom of a 13 X 9-inch baking pan and sprinkle with nuts; set aside. Roll thawed dough into a 12 X 12-inch square on a lightly floured board and spread with remaining 2 tablespoons butter. Spread remaining brown sugar mixture over butter and press into dough. Roll up tightly and pinch seams to seal. Cut dough into 1-inch slices. Place in prepared baking dish; cover and let rise in a warm place until doubled in size, about 1 hour. Bake in preheated 350°F oven for 20 to 25 minutes. Let stand for 5 minutes, then invert onto a serving platter. Makes 12 rolls.

Make ahead tip: Cover uncooked rolls and place in the refrigerator overnight. Let stand at room temperature for 1 hour before baking.


