Title: 
America, Get Ready: It's Time to Cook Out!

Word Count:
475

Summary:
Just in time for the cookout season, the country's top grilling cities were revealed, naming the Show Me State's St. Louis as number one.


Keywords:
America, Get Ready: It's Time to Cook Out!


Article Body:
Just in time for the cookout season, the country's top grilling cities were revealed, naming the Show Me State's St. Louis as number one. 

"St. Louis is known for its great barbecue and rubs, and we've got the grills going to prove it," said Earline Walker, owner of one of the city's best barbecue restaurants. "That's because we know nothing can bring family and friends together like a cookout with that great smoky, real barbecue flavor of charcoal-grilled foods." 

Memphis, Atlanta and Tampa were also named in the top ten list, which was compiled by Kingsford® Charcoal with Sure Fire Grooves&#8482;. 

Easy Does It

Use a chimney to light the briquets. Simply place loosely wadded newspaper in the lower chamber, charcoal in the top and light the paper. Once the briquets are ready (they'll turn an ash-gray color), just pour them into the grill. Chimneys can be found at any hardware, home and garden or superstore. Visit kingsford.com for additional lighting methods. 

Seasonal Sides

Spice up seasonal sides! Sprinkle fresh veggies like summer squash and corn on the cob with Hidden Valley® The Original Ranch® Salad Dressing & Seasoning Mix instead of butter. 

5-Minute Dessert

Before grilling desserts, brush the grates to remove any marinades or meat flavors from the meal. Then, drizzle KC Masterpiece® Barbecue Sauce on slices of pineapple, melon and apple, lightly grill to caramelize the topping and serve with ice cream.

Think Outside of the Kitchen

You can grill almost anything! Try grilling chicken wings instead of deep frying or baking them, as they're traditionally prepared. You can also heat sides, like beans and veggies, in a saucepot on the grates, or grill pizza and quesadillas for a great smoky, real barbecue flavor. 

Grilled Chicken Wings

Recipe created by Earline and Otis Walker, owners of Smoki O's, St. Louis

Preparation Time: 10 minutes

Cook Time: 11/2 to 2 hours

Serves: 4

4 tablespoons granulated garlic

2 teaspoons red pepper

1 teaspoon salt

1 pound chicken wings

11/2 cups Hidden Valley® Original Ranch® dressing

2 cups KC Masterpiece® Original Barbecue Sauce

Light grill using Kingsford® Charcoal with Sure Fire Grooves&#8482;. Mix garlic, red pepper and salt; rub onto wings. Pour Ranch dressing into Glad® food storage bag; add wings. Shake bag to coat wings. 

Remove wings from bag; place on aluminum foil, fold into cooking pockets and seal tightly. Place pockets on main grill rack for about an hour and a half. Remove wings from pockets and finish directly on grill over moderate flame. Turn every two minutes until wings develop a crust. 

Baste wings with KC Masterpiece® Original Barbecue Sauce. Serve warm. 

&#8226; If smoker is available, arrange wings on smoker. Cook for 11/2 to 2 hours. Remove and place on grill over moderate flame and grill as directed above. 

Of course, you don't have to live in St. Louis to enjoy great grilling. Make your next cookout shine with these tips from Walker.


