Title: 
Brownie Inspires Cupcake

Word Count:
319

Summary:
The allure of the cupcake has gone beyond children's party fare. All the world, it seems, has a passion for cupcakes these days.


Keywords:
Brownie Inspires Cupcake


Article Body:
The allure of the cupcake has gone beyond children's party fare. All the world, it seems, has a passion for cupcakes these days. Cupcake bakeries are opening across the country. Cookbooks devoted to the art of the cupcake are turning up in bookstores. 

Just enough to satisfy a sweet craving, the cupcake is an indulgence of the right proportions. The cupcake has arrived and with more variations on the cake theme than ever. 

When a cupcake crosses with a brownie, a satisfying, deep chocolate flavor is presented in the form of a little cake. Brownie cupcakes make a deliciously dense cake, especially tasty with a sweet addition of natural raisins. The recipe comes together quickly in a single pot on the stovetop, a great option for quick cleanups. 

Top the cupcakes with a sprinkling of powdered sugar or a drizzle of glaze, excellent for lunchboxes. For the full cupcake effect, traditional buttercream frosting dresses up the brownie cupcakes for a party.

Brownie Cupcakes

3 oz. (3 squares) unsweetened chocolate

1/2 cup butter or margarine

11/2 cups sugar

3 eggs

11/2 teaspoons vanilla

1 cup all-purpose flour

1 cup chopped walnuts

1 cup Sun-Maid Natural Raisins


Buttercream Frosting

1 stick (8-oz.) butter, softened

1 box (16-oz.) powdered sugar

1 teaspoon vanilla extract

Dash of salt

2 to 3 tablespoons milk

Heat oven to 350°F. Grease or line 12 (23/4-inch) muffin cups with paper baking cups.

In large saucepan, over very low heat, combine chocolate and butter; heat just until melted, stirring occasionally. Remove from heat. Stir in sugar; blend well. 

Blend in eggs and vanilla. Stir in flour, walnuts and raisins. Spoon batter into prepared muffin cups, filling almost full. 

Bake at 350°F. for 30 minutes. Cool on wire rack. Sprinkle with powdered sugar or frost as desired. Makes 12 cupcakes.

Frosting: 

In small mixing bowl, combine first four ingredients and 2 tablespoons of milk. With electric mixer, combine on low until blended. Continue to beat on high until fluffy, adding additional milk as needed for spreading consistency.


