Title: 
Cast Your Vote for 'America's Fish'

Word Count:
329

Summary:
Election season is in full swing, and it's time to get out and vote. For president, you say? Of course, but there's one more candidate to elect this year - America's fish.


Keywords:
Cast Your Vote for 'America's Fish'


Article Body:
Election season is in full swing, and it's time to get out and vote. For president, you say? Of course, but there's one more candidate to elect this year - America's fish.

Think about it: America has a national anthem, a national flower and even a national tree, but not a national fish. Therefore, the Catfish Institute has nominated U.S. Farm-Raised Catfish for the honor. 

Why is this fish worthy of such a title? A true American original, U.S. Farm-Raised Catfish can be found on plates all around the country, from California to New York and all the way to Washington. This versatile fish is adaptable to a variety of seasonings and can be grilled, baked, poached, broiled or fried. So where does this candidate stand on the important issues? Read on:

* On the environment: A friend to the environment, U.S. Farm-Raised Catfish is fed a grain-based diet and raised in closed, freshwater ponds.

* On family values: Affording Americans time at home with family is a valued priority for this candidate. Because catfish is so easy to prepare, families can spend less time cooking and more time together.

* On health and nutrition: Low in fat, calories and sodium, carb-free, and high in protein, this candidate is ideal for every health-conscious American. 

* On the economy: With prices that are easy on the pocketbook, voting for this candidate is smart economics. 

Try this quick, easy recipe to see what else "Candidate Catfish" has to offer.


CLASSIC FRIED CATFISH


3/4 cup yellow cornmeal

1/4 cup all-purpose flour

2 teaspoons salt

1 teaspoon cayenne pepper

1/4 teaspoon garlic powder

4 U.S. Farm-Raised Catfish

fillets

Vegetable oil

For garnish: sliced tomato

and parsley sprigs


Combine cornmeal, flour, salt, cayenne pepper and garlic powder. Coat farm-raised catfish with mixture, shaking off excess.

Fill deep pot or 12-inch skillet half full with vegetable oil. Heat to 350 F. Add catfish in single layer and fry until golden brown, about 5 to 6 minutes, depending on size. Remove and drain on paper towels.


