Title: 
Catfish On A Roll-In Less Than 10 Minutes

Word Count:
305

Summary:
Sandwiches are a staple, but it's easy to get in a rut, making or ordering the same old thing. Why not break out of the boring routine with a Southern-style po' boy stuffed with crispy-coated U.S. farm-raised catfish and all the trimmings?


Keywords:
Catfish On A Roll-In Less Than 10 Minutes


Article Body:
Sandwiches are a staple for most of us, but it's easy to get in a rut, making or ordering the same old thing. Why not break out of the boring routine with a Southern-style po' boy stuffed with crispy-coated U.S. farm-raised catfish and all the trimmings? In less than 10 minutes, this world-class sandwich is ready to enjoy.

Once you're hooked on the mild, sweet flavor and convenience of U.S. farm-raised catfish, you'll want to keep a good thing going. Also try this versatile fish grilled or broiled with Cajun-style or jerk seasonings, in tacos and in chowder. 

To be sure you're getting U.S. farm-raised catfish-ask for it by name. Not only is this all-American product a healthful, safe choice, but consumers have the satisfaction of knowing that it is farmed in an environmentally responsible way.

Visit www.catfishinstitute.com for more information and recipes. For a free U.S. Farm-Raised Catfish recipe leaflet, fax your request to (212)254-2452. And don't forget: You're gonna love U.S. farm-raised catfish any way you cook it! 

Catfish Po' Boys

(Yield: 4 portions)

1 egg, beaten

1 cup Italian-seasoned breadcrumbs

4 U.S. farm-raised catfish fillets (about 6 ounces each) 

1/4 cup vegetable oil

4 4-inch long rolls, split or 8 slices of bread

1/2 cup prepared pesto sauce 

8 jarred roasted red pepper halves

8 lettuce leaves

8 thin slices provolone cheese

In separate shallow bowls, place egg and breadcrumbs. Dip each catfish fillet into egg, then coat in breadcrumbs, shaking off excess. In a large skillet, heat oil over medium-high heat. Cook the fillets, a few at a time, until golden brown and opaque in the center, 3 to 4 minutes on each side; drain on paper towels. Spread cut sides of the rolls with pesto. On bottoms of rolls, layer roasted red peppers, lettuce leaves and provolone; top each with a catfish fillet. Place roll tops on fish.


