Title: 
Discover A Cool Way To Eat Healthy

Word Count:
401

Summary:
It's hot. You're at the pool. You crave something light and refreshing but don't want to spend too much time in the kitchen. Why not mix things up with frozen fruit?


Keywords:
Discover A Cool Way To Eat Healthy


Article Body:
It's hot. You're at the pool. You crave something light and refreshing but don't want to spend too much time in the kitchen. Why not mix things up with frozen fruit?

There's no better time than summer to find a cool way to eat healthy. Ideal for smoothies, salsas or everyday snacking, frozen fruit has the added benefit of being just as nutritious as fresh fruit. It's a terrific way to enhance your summer menu, with 100 percent natural frozen fruit.

"The beauty of frozen fruit is that it has nutrition benefits equal to fresh fruit plus the added value of being easy to use. You only prepare what's needed and store the rest," said Wild Blueberry Association nutrition expert Susan Davis, MS, RD.

According to Davis, the Food and Drug Administration considers frozen fruits nutritionally comparable to fresh, allowing frozen produce to be labeled as healthy. 

Easy to prepare and serve, frozen fruit is washed and ready to eat. The picking, cleaning, dicing and chopping have already been done. Eating healthy doesn't have to break the bank either. Ounce for ounce, frozen fruit offers tremendous value compared to fresh.

Try this delicious, colorful Mango Salsa for a savory-sweet twist on summer grilling:

Mango Salsa

Prep Time: 15 minutes

Chill Time: 30 minutes

Makes 23/4 cups

2 cups Dole® Fresh Frozen Mango Chunks, partially thawed

1/2 cup finely chopped Dole Red Bell Pepper

1/4 cup finely chopped Dole Green Bell Pepper

1 tablespoon chopped Dole Green Onion

2 teaspoons chopped fresh cilantro or parsley

2 teaspoons chopped jalapeño chiles

1 teaspoon grated lime peel

Combine mango chunks, bell peppers, onion, cilantro, chiles and lime peel in small bowl. Serve salsa at room temperature or slightly chilled. Serve over grilled chicken breasts or fish fillets. This delicious and colorful mango salsa can also be served as a dip with tortilla chips, spooned over quesadillas or tacos.

Nutrition Information Per Serving: 31 calories; 0g fat (0g sat.); 0mg cholesterol; 2mg sodium; 8g carbohydrate (1g dietary fiber, 7g sugars); 0g protein; 13% Vit A; 56% Vit C; 1% calcium; 1% iron; 3% potassium; 2% folate.

Refreshing Summer Treats

Hold on the ice and enjoy the juicy, sweet, refreshing fruits of summer!

Tropical Breeze: Get out the blender and combine low-fat vanilla frozen yogurt, Dole Fresh Frozen Tropical Gold&#8482; Pineapple and Dole 100% fruit juice. Pour into a dessert dish for a pineapple soft serve.

Fruity Finale: Add Dole Fresh Frozen Fruit as a topping for frozen yogurt, sherbet or light ice cream.


