Title: 
Dishing Out Healthy And Delicious Meals

Word Count:
443

Summary:
People with a gift for serving up delicious--but healthful--dishes say it's important to present food that tastes good, is made with natural ingredients and is good for you. Fortunately, that doesn't have to mean skipping many classic recipes.


Keywords:
Dishing Out Healthy And Delicious Meals


Article Body:
People with a gift for serving up delicious-but healthful-dishes say it's important to present food that tastes good, is made with natural ingredients and is good for you. Fortunately, that doesn't have to mean skipping many classic recipes. These tips may help:

&#8226; Portion Size-You can help control weight gain by being wary of portion size. If you're serving meat, for instance, nutritionists say not to give a portion that's larger than a deck of cards. Fill the empty space on plates (and in stomachs) with veggies and whole grains.

&#8226; Something On The Side-Try serving a healthful vegetable soup and a side salad before dinner. That way, people can fill up on veggies, instead of less nutritious foods. Also, if you're trying to eat a little less, remember that our bodies often mistake thirst for hunger. So before you dig into dessert, try having a big glass of water and waiting a few minutes. You may turn out to be less hungry than you thought.

&#8226; Cooking Tips-Something as simple as switching to nonstick oil sprays can make a difference in how healthy a meal is. For instance, new Mazola Pure&#8482; Cooking Spray is a healthier alternative to high-saturated-fat products such as butter or margarine. It adds Pure&#8482; taste and Pure&#8482; aroma to food, is perfect for fat-free cooking-and unlike other leading sprays, it does not contain alcohol or silicone. It comes in canola oil, extra virgin olive oil and natural butter flavors. It's also cholesterol free and has 0g trans fat per serving. 

The spray can be used in a variety of ways including: adding light flavor when grilling sandwiches, making popcorn, holding seasonings in place on meats and vegetables, sauteing, pan searing seafood and chicken, flipping pancakes and browning foods in the microwave.

Try this delicious and healthful recipe: 

Seasoned Roasted 

Potatoes

2 lbs mini red or golden potatoes

2 teaspoons garlic, minced

2 teaspoons rosemary, dry

1 teaspoon Kosher salt

1/4 teaspoon black pepper, cracked

2 tablespoons Parmesan cheese, grated

Mazola Pure Cooking Spray -Extra Virgin Olive Oil 

1. Preheat oven to 450ºF.

2. Spray 9" x 13" baking pan with olive oil spray. 

3. Combine garlic, rosemary, Kosher salt, and black pepper to make seasoning blend. Set aside.

4. Under cold running water, scrub potatoes to remove excess skin. 

5. Cut potatoes into approximately 1" x 1" cubes. If using very small potatoes, do not cut.

6. Place potatoes in baking pan and spray with olive oil cooking spray until potatoes are coated. Mix potatoes after spraying to ensure even coating.

7. Add reserved seasoning blend and Parmesan cheese, and mix well. Spread mixture in a single layer and spray tops again, lightly with additional spray to help browning.

8. Bake at 450ºF for 25 to 30 minutes. 

Serves: 6

PrepTime: 10 minutes


