Title: 
Fantastic Low Carb Desert Recipes Uncovered

Word Count:
598

Summary:
Low Carb Doesn't Mean No Fun:  Delicious Decadent Deserts Are Revealed


Keywords:
low carb deserts,food high in carbohydrates,low carb fast food,low carb wraps,low carb alcoholic drink,low carb,carbohydrates,low carb diet,low carb recipe,low carb,low carb food,carb counter,carb,low carb diet food,free low carb recipe,low carb diet plan


Article Body:
There are many ways of lowering your carbohydrate intake, even when you crave deserts. Try this cheesecake recipe:

Best Cheesecake
Low Carbohydrate Recipe
Ingredients:
3/4 pound grated aged asiago cheese
1-1/4 pound cream cheese at room temperature
4 eggs
1 clove of garlic, minced
1/4 teaspoon dried tarragon or 1 tablespoon fresh salt and pepper to taste 

Directions:
Preheat oven to 350 degrees. 

Beat asiago and cream cheese with a mixer until smooth. 
Add the eggs one at a time, beating well after each addition. 
Add garlic and tarragon and combine well. Add salt and pepper to taste. 
Pour into an 8 inch buttered spring form pan and bake for 45 minutes to an hour, checking after 45 minutes. 
Cake should be golden and puffed, not loose in the center. Remove from the oven and let stand 30 minutes before cutting.


Or try this recipe, for Chocolate Meringue Kisses:

Chocolate Meringue Kisses
Low Carbohydrate Recipe
Ingredients:
4 egg whites
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/8 teaspoon cream of tartar
1 cup Splenda
3 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa 

Directions:
Preheat oven to 225-degrees. Put baking parchment on a cookie sheet. 

Beat egg whites until foamy. Add vanilla extract a few drops at a time and cream of tartar. Beat until meringue starts to look creamy and forms soft peaks. Add in Splenda a little at a time. Add in cocoa a little at a time. 

Put meringue on parchment paper cookie sheet by spoonfuls. (You can use a pastry bag and pipe them into cones like Hershey kisses, or flower shapes.) Bake at 225-degrees for one hour. Turn off oven, open oven door a crack, and allow to cool five to ten minutes. Remove from oven and allow to cool away from drafts. Remove from parchment paper when cool. 

Carb count for total recipe: 28.7g. Number of cookies varies depending on size. 

Variation:
You could also do these with daVinci-flavoured syrups and a little food coloring if desired. Then sprinkle a little granulated Splenda on the top for that sugar "sparkle." 

Note:
If you make smaller meringues, don't bake them quite as long, or they will be over-dry and fracture easily.

Berries and Roasted Pecans
Low Carbohydrate Recipe
Ingredients:
18 ounce round of Brie cheese
1 cup mixed berries, fresh or frozen
1/4 cup Cognac
1/3 cup apricot preserves
1/2 cup lightly toasted pecan pieces
Assorted crackers 

Directions:
Early Preparation: Marinate berries in Cognac for four to six hours. Lightly toast pecans in 350-degree oven for three to five minutes. Set aside. 

To serve: Pre-heat oven to 350-degrees. 

Cut a wedge 1/4 of the diameter of the Brie. Stack it o top of remaining round and place on ovenproof serving platter. 

In a small saucepan heat apricot preserves over medium heat until dissolved. Stir in marinated berries and then nuts. Reduce heat and warm through. 

Heat the Brie in oven until softened, but not runny. Spoon mixture over Brie and serve immediately with assorted crackers. 

Recipe makes four to six servings.

Blackberry Ice Cream
Low Carbohydrate Recipe
Ingredients:
1-1/2 quart Half n Half 
1 quart heavy whipping cream 
1-1/2 cup Splenda
6 egg yolks 
1/3 teaspoon salt 
2 tablespoons vanilla extract 
30 ounces fresh blackberries 

Directions:
Mix first five ingredients together; heat to a gentle boil. 

Remove from heat and chill. 

Add vanilla extract; crank for about 30 seconds then add blackberries and crank until done. 

Nutrition information per serving:
Calories: 201
Total Fat: 18.7g
Total Carbohydrates: 6g

Chocolate Mousse
Low Carbohydrate Recipe
Ingredients:
4 ounces heavy cream
One chocolate (or cappuccino) Atkins shake mix
Stevia to flavour (optional) 

Directions:
Sift shake mix, then whisk ingredients in a bowl until just thickened (be careful not to over-whisk). 

Scoop into individual serving dish. Chill for 30 minutes. 

Recipe makes two servings. 

Carbohydrates: 2.5g per serving


