Title: 
For Healthy Meals, Choose Wild American Shrimp

Word Count:
315

Summary:
She recommends that consumers ask for certified Wild American shrimp at their grocery store, favorite restaurant or seafood counter.


Keywords:
For Healthy Meals, Choose Wild American Shrimp


Article Body:
When preparing your next health-conscious menu, consider that where you find your ingredients can be just as important as what you use.

Certified Wild American shrimp, caught fresh in their own natural environment in the Atlantic and Gulf, have added appeal to health-conscious consumers who care about where their food comes from.

"Wild-caught shrimp are fresh, succulent and tender, unlike 85 percent of shrimp, which are imported and pond-raised," said Monica Pope, owner and chef of the Houston restaurant t'afia. She lives by the philosophy "eat where your food lives." 

Wild American shrimp are beneficial for those who are trying to lose weight. "A typical 4-ounce portion has just 112 calories when served steamed, boiled, grilled or baked and provides 23 grams of protein -; 47 percent of the daily value for protein," Pope said.

She recommends that consumers ask for certified Wild American shrimp at their grocery store, favorite restaurant or seafood counter. 

"You have a choice," she said. "By asking for certified Wild American shrimp, you're not only choosing the best-tasting seafood possible, you're also helping to support an entire industry and way of life."

TURMERIC SHRIMP

1 pound Wild American shrimp, cleaned

2 1/2 cloves garlic, peeled

2/3 teaspoon salt

1 small bay leaf

1/3 tablespoon fresh-squeezed lime juice

2 1/2 cups water

2/3 teaspoon turmeric

3 tablespoons lime juice

1/3 teaspoon red chili powder

3 tablespoons cilantro, chopped


Place garlic cloves in a food processor with the salt and mince. Toss with the shrimp and set aside for 15 minutes. In a saucepan, bring the water to a boil with the bay leaf, 1/3 tablespoons lime juice and the 2/3 teaspoon turmeric. 

When the water is boiling, add the shrimp, stirring. Cook just until opaque, about 2 to 3 minutes. Drain.

Immediately spread the shrimp onto a large baking sheet to cool. Mix the additional lime juice, red chili powder and a pinch of turmeric together and pour over the warm shrimp. Toss until well-combined. Add cilantro leaves after the shrimp have cooled.


