Title: 
Gearing Up For Seafood Fridays

Word Count:
350

Summary:
During the Lenten season, millions of people will be looking for great seafood recipes as their alternative to meat.


Keywords:
Gearing Up For Seafood Fridays


Article Body:
As we enter the Lenten season, millions of people will be looking for great seafood recipes as their alternative to meat. Not knowing where to look, many will opt for basic dishes that might not satisfy their craving for a bona fide good meal. With a little creativity and help from shelf-stable seafood, the Lenten season can be filled with a variety of palate-pleasing alternatives.

"People often do not know what to cook during Lent, so they turn to 'tried-and-true' favorites such as veggie sandwiches, pastas and salads," said Culinary Expert Lena Cutler.

"Shelf-stable seafood is very affordable and easy to substitute in your favorite meat-based dishes," said Cutler.

"Canned and pouched seafood are available in many varieties, including tuna, salmon, crab, shrimp, clams and oysters," said Cutler. "You can use tuna or salmon instead of beef for burgers, tacos, stir-fry and more."

Shelf-stable seafood also has many health benefits.

"In addition to being conve-nient, shelf-stable seafood is low in fat and calories," said Registered Dietician Sharon McNerney. "Albacore tuna and salmon are major sources of protein and heart-healthy omega-3 fatty acids."

The American Heart Association's dietary guidelines recommend eating at least two servings of fish per week, because omega-3 has been proven to help reduce the chance of getting heart disease.

 Here's a delightful stir-fry to get your creative cooking juices flowing:

Teriyaki Cashew Tuna

Ingredients:

1/3 cup teriyaki sauce or stir-fry sauce

2 (6-oz.) cans drained Chicken of the Sea® Solid White Albacore Tuna in Spring Water

1 Tablespoon vegetable oil

1/2 teaspoon minced fresh garlic

1/2 cup green onion, cut into 1/2-inch pieces

1/2 cup each: sliced celery and sliced red bell peppers

1 (10-oz.) package of frozen pea pods, thawed

1 (6-oz.) can sliced water chestnuts, drained

1/2 cup cashews

Hot cooked rice

Directions:

In medium bowl, gently combine the sauce with Chicken of the Sea® Albacore Tuna; set aside. In a large skillet, heat oil until hot; sauté garlic. Add onion, celery, peppers, pea pods, cashews and water chestnuts; cook until celery is crisp and tender. Add tuna mixture and continue cooking until hot. Serve over hot cooked rice. Makes 4 servings.

Preparation Time: 20 minutes


