Title: 
Laura Bush's vegetable soup recipe

Word Count:
311

Summary:
Laura Bush's secret vegetable soup recipe


Keywords:
laura bush, recipe, vegetable soup, vegetable soup recipe, soup recipe


Article Body:
Here's Laura Bush's secret vegetable soup recipe.

Here's the ingredients you will need for this vegetable soup recipe:

1-1/4 cups pinto beans, soaked overnight and drained 
1 tsp. salt 
1 bay leaf 
1 tsp. dried oregano 
1 lb. tomatoes, fresh or canned, peeled, seeded, and chopped; juice reserved 
2 ancho chilies 
1 lb. mixed summer squash 
4 ears corn (about 2 cups kernels) 
1 tsp. ground cumin 
1/2 tsp. ground coriander 
2 tbsp. corn or vegetable oil 
2 yellow onions, cut 1/4 inch squares 
2 cloves garlic, finely chopped 
2 tbsp. red chili powder, or more to taste 
8 ozs. green beans, cut into 1-inch lengths 
4 ozs. jack or muenster cheese, grated 
1/2 bunch cilantro leaves, roughly chopped 
Whole cilantro leaves for garnish

Here's how to cook vegetable soup recipe: 

Cook the pre-soaked beans for about 1 to 2 hours in plenty of water with the salt, bay leaf and oregano. Remove them from the heat when they are soft but not mushy, as they will continue to cook in the stew. Drain the beans, and save the broth. Prepare the tomatoes. Open the chili pods and remove the seeds and veins; then cut the chilies into narrow strips. Cut the squash into large pieces. Shave the kernels from the corn.

Heat the oil in a large skillet, and saute the onions over high heat for 1 to 2 minutes. Lower the heat, add the garlic, chili powder, cumin and coriander and stir everything together. Add a little bean broth, so the chili doesn't stew for 5 minutes. Stir in the squash, corn, green beans, and chili strips along with the cooked beans and enough broth to make a fairly wet stew. Cook slowly until the vegetables are done, about 15 or 20 minutes. Taste the stew and adjust the seasoning. Stir in the cheese and chopped cilantro, and garnish with whole leaves of cilantro.

Serve with cornbread or tortillas. A great one-dish meal if you have a garden or have just visited the Farmer's Market.


