Title: 
Learn the Correct Way To Control Carb Intake

Word Count:
351

Summary:
For Americans who want to control their carbs, learning how to consume "good" carbohydrates in balance with a variety of proteins and "good" fats can be confusing.


Keywords:
Learn the Correct Way To Control Carb Intake


Article Body:
For Americans who want to control their carbs, learning how to consume "good" carbohydrates in balance with a variety of proteins and "good" fats can be confusing. 

To help people understand the science underlying this nutritional approach, "Atkins for Life," the book that set the gold standard for controlled-carbohydrate lifestyles, provides clear and complete explanations of how carbohydrates, protein and fat function in the body. 

This resource, now available in paperback, contains an extensive meal-planning section with 125 recipes for everything from appetizers to desserts, snacks, entrees, soups, salads and sauces, along with 200 meal plans at various levels of carbohydrate intake.

Charts throughout the book provide information on "good" and "bad" carbs; the order in which carb foods should be added back into meals; the Atkins Glycemic Ranking (showing which carbs can be eaten regularly, which occasionally, and which rarely and in small amounts); and how to count carbs in individual foods. It also includes a restaurant guide to help Atkins enthusiasts choose the right foods when dining out.

The following recipe from the Atkins Kitchen takes a traditional dessert and adds a subtle and natural coconut flavor that really shines through in this slightly sweet ice cream. Pair it with sugar-free chocolate syrup mixed with a drizzle of rum for a tropical treat.

COCONUT ICE CREAM

(Makes 8 servings)


6 egg yolks 

14 packets sugar substitute 

2 cups heavy cream 

1 (13.5-ounce) can unsweetened

coconut milk 

2 teaspoons coconut extract 

1 teaspoon vanilla extract 

1 cup shredded unsweetened coconut, lightly toasted 


In a medium bowl, whisk yolks and sugar substitute to combine. In a medium pot, bring heavy cream to a simmer over medium-low heat.

Slowly pour 1 cup cream into the yolk mixture, whisking constantly. Pour yolk mixture back into pot. Cook, stirring constantly, until mixture is thick enough to coat the back of a spoon. Remove from heat. Stir in coconut milk, coconut and vanilla extracts. Chill 4 hours. 

Pour ice cream mix into ice cream maker. Process according to manufacturer's directions. About 5 minutes before ice cream is finished, add the toasted coconut.

Nutritional information per serving: 6 g carbohydrates, 4.5 g net carbohydrates, 1.5 g fiber, 4 g protein, 32 g fat, 326 calories.


