Title: 
Mangos: Popular Worldwide, Available Around The Corner

Word Count:
350

Summary:
Would you like an exotic, tropical vacation to a sun-drenched paradise but don't have the time or money? Take a mini-vacation in your own kitchen with the tropical taste of mango.


Keywords:
Mangos: Popular Worldwide, Available Around The Corner


Article Body:
Would you like an exotic, tropical vacation to a sun-drenched paradise but don't have the time or money? Take a mini-vacation in your own kitchen with the tropical taste of mango.

Mangos are as common in Asia as apples are here and their unique taste is enjoyed worldwide. There's nothing like a mango's distinctive flavor. The flesh of a ripe mango is juicy and tastes like a peach with just a hint of vanilla. Try this fruit yourself and discover a tropical taste vacation. 

Besides delectable flavor, mangos also offer nutrition benefits. One cup of cubed mango provides an excellent source of vitamin C and a good source of vitamin A, two vitamins often lacking in American diets. 

Mangos are available year-round so you can bring home a sunny taste of the tropics anytime. They're perfect for every meal and easy to prepare. Try them cubed for breakfast or as a simple snack. At lunch or dinner, mango can enhance pork, chicken or fish entrees, and many elegant, flavorful desserts feature mango. 

MANGO AND SMOKED TURKEY SALAD

Ingredients:

2 ripe mangos 

2 tablespoons vegetable oil

2 tablespoons lime juice

2 tablespoons chopped cilantro

1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper

4 cups mixed salad greens

1 pound smoked turkey, cut in 1-inch pieces

1 cup cucumber cubes

1 cup halved grape tomatoes

Instructions:

With narrow side facing up, slice mango on each side of pit to remove "cheeks." With a knife, crisscross cheeks to make small cubes but do not cut through skin; press skin so cut side pops outward; cut or scrape off cubes. Peel center section; cut off mango pieces. Repeat this process with second mango. Set aside 3 cups mango cubes; place 1 cup of trimmings and smaller pieces in a food processor or blender and puree. In a small bowl, whisk together mango puree, vegetable oil, lime juice, cilantro and pepper. In a large bowl, toss mixed greens, mango cubes, turkey, cucumber and tomatoes with mango dressing.

Serves: 6 

Nutrition Information per Serving: calories: 180, total fat: 5.7g, saturated fat: 0.57g, % of calories from fat: 28, % of calories from saturated fat: 3, protein: 19g, carbohydrate: 15g, cholesterol: 34mg, dietary fiber: 3g, sodium: 472mg.


