Title: 
Meals Can Be Easy, Healthful and Budget-Wise

Word Count:
426

Summary:
Short of time? Got a thick waist or a thin wallet? Let eggs come to the rescue.


Keywords:
Meals Can Be Easy, Healthful and Budget-Wise


Article Body:
Short of time? Got a thick waist or a thin wallet? Let eggs come to the rescue.

Most egg dishes are quick and easy enough for kitchen novices to prepare. And, to help you slim down, eggs are nutrient dense. They contain a good proportion of needed nutrients compared to their calorie count -; 75 in a Large egg. In addition to their high-quality protein and a wide assortment of other nutrients, eggs are good to excellent sources of choline (for memory development) and riboflavin (for producing energy). The lutein and zeaxanthin in egg yolks help reduce risk of blinding eye diseases.

Eggs are also one of the best buys among protein foods. To compare the price of eggs with those of other protein sources, keep in mind that a pound of Large eggs is two-thirds of a dozen. Since one egg equals one ounce of lean meat, you can use eggs to stretch more costly protein foods or all by themselves to provide a meal's worth of protein.

Comforting for breakfast and handy for lunch, simple-to-prepare eggs are also a good dinner choice. Just pick a dish and, within minutes, you can serve a nutritious, inexpensive meal any time of day. 

Easy Herb and Veggie Poach

4 servings


3 cups chopped fresh 

broccoli florets (about 10 

oz.) OR 1 pkg. (10 oz.)

frozen chopped broccoli

1/2 cup chopped sweet red 

pepper

1/2 cup chopped onion

3 tablespoons water

1 tablespoon garlic-herb 

pasta sauce seasoning 

mix

4 thin slices tomato

2 English muffins, split 

and toasted

4 poached eggs*

1/2 to 1 cup (2 to 4 oz.) 

shredded low-moisture 

part-skim mozzarella 

cheese


In small saucepan, stir together broccoli, pepper, onion, water and sauce mix. Cover and cook over low heat just until crisp-tender, about 5 to 8 minutes. Place 1 tomato slice on each muffin half. Top with about 1/2 cup of the cooked vegetables, 1 poached egg and 2 tablespoons to 1/4 cup of the cheese.

*To poach: In saucepan or deep omelet pan, bring 2 to 3 inches of water to boiling. Reduce heat to keep water gently simmering. Break cold eggs, 1 at a time, into custard cup or saucer or break several into bowl. Holding dish close to water's surface, slip eggs, 1 by 1, into water. Cook until whites are completely set and yolks begin to thicken but are not hard, about 3 to 5 minutes. With slotted spoon, lift out eggs. Drain in spoon or on paper towels and trim any rough edges, if desired.


Nutrition information per serving of 1/4 recipe: 242 calories, 

10 gm total fat, 223 mg cholesterol, 520 mg sodium, 427 mg potassium, 21 gm carbohydrate, 17 gm protein and 10% or more of the RDI for vitamins A and C, riboflavin, calcium, phosphorus, iron, dietary fiber.


