Title: 
Mess-Free Cooking With Slow Cooker Liners

Word Count:
361

Summary:
Good news for anyone tired of soaking and scrubbing a slow cooker. New liners make cleanup a snap.


Keywords:
Mess-Free Cooking With Slow Cooker Liners


Article Body:
Good news for anyone tired of soaking and scrubbing a slow cooker. New liners make cleanup a snap. Simply line the slow cooker bowl and cook. The liners, which fit round and oval cookers, provide a barrier between the inside of the slow cooker and your food. Once the slow cooker has cooled, simply toss the liner. Slow Cooker Liners make even messy recipes easy. Try this cheesy Slow Cooker Baked Ziti. Add all the ingredients together before you head out for the day and by evening, dinner will be waiting for you. 

SLOW COOKER BAKED ZITI

Prep Time: 20 minutes

Cook Time: 6 hours

Makes: 6 to 8 servings

1 Reynolds® Slow Cooker Liner

1 pound ground beef

1 medium onion, chopped

2 teaspoons dried Italian seasoning

1/2 teaspoon salt

2 jars (about 25 oz. each) pasta

sauce

1 container (15 oz.) ricotta cheese

2 cups (8 oz.) shredded mozzarella cheese 

1 cup grated Parmesan cheese

1 box (16 oz.) ziti pasta,

uncooked

Open slow cooker liner and place it inside a 5- to 61/2-quart slow cooker bowl. Fit liner snugly against the bottom and sides of bowl; pull top of liner over rim of bowl. Brown ground beef and onion in a large skillet over medium-high heat, stirring occasionally, until beef is no longer pink. Stir in Italian seasoning and salt to evenly coat meat and onions. Stir in pasta sauce. Set aside. Mix the ricotta cheese, 1 cup mozzarella cheese and Parmesan cheese in a medium bowl. Spoon 2 cups of the meat sauce into the lined slow cooker bowl; top with 2 cups uncooked ziti pasta. Drop half of the cheese mixture, by rounded tablespoons, over ziti, spreading to cover ziti using back of spoon. Layer with 2 cups meat sauce, the remaining ziti and the remaining cheese mixture. Top with the remaining meat sauce, completely covering all the ziti and cheese mixture. Place lid on slow cooker. Cook on Low for 6 to 7 hours or on High for 4 to 5 hours or until ziti is tender. Carefully remove lid to allow steam to escape. Sprinkle with remaining 1 cup mozzarella cheese; let stand 10 minutes until cheese is melted. Serve food directly from lined slow cooker. Do not lift or transport liner with food inside. Cool slow cooker completely; remove liner and toss.


