Title: 
Old Fashion Bread

Word Count:
401

Summary:
This is a bread for bread lovers, it’s a bread similar to what people had made in the old fashion brick oven that was found in most peoples back yard many years ago.


Keywords:
bread,flour,bread recipe,bread breipes,king arthur flour,rolls,recipe,recipes,yeast,dough,baking,


Article Body:
This is a bread for bread lovers, it’s a bread similar to what people had made in the old fashion brick oven that was found in most peoples back yard many years ago.
It is a firm bread but with great taste and texture, it is especially good when served hot right from the oven with butter and jam. This recipe makes six loaves but you can break it down to two loaves just by dividing by three.


4 ½ pounds all purpose flour
1 teaspoon salt
1 cup oil
½ pound sugar
1 ounce dry yeast
6 cups warm water



In a stainless steel bowl place your yeast and 2 tablespoons sugar with 1 cup warm water and let the yeast work, when the yeast starts to rise you know that it is ok to use and that your bread is going to rise properly.
In a 10 quart mixing bowl place your flour, salt, sugar, oil, yeast you had started and 5 cups warm water.
Mix on low speed using a dough hook on your mixer until well blended, then mix on second speed for about four minutes, at this time you should have a nice well textured dough, if the dough seems too dry to you just add a little more water and mix for about one more minute.

Remove dough from mixer and divide into 24 ounce balls well rounded and tight, let them stand for 5 minutes on table covered with a towel, at this time grease your bread pans, take a ball of dough and flatten it removing any air in the dough (don’t get too rough with it) flap the bottom part of the dough up to the middle and the top of the dough in to the middle and press it down then fold it in half again and with the heal of your hand seal the seam of the dough, (it should look like a six inch hoagie bun) now place it in a well greased bread pan with the seam on the bottom and let it rise under a towel until it is double in size.
In a preheated 350 degree oven place all your loaves of bread and let it bake for 20 minutes then rotate it and let it bake for another 20 minutes, remove from oven and remove from pan, let it cool on a wire rack, even a refrigerator rack is good.
When it is cool enough to cut “enjoy it”.


