Title: 
One Ingredient Can Make For Many Marvelous Meals

Word Count:
319

Summary:
Save time and improve your health by going a little nuts--with almonds.


Keywords:
One Ingredient Can Make For Many Marvelous Meals


Article Body:
Save time and improve your health by going a little nuts-with almonds. Enjoy them for:

&#8226; Breakfast. Sprinkle chopped almonds on granola or oatmeal. Stir them into yogurt. Use almond milk in a breakfast smoothie-it can be found in an unrefrigerated box at the supermarket, near soy milk.

&#8226; Lunch. Include crunchy al-monds in a green salad or creamy soup. Make an almond butter and jelly sandwich. 

&#8226; Dinner. Add slivered almonds to rice, pasta, couscous or steamed vegetables. Grind roasted almonds and use them as a nutritious "breading" for fish or poultry.

&#8226; Snacks. Choose a handful of almonds and a piece of fruit.

&#8226; Dessert. Make fruit, caramel and chocolate desserts special with almonds.

Almonds can also be used in a range of cuisines. Try them in this authentic Mexican soup. 

CREAMY ALMOND 

AND HERB SOUP

3/4 cup slivered almonds, roasted*, plus 2 tablespoons for garnish

6 cups low-sodium chicken broth, divided

3 cups packed fresh cilantro, divided, plus a few sprigs for garnish

2 cups packed fresh parsley, divided

6 ounces cream cheese

1 tablespoon fresh oregano leaves 

1 tablespoon fresh marjoram leaves 

8 ounces cooked and deveined (51-60 count) shrimp

Grind 3/4 cup almonds finely in a food processor or blender. Add 2 cups broth, 11/2 cups cilantro, 1 cup parsley and cream cheese; blend until smooth. Transfer mixture to a medium pot, and gradually stir in remaining 4 cups broth. Simmer over low heat for 20 minutes. Transfer 1 cup soup, remaining cilantro and parsley, and oregano and marjoram to blender; puree until smooth. Whisk puree into soup in pan. Add shrimp and simmer just until warm throughout, about 3 minutes. Divide among bowls and serve, garnishing each bowl with a few slivered almonds and a cilantro sprig. Serves 8.

*To roast whole, slivered, chopped or sliced almonds: Spread in an ungreased baking pan. Place in a 350ºF oven and bake 10 minutes or until golden brown and fragrant; stir once or twice to ensure even browning. Note that almonds will continue to roast slightly after removing from oven.


