Title: 
Peanuts: High Energy Snack To Fuel Activities

Word Count:
295

Summary:
High-powered snacks, like USA-grown peanuts and peanut butter, can help give you the extra energy needed for your daily activities.


Keywords:
Peanuts: High Energy Snack To Fuel Activities


Article Body:
High-powered snacks, like USA-grown peanuts and peanut butter, can help give you the extra energy needed for your daily activities.

Peanuts and peanut butter are terrific, great tasting snacking options because they are convenient, portable and contribute more than 30 essential nutrients and phytonutrients. Plus, their combination of fiber and protein satisfies for hours. In addition, scientific evidence suggests that eating 1.5 ounces per day of most nuts, including peanuts, as part of a diet low in saturated fat and cholesterol, may reduce the risk of heart disease.

Peanuts and peanut butter also combine well with apples, celery, bananas and other fresh produce for a quick snack or to entertain. Or they can be baked into wholesome desserts like Peanut-Chip Cookie Bars, with just a touch of chocolate for gooey sweetness.

Peanut-Chip Cookie Bars

Makes 12 servings

3/4 cup all-purpose flour

1/2 cup whole-wheat flour or peanut flour

1/2 cup old fashioned oats

1/2 teaspoon baking powder

1/4 teaspoon baking soda

Pinch salt

1/4 cup white sugar

3/4 cup packed dark brown sugar

1/4 cup all-natural peanut butter

1 large egg

1 large egg white

1/2 cup chopped unsalted peanuts

1/4 cup semisweet chocolate chips

Preheat oven to 350°F. In a medium bowl, combine flours, oats, baking powder, baking soda and salt. Stir with a fork to blend. Set aside.

Place butter and sugars in a large bowl; beat with a mixer at medium speed until well combined and fluffy, about 3 minutes. Add peanut butter and beat until blended. Add egg and egg white; beat until combined. Fold in peanuts and chocolate chips. Spread mixture evenly on a 13x9x2-inch baking pan lightly rubbed with butter or sprayed with canola-based cooking spray. Bake for 30 minutes. Cool in pan 10 minutes on a wire rack. Remove from pan, and cut into 12 approximately 4-inch long by 2-inch wide bars; let cool completely.


