Title: 
Recipe Website Claims To Expose Top Secret Restaurant Recipes

Word Count:
421

Summary:
Secret restaurant recipes aren't so secretive anymore.


Keywords:
Secret Restaurant Recipes, Secret Recipes, Restaurant Recipes, Top Secret Restaurant Recipes, Amarica's Most Wanted Recipes


Article Body:
According to Ron Douglas, author of 'America's Most Wanted Recipes,' the average American family dines out at an average of three times each week. Depending on the number of people in a family, the choice of food ordered and the selected restaurant, this casual dining experience can quickly become a very expensive indulgence.

In an effort to solve the cost factor associated with dining out, some families are searching for a way to recreate their favorite famous restaurant recipes in the comfort of their own home. The problem is, however, that these top secret restaurant recipes were never easily found and may have taken years to perfect using the trial-and-error method.  There is a new recipe website that is now attempting to convince customers that their famous restaurant recipes no longer have to be a secret. In fact, perhaps secret restaurant recipes, aren't so secretive anymore.

Ron Douglas claims to have taken secret restaurant recipes and compiled them into a new book called 'America's Most Wanted Recipes.'  Among the restaurant secret recipes that he provides include select entrees and desserts from Applebee's, popular Burger King menu items, Chili's spicy creations and even the cool taste of the Dairy Queen blizzard.  In addition, top secret restaurant recipes from the Hard Rock Café, IHOP, Kentucky Fried Chicken, The Olive Garden, Planet Hollywood, Outback Steakhouse, Shoney's, Taco Bell and Wendy's are all found in the new compilation by Douglas. The website also offers a partial listing of specific famous restaurant recipes included in the downloadable and/or print version of 'America's Most Wanted Recipes.'

Depending on the dish, it can be difficult to pinpoint the exact ingredients required to recreate it's taste.  While a large part of the dining craze is so popular due to convenience, another important factor is the unmistakable taste associated with certain restaurants and specific meals. Because the theme is to provide chefs and readers with the ability to produce such dishes in a reasonable time while saving money, 'America's Most Wanted Recipes' is available in either a print or downloadable format.

According to the website, customers who purchase a copy of 'America's Most Wanted Recipes' will also receive four free bonus gifts, which include lifetime access to a secret restaurant recipes archive, The Complete Library of Cooking 5-volume set consisting of 900 pages, a free copy of 'America's Most Wanted Low-Carb Recipes' and 'America's Top 150 Drink Recipes.' This recipe website also offers a free recipe of the day complete with nutritional information, a recipe archive and forum to every visitor.


