Title: 
Savory Sensations--Add Zip To Traditional Fare

Word Count:
279

Summary:
Here's food for thought: The challenge for many an outdoor chef is exploring options beyond the conventional universe of grilled hot dogs, hamburgers and steaks.


Keywords:
Savory Sensations--Add Zip To Traditional Fare


Article Body:
Here's food for thought: The challenge for many an outdoor chef is exploring options beyond the conventional universe of grilled hot dogs, hamburgers and steaks.

An easy way may be to add zest with robust flavors. For example, instead of a hamburger, consider a Turkey Kraut Burger. The tartness of sauerkraut and Dijon mustard adds a surprising, savory twist to a healthier burger. 

The addition of full-bodied flavors via a side dish is another way to bring new life to backyard cuisine. You may care to try the Sweet and Sassy Slaw or Tangy Trio Bean Salad recipes at www.krrrrispkraut.com as an alternative to traditional potato salad or cole slaw.

Sauerkraut, the second most popular hot dog topping according to the trade association Pickle Packers International, earned rave reviews as a healthful food. Recent studies have shown that girls who eat four or more servings of sauerkraut or lightly cooked cabbage a week during adolescence are 72 percent less likely to develop breast cancer as adults. The nutritional and chemical properties of sauerkraut have also proven effective in aiding digestion, lowering cholesterol levels and reducing the risk for developing prostate and colon cancers.

Turkey Kraut Burgers

1 lb. lean ground turkey

11/2 cups drained Krrrrisp Kraut Sauerkraut, divided

1/2 cup sliced green onions, divided

1 tbsp. chopped pimiento

1 egg white, beaten

2 tbsp. Dijon mustard

1/2 cup shredded reduced-fat cheddar cheese 

In mixing bowl, combine turkey, 1 cup sauerkraut, 1/4 cup onions, pimiento, egg white and mustard. Shape into 4-inch patties. Grill 5-7 minutes on each side until meat is no longer pink. Combine remaining sauerkraut, 1/4 cup onions and cheese. Top patties with mixture. Grill 2-3 minutes or until cheese melts. Serve on hamburger buns, if desired. Serves 6.


