Title: 
Say 'Cheers' to Grilling And Good Wine

Word Count:
320

Summary:
Most Americans would agree that nothing beats a perfectly grilled steak, a tender pork loin or a delicious cut of lamb - especially when paired with just the right glass of full-bodied wine.


Keywords:
Say 'Cheers' to Grilling And Good Wine


Article Body:
Most Americans would agree that nothing beats a perfectly grilled steak, a tender pork loin or a delicious cut of lamb - especially when paired with just the right glass of full-bodied wine.

Australians also share a genuine passion for barbecuing. While the folks down under are reaching for their "shrimp on the barbie" or their pork, ribs or steak, they also tend to reach for their favorite glass of wine. Quite often, that wine will be a Shiraz, the hallmark grape of Australia. Shiraz, with its rich fruit character, seems perfectly suited to take on any of the big, bold tastes coming off the grill.

One Australian winery in particular has long been acknowledged for making approachable, award-winning Shiraz wines that are right for any time of the year, but are especially in season when it's time to fire up the grill. The Wyndham Estate winery, located in Australia's famed Hunter Valley winegrowing region, is known throughout the world as "the place where Australian Shiraz began." 

The following recipe is an example of the kind of entrée that pairs well with a full-bodied Shiraz, like Wyndham Estate's Bin 555. Wyndham Estate wines are available nationally and imported by Pernod Ricard USA. 


BARBECUED BUTTERFLIED LAMB WITH MINT


1 (5- to 6-pound) leg of lamb, boned and trimmed 

3/4 cup balsamic vinegar

1/3 cup mint jelly

1/3 cup minced fresh mint leaves (keep a few leaves for decoration)

Salt

Pepper


In a 1 1/2 quart pan over medium heat, bring to a boil the vinegar and mint jelly. Stir in mint leaves and pour evenly over lamb. Cover and chill 2 hours or up to a day, turning meat over occasionally.

Barbecue over medium heat, turning meat to brown evenly; baste with marinade. For rare meat, cook about 40 minutes or until thermometer reads 140 degrees in thickest area of meat. Rest cooked lamb for 5 to 10 minutes. Garnish with mint sprigs. Slice meat thin. Season to taste with salt and pepper.  - NU


