Title: 
Supersweet Corn Ready For The Grill

Word Count:
318

Summary:
You don't have to wait for a holiday or special occasion to enjoy corn on the cob.


Keywords:
Supersweet Corn Ready For The Grill


Article Body:
Fresh corn and the grill go together like fireworks and the Fourth of July, but you don't have to wait for a holiday or special occasion to enjoy corn on the cob. Supersweet corn from Florida is ready to grill right now.

Unlike traditional corn, Supersweet corn has more natural sugars and stays sweet longer. To keep kernels sweet and tender, always store fresh corn in the refrigerator in a high-humidity drawer or wrapped loosely in plastic. For perfect grilled corn follow these tips:

Out of the husk-for slightly charred, smoky flavor:

Brush ears with melted butter or flavored oil; grill, turning often, until kernels are golden, 7 to 10 minutes.

In the husk-for more intense flavor:

Pull back the husks and remove silks; replace husks and tie in place with a strip of husk or string. Soak in water for 10 minutes. Grill, turning often, for 7 to 10 minutes. For easy eating, pull back the husks and tie together to form a handle.

In foil-for moist, make-ahead corn:

Place each husked ear on a square of foil; brush with butter (plain or seasoned with garlic and/or herbs), barbecue sauce or flavored oil; wrap ears. Grill, turning often, for 7 to 10 minutes.

Indoor "grilling":

Place husked ears on a shallow pan, lightly brush with butter, about 6 inches from a hot broiler; grill, turning often, until golden, 7 to 10 minutes.

After grilling, add flavor to the corn with one of these combinations:

Easy Pesto Butter: Mix one stick of softened butter with 2 tablespoons pesto-from a jar or made at home.

Buffalo Corn Butter: Mix 1/2 stick softened butter with 1 tablespoon each of hot sauce and lemon juice.

Herb Butter: Mix 1/2 stick softened butter with 1 teaspoon of your favorite dried herb (such as rosemary or dill).

Goat Cheese Spread: Combine 1/4 cup goat cheese with 2 tablespoons butter and 1 teaspoon dried thyme.

Sesame Soy Sauce: Combine 1/4 cup soy sauce with 2 tablespoons each lime juice and toasted sesame oil.


