Title: 
Sweet Vidalia® Onions Take on Today's Cooks' Need for Speed. Southern Cooking Expert Paula Deen Shares a Favorite Quick and Easy Recipe

Word Count:
321

Summary:
Convenience is a key concern for today's time-pressed cooks. Saturday Night Vidalia Onions is a recipe that satisfies today's cooks' need for speed.


Keywords:
Sweet Vidalia® Onions Take on Today's Cooks' Need for Speed. Southern Cooking Expert Paula Deen Shares a Favorite Quick and Easy Recipe


Article Body:
Convenience is a key concern for today's time-pressed cooks. Less than 30 minutes preparation time, recipes with less than seven ingredients and quick-and-easy cleanup are three important issues for home cooks. 

Saturday Night Vidalia® Onions from Paula Deen-cookbook author, chef/ proprietor of The Lady and Sons restaurant in Savannah, Ga., and host of Food Network's "Paula's Home Cooking"-is a recipe that satisfies today's cooks' need for speed. 

As Paula says, "If your Southern food is authentic, it's not fussy! It doesn't require a sophisticated palate. The ingredients are distinctly Southern and homegrown." That's just what Paula's recipe for Saturday Night Vidalia® Onions is, too. Real. Simple. Homegrown in Georgia. This recipe can be prepared in the oven or outside over hot coals. Either way it's delightful, just like its creator. 

More easy recipes featuring Vidalia Onions may be viewed and printed by logging on to www.vidaliaonion.org. Paula Deen's latest cookbook is "Paula Deen's Kitchen Classics" (Random House, $29.95).

Paula Deen's Saturday 

Night Vidalia® Onions

1 large Vidalia® Onion per person

1 beef bouillon cube per onion

1 tablespoon butter per onion

Pepper to taste

Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Trim a slice from the top of each onion, and peel the onion without cutting off the root end. With a potato peeler, cut a small cone-shaped section from the center of the onion. Cut the onion into quarters from the top down, stopping within a half-inch of the root end. Place a bouillon cube in the center, slip slivers of butter in between the sections, and sprinkle with pepper. Wrap each onion in a double thickness of heavy-duty foil and bake in preheated oven for about 45 minutes. Or, prepare a fire in charcoal grill and place the foil-wrapped onions directly onto the hot coals and cook for 45 minutes, turning every so often. Serve in individual bowls because they produce a lot of broth, which tastes like French Onion Soup! Serves one person per onion.


