Title: 
The Food Lover’s Site I’ve Been Waiting For

Word Count:
317

Summary:
If you’re like me, you grew up watching someone cook, from time to time.  And, if you’re like me, you have your favorite foods – call them “comfort foods,” if you wish.  Those recipes, that when cooked, fill the air with aromas that can only be satisfied by sitting down and savoring.


Keywords:
recipes, home cooks, video, social network, food, cooking, videos, community, chefs, cooks, international food, ethnic food, upload


Article Body:
As I grew, however, the repertoire of recipes that I enjoyed watching other home cooks and chefs prepare (and eat), also grew.  With the advent of the internet, it was a gold mine of goulashes, a reservoir of resources and a collection of food communities to share and exchange a love of all things – food! 

But – something was missing. 

Not one of those food sites had videos.  There’s nothing like, virtually, sitting on the edge of the counter, watching an experienced and enthusiastic home cook or chef preparing their specialty recipe right in front of you.  You know what I mean – those folks who cook and measure everything with a “pinch of this” or a “dash of that.” 

Welcome to the age of IPTVRecipes.com (www.IPTVRecipes.com), a site which truly delivers a food lovers present and future needs. Home cooks, chefs, and food-related businesses now have a truly genius cooking social network site where everyone can fully interact and share cooking and food-related videos. A completely free service to all members, you have the option to broadcast your cooking talents through your personal MyKitchen, and (get this!) soon straight to your home televisions via IPTV! This site combines innovative and tested technologies, traditional needs and creative ideas to bring like-minded folks together to broadcast themselves, interact and enjoy shared value. 

Your first visit to IPTVRecipes brings you to their homepage that’s elegant in its’ simplicity of design and function.  After registering, you become part of the virtual kitchen – everyone has their own – where you can upload videos of your favorite recipes, check out other’s videos, upload written recipes, participate in various Forum topics and, even, check out their store front for food-related shopping deals. 

To reply to a question on the site – “What are you hungry for?” – my response is – “This is the food lover’s site I’ve been waiting for!”


