Title: 
The Original Chocolate

Word Count:
315

Summary:
The word "chocolate" is said to be derived from the Mayan word "xocoatl." In fact, the Mayans, who occupied the Yucatan Peninsula in Mexico starting is the 3rd century, were the first people to unlock the secrets of cacao seeds to make chocolate paste.


Keywords:
The Original Chocolate


Article Body:
The word "chocolate" is said to be derived from the Mayan word "xocoatl." In fact, the Mayans, who occupied the Yucatan Peninsula in Mexico starting in the 3rd century, were the first people to unlock the secrets of cacao seeds to make chocolate paste. This rich culture also crafted a recipe for an iconic beverage, known today as Mayan Hot Chocolate: a mix of intense, bitter dark chocolate with spicy notes of cinnamon and chile. This delicious drink was so revered by the Mayans that it was used in religious ceremonies as an offering to the gods. 

Eighteen centuries later, the same flavor notes of the original Mayan Hot Chocolate recipe can be found in a much cooler form-ice cream. Re-created by Häagen-Dazs® ice cream, this new flavor features unadulterated, dark chocolate with a delicate blend of cinnamon varieties sourced from the side of an active volcano. Rich and smooth, Mayan Chocolate ice cream is threaded lavishly with a ribbon of exquisite chocolate sauce, providing the ultimate chocolate-on-chocolate experience.

Make a simple dessert that embodies the true spirit of Mexico-top Mayan Chocolate ice cream with a refreshing fruit salsa. Create your own mild or hot salsas by offering a "salsa bar" for various levels of spiciness.

Ginger Fruit Salsa

1 cup diced fresh strawberries

1 cup diced fresh pineapple

2 tablespoons minced crystallized ginger

Mayan Chocolate Ice Cream

Combine strawberries and pineapple. Stir in ginger and let stand at room temperature 1 hour for flavors to blend (or refrigerate up to 12 hours). Spoon over ice cream. Makes about 4 servings.

Jalapeño Fruit Salsa

1 cup diced fresh strawberries

1 cup diced fresh mango

1-2 tablespoons finely minced fresh jalapeño pepper

1 teaspoon granulated sugar

Mayan Chocolate Ice Cream

Combine strawberries and mango. Stir in jalapeño and sugar. Let stand at room temperature for 1 hour for flavors to blend (or refrigerate up to 12 hours). Spoon over ice cream. Makes about 4 servings.


