Title: 
Three Crockpot Recipes for Soup

Word Count:
265

Summary:
One of the advantages of preparing soups in crock pots is the richness of flavour from the slow cooking process.  Today, I am sharing with you three deligthful crockpot recipes for soups, great confort dishes any time of the year.


Keywords:
crockpot recipes,best crockpot recipes,crockpot chicken recipes,chicken crockpot recipes,healthy crockpot recipes,crockpot beef recipes,easy crockpot


Article Body:
One of the advantages of preparing soups in crock pots is the richness of flavour from the slow cooking process.  Today, I am sharing with you three deligthful crockpot recipes for soups, great confort dishes any time of the year.


16 BEAN SOUP
1 package 16 Bean Soup
3 bay leaves
1 tablespoon crushed oregano
2 cans no-fat chicken stock
Additional water to cover
3 stalks celery chopped
3 carrots diced
1 large onion chopped
3 cloves garlic sliced
1 pound turkey Italian sausage sliced
2 cans stewed (or diced) tomatoes

Combine first 5 ingredients (liquid should cover mixture by 1"-2") in
Crock Pot Cook on high for 2 hours Add remaining ingredients and shift cooker to low and cook for additional 3 hours For more zing, add cayenne or crushed red pepper when adding second set of ingredients. Serve as complete meal or over rice. Freezes well.


VEGETABLE BEEF SOUP
1 pound ground chuck
1 cup chopped onion
1 large (28 oz.) can whole tomatoes (chopped)
3 cup diced potatoes
1 (16 oz.) can cut green beans
2 teaspoon chili powder
2-3 dashes cayenne pepper sauce
2 (10 1/2 oz.) cans condensed beef bouillon
1 cup chopped celery
1 cup sliced carrots
1 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce

Brown meat with onion and celery; drain off fat. Stir in remaining ingredients and add 1 or 2 cups water. Cover and cook on low for 8-10 hours.

BARBECUED BEAN SOUP
* 1 lb Great Northern beans, soaked
* 2 tsp Salt
* 1 med Onion, chopped
* 1/8 tsp Ground pepper
* 2 lb Beef short ribs
* 6 cup Water
* 3/4 cup Barbecue sauce
Place all ingredients in Slow Cooker except barbecue sauce Cover and cook on Low 10 to 16 hours. Before serving, remove short ribs and cut meat from bones. Return meat to Slow Cooker. Stir in barbecue sauce before serving.


