Title: 
Timesaving Chili: A Family Favorite

Word Count:
329

Summary:
Weeknight dinners that satisfy the whole family can be less of a challenge than many people realize.


Keywords:
Timesaving Chili: A Family Favorite


Article Body:
Weeknight dinners that satisfy the whole family can be less of a challenge than many people realize. Comforting, filling and quickly prepared meals don't have to mean less nutritious choices for busy families. One good idea, for example, is chili-a dish most families enjoy. With a timesaving recipe that's ready to serve in half an hour, the family can be eating in less time than the pizza delivery.

Picadillo is a classic Latin chili that combines smoky and spicy flavors with a touch of sweetness found in natural raisins. Commonly made with ground beef, a substitution of chicken cut into chunks is a healthy alternative to the traditional dish. Serve it ladled into bowls as it is or over rice for a heartier one-dish meal. 

For guests, chili makes a crowd-pleasing presentation served buffet style, along with a selection of toppings such as grated cheese, scallions, cilantro, chopped avocado and sour cream. Tortilla chips and a simple green salad complete the meal. 

The next day, picadillo chili can be used for filling tortillas for lunch. Simply reheat leftovers and spoon onto a warmed flour tortilla. Add shredded cheese if you still have some, roll up and serve. 

Quick Chicken Picadillo Chili

2 tsp. ground cumin

2 tsp. chili powder

1 tsp. salt

1/4 tsp. cinnamon

1 lb. boneless, skinless chicken breasts cut into 1-inch chunks

1 Tbsp. vegetable oil

1 large onion, chopped

4 cloves garlic, minced

2 cans (14.5 oz. each) Mexican-style diced tomatoes, undrained

1/2 cup chipotle salsa or medium heat salsa

3/4 cup Sun-Maid Raisins

1 can (16-oz.) red or black beans, drained

Optional toppings: chopped cilantro, shredded cheddar cheese, sour cream

Combine cumin, chili powder, salt and cinnamon. Coat chicken evenly with seasonings. Heat oil in a large saucepan over medium heat. Add onion and cook 5 minutes. Add chicken and garlic. Cook 3 minutes, stirring occasionally. Stir in tomatoes, salsa and raisins. Bring to a simmer. Cover and cook 10 minutes. 

Stir in beans. Cover and continue to simmer 5 minutes. Ladle into bowls and serve with desired toppings. Makes 6 servings.


