Title: 
Tips for Delectable Soy Smoothies

Word Count:
305

Summary:
Many people in today's busy world have found that a fruit-packed smoothie made with soy milk is a good way to get essential nutrients when they're on the go.


Keywords:
Tips for Delectable Soy Smoothies


Article Body:
Many people in today's busy world have found that a fruit-packed smoothie made with soy milk is a good way to get essential nutrients when they're on the go. 

Research shows that soy milk is good for you and your family since it's high in protein, fiber and calcium. It's also a great choice for people who avoid dairy products. 

Many physicians, such as Dr. Alan Greene, a pediatrician at Lucile Packard Children's Hospital, recommend choosing foods made from whole organic soybeans. This is because soy milk made from whole organic soybeans contains all of the nutritional goodness of the bean as nature intended - not concentrated or diluted.

"Organic soybeans are not genetically modified and have been grown without the use of toxic pesticides or other toxic chemicals," said Greene.

For your soy smoothies, try Organic Valley Soy, which is produced by families of organic farmers. Here are some tips for smoothie success.

* To boost creaminess, freeze the fruit (except for citrus fruit). You also can add a few tablespoons of Organic Valley Nonfat Dry Milk Powder for a rich, creamy taste without the guilt. 

* For extra protein, add a handful of raw almonds.

* Blend a few tablespoons of raw flax seeds for omega-3 fatty acids. Add a handful of raw sunflower seeds for your daily dose of omega-6 and omega-9 fatty acids as well as vitamin E.

* Add liquids first and gradually add seeds and nuts and then frozen fruit. Liquid extracts (such as vanilla or almond extracts) go in last.

* Serve or freeze immediately to retain the full flavor and nutrients.


SUPER MAMA SOY SMOOTHIE

(Makes 2 servings)


2 cups Organic Valley Vanilla Soy beverage 

1/2 cup blueberries

2 medium bananas (peeled, sliced and frozen) 

1 tablespoon flax seeds

1 tablespoon raw almonds


Whirl all of the ingredients in the blender until smooth - up to 5 minutes - and enjoy!  - NU


