Title: 
Two Bennigan's Restaurant Recipes

Word Count:
324

Summary:
Bennigan's is an Irish-American Grill & Tavern famous for their food and fun, casual atmosphere. 

Let me share with you two copycat recipes from their extensive menu.


Keywords:
restaurant recipes,secret restaurant recipes,famous restaurant recipes,top secret restaurant recipes,copycat restaurant recipes,copy cat restaurant re


Article Body:
Bennigan's is an Irish-American Grill & Tavern famous for their food and fun, casual atmosphere.  Its menu is loaded with healthy salads, nice selection of burgers, steak and chicken entrees, sandwiches and desserts.  Whatever you go to one of their locations in the US, Cyprus, El Salvador, Greece or elsewhere, you can enjoy great, creative food.  Let me share with you two copycat recipes from their extensive menu.  

Bennigan's Onion Soup

1/2 pound Firm white onions -- sliced
1/4 cup Butter
2 tablespoons Corn oil
3 tablespoons Flour
1 quart Chicken broth
1 quart Beef broth
8 slices French bread
Swiss cheese -- shredded
Parmesan -- grated

Saute onions in butter and oil until onions are transparent, but not
well browned. When tender, turn heat to lowest point and sprinkle with
flour, stirring vigorously. Pour into Dutch oven and stir in broths.
Heat thoroughly and divide among 8 oven-proof bowls. Mix equal parts of
cheese to smooth paste and spread over bread. Float a slice of
bread atop each serving. Place all bowls on oven rack 4" from broiler heat
and broil until cheese melts. Serve at once. Leftover soup freezes
well up to 6 months.


Bennigan's Hot Bacon Dressing
2 ounces Bacon grease
1/4 pound Red onion, dice fine
2 cups Water
1/2 cup Honey
1/2 cup Red wine vinegar
2 tablespoons Dijon mustard
1 1/2 tablespoons Cornstarch
1 tablespoon Tabasco (optional)

Place the bacon grease in a saucepan over medium-high heat.
Add the onions and saute until the onions start to blacken. While
the onions are carmelizing, in a mixing bowl place the water,
honey, pepper sauce, and red wine vinegar. Using a wire whisk,
mix the ingredients well.

Add the cornstarch and whisk well. After the onions have
carmelized, add the Dijon mustard to the onions and stir together
with a rubber spatula. Add the water, vinegar, pepper sauce
honey and cornstarch to the mustard and onions and mix.
Continue stirring until mix thickens and comes to a boil. Remove
from heat and store in refigerator until needed. To reheat use a
double boiler.


