Title: 
Wholesome Kosher Food Means Quality Family Meals

Word Count:
467

Summary:
With the fast-paced schedules most families face these days, mealtime is one of the most important times for bringing families together.


Keywords:
Wholesome Kosher Food Means Quality Family Meals


Article Body:
With the fast-paced schedules most families face these days, mealtime is one of the most important times for bringing families together. Just as important as making quality time to eat with your kids, however, is making sure they are eating quality food that is good for them.

Topping the list of easy and popular meals to enjoy with your kids is-you guessed it-hot dogs. In fact, a recent poll showed that hot dogs remain kids' number-one food choice while enjoying outdoor activities. However, even the biggest hot dog lovers aren't always sure exactly what it is that they're eating. The kosher symbol-represented as a triangle with a "K" inside it on packaging, such as on Hebrew National Franks-eliminates that doubt. The kosher seal is proof that there are no mystery meats or surprise ingredients.

In fact, recent studies show that more than nine out of 10 Americans consider trusted seals such as kosher, organic and whole grain when shopping for good food for their family. The rising appeal of organic foods in particular is the result of moms seeking out the highest-quality ingredients for their families, and many are choosing kosher foods for similar reasons. Kosher foods provide an assurance of quality and purity of ingredients similar to what you'll find in your favorite organic foods.

For thousands of years, food prepared under kosher supervision has been a guarantee of the purity and cleanliness of that food. When it comes to ingredients and hot dogs, the word "beef" in particular can mean lots of things, including meat from sources you might not immediately think of. What you can expect from choosing kosher franks such as Hebrew National is 100 percent kosher beef, made from only the finest cuts of beef, without artificial flavors, colors, fillers and by-products. The kosher symbol certifies both high-quality ingredients and clean preparation processes that meet strict kosher standards. And Hebrew National's century of experience producing only kosher foods means it's a name you can trust, especially when you're looking to feed quality, great-tasting food to your kids.

Glazed Frank Kabobs

Grilling spray

1/2 cup chili sauce

3 tablespoons brown sugar

2 tablespoons Hebrew National® Deli Mustard

1 package (16 ounces) Hebrew National Dinner Beef Franks, cut into 16 (11/2-inch) pieces

1 small red onion, cut into 1/2-inch wedges

1 medium red bell pepper, cut into 1-inch pieces

1 medium green bell pepper, cut into 1-inch pieces

2 medium ears fresh corn, shucked, cut into 1-inch-thick slices

Spray cold grate of outdoor grill with grilling spray. Prepare grill for medium heat. Combine chili sauce, brown sugar and mustard in small bowl until blended. Set aside. Thread franks and vegetables alternately on 4 metal or heavy wooden skewers. Place kabobs on grill. Brush with half of the sauce; grill 5 minutes. Turn kabobs; brush with remaining sauce. Grill 5 minutes or until vegetables are tender and franks are hot.


