Title: 
Your Chicken Recipe Could Win $100,000

Word Count:
262

Summary:
A grand prize of $100,000 will be awarded to America's top chicken cook at the 47th National Chicken Cooking Contest, to be held May 4, 2007, in Birmingham, Ala.


Keywords:
Your Chicken Recipe Could Win $100,000


Article Body:
A grand prize of $100,000 will be awarded to America's top chicken cook at the 47th National Chicken Cooking Contest, to be held May 4, 2007, in Birmingham, Ala.

Fifty-one contestants, one from each state and the District of Columbia, will be selected to compete. Chicken is the only required ingredient for recipe entries, and it can be prepared whole, in parts or in any combination of parts. Pre-cooked, pre-marinated and ground chicken products are also eligible. 

Recipe preparation and other ingredients are left up to the imagination and creativity of the entrants. All recipes must be original, make four to eight servings and take less than three hours to prepare and cook twice. Grilling recipes are not allowed. 

Contestants may submit an unlimited number of recipes. Each should be on a separate piece of paper and should include the contestant's name, full address and telephone number.

The judges, a national panel of food experts and journalists, will choose the winning recipes based on taste, appearance, simplicity and overall appeal.

The second-place finisher will be awarded $10,000; third place will win $5,000; fourth place will win $2,000; and fifth place will get $1,000. Every state finalist will win an expense-paid trip to Birmingham for the cook-off.

The contest is sponsored by the National Chicken Council and the U.S. Poultry & Egg Association. Members of the Alabama Poultry Federation will serve as local hosts.

The grand prize at the 46th National Chicken Cooking Contest, held in Charlotte, N.C., in May 2005, went to Indiana contestant Camilla Saulsbury for her Mahogany Broiled Chicken with Smoky Lime Sweet Potatoes and Cilantro Chimichurri.


