Title: 
10 Reasons Why You Should Take Control And Be Your Own Boss.

Word Count:
620

Summary:
How great would it feel if you went to your existing boss in six months time and said, ‘I’m earning more at my part time job than I am at my full time job, I simply cannot afford to work for you anymore, GOOD BYE!’


Keywords:
work at home, work from home, work online, jobs online, earn money online, online work, working online, online marketing jobs, earn online, business earn money online opportunity, earn cash online, find jobs online, work online uk, part time online


Article Body:
Copyright 2006 Linden Huckle

1. No More Alarm clocks     2. No more arrogant, ignorant, rude, lazy, world revolves around them, bosses      3. No more unreachable targets      4. No more pointless meetings     5. No more ‘You can’t have your holiday that week’      6. No more ‘We would love to give everyone a pay rise, but if we do, people are going to lose their jobs and it could be you’.      7. No more ‘You are just going to have to work longer hours for less money!’      8. No more not knowing if you have a job next month.      9. No More, No Future!      10.This is the best reason of all! Because, when you have your own business and you are your own boss, there is no limit to what you can achieve and earn.

Take control!

You can have your own business, be your own boss and at the same time work your old job for your existing boss. Using your existing job to fund and support the ‘Learning Stage’ of your new business, will enable you to build slowly and correctly without the pressure of your new business being your only source of income.

There is a lot to learn, when you start your own business.

1.You need to learn about the business you chose. I.e. MLM, internet Marketing, Affiliate Marketing, Internet MLM, etc, etc. 2.How much time are you going to put by each week for your new business? 3.How much money are you going to invest? 4.You need to study and learn about the products or services you are going to sell or provide. 5.Make sure you, read, watch and listen to as much information as you can about your new business. 6.You will have to deal with friends and family telling you that you have made a mistake and that you should stick with what you know. 7.Does your new business operate by, face to face, telephone, direct mail, online, or indeed all of the above. 8.You need to set goals and targets and if you don’t make them you can tell yourself off. 9.NEVER QUIT! You must persevere, if you REALLY want to succeed, you WILL. 10. There is know one to answer to, just you, so you will, from time to time need to have a word with yourself. You will probably start talking to yourself quite a bit, well I do anyway!

All successful people have one thing in common, they NEVER QUIT. Remember the Zig Ziglar saying, 'The major difference between the big shot and the little shot is the big shot is just a little shot who kept on shooting.'

Having your own business and being your own boss isn’t for everyone. Indeed, some people are happy having other people take control of their lives.

This sort of person would not be reading this now, they would have long gone.

If you are reading this article you probably are the sort of person that wants to take control, the sort of person that has the ‘Entrepreneurial flair’, the sort of person that has the passion, enthusiasm, vision, effort and focus to live the life of your dreams.

If you are this type of person I wish you all the luck in the world, you just have to believe you can do it, sometimes it's hard and you will want to quit, DO NOT QUIT.

Jack Dempsey, the world famous boxer said, ‘A champion is someone who gets up even when they can’t’.

How great would it feel if you went to your existing boss in six months time and said, ‘I’m earning more at my part time job than I am at my full time job, I simply cannot afford to work for you anymore, GOOD BYE!’


