Title: 
6 POWERFUL VRE Business Models You Can Start Building In 2006 Using Google Adsense - Part 4

Word Count:
556

Summary:
This article explains another POWERFUL VRE business model anyone can start with no COST what-so-ever by simply using FREE Blogs.


Keywords:
rss,rss feeds,rss technology,rss syndication,blogs,blogger,niche blogs,affiliate mini sites,xml


Article Body:
I hope your ready for this installment of "6 POWERFUL VRE Business Models You Can Start Building In 2006 Using Google Adsense" because what I'm going to reveal to you is in my opinion one of the BEST VRE Business Models you can start with absolutely ZERO cost to you.

The only thing your required to do is learn how to set them up with Google Adsense and targeted affiliate programs.

They are FREE, there's no hosting costs(optional), search engines love them, they use a state of the art syndication technology and are one of the most talked about phenomenons to hit the web simply because they work.

So, with that said, let's get on with it.


VRE Model #4. Niche Blogs.

"Niche Blogs" are simply dynamic websites that use a syndication technology called RSS, which stands for Real Simple Syndication or Rich Site Summary, that can target any Niche Market.

Now, why do Niche Blogs make such a great VRE Business Model?

Simple. People come online seeking 'Information' on or about a particular topic or problem.

Information comes in many forms online, but one of the most Powerful forms are 'Articles'.

The great thing about Blogs is they give you the ability to Post content, more specifically, targeted content to your niche and then they ping the search engines to come and take a look for potential indexing, then... using the RSS technology, it will then syndicate that post INSTANTLY via RSS to all who's subscribed to that particular feed giving them the highly target content they requested.

Also, when someone clicks on any of the links your feed is displaying, guess what? It will bring them to back to your blog with all your Google Adsense ads and related affiliate programs which is where you'll make your money.

The real cool thing is the information you choose to post doesn't necessarily even have to be yours. You can go to ANY article directory on the web and use other peoples content, saving you *tons* of time writing it yourself.

The best part about this VRE Model is, all you have to do is set up your blog template with Google Adsense and targeted affiliate programs that will solve that persons query and post to it on a regular basis.

That's it!

All other actions after that are beyond your control because you can't make them click on an ad, all you can do is try to entice them to make a decision.

Now, if this VRE Business Model interests you and you want to get started with building Niche Blogs then I recommend you go to Blogger.com - http://www.blogger.com - since they have an easy to use interface and are owned by the all mighty Google.

Just before I warp this up I always like to give examples so I'll leave you with this one that I've been working on.

Go check it out. It might give you some ideas as to how you might want to set up your own Niche Blogs.

http://www.internetwondersezine.com/internet-joint-venture/

Well, that's it for this installment of "6 POWERFUL VRE Business Models You Can Start Building In 2006 Using Google Adsense".

Be sure to keep your eyes open for my next installment which will reveal yet another 'POWERFUL' VRE Business Model using Google Adsense and targeted affiliate programs.


