Title: 
A Look at Store Fixture Parts

Word Count:
356

Summary:
Products for sale need to be displayed in a manner which best presents them in the customers’ eyes. For example, clothing needs to be folded on shelves, hung from racks or displayed on mannequins. Books need to be displayed in shelves, spinning racks and organized bins. Videos need shelving and racks to properly display titles. All products lend themselves to some form of acceptable display. Even if you are an innovative decorator and you want your display to be revolutionary, you’ll still need some variation on the display techniques that are already being used to distinguish your product from all the others.


Keywords:
Store Fixtures, Store Fixture Parts, Metal Store Fixtures, Antique Store Fixtures


Article Body:
Products for sale need to be displayed in a manner which best presents them in the customers’ eyes. For example, clothing needs to be folded on shelves, hung from racks or displayed on mannequins. Books need to be displayed in shelves, spinning racks and organized bins. Videos need shelving and racks to properly display titles. All products lend themselves to some form of acceptable display. Even if you are an innovative decorator and you want your display to be revolutionary, you’ll still need some variation on the display techniques that are already being used to distinguish your product from all the others. 

The single most popular starting place for displaying wares in most retail stores is known as the slatwall panel.  Slatwall panels have been universally accepted as the most versatile presentation system on the market today. Made of medium-density fiberboard, slatwall panels easily adapt to your retail display needs and require minimum maintenance. When used in conjunction with Lucite or metal accessories, a slatwall can effectively be used to present any product including clothing, giftware, ceramics, books, jewelry, house wares and much more. 

Available in a variety of colors and finishes, you can create a unique look for your store in a short time by selecting the slatwall that’s right for you. One choice would be to use the all white, modern look for a retail appearance that’s open, clean and high-tech. Choosing a darker, wood-grain look would evoke a quieter, more formal ambiance. The choice is yours and with slatwall panels and accompanying accessories you can create the look you think will best showcase your merchandise.

A second display technique involves the use of Gridwall panels.

Unlike slatwall panels, gridwall panels can be used as either self-standing or wall-mounted display units. Gridwalls are a lightweight, durable fixture, constructed of quarter-inch-thick wire and finished in baked-on, semi-gloss lacquer for a professional look. With the proper accessories, gridwalls can function as lightweight shelving or hanging displays as long as the products displayed on them are not too heavy. Use your imagination and you’ll find gridwall panels may do the job for you.


