Title: 
a unified conferencing solution: audio-video-WEBconference

Word Count:
216

Summary:
Many years of running voice messaging and electronic mail, we have lost sight that essential communications happens during real time and not differed time. Although, we've all had the occasion to experiment with direct communication technology like: audio-conference, videoconference and WEB conference.


Keywords:
audioconference, audio-conference, video-conference, videoconference, WEB conference, WEBconference


Article Body:
Many years of running voice messaging and electronic mail, we have lost sight that essential communications happens during real time and not differed time. Although, we've all had the occasion to experiment with direct communication technology like: audio-conference, videoconference and WEB conference.

Each of these technologies presents advantages accompanied by their disadvantages. Audioconferencing transports voices to many while leaving us in the dark. Videoconferencing gives us color but it is not useful for collaboration around a presentation or a document. For the most part, WEB-conferencing is designed to collaborate with screen sharing and sometimes giving the impression of talking into space.
   
Today, unified conferencing integrates audio, video and WEBconference onto one interface for PC. It replicates in the domain of conferences what unified messaging has realized while integrating vocal messaging with email. Although, it's the screen sharing that changes everything making participants in a WEBconference, actors and not just spectators. That constitutes the most important catalyst of collaboration and source of synergy in the organizations. 
     
Tele-efficiency also releases, Accessware, a bi-directional remote screen sharing add-on for Conferenceware, its unified conferencing solution. During a WEBconference with Accessware, the presenter could show the screen of a participant to all. Inversely, he or she could give control of his/her screen to another participant, which then becomes a co-presenter.


