Title: 
Advanced Online Marketing:  Training for Using The Reverse Funnel System

Word Count:
400

Summary:
When a system comes out closing sales completely for you it can sound too good to be true.


Keywords:
Home Business, Marketing, Business, Work At Home, Internet


Article Body:
When a system comes out closing sales completely for you it can sound too good to be true.  Yet, The Reverse Funnel System (RFS) is designed to do just this and closes and average of twenty percent on the back end.  Meaning if you can get just five people to pay the fifty dollars for the paid survey in a week, you’ll be walking out of your home office with a twelve hundred and fifty dollar week minimum, every week.

So how can you get five people to go through the paid survey in a week?  Simply send a hundred people through to your sales page, your own personal copy of RFS.  

This can be completed in a number of ways.  One I find extremely effective is video marketing and the use of YOU-Tube and Meta-Café.  Video marketing is extremely easy for anyone who has a web cam or a small camcorder.  All you need to do is record yourself hyping up RFS, giving out free marketing advice, or maybe even just talking about life.  This will drive traffic to your URL and if you can build some conversation, maybe a debate in the comments section of your video, you’ll get more views and more traffic.

Now video marketing can also be fun.  If you want to spend a little more time than 15 minutes on the video you can design something that will really grab people’s attention.  Think super bowl.  The most appealing things and what sells THE ABSOLUTE MOST for all major corporations is humor and good looking people, combining them just rocks the boat.  But as long as the commercial plays into some emotion while exposing the whole money/potential thing, it will be more effective. 

If you’re not the most video friendly personality there is other things you can do to promote your URL, although trust me traffic will be hurt as the use of video’s in cross promotion is one of the most effective free internet marketing methods.  Still you can use networking communities to spread the word and well as a number of different written marketing techniques.

But as long as you’re driving traffic, your copy of RFS will be working for you and you will be making money.  Get to the nitty gritty of internet marketing and do that marketing, drive that traffic and wait for the paychecks.


