Title: 
Advertise Your Car

Word Count:
529

Summary:
Selling your car online.


Keywords:
car, insurance, car insurance, autos


Article Body:
Whenever someone needs to sell a car, it can be a very stressful experience. It can be difficult to know how to go about trying to sell your car and the whole process can seem quite overwhelming. Advertising your car is the most crucial first step in selling any car. Without advertising, no one will even know that your car is even for sale. When advertising your car, two of the most common places to turn are the Autotrader magazine or by online car advertising.

By advertising your car in Autotrader, you will get an advertisement that will run for two weeks. This advertisement includes one small photo of the car as well as two hundred characters of text. There are many regional editions of the Autotrader and the owner of the car can choose which region they would like their advertisement to run in. Advertising in the Autotrader is fairly expensive though.

Although there are many advantages to advertising your car in the Autotrader, there are some disadvantages. The first being that you have limited circulation and a limited shelf life; you also only have two hundred characters to describe the car. This is not a lot and will cause you to have to cram as much information as you can into a very small space. Also, because you only get one picture, you need to make sure that you capture the total essence of your car in that one photo. This is most often impossible to do.

For these reasons, many people prefer to advertise their car online. There are many advantages to advertising your car this way. One of the biggest advantages in advertising your car online is that it’s significantly cheaper than advertising in print. This is because bandwidth and disk space are much cheaper than paper, ink, and magazine distribution. This makes for big savings that can be passed on to the seller. 

The other advantage to advertising your car online is that there can be much more information included in the advertisement. Also when advertising your car online, you are usually allowed more than one picture in your advertisement. This can make a true portrayal of your car and can interest more buyers.  Also, on many sites you can advertise your car until sold for far less than you can advertise it for two weeks in a car magazine.

Advertising your car online allows for many more potential buyers to look at your ad. Because it’s online, anybody with an Internet connection will have access to the advertisement. This will mean that not only are more people looking at the ad but there will be potential for many more bids among interested buyers. This could mean getting a much better price for your car. 

Another advantage to advertising your car online is that your ad will be up and running much more quickly than submitting it to a print magazine. The turnaround time between submitting an ad and seeing it run is generally much shorter. This means that it will be available for the public to view much more quickly as well. This could help get your car sold more quickly.


