Title: 
Affordable Transcription Services

Word Count:
298

Summary:
Affordable transcription means cost-effective transcription services to clients using web based software technology without compromising quality. It provides fast and accurate transcription service for legal, medical and other professional industries.


Keywords:
affordable transcription services, transcription services, affordable transcription, uploading transcription, call in dictation


Article Body:
Affordable transcription means cost-effective transcription services to clients using web based software technology without compromising quality. It provides fast and accurate transcription service for legal, medical and other professional industries. 

To make transcription affordable, the transcriptionists mainly use two kinds of services.

1.	FTP Digital uploading: Uploading audio files for transcription to an FTP is the most cost effective and quick way to send voice recordings to the transcription service. For this, the audio for transcription should be of good quality and then is converted to MP3 for uploading. There are a lot of free softwares available on the internet to do the conversion. The information like time of recording, number of people in the recording and the turnaround option are provided by the client. Based on this information, the cost is calculated.

2.	Call-in dictation: In call-in interview, a toll-free number is dialed via a touch-tone phone. With the help of client’s personal code, the audio is dictated into the receiver or speaker of the telephone. Key pads are used to control the recording functions. After the completion of the call, a digital file is created and can be sent for transcription.

Call-in dictation has many benefits like:
 
1.	No capital expenditure for software.
2.	24 hour service availability.
3.	Ability to dictate from anywhere, only a phone is required.
4.	The costs are only for the minutes one is using.

This kind of dictation is ideal for interviews, meetings and group discussions. Here, the transcription cost is predictable. 

Companies that claim their transcription services are affordable are
1)	Are using advanced technology. 
2)	They are getting their transcription outsourced at a cheaper destination 
3)	They have a very large client base

By providing good quality recordings, one can make transcription affordable, as the turnaround time will be less and the transcription will be more accurate.


