Title: 
An Ounce Of Prevention Is Worth A Pound Of Cure - Why A New Trailer Hitch Lock Could Save You Thousands

Word Count:
352

Summary:
Many times we enjoy our success by owning something of value that is carried on a trailer. It could be a fine boat you've worked for years to get. A trailer could house your tools you use to earn your livelihood. You may even be spending your retirement
in a travel trailer.

No question about it, Americans have billions of dollars worth of possessions invested in trailers and their contents - and thieves know this. Often a thief can make off with a trailer, sell it and its...


Keywords:
trailers,locks,security,travel,insurance,crime prevention


Article Body:
Many times we enjoy our success by owning something of value that is carried on a trailer. It could be a fine boat you've worked for years to get. A trailer could house your tools you use to earn your livelihood. You may even be spending your retirement
in a travel trailer.

No question about it, Americans have billions of dollars worth of possessions invested in trailers and their contents - and thieves know this. Often a thief can make off with a trailer, sell it and its contents, and earn more than they could in most other types of crime.

Sadly, in most cases, it's a very easy crime to commit. Thieves can wait until you leave, then step over and quickly cut the padlock off your trailer and tow it away.

How often does that happen? Every day. The latest figures reveal that BILLIONS of dollars in trailers and cargo are stolen this way each year.

Of course, there is a simple, affordable, and effective solution that could prevent these trailers from being stolen. New types of trailer hitch locks are practically thief proof.

Look for locks that encase the lock in a tough material that keeps anyone from tampering with it. Insist on case-hardened 6-pin tumbler Pacific Lock mechanism that is nearly impossible for to penetrate.

While these locks cost just a bit more than a quality padlock, they can give you years of worry-free protection. There have been cases where thieves will see one of these newer locks and simply move on.

By using one of the newer locks you can stop the hassle of parking your trailer out of sight. You can stop worrying about what dishonest others could do to you. And, in some cases, you can even save on insurance.

Yes, this is a case where an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure. Don't be lulled into a sense of false security. Just because you haven't been robbed yet, doesn't mean it can't happen and happen soon. Taking just a little effort to secure your trailer can reduce headaches and save big expense.


