Title: 
Apple an Intel make Computers

Word Count:
346

Summary:
The Mac is hip.  It's gone from a dowdy solution for Graphic designers and musicians into a monster machine able to crunch through everything that's thrown at it.  Core duo intel chips have boosted the Mac to a stratospheric level of computing power


Keywords:
Apple, macintosh, core duo, intel


Article Body:
The Apple Mac is now synonymous with beauty, elegance and a synergy with anybogy's home or office environment.  It's been a long road for it's CEO, Steve Jobs, who's had to transform the Company over a short space of 10 years.  

It's begun with the release of the iMac and the Blue and White G3, both of which featured new processors and radical design changes that took them away from the norm of computing in a beige box.  Funky colors, novel case designs and cutting edge add-ons gave the mac a leading edge when it came to computers.  Pricing structures changed as much as connectivity features, all of which lead to a stupendous rise in sales.  Coupled with the iPod, Apple Computer Inc looked set to revolutionize the computer industry, just like it did back in 1984.

In it's continued rise to power, Apple has changed a number of things in their design, supply and ability to please the consumer.  The latest change is just as amazing and has, for some made Apple Macs a household name.  The use of Intel Core Duo chips in their latest line of iMacs and high end desktops has boosted sales by allowing many people to run Windows in native mode on their computers, just as easily as they run OS X.  The sleek, modern designs, serial ata drives, DDR memory and fast optical drives coupled together with high end video cards gives the mac an edge against the fastest of PC computers.  Coupled with this is a case that can't be matched by any PC manufacturer.  In effect, particularly in the US, the Mac is king.  

Ease of connectivity still surpasses that of Windows based PC computers.  With OS X, Apple Mac machines can be connected direct to the internet straight out of the box.  The hardest part is keying in your ISP's details, which you're guided through by Apple's novel approach to human interaction.  Unlike windows, we've alwasy liked the fact that Apple Engineers think about how users will interact with their computers and then design the software around this.


