Title: 
Are you in the right business?

Word Count:
340

Summary:
This is an article about the first and most important thing, that will define if you are in the right business or not...


Keywords:
home business, business, opportunity, business opportunity, mlm, work from home, work at home, marketing, online marketing, affiliate


Article Body:
Are you in the right business? - Part 1

by Polydoros Gavrilakis


If you have just started out with your home business
or even if you are a home business veteran, there is
ONLY one very important reason that will determine your
failure or success...

If you are in the right business you CANNOT fail. 

Which is the right business for you?

This depends on several things, but the first and MOST
important thing you have to ask yourself about your
home business is: 

Would you recommend the product or service your business 
offers to a friend or relative?

What would you say if they ask you about it?

Would you tell them that it is a valuable product they
can use, in case, of course, they need products of this 
kind?

or... 

you would just tell them that it's totally worthless, 
but the payplan is great...and you are in this business 
just to make money?

Think about it, and if the answer to the last question
is YES, then you are definately in the WRONG business.

In other words, if the product your home business offers
is not something you would recommend to a relative, a
friend and/or any other person you care about, then it 
is NOT the right product to sell or promote.

Instead, if the answer is NO, is that enough?

No, there are more things you have to know to be
sure that you are in the RIGHT business.

Stay tuned to Home Business Opportunity News for more
details next week...

You are free to publish this article online or offline 
in any media, as long as it remains unchanged and the 
resource box below is included.

----------------------------------------------------
Polydoros Gavrilakis is the Editor of Home Business 
Opportunity News, the ad-free newsletter that 
delivers ONLY the quality information you need to 
succeed with your home based business. Get Your
FREE Lifetime subscription NOW to find out a secret,
but simple and secure way he's using to earn $1000s 
per month online: www.HomeBizOppNewsletter.com
----------------------------------------------------


