Title: 
Australian Business for Sale

Word Count:
618

Summary:
Thinking of where you could buy a lucrative Australian business? This is a quick guide to online companies that will offer you the most number of options. These selected sites offer searching for properties and businesses by industry, location, date and price. For some, there are additional features such as access to the site’s network who can provide investment advice, access to related services (accounting, etc.), and e-mail alerts for new business offerings within Australia.


Keywords:
australian business, australian business for sale, australian business opportunity, business


Article Body:
Scouting for a viable Australian business? Check these resources

Arwon Realty is a team composed of business property and finance brokers, and stock and station agents. They cater to property developers who are searching for prospective property developments in Australia. Their specialty is the listing and selling of Australian businesses for buyers who intend to relocate inter-state. If you are bent on buying any Australian business – from the wide array of choices by industry – you have come to the right place. Visit them at http://www.bestbusinessbuyes.com.au/index.htm. 

Business Shack.com.au is “Australia’s own business sales network”, which presents Australian businesses for sale by owners and brokers. They also do not require one to be a broker to be able to advertise a business for sale. The industry options include cafes and restaurants, manufacturing, postal services, property and accommodation, retail, services, technology and media, transport and storage, and wholesale. On the other hand, browsing by location is also possible, with businesses being offered at the Australian Capital Territory, New South Wales, Northern Territory, Queensland, South Australia, Tasmania, Victoria, and Western Australia, among others. Searching by date and by price is also possible. Visit the site at http://www.businessshack.com.au/.

Business for Sale.com.au offers an extensive database of Australian businesses that are being sold by private entities. Their offerings come with vivid photos and a comprehensive business profile, including the contact details of the sellers. There is a wide variety of businesses that one can select from including “caravan parks, motels, coffee shops, import-export businesses, restaurants, wholesale businesses, gift-ware shops, manufacturing retail businesses, and franchises” and a lot more. There is also a section for Franchise and business opportunities, explaining the advantages of obtaining a franchise. On the other hand, the Business wanted portion offers assistance in case a buyer does not find what he needs from the current listings. In Selling a business or franchise, one is given the chance to sell through the assistance of their network of brokers of agents. They also render professional services including accountants, solicitors and financiers. You may take a look at their site at http://www.businessforsale.com.au/.

Australian Business for Sale.com presents opportunities for franchising, and similar business offers within Australia. The provide advertising services for a wide range of clientele including business owners, brokers, agents and realtors who present their business for sale, franchise opportunity or business opportunity at the site. It likewise has the facility for surfing businesses by state or by industry. There is an full range of industry options, probably the most extensive compared to similar sites, with over 20 industry categories to choose from. You may visit them at http://www.australianbusinessforsale.com/.

Realestate Guide.com.au is another useful resource in scouting for the ideal business. There are several browsing options including the following categories: state, business for sale, and by type of property. Categories for property type include executive, feature, residential, commercial, and investment properties. You may take a glimpse of what they offer at http://www.realestateguide.com.au/.

Ebizsurf.com is acclaimed to be the “fastest growing businesses for sale directory”, catering to the needs of buyers, sellers, investors and brokers alike. The interface of the sight features the facility to manage all your site-related activities, to track your inquiries, manage your own online filing system, be made aware of new listings through e-mail, find a broker, have access to related services (e.g. accountant, solicitor), or even ask for the site’s network for sound business advice. There are also editorials on making wise investments and brokering in general. You may visit the site at http://www.ebizsurf.com.au/


