Title: 
Business Opportunity Ideas for the Stay-at-Home Mom

Word Count:
552

Summary:
Want to stay home and earn a substantial income? Here are some ways to achieve both.  Learn about several possibilities for a home business...


Keywords:
beauty products, health supplements, business opportunty, tech support, clothing


Article Body:
As a stay-at-home mom, you might be seeking employment or business opportunities that enable you to earn a full-time or part-time income from home. Maybe you'd like to work flexible hours, stay home with your children, or avoid high gasoline and car maintenance costs. Whatever the reason, there are many opportunities online today that can help you achieve your goals and earn some extra cash.

Three Options for a Home-Based Business

There are three ways to approach a home business. You can offer products of your own such as clothing, crafts, hair supplies, books, or herbal supplements, build your own website, and stock your own inventory. Unfortunately, this takes much time to build and requires a start-up investment. If you want to offer your own product line, be prepared to wait a while for profits. But keep in mind that this option can be the most profitable for the future if you stick with it.

Another option is to offer a unique service such as accounting or bookkeeping, answering services, Web development or programming, business consulting, or writing. Offering a service has benefits over selling tangible products because you only charge for your "time and skills" but not to restock inventory.

A third option is to sell products or services for others and earn a commission on your sales. This works great if you have limited time to work on your business and need to spend most of your time promoting. This option can be just as profitable as having your own home business without the many headaches of business management.

Types of Business Opportunities when Selling for Others

Though time and space doesn't permit discussion of all business opportunities here, let's take a look at several possibilities. Beauty products are a popular choice for ladies. Most women love to try out new skin creams, lotions, soaps, makeup, and lip glosses. Because you can try out the beauty products yourself, you are more informed on how well they work and how to persuade others to buy them. Some companies offer tremendous compensation when you sell their beauty products for them. They'll even provide a website for you with all of their products and a shopping cart for your customers to make purchases. 

Another type of product that's popular is clothing. Clothing is very general, so you'll want to focus in on one particular style or line of clothing. Find a "niche" market within the clothing industry that you can promote to certain types of people. Online, it's easier to promote to small niche markets instead of trying to promote to a general audience.

Tech support is another much-needed field that's often ignored by mainstream companies. There are business opportunities today that enable you to promote tech support services to the public and receive a healthy commission. The tech support services are all provided by the company online, but you reap the benefits. Your audience is broad because so many people own computers today... and need help with them!

Other business opportunity ideas include health supplements, educational training products and online education, kitchenware, furniture, household products, pet products, and home and garden products.

Whether you choose to start your own business or sell products for someone else, you can use the Internet to achieve your goals and still be a content stay-at-home mom!


