Title: 
Business Building vs. Opportunity Chasing

Word Count:
487

Summary:
A business builder envisions what they want their business to become. The vision eventually becomes a plan based on analysis of personal and competition strengths and weakness, the marketplace, and strategies of ways and means to materialize the vision.

Opportunity chasing is an invitation to under achieve because time is spent looking for and trying out the best deal on the hottest trend instead of building business with strategy focused on product line congruent with per...


Keywords:



Article Body:
A business builder envisions what they want their business to become. The vision eventually becomes a plan based on analysis of personal and competition strengths and weakness, the marketplace, and strategies of ways and means to materialize the vision.

Opportunity chasing is an invitation to under achieve because time is spent looking for and trying out the best deal on the hottest trend instead of building business with strategy focused on product line congruent with personal values, business growth, and the customer base that drives it. While all these characteristics may be present in any opportunity, analysis of how your time and money converts to Return On Investment (ROI) may not be clear.

With no other test but whether or not it can make some money as soon as possible, opportunists chase the elusive get rich quick easy promotions. Although sales and network matrix building are important business assets, what opportunists tend to overlook are basic long-term strategic plans.

Instead of chasing opportunities, business builders tend to analyze and develop them. Business building whether on or off the internet requires a variety of skills that must be developed for any specialized but profitable segment of a market or niche. Therefore, one main difference between business building and opportunity chasing is how leverage is used.

Opportunity seekers tend to choose offers that appear to be do-able from their personal effort as part of a team or network of affiliates which begs the question, who is leveraging whom? Conversely, the business builder tends to select only product and service opportunities that support a scalable business where personal time and ROI can be leveraged for profit.

Network or matrix marketing is geared to out-task work up and down the lines of the network. While this certainly generates a flow of money for products and services, any real or perceived long term benefit to participants may be significantly less than expected.

In theory, ROI compels many opportunity seekers to do the same thing as everyone else. In practice, they end up trying to do it longer, faster, and smarter than everyone else with a net result of diminishing returns or lower ROI and their expectations shattered by apparent under achievement.

On the other hand, business builders out-source instead of out-task to quite simply continue to add value to their time instead of having it fixed or decreased by matrix limits. The measurable difference between out-sourcing and out-tasking is whether your time produces an increase or decrease of your return on investment. The h4h.biz site was set up to teach business building by involving participants as co-authors in ebook projects.

In theory, ROI should produce a win-win outcome. Unfortunately in practice, it differs more often for opportunity chasers than business builders. Opportunity choosing and business building are both important activities, but one without the other is like a car without gas, a nice ride but doesn’t go very far.


