Title: 
Can Web Design be Optimized?

Word Count:
511

Summary:
SEO is both an internal process and an external process. Ensure that your web design code is clean, navigable and in a format that is easily read by search engines.


Keywords:
Web site design, website design and SEO, search engine optimisation and SEO.


Article Body:
Your web design is the face of your business online. Through designing, you are going to make an impact on your customers. While creating any website, the basic aspects of web design are-
1.	Content-The content is the substance of the website and should be relevant to the site. It should target the customers and visitors.
2.	Usability-The site should be user-friendly with the interface and navigation system simple and reliable.
3.	Appearance-The graphics and text should include a single style that flows throughout for consistency.
4.	Visibility of the site-The site should be easy to find via most search engines. Optimization is a process of making something functional and effective. Web design optimization is a continuous process of improving the design to achieve business goals. An optimized web page loads quickly on the client’s system, so your website visitor can quickly get the information they had come for.
 
The reasons for optimization are varied. These include increasing download speed, increasing its search engine ranking and applying modern web standards.
Now the question arises-whether optimization of web design is possible or not. Here, we are going to discuss the ways for optimization.

1.	Optimize Graphics For Web Use-Even today, a large number of people use dial up connection for web use. With slow browsing speed, they don’t want to wait for pages to load. And as a business owner, you can’t afford to loose a single customer. If you have a graphic intensive site, all you need to do is optimize your graphics for web use. Here optimizing means compressing the size of graphics for fast download. 
2.	Emphasize On Content-Make sure that the content of the website is laid out effectively. If you only concentrate on look and ignore the content, you can’t make an impact on your customers. You need to provide a concise, convincing message and information about your website, if you want your visitors to buy your product or service. Make sure that your content is simple and easy to understand.
3.	Install A Navigation System That Compliments Search Engines-Navigation systems are built to help visitors find their way around your website. Therefore, they should be designed carefully to make them search engine friendly. Search engines need a chain of hypertext links starting at your home page that will take them page by page in your entire site. The problem is that if JavaScript and flash systems replace plain hyperlinks, the search engine may not be able to find the underlying pages. You can optimize the flash and images for better use and quick downloading.
4.	Emphasize On Color, Shapes And Font Size-Things like color, shape and sizes of font can make a big impact on overall message. Using blue, green, silver, grey as color can create a calm effect. Using rounded corners instead of hard edges within your design can enable a soft and personalised feeling.
5.	Keep It Simple- Look at some successful websites like Google that is very simple. Do not use bloated features. Keep your goals as well as visitor’s needs in mind when adding a feature.


