Title: 
Cash Registers for Sale

Word Count:
308

Summary:
Cash registers have come a long way since their advent in 1879. Today, there is a wide range of cash registers available for sale. From small business registers to those designed for larger, more commercial clients, there is a cash register to suit every need.


Keywords:
Cash Registers, Cash Registers for Sale, Electronic Cash Registers, Used Cash Registers


Article Body:
Cash registers have come a long way since their advent in 1879. Today, there is a wide range of cash registers available for sale. From small business registers to those designed for larger, more commercial clients, there is a cash register to suit every need.  

The basic functions of a cash register are billing, calculating tax and printing receipts. But as more and more advanced features are sought for, the range of features expands. Cash registers have evolved into multi-purpose versatile products that track inventory, calculate discounts and cater to every business need, from a small store to a large department stores and supermarkets.

There are new as well as reconditioned machines available. The price for a small business cash register is about $100, while some more advanced scanning registers cost about $2000. The scanners in these cash registers can scan more than 10000 UPCs. Prices increase in proportion to the functionality offered by the cash register.

Cash register thermal paper rolls are also sold with the machines, and replacements are available from the dealer. Buyers can also purchase several accessories that are compatible with the machines. As businesses expand, more and more people are turning to high-end cash registers that offer better value for money. 

After sales service is a common service offered upon purchase of a brand-name cash register. The dealer may also provide guidance on how to upgrade the existing machine, or how to choose a new one when the business grows. Some cash registers might seem expensive, but they should be seen as investments, and their benefits will be reaped for a long period of time. 

Before purchasing a cash register, the prospective buyer should consult several different vendors and brand names in order to get the best deal and discounts. Online shopping for cash registers is a popular way of securing some of the best prices possible.


