Title: 
CD Replication: An Affordable Way to Get Your Voice Heard

Word Count:
489

Summary:
CD duplication and DVD replication isn't as expensive as it might seem, so even individuals and small businesses can use multimedia in their marketing efforts.


Keywords:
CD replication, DVD Replication, FlexDVD, DVD duplication, CD Duplication


Article Body:
Whether you're a motivational speaker in search of an audience, a musician in search of a recording label, or a company in search of customers, using CDs or DVDs is an extremely effective means of communicating your message. Marketing and advertising professionals understand the power of audio and video to leave a lasting impression, and frequently insert CDs or DVDs into mass mailings, magazine polybags, and press kits. They know something that those who are just making a name for themselves aren't aware of: CD duplication and DVD replication isn't as expensive as it might seem.

Whether you're putting together your own press mailing, developing a demo CD to send to movers and shakers, wish to sell video of your performance, or want to showcase your products and services, you can add an extra touch of professionalism by working with a company that specializes in CD and DVD duplication. When it comes to cost, it works like other forms of printing: the higher the quantity, the lower the per-piece price. 

For example, if you want to produce a CD in a printed cardboard sleeve, you could get 1,000 made for about a dollar a piece. Up the quantity to 10,000, and the price drops to around 56 cents a piece. This price typically includes replicated discs with full-color offset or silkscreen printing, a printed cardboard sleeve, insertion, and shrinkwrap.

Bulk quantities of CDs and DVDs are even less expensive. One thousand CDs run only about 45 cents each, while DVDs are priced as low as $650 per thousand, or 65 cents per DVD. As for packaging, a printed paper sleeve adds only about seven cents per CD or DVD, while a jewel case is about 20 cents per case. 

DVD box packaging is also an option at around $1.20 per DVD for 1,000, and about 67 cents per piece for 10,000. This kind of replication and packaging typically includes printing, a full-color case wrap, assembly, and overwrap. A top spine label generally costs a few cents more.

If you're planning to do a mailing, you can use a CD replication service that will duplicate your CD, then insert it into a cardboard mailer and shrinkwrap it. Pricing for the replicated discs and mailers runs about $1.60 each for 1,000, or about 50 cents each for 10,000. 

If you want to go the extra step and take advantage of cutting-edge technology, the best DVD and CD duplication services have products like FlexDVD, which is a DVD that can bend without snapping or cracking. This is perfect for cover mounting and mass mailings. Another new and intriguing technology is called "Rub 'n Smell," whereby a scent is embedded into a varnish that covers the printed side of the disc and is activated when the recipient rubs the disc's label. Now, that's the sweet smell of success!

The bottom line, though, is that whether you're marketing yourself or your business, you can take advantage of the same techniques that huge marketing firms use - without breaking the bank.


