Title: 
Centrifugal Blowers

Word Count:
321

Summary:
Manufacturer and Distributor of industrial air handling equipment - centrifugal blowers, PD (Roots-Type) Blowers, Regenerative Blowers, as well as High Pressure Fans and Airknives.


Keywords:
Centrifugal Blowers, Twin Lobe Blowers, Axial Blower, Regenerative Blowers, Dry Vane Pumps, Vacuum Booster, Air Knives


Article Body:
Industrial blowers are mainly used to circulate the movement of air and gas in ventilation applications. Their main function is to replace impure or contaminated air with fresh air by swirling it around. Almost every industry, including agricultural, chemical, medical, oil and gas, automotive, food processing, mining and construction use blowers for different purposes such as drying, reducing heat levels, reducing smoke and odors, processing and controlling gaseous fumes.

Industrial blowers are manufactured using a range of durable plastics and metals, or a combination of both materials. For example, industrial blowers operating in corrosive environments are usually made of polypropylene because it provides greater structural integrity and corrosion resistance, and will never de-laminate. Typical recommendations in the construction of industrial blowers are - fiberglass for temperatures above 220 degrees, and metal if pressure is above 10 w.g. (water gage).

The size of the blower may be regulated by the size of the environment in which it is to be operated. For instance, some units are big enough to house both the fan and its power supply. Smaller, portable blowers are mainly used for cleanups and in spaces that require temporary circulation or air transfer.

The air movement and control association recognizes three classes of industrial blowers, classified with numerical designation that is based on how the fan is constructed. The United States' specifications for industrial blowers depend on the airflow in CFM (cubic feet per minute), static pressure in inches, water gage, altitude and approximate air temperature. Here's an example:

An industrial blower application with 20,000 CFM at 6" wg of pressure needs 12 industrial fans ranging from 30 to 60hp. While the recommended or optimal is a 36 wheel, with a 30 hp (horsepower) motor, this is achievable with a 24" diameter wheel, or up to a 6" wheel. The outlet velocity for the 36"" is 2611 ft. per minute. So, if it's a 6" diameter wheel, the velocity outlet will be 653"" per minute.

To get more information visit http://www.techmarcon.com


