Title: 
Choosing Your ID Card Printers

Word Count:
467

Summary:
The major components in any ID Card System, ID Card Printers are many and varied. An ID card printer can perform many functions while printing an ID Card, and this is what makes them so useful. For example, while printing an image, an ID Card Printer could encode a magnetic stripe, a proximity card, or a smart card.


Keywords:
id card prineters, id badges, id card system, alphacard


Article Body:
The major components in any ID Card System, ID Card Printers are many and varied. An ID card printer can perform many functions while printing an ID Card, and this is what makes them so useful. For example, while printing an image, an ID Card Printer could encode a magnetic stripe, a proximity card, or a smart card.  

The printer comes with software that manages the data that is printed or encoded on each card.  The software handles all the functions and provides the printer with the necessary tools to perform all its functions at once.

Before deciding which printer is right for your needs, consider what capabilities you want the printer to perform. You have to think about both the physical and technological properties of the printer and decide accordingly. As a rule, heavier ID card printers with a larger footprint have more abilities and are more durable. Lighter printers are usually better for less-intensive uses, and may have fewer capabilities, though this isn’t always the case. 

More properties you should take into consideration when choosing a printer are the following:

Do you want a single or double-sided card?

A single sided ID card is excellent for simpler uses, like a student or school employee ID card. A double-sided ID card can add more security to your company and can be better for a larger company or corporation that wants enhanced security.


Do you require color images or monochromatic images?

You should decide if you want a multi-colored image on your card or a simple monochromatic (one color) image.


Is encoding like magnetic stripes, proximity cards, or smart cards required? 

Institutions like Government buildings, schools, banks, and hospitals all benefit from the quickness and hassle-free efficiency of proximity cards, contactless smart cards, and magnetic stripes. Contactless smart cards and proximity cards use Radio Frequency technology that allows for higher security, greater efficiency, and easier use (no swiping involved). 


Do you want other security features, like holograms?

Besides basic encoding, there are also more complex forms of security for ID cards like holographic cards. A holographic card is created by transferring holographic over-laminates onto cards. This minimizes the risk of the printed image being altered and forged. Make sure you request a custom holograph if you go this route, as the ones you buy online can be bought by many others, including counterfeiters.

These are some of the most basic questions you should answer before purchasing an ID card printer. Check with your provider if you have other questions and make sure you ask any questions you have.  You’re investing in the security and organization of your company or facility, and having the right components can make all the difference in the type of Photo ID card you end up with.

http://www.alphacard.com/


