Title: 
Choosing Marble Tile Colors For Your Home

Word Count:
556

Summary:
Marble is a metamorphic stone, and its elegant look and strength has made it a preferred architectural material for both ancient and modern structures alike.


Keywords:
marble flooring flooring interior design marble tiles


Article Body:
Marble is a metamorphic stone, and its elegant look and strength has made it a preferred architectural material for both ancient and modern structures alike. 

Marble floor tiles have been used throughout the years due to its unique patterns and colors. It is made up of relatively hard material, but is not as hard as granite. Marble is classified into groups A, B, C, and D, which indicate the fabrication ease based on the quality of hardness. Marble tiles tend to be veined. 

Marble that is tumbled has an entirely different exterior from the polished version. These tiles have a porous, and sometimes even sponge like consistency. There are variations in color, but veins and other patterns are normally absent. The result is a floor that feels relaxed yet spectacular at the same time. Rough-cut stones such as limestone and slate have similar properties and appearance. These floor tiles are very popular for fireplace surrounds, bar-tops, and vanities. In certain locations and climates, marble may stain. However, with proper care and maintenance, marble is relatively easy to preserve. Marble floor tiles are available in a variety of color patterns.

Marble Floor Tile Variants 

There is a wide array of marble floor tile variants to choose from:

- Polished: Tiles that have an elegant, high shine for a more stately and formal appearance. 

- Honed: Marble floor tiles with an understated matte finish that softens the stone’s appearance, creating a casual atmosphere in any room. 

- Patinato: Marble tiles with an antique finish that gives your room a reserved, old-world ambiance. 

- Tumbled: A marble tile finish that offers you antiqued, ageless style in neutral colors. 

The beauty of a marble surface can last an eternity if it is properly maintained. Marble is generally more porous than granite, which makes it easier to stain, and it is not recommended for kitchen countertops. Marble is generally suited for walls, fireplace surrounds and mantles, bathroom vanity tops, and some floors. 

Marble Flooring Color Types

There are plenty of marble floor tile color schemes to choose from, and it would be best to consult with your folks at home, or from an architect or interior designer, to choose the best accent for your home or office. Among the notable marble floor tile colors are: 

- Brown-white marble. The shade of this marble tile is commonly a blend of brown and white, which would look well bedrooms and living rooms. Some tiles may contain small holes; however it provides a cooling effect since it doesn’t hold heat for long but absorbs cold conditions. Some tiles may also have a peach-colored shade.

- Brown marble. The brown marble tile may vary from red to tan to brown. The patterns may also be either beige, flesh or black. This tile is generally placed in bathrooms and terraces. Brown marble presents an earthly tone that best compliments areas with plants and white decorations. The contrast between the brown floor and light decors create a soothing effect.

- Sichuan marble. Sichuan marble tiles tile have a white, immaculate look. Generally, tiles like this are mostly used for fireplaces and statues, but it could also provide a very classic detailing to floors. The graining is very light or fair which often has a black color. Sichuan marble floor tiles are best placed in areas where there is a lot of light.


