Title: 
Clinical Research Organizations shifting focus to North India

Word Count:
315

Summary:
India is an increasingly attractive destination for R&D activities in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry. As companies now have become complacent for holding the view that India is a good place to conduct Clinical trials , they now look forward to chose the best region available in India.


Keywords:
Clinical Research India, CRO india, Clinical TRials India, clinical research organization india, contract research organization india


Article Body:
Going further and analyzing Indian market, so far Hyderabad is considered as a key location for the drug manufacturing and Clinical/Contract Research with a majority of units located in and around this city in the south central part of the country. But as of now companies are shifting there focus to other regions also and wants to exploit better opportunities available in other parts of the country as well.

Northern India being an emerging market, companies face a number of unique hurdles and often gets perplexed before entering this lucrative region. As North India is most sought after market theses days,this articles explores scope and feasibility of pharmaceutical,CRO(Clinical/Contract Research Organization) and biotechnology market, and answers the following key questions:

<strong>Who are the key players in the Northern India CRO market?

Regulations environment in northern India ?

The scenario of super specialty hospitals and pool of trained investigators ?

Opportunities available in Northern India for conducting clinical trials ?

How can companies engage with India for collaboration ?  </strong>

Literally speaking Contract or Clinical Research Organization (CRO) refers to a person or an organization who is contracted to conduct clinical trials and duties with sponsor. India holds a market of $300 to $500 million in the field of Clinical Research Organization(CRO). Where Northern India constitutes ten percent of it and generates revenue of $40 million out of it.

Genetically diverse population and people who have not been exposed to many medications but have a range of diseases from tropical to severe diseases provides a reason strong enough to consider North India the front runner in the race of clinical research. 

Adding to the diverse patients, Northern India has highly qualified and skilled doctors,Super specialty hospital,Medical Research Centers for clinical studies and experienced CRO's. Also, Northern India provides the most cost effective clinical trials, that too with the competitive infrastructure available for conducting clinical trials.


