Title: 
Communicating with Your Residential Cleaning Clients is Key

Word Count:
470

Summary:
As a residential cleaning contractor, you not only need to provide a good service, but you also need frequent communication with your client to ensure that both parties understand their responsibilities and that there are no misunderstandings.


Keywords:
communicating, residential cleaning clients


Article Body:
Copyright 2006 The Janitorial Store

People hire a residential cleaning service to make their lives easier.  As a cleaning contractor, you not only need to provide a good service, but you also need frequent communication with your client to ensure that both parties understand their responsibilities and that there are no misunderstandings.

Before taking on a new client, it is important to specify what services are included in their cleaning service.  As you walk through the home with the client discussing the specifications list of what will be cleaned, be sure to ask plenty of clarifying questions. For example, "so you DON'T want us to dust the curio cabinet?"

Give your client the written specifications list so they know what is covered in their routine cleaning. Your specifications list may also include the additional services you can provide such as carpet cleaning or window washing, the fees for those services, and how much advance notice you need before taking on any additional tasks.

You may need to explain to your clients that your crews are scheduled to clean several homes on a particular day and therefore, any added services must be requested in advance.  This not only ensures that your crew can spend the additional time needed to clean, but that they will have the right supplies for the job.

Good communication is also important in the case of accidents, mishaps or broken items.  Instruct your employees to leave a note whenever a problem or accident occurs, and to contact you immediately so you are aware of the situation. It is handy to have a pre-printed form that contains a check off list (broken item, stain that would not come out, cracked window, etc.) to leave at the home and contact information for your cleaning company.

Your cleaning crew can also leave notes if they notice additional tasks that need to be done.  Is it springtime and the windows need washing?  Are the carpets looking soiled and need cleaning?  This not only shows the client that you care about their home but can also lead to additional services you can provide and charge for.

Cancelled appointments or missed appointments can cause problems if you don't communicate with your client about your policies. Outline your cancellation policy in your customer contract and discuss it with your customer so they are fully aware of your policy. Conversely, if your employees miss an appointment, you need to have a policy in place that will keep the customer happy - perhaps a discount on the next service.

Don't let a simple misunderstanding of the services you provide escalate into losing a client.  Keep open a good line of communication to help ensure your success.  Make sure your crew leaves notes and check up with follow-up phone calls to keep your clients happy and your profits flowing!


