Title: 
Commercial Cleaning Companies – A Strategy For The Future

Word Count:
474

Summary:
A previous article looked at this in general terms with regard to a start up cleaning company. This article will concentrate on a strategy for an established company to follow if it wants to be even more successful and continue expanding into the future.

The nature of cleaning is changing and the criteria companies use to choose their cleaners is also changing. Little by little companies are realising that it is more economical and administratively easier to find a cleanin...


Keywords:



Article Body:
A previous article looked at this in general terms with regard to a start up cleaning company. This article will concentrate on a strategy for an established company to follow if it wants to be even more successful and continue expanding into the future.

The nature of cleaning is changing and the criteria companies use to choose their cleaners is also changing. Little by little companies are realising that it is more economical and administratively easier to find a cleaning company that can meet all their cleaning requirements.

Very few cleaning companies are able to do this or have wanted to do so in the past. They have chosen to concentrate on a particular specialism and develop that. So we have firms that are office cleaners, carpet cleaners, window cleaners, stone cleaners, kitchen cleaners, and ventilation duct cleaners to name but a few. Each of these builds up their own particular client base and their only way of growing is to expand their area of coverage. Many cleaning companies are reluctant to do this and consequently their potential for growth is limited. A large proportion of these companies are run by a single person who is quite happy to restrict themselves to a physically manageable area and manage a finite number of clients. However if you own and operate a company or want to start a cleaning company that has wider visions then you have an opportunity to take advantage of the changing market place.

The medium and larger sized companies and corporations are now beginning to look for cleaning companies that can provide them with all the cleaning services they require. From the simple and straightforward office cleaning on a daily basis to the six monthly or yearly cleaning of their ventilation ducts. If the cleaning company wishes to take advantage of this and gain corporate clients then it must expand its areas of expertise. If the financial burden of doing this is too great for the company to bear then the alternative is to find other firms who specialise in these various areas and work together either as partnerships or sub-contract out these fields of specialist cleaning. Sub-contracting has its pitfalls and to a large extent should be avoided if possible but it is a way into this new market place until you can develop your own expertise.

Companies working together in some form of partnership who share the same goals is a better solution but ultimately it is better if your own company can develop within these various areas and then you have complete control without the concern and constant anxiety of being ‘let down’. Become an expert in carpet cleaning, window cleaning, deep cleaning of commercial kitchens and ventilation duct cleaning. That way you can offer your prospective clients the complete cleaning package, increase your turnover and continue to grow.


