Title: 
Corporate Concierge Services Offer Significant Benefits To Property Managers, Leasing Agents,Tenants

Word Count:
637

Summary:
Developing a partnership with a corporate concierge service is the ‘in’ thing for real estate owners and property managers. In addition to improving tenant satisfaction levels, it also provides numerous benefits such as reduced risk, better scheduling and easier accounting. This article explores the many benefits of concierge services for all those related to property management and real estate


Keywords:
concierge service, real estate, property management, tenant amenities, errands, chores, commercial property, tenant perks, tenant loyalty


Article Body:
Are you trying to present your commercial property for lease or sale in its best light so you can obtain the best price? Are you trying to reduce tenant turnover? Are you trying to cut costs while improving quality of service and tenant satisfaction? There is now one easy and effective method that would support better customer service, streamline productivity, and improve your financial bottom line. Sounds like the impossible dream, but it’s not. 

To remain successful in today’s competitive real estate market, owner and property managers should consider what industry leaders are already instituting at their sites: corporate concierge services. Offering tenant amenities is rapidly becoming the “it-factor” that makes all the difference. 

In order for you to attract and retain quality tenants, you need to remain competitive in the real estate industry. Large property owners and property managers are becoming ever more consistently challenged to offer amenities that create a better environment for their tenants. High-rise apartment buildings, condos, and commercial office suites have recently begun to realize the benefits of corporate concierge services. 

Partnering with a concierge service provider offers a means by which your commercial properties can offer a diverse array of services to simplify their tenants’ lives and improve company assets while streamlining their business tasks. Whether it be the addition of dry cleaning services, procuring event tickets, automobile assistance, property maintenance, or beyond, implementing a comprehensive and attractive concierge package ensures that your tenants can conveniently access quality service, hassle-free, “one-stop support” easily and quickly. 

Tenants are impressed when they can immediately reach a ‘live’ person who will listen and work with them towards remedying their complaints or desires. The Tenant Loyalty division of a concierge service provider offers phone coverage to field any tenant complaints and work towards their resolution. Imagine having your tenant issues resolved quickly while increasing tenant satisfaction with rapid response, research, and solution. Utilizing a concierge service equates to happier tenants and, thus, more consistent revenue and even increased profits for your business. Further, it removes many of the daily headaches that owners and managers face so they can focus on their core business activities.

Concierge services offer significant benefits to all parties involved!

• Provision, research, and coordination of subcontractors and vendors services, security, janitorial details (including specialized room cleaning, catering and functions management, event scheduling, dry cleaning services, ticket procurement (single or group), car services, maintenance and minor repair issues, and more. 
• Lower overhead with reduced personnel training and employee hours.
• Handling and tracking of relevant services. From brainstorming to conception of concierge plan through to budgeting, implementing, tracking, and verification, we work with you from start to finish and everything in between to best suit the needs of your site. There is no longer a need for you to detract your focus from core business. If your needs change, we research options and present an analysis for you. You choose the options that best suit your situation; we take care of the rest. 
• Improved response time for tenant contact and fulfillment of requests.
• Simplified accounting: one concierge service, one point of contact, one bill. We will track invoices and payments for you. Further, a partnership with our concierge service means that we provide the professional independent contractors. We reimburse them, i.e. no need to process diverse payroll each week.
• Reduced risk: our independent contractors work for us. No outlay for employee health insurance and benefits. No more worries with regard to scheduling, unemployment, or workers compensation issues for you. 

Onsite or off-site concierge services offers a comprehensive solution - benefits that will place and keep you far above and beyond your competitors, whether you are owners or managers of commercial high-end apartments, condominium complexes, or commercial office buildings. Get your market edge and begin to improve your property and bottom line now.


