Title: 
Doctors Excuse - Whats Real And Whats Not!

Word Count:
410

Summary:
Buying a doctors excuse online can be a easy way to be legally excused from work or school.


Keywords:
doctor note, doctor excuses, doctor excuse, fake doctor note


Article Body:
For people who wish to take a break from their slavery at work, they often look at whether a fake doctor’s excuse is available. This means that they do not have to choose to see a company doctor to verify if they are medically unfit for work or not.

These fake doctor excuses are now available online. They are available in the form of electronic downloads and they can be edited to suit the person’s needs for the appropriate circumstances. But how should you know whether these fake doctor excuses are able to pass off as valid doctor excuses?

Firstly, these fake doctor notes should have the medical company’s logo. The medical company’s logo is a form of authority in passing out these medical certificates. Besides, the human resource departments of the various companies are more likely to approve such doctor excuses if there is a reputable logo backing it.

Secondly, these fake doctor excuses should have the contact information of the medical company that issued you this doctor note in the first place. These contact information includes the address of the clinic, the name of the medical practitioner and the contact number of the clinic to call for verification.

Thirdly, you need to write about your medical problem on the fake doctor’s note. The easiest medical problem should be in the form of severe diarrhea and stomach discomfort. This is probably the best reason that will get you out of the possibility of your superior asking you to return to your office to complete some “light work”. If your superior is unreasonable, he or she will ask you to go back to work if your medical condition isn’t “critical” enough. If you say that you have to dash to the washroom every few minutes, there is just no reason for your superior to ask you back to the office.

Have you ever heard of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act? This act governs your rights of keeping your health records a secret. Therefore, a medical practitioner is not able to divulge too much in the doctor’s excuse. When you use a fake doctor’s note, you should not write your medical history on it. If you do, you are giving yourself away – because a genuine medical practitioner would never do that.

To conclude, you must first know what information is needed on a doctor’s note before you can use it.


