Title: 
Dump Your Fax Machine, Send Faxes Online

Word Count:
358

Summary:
Tired of paying for a fax line and maintaining your fax machine? There’s a better way to send and receive faxes using internet fax services.

Internet fax services enable you to receive faxes in your e-mail and to send faxes. One of the most popular internet fax services is eFax, which has over 9,000,000 users. But not all fax services are created equal. Here are some things to consider:

1. Does the fax service provide a toll free or local phone number? Are there extra c...


Keywords:
fax, internet fax, faxing, fax email


Article Body:
Tired of paying for a fax line and maintaining your fax machine? There’s a better way to send and receive faxes using internet fax services.

Internet fax services enable you to receive faxes in your e-mail and to send faxes. One of the most popular internet fax services is eFax, which has over 9,000,000 users. But not all fax services are created equal. Here are some things to consider:

1. Does the fax service provide a toll free or local phone number? Are there extra charges for receiving faxes on your toll free number?

2. How many faxes can you send and receive for your monthly fee?

3. In what format are faxes sent? Are they delivered as .pdf files in your e-mail or do you have to view them in proprietary software?

In order to decide which internet fax service is best for you, consider how many faxes you send and receive each month. Some services are best for heavy fax users, while others, like TrustFax, offer great plans for light fax users. Many of the online fax services offer free trials so you can try before you buy. Most services charge month-to-month and you can typically cancel at any time.

Although fees vary, you can expect to pay $5-$20 per month. You are allowed a certain number of pages. If you go over your page allotment you can expect to pay 10 cents for each additional page received.

With the advent of e-mail and attachments, many people predicted that the fax was doomed. But it turns out it was merely the fax machine that was doomed. Today, business use internet fax services to send and receive faxes almost as frequently as they used a standard fax machine a decade ago. One often overlooked benefit of internet faxing is that you don’t have to print out every fax you get. You can view faxes on your computer and decide which ones you want to print or delete.

It’s a good idea to review the many internet fax companies before pulling out your credit card. With a little research you will hopefully find the best one to meet your faxing needs.


