Title: 
Earn Money Playing Online Blackjack

Word Count:
648

Summary:
Blackjack is by far the most played casino card game in world. It is a simple game, and a game that can be beaten with the correct strategy. The objective of blackjack is to beat the dealer by obtaining a hand valuing more than the hand of the dealer without exceeding 21. A hand valuing 21 is often called a 'Blackjack'.


Keywords:
blackjack, casino, online blackjack, play blackjack, casino games, online casino, and internet casino, blackjack rules, blackjack strategies, play bla


Article Body:
Blackjack is by far the most played casino card game in world. It is a simple game, and a game that can be beaten with the correct strategy. The objective of blackjack is to beat the dealer by obtaining a hand valuing more than the hand of the dealer without exceeding 21. A hand valuing 21 is often called a 'Blackjack'.
 
In the game of blackjack all the numbered cards are valued at their face value. Jacks, queens, and kings all value 10, and an ace values either one or eleven, whichever value works best for the player. 
 
On a typical blackjack table, there is one dealer and up to six players. Before the cards are dealt the player must make a wager of any amount up to the table limit.  Once all of the players have made a wager the dealer will deal each player two cards face up.  The dealer will also deal himself two cards - one face up and the other face down.  At this point the player is given a number of different options, which include hitting, standing, doubling, splitting, or buying insurance.
 
If a player decides to hit this means the player would like to be dealt another card.  A player can hit as many times as he or she chooses with exceeding a hand valuing 21.  If a players hand exceeds 21 this is referred to as busting, and if you bust you automatically loose.  The player's second option is to stand.  By standing a player is stating that he or she is happy with the value of their hand, and does not choose to be dealt another card. 
 
If by chance a player is dealt a hand of two cards of the same value he or she can elect to split the pair into two separate hands. If a player decides to split, the wager amount remains the same for both hands and each hand is played separately.  In the situation that the player believes his or her hand is a winner the player can double down.  By doubling the player is deciding to double the wager amount and to be dealt one additional card.  On the contrary when a player believes his or her hand could loose because the dealers up card is an ace, the player can choose to buy insurance. Insurance protects players from a dealer blackjack.  
 
Basic strategy suggests that players should only play against the dealer, and not pay to much attention to the other players on the table.  By observing the cards dealt to the other players it is possible to gain an edge on the casino by using card counting techniques.  Card counting is not necessarily difficult but it can get confusing if you take into consideration the speed of the game.  It is always recommended for beginners to learn the blackjack strategy tables very well before even considering card counting. 
 
Blackjack strategy tables are just basic tables that outline the correct mathematical course of action for any given hand.  Typically there are three different blackjack strategy tables.  The soft hand table is used if a player has a hand with an ace valuing one, the hard hand table is used if a player has a hand with an ace valuing eleven, and the double down table is used to decide if the doubling option works for or against the player.
 
Players using the strategy tables have a great advantage over players that don't.  Blackjack is a game of strategy and with easy to use tables that guide your play there is no reason why you can't beat the casino.  The players that win the most stick to the strategy tables and never make decisions based on luck alone.  Just believe in the tables and you will eventually win also.  Don't you want to break the online casino?
 
21Bet.com provides all the strategy tables you need to win!


