Title: 
Ecommerce Website Design’s 6 Common Mistakes

Word Count:
533

Summary:
E-Commerce websites present small businesses with an ideal cost effective method to expand their business and cut operating costs. Recent trends indicate that changes in consumer behaviour patterns have led to a wide spread increase in the number of E-commerce websites for small business.  Ecommerce is a highly competitive field and small businesses need to utilise professional ecommerce websites in order to stay ahead of their competitors. This article discusses the common web design mistakes made by Ecommerce websites and how small businesses can avoid them.


Keywords:
Online marketing, Search engine optimisation, Pay per click, website marketing, Web design company


Article Body:
Small business Ecommerce is highly competitive field and small businesses need to develop a professional E-Commerce website in order o gain competitive advantage over others.

1.	Poor or outdated design

Many E-commerce websites of small businesses reflect a poor outdated website design. It is important for your website to reflect a modern clean cut look and feel. If your E-commerce website design is not professional and the website looks like it was designed in the nineties then it is important to consider re-designing your e-Commerce website. A professional design for your E-commerce website is crucial and the website design task is best left to experts. 

2.	Not having detailed information on products

Many E-Commerce websites make a common mistake of not presenting detailed information on their product range. A common problem with ecommerce websites, especially small business <a target="_blank" href=" http://www.smallbusinessecommerce.co.uk
"> E-commerce websites </a>, is the lack of detailed information on products being sold on the website.  Even if an Ecommerce website has a large product list it is important nevertheless to have an independent product detail page for each and every product. Avoid only one line descriptions for your products. Information on products can easily be found on manufacturer’s website and in most cases they are happy for you to use it on your website.


3.	Don’t hide contact details. 

Another common mistake with many ecommerce websites is the lack of visibility of the company’s contact details i.e. telephone number and address on the website. Customers often look for this information as it helps build trust knowing that someone will be there to answer questions should a problem arise with the purchase or the product. 

It is a often a good idea to include telephone and address on all pages either ion the header or footer. An easily accessible email inquiry form or request call back forms on the website also help build customer confidence.

4.	The benefits of buying from your company not clearly evident to the customer.

Another common mistake businesses make is failing to convey clearly via the website the advantages or benefits of purchasing form them. Customers usually research competitors before making a decision. 

5.	Not having an ongoing search engine optimisation strategy.

Many ecommerce businesses make the mistake of thinking that if their website is there it will automatically attract new customers.  No matter how professionally designed your website is or if you website has been created with search engine optimisation in mind; appearing on the first page of Google is not something that will be achieved on its own. 

Thousands of businesses compete for first page ranking for any given keyword however only 10 can appear o the first page.  In order receive targeted traffic to your website and generate increasing leads and sales you will need to have an ongoing search engine strategy and commission an ongoing search optimisation campaign. Although it is not something that will be achieved overnight, the benefits far outweigh the costs involved.

Please visit <a target="_blank" href="http://www.kronikmedia.co.uk/blog">http://www.kronikmedia.co.uk/blog </a>for the full article and for more articles on web design, e-commerce and search engine optimisation.


