Title: 
Email Punctuation Matters

Word Count:
358

Summary:
It’s important to convey a professional impression when you send email messages.  This includes using proper punctuation.  With email, there’s a temptation to just dash off a message without regard to any of the rules of proper language.


Keywords:
email, commmunication, business, marketing, customer service


Article Body:
It’s important to convey a professional impression when you send email messages.  This includes using proper punctuation.  With email, there’s a temptation to just dash off a message without regard to any of the rules of proper language.  

But, remember – you may have never met the person you’re emailing.  In that case, the recipient of your message is forming judgments about you based solely on your email.

Example
You may still be thinking that punctuation doesn’t matter that much.  How much difference can a few commas and periods make, anyway?  

Here is a fun illustration to demonstrate the importance of punctuation.  See for yourself just how important those little dots and dashes of punctuation can be!  

The following two “Dear John” letters are exactly the same (word for word).  The only difference is how they are punctuated. 

Punctuation Makes a Difference
Version One

Dear John:

I want a man who knows what love is all about.  You are generous, kind, thoughtful.
People who are not like you admit to being useless and inferior.  

You have ruined me for other men.  I yearn for you.  I have no feelings whatsoever when we’re apart.  I can be forever happy—will you let me be yours?

Gloria

#####

Punctuation Makes a Difference
Version Two

Dear John:

I want a man who knows what love is.  All about you are generous, kind, thoughtful people, who are not like you.  Admit to being useless and inferior.  

You have ruined me.  For other men, I yearn.  For you, I have no feelings whatsoever.  When we’re apart, I can be forever happy.  Will you let me be?

Yours,

Gloria 

#####

I’m sorry to say the source of this delightful example is unknown.  I’ve tried to track down the author.  If you have information, please send it to:  kelly@keepcustomers.com.   Thanks!

You’ve heard the following cliché before.  “You never get a second chance to make a good first impression.”  Think about how this applies to email.  You want to make a good impression on your customers, colleagues, staff, and boss.  So, make sure your messages are punctuated properly!


