Title: 
Embossing Made Easy with Electric Embossers

Word Count:
427

Summary:
In business and in industry, embossing documents can be a repetitive process. There are manual solutions to this – hand-held embossers – but for the fastest, most economical approach, an electric embosser is best for embossing in an office environment.


Keywords:
emossing,electric embossers


Article Body:
Embossing is the simple act of making a raised impression on paper. In business and in industry, embossing documents can be a repetitive process. There are manual solutions to this – hand-held embossers – but for the fastest, most economical approach, an electric embosser is best for embossing in an office environment. Below is a bit of information about electric embossers, and the benefits that are gained from their use.

For repetitive embossing and frequent use, electric embossers show their benefit from the very beginning. Embossed documents can be processed quickly and effortlessly. The same embossing die on an electric embosser can be used again and again for documents such as legal papers, certificates, diplomas and transcripts. An electric embosser is built for high-volume use. There is no need to worry about mechanical failure – electric embossers are good for years of quality usage.

Choosing which electric embosser to purchase will be decided based on the amount of use you anticipate. A motorized unit offers an excellent entry-level start and will give you around 20,000 quality impressions. If you are planning on a very high-volume use, consider a Heavy Duty model that is good for around 200,000 impressions. Naturally, the one you choose will depend on what type of paper you will be embossing – regular 20 lb. to 24 lb. paper or a thicker cardstock. Custom logo dies are engraved in brass for the longest possible service. The depth of the embossing die determines how it will work; a shallower die is best for thin paper where as a deeper die works for thicker paper.

When purchasing an engraved die for use with an electrical embosser, it is important to see the layout and design of how the embossed image will look. Be aware that a black and white text sample will appear different when rendered as an embossed image. Do make corrections if necessary – it is important to have the wording correct before the die is actually made for you. Since an electrical embosser is custom-tailored for your needs it is truly a customized product and acquiring a refund may prove difficult. Be sure to check with the company ahead of time so you are aware of their return and refund policies.

No matter what type of electrical embosser you choose, you can be assured that the embosser will provide years of quality embossed images, even under high-volume usage. Electrical embossers are ideal for businesses due to their economic pricing, flexibility, and beautiful presentation. It is worth your time to research and find an electrical embosser that is tailored to your specific needs.


