Title: 
Enhance Your Children's Fitness Business with Preschool Exercise Programs

Word Count:
599

Summary:
One way to enhance your children's fitness business is to start your own preschool exercise program. Learn how this works here...


Keywords:
childhood obesity, preschool exercise, preschool fitness, preschool p.e.


Article Body:
If you own a children's fitness business and want to add to your services, try offering a preschool exercise program in your local area. Preschool exercise programs are much needed, but too often, they get put on the back burner in schools, daycares, and other preschool organizations. Some may feel it's not that important that preschoolers exercise on a regular basis, but this couldn't be farther from the truth. Fitness is very important for preschoolers and it helps them establish good habits that can last a lifetime.

Offer a Preschool P.E.

Many older children participate in some sort of P.E. (physical education) class at school, but many preschoolers don't. P.E. is a class offered at a set time for about an hour a day when kids exercise and play sports such as softball, basketball, and dodge ball. With a preschool P.E., you can schedule to come to the preschool class at a set time each day to teach the children age-appropriate exercises and other fun, active stuff to get in shape. 

Some of the preschool fitness activities you can offer in your classes include aerobic exercises, fun dances, gymnastics, and age-appropriate sports. You can also incorporate nutrition information and provide take-home items such hand-outs, newsletters for parents, take-home coloring sheets, DVDs, music CDs, and other items to enhance the preschool exercise classes.

If you're unable to instruct the classes yourself, you can approach preschools about starting their own program. Your children's fitness business can provide the supplies and training they need. The curriculum you provide will teach the instructors how to help preschool children learn about fitness and nutrition, stay in shape for the long term, and improve self-esteem. 

The Benefits of Preschool Fitness

Preschool fitness offers many benefits for children, parents, and teachers. The children in the program learn the importance of exercise in a fun, exciting way, and they learn how to warm up, cool down, and stretch their muscles for more flexibility. Preschool exercise promotes cardiovascular health at a young age and helps children develop good exercise and eating habits that will stay with them for a lifetime. 
 
Preschool fitness programs can reach into the children's homes to help parents combat childhood obesity at home. Teachers involved in the program may see an improvement in class moral, and more energy and clearer minds in their preschoolers, which can result in a better teaching and learning environment.

Getting Started with a Preschool Fitness Program

Whether your children's fitness business is located in a storefront or you travel to different schools or homes, you can easily incorporate a preschool fitness program with your current offerings. There are many great franchises dedicated to helping you start your own program. These will provide the curriculum and other items needed to teach the classes. In a storefront setting, you can set up displays for local teachers to sign up as preschool fitness instructors. Or, you can visit local preschool establishments to ask about starting a program.

Use online resources to find a kid's fitness program franchise that will work well with your business. Look for a program that offers a variety of exercise techniques and materials so the kids won't become bored with the program. Preschoolers have a short attention span so the more new techniques you can offer, the more effective it will be.

A preschool exercise program can enhance your children's fitness business in more ways than one. It enables you to bring a positive influence to local daycares and schools while helping many impressionable preschool kids learn to get in shape and stay healthy!


