Title: 
Everything you want is already here

Word Count:
816

Summary:
Miracle happens everywhere, it can happen to you as well. And the good news is you can deliberately create miracle in your life, and you don’t have to do much work. All it takes is a few new thoughts and awareness.


Keywords:
Self improvement, manifestation, quantum physics, personal development, motivation


Article Body:
Have you seen any miracles in your life?
Or maybe I should ask a better question… 
Do you believe in miracles? 
Give me the answer to either one of the questions, I can tell you your answer for the other.

Dr Wayne Dyer has a wonderful book “You will see it when you believe it”. It is a life changing reading. If you haven’t read it yet, you should get a copy.

I have seen lots of miracles in my own life, and I see miracles almost every day. 

Wouldn’t that be a miracle if you are  thinking of improving your health, an experienced Chinese Qi Qong master come into your life and become a very good friend and teacher? 

Wouldn’t that be a miracle if you are thinking of improving your spiritual life,  you suddenly find a book by a  spiritual master in the early 20th century. 

Wouldn’t that be a miracle if you want to improve your financial life, an retired multi-millionaire living on the other end of the world come to contact you  and is willing to teach you his success secrets?

Wouldn’t that be a miracle when you want to do a joint venture, someone from nowhere come to contact you and turn out to make one of the best joint venture?

Wouldn’t that be a miracle when you think of a solution for a problem, and a brilliant idea suddenly hits you?

Miracle happens everywhere, it can happen to you as well.

And the good news is you can deliberately create miracle in your life, and you don’t have to do much work. All it takes is a few new thoughts and awareness.  By putting these powerful new thoughts in to your consciousness, you are literally transforming your life.

I am going to write a series of lessons that you can use to create new miracles in your life.  

The fist new awareness you need to learn  is …

Everything you want is already here:

Einstein had spent years to prove one thing “Time does not exist, it only exist as an illusion in human’s mind”.

If time doesn’t exist, then yesterday is the same as today, and it is the same as tomorrow. Then there is only one time that is now.  
If time does not exist, then every thing that possibly exists will be existing here. Imagine you are traveling from point A to point B, but it takes no time because time doesn’t exist. You now can instantly travel from A to B. Then what is the distance between point A and point B. There is no distance; they both exist at the same place and at the same time. There is only one place in the world, and that is here. Think deeply what this really means. Suppose point A is where you are now, and point B is the where you want to be in your imaginary future, or say it your goals, you can now instantly travel from where you are to where you want to be.  Yes, I mean INSTANTLY.

Everything that can possibly exist exists here, including the picture you are holding in your mind. If you don’t believe it, ask yourself “where can it be if it is not here?”  The answer is nowhere. The things you imagine in your mind is nothing artificial, it is as real as your legs and arms. 

Scientists explain the world as a world of possibility, everything in this world exist as a probability. The picture you imagine in your mind exists as a probability that is already in quantum field waiting to take form. The only thing that makes you feel separate from it is the illusion of time. And as you already know, that is just an illusion. In fact, the picture you formed in your mind is already here. 

The easiest way to get rid of the illusion of time and bring your pictures into physical form is to simply choose. Choose to see the picture in your reality, and accept it as a fact. That is all that takes. Do you remember how easy you can change a radio station? When you are tired of listening to one station, you can simply change to another one. Life is as simple as that, choose your own picture, and the universe will supply.

Here is something I want you to do after reading this lesson. 

Choose one thing you really want, form a picture firmly in your mind, and tell yourself that it is already here, and accept it as a fact. Do this as often as possible and you will get addict to it.  See how fast you will create miracles in your life.

Next week, I will share with you are secrets mantra that you can use to immediately get connected to the higher intelligence, and create any miracle you want. It is that powerful.


