Title: 
Family Reunion T-shirts

Word Count:
427

Summary:
Family reunions can be some of the greatest times for any family.  They bring together different generations and often people from all over the country.  T-shirts for these occasions is one of the most lasting if not best memories.  There are a few things that you should keep in mind when designing your family reunion t-shirt.  You want them to be something that can be cherished and worn by everyone in the family.


Keywords:
custom t-shirts, family reunion t-shirts, t-shirt printing


Article Body:
Family reunions can be some of the greatest times for any family.  They bring together different generations and often people from all over the country.  T-shirts for these occasions is one of the most lasting if not best memories.  There are a few things that you should keep in mind when designing your family reunion t-shirt.  You want them to be something that can be cherished and worn by everyone in the family.  
Keeping that in mind they should be unique to your family.  They should be fun and reminiscent of the good times not only at the family reunion, but of the family’s life as a whole.  Funny slogans, pictures, etc. are a great idea, but I at least recommend staying away from offensive things.  Remember everyone from the Ally’s new born to Great-Aunt Ellen will be wearing these.  So something PG but clever tends to be the way most people go.  I’ve seen everything from having a tree with names on it to picture of the oldest and younger people in the family superimposed on each other.
	Whatever the case, I would urge you to make them your own.  These shirts will be worn by everyone in the family and are a representation of your family.  I know that I wear the t-shirt from my last family reunion all the time.  
	Another thing to think about is what kind of t-shirts you want to buy.  The truth on this one is that if you go with a good printer it won’t matter.  A good printer will more likely than not only offer high quality t-shirts.  Talk to them and they will let you know whether your individual situation lends itself better to a one hundred percent cotton or a 50/50 blend.  
	The last thing that you may want to consider is what you want to do as far as ink colors go.  The more colors the more expensive the t-shirts are invariably going to be.  Usually I recommend that you keep your t-shirt designs under three colors.  Just think, every color means a new screen and that has to get added into the cost.  
	So before your next family reunion, talk it over and get some t-shirts made.  If you are struggling to come up with a design, there are a few screen printers who offer free artwork.  When it’s all said and done, the thing to remember more than anything is that these are your family’s t-shirts.  They are unique and should be something you are proud to wear.


