Title: 
Finding the Right Online Source for Christmas Cards and Holiday Cards

Word Count:
540

Summary:
Whether you send personal greeting cards, business holiday cards, or both, buying them online has several distinct advantages.


Keywords:
christmas cards, business christmas cards, holiday cards, business holiday cards, greeting cards


Article Body:
As the mornings turn crisp and the days get shorter, it's time to begin thinking about the upcoming holiday season. While you may not be ready to start your gift shopping, it's not too early to consider how you are going to express holiday greetings to friends and family, business associates, and customers and clients. 

Why Buy Greeting Cards Online?

Christmas cards and holiday cards serve purposes ranging from giving you the opportunity to update family members and friends about life events to marketing your business to customers and potential customers. But whether you send personal greeting cards, business holiday cards, or both, buying them online has several distinct advantages. 

The first such advantage is selection. Whether you're looking for business Christmas cards, Thanksgiving cards, or other holiday cards, you'll find many more choices online than you will at a local card store. The second advantage is the ability to save money. Because online greeting card stores don't have the overhead expenses of brick-and-mortar stores, they're able to pass along the savings to their customers. Third, online stores typically offer personalization, both in the form of printing your family's name or the name of your business on the cards, and in printing your return address on the envelope. Fourth, you can usually get steep discounts if you order your Christmas cards early (by mid-October), before the holiday season is in full swing.

What to Look For When Buying Greeting Cards Online

While there are many online businesses that sell holiday cards, you need to choose the right one. You don't want to take the risk that your business Christmas cards will arrive at the end of December, or that the personalization is incorrect. Here are some services to look for when selecting an online source for holiday cards:

1. Longevity and Satisfied Customers. Look for a company that has been in business for at least three years and that can point to a loyal following of individuals and businesses that are happy with their products and services.

2. Quality and Pricing. If you're ordering in quantity, the company should offer bulk discounts. They should also offer an "early bird" discount if you place your order early. The company should be willing to send you sample cards so you can verify the quality of the card. They should also offer high-quality, coordinating envelopes, such as foil-lined envelopes.

3. Personalization. Look for a company that offers several forms of personalization. You should, for example, be able to select from among several different verses for the inside of your cards. They should also include up to four lines of imprinted text on your holiday cards at no extra cost, and allow you to choose from among at least four colors of ink. 

4. Customer Service. The company you choose should make it easy for you to order. This means giving you the ability to order online, as well as the option of printing out an order form. They should also have live customer service representatives who can help you place your order and answer any questions you may have. 

It's never too early to start thinking about Christmas cards and holiday greeting cards. Once you find the right online source for your needs, you'll never look back!


