Title: 
Fitness Franchise

Word Count:
527

Summary:
If you are looking for a franchise opportunity that will offer you a good earning potential, you may want to consider purchasing a fitness franchise.  The current health obsessed climate makes a fitness franchise a good way to create a money-making business while helping people look and feel their best.  There are a number of fitness franchise opportunities out there, and finding the right one can be a satisfying venture for your entrepreneurial spirit.


Keywords:
fitness franchise, health, franchises, business, womens, planet


Article Body:
If you are looking for a franchise opportunity that will offer you a good earning potential, you may want to consider purchasing a fitness franchise.  The current health obsessed climate makes a fitness franchise a good way to create a money-making business while helping people look and feel their best.  There are a number of fitness franchise opportunities out there, and finding the right one can be a satisfying venture for your entrepreneurial spirit.

One type of fitness franchise is to open a fitness center.  There are a number of types of fitness centers available for your fitness franchise purchase.  You can even get specific with your fitness center.  There are fitness franchise opportunities that are fitness centers exclusively for men or women or even ones that cater more to the serious fitness guru.  Some fitness centers offer only specific types of fitness like jazzercise.

Another type of fitness franchise available is the weight loss center.  Some weight loss centers function as both fitness centers and weight loss clinics.  You will be able to use your fitness franchise to help people not only tone and exercise, but you will also be getting them on a better nutritional plan.

The third type of fitness franchise involves being a seller of fitness equipment.  This type of fitness franchise opportunity can be done through a retail setting or even online.   There are a lot of fitness franchise opportunities where you can sell specific types of fitness equipment to used fitness equipment.  There is a great demand for people to have access to fitness equipment at home, so finding a fitness franchise to sell equipment can be very lucrative.

No matter what fitness franchise you choose, you still need to follow some basics of choosing and purchasing a fitness franchise.  Remember that you will be responsible for all the aspects of your fitness franchise from sales, marketing, and human resources to customer service, operations, legal compliance, and accounting.  The good thing is that most fitness franchise opportunities will at least offer you some basic guidelines for operations.  

Be prepared to fill out an application for your fitness franchise which will involve a credit and often a background check.  If you pass the fitness franchise guidelines, you will probably receive the fitness franchise’s Uniform Franchise Offering Circular, or UFOC, which you should read over carefully.  The UFOC will include important information like the franchise history, key principles, financial statements, litigations, franchise openings and closings, contacts, agreements, requirements, and more.

Also, be aware that the success of your fitness franchise will be based upon a number of factors such as your territory, site location, and your commitment.  Even though much of your success depends on you, it is nice to know that your fitness franchise has the support of the franchisor, so you have somewhere to turn for assistance.

Still, if you are ready to branch out on your own and you have a desire to get into the health industry, a fitness franchise can be a lucrative business venture.  Take advantage of the booming health industry by purchasing a fitness franchise that fits with what you like about fitness and health.


