Title: 
Five Reasons to Use Customer Phone Surveys

Word Count:
503

Summary:
Consumers are the life line of any successful business and you can learn a great deal of information from them. If you want to find out how good or bad your business is call the customers and ask them. They will give you straight answers and you can modify your approach if there are areas where you are failing to meet their needs.


Keywords:
customer experience marketing, monitoring, customer survey, mystery shopping, survey, IVR, customer feedback, customer satisfaction, employee survey, customer research, CRM, phone survey, surveys, mystery shopper, customer retention, telephone survey,  customer loyalty, secret shoppers, call center, Mindshare, mshare, automated feedback, marketing research, employee retention


Article Body:
Consumers are the life line of any successful business and you can learn a great deal of information from them. If you want to find out how good or bad your business is call the customers and ask them. They will give you straight answers and you can modify your approach if there are areas where you are failing to meet their needs. 

They will appreciate the fact that you are interested in what they have to say, not just taking their money and then tossing them aside. Without really doing much of anything you have just made the bond between you and the customer stronger. Loyal customers will come back to make future purchases as well as refer others to you.

The fact that conducting customer phone surveys leads to retaining those relationships means that you aren’t going to have to work as hard in the future with marketing to have a successful business. It is harder to continually find new customers out there in the market so focus a great deal of your attention on those you already have. You want them to be repeat customers for life once they make an initial purchase from you. 

Consumer trends never stay the same for very long so business owners are always trying to figure out what to offer them next. Some are leaders in this area and they control the biggest portion of the consumer market. Others simply follow along in their footsteps but they don’t reap the same volume of sales. 

By talking to your customers on the phone you will be able to successfully forecast emerging trends. They will know better than any one else what direction they are moving in. With this information you can revamp your marketing strategies and offer them something new before your competition does.

You will find investing in a customer phone survey results in fewer customers that aren’t satisfied with what you have to offer. This will save your business a substantial amount of money. First, you won’t have to pay so much for customer service support because there won’t be as many issues. Second, those customers that are satisfied are less likely to return products and ask for a refund. 

The data that is collected from customer phone surveys can help you determine if your business should expand. This could be to offer more of what you are already doing or to implement new products or services. Having such data available reduces the risk of jumping into such ventures and hoping the will be successful.

You will find phone surveys can be a very effective tool for your business. It doesn’t matter what types of goods or services you offer because consumers are going to dictate the success. Don’t let problems that you could have taken care of result in your business not being successful. It doesn’t take too much time or money to conduct phone surveys with your customers but the information is priceless.


