Title: 
Florida Construction Industry

Word Count:
289

Summary:
The Florida Home Builders Association (FHBA) is considered to be the fundamental group of the future builders of America. FHBA is the chief association of all local homebuilder's associations founded within the state.


Keywords:
construction, local construction, local contractors


Article Body:
The Florida Home Builders Association (FHBA) is considered to be the fundamental group of the future builders of America. FHBA is the chief association of all local homebuilder's associations founded within the state. They provide their members, and the whole construction community in general, with sales and marketing tools, legislative updates, training, and even insurance coverage information. The construction industry of Florida has always been on the boom. In fact, there are a number of working immigrants who had found jobs and opportunities in the different construction sites all over the state.

Kraft Construction Company is one the biggest players in the construction industry of Florida. Their headquarters is located in Naples, Florida but they have two other satellite offices within the state. They have one in Sarasota and another in Fort Myers. Since their foundation in 1968, they have a steady number of projects and employ more than 400 workers. They have a net annual income of $100 million. 

Willis A. Smith Construction, Inc. is another notable construction company operating in Florida. They are based in Sarasota and are serving the region of Florida since 1972. They have an impeccable background when it comes to the construction of commercial, industrial, healthcare, and educational buildings. They even have construction projects related to museum works. They have also done a number of civic and church-related ventures since it is first founded. They don't engage in residential construction but they are certainly big in everything else.

Florida also has several construction technical schools from where aspiring professionals can go to and train. There are at least 15 colleges offering construction education in and around the state. Examples of these educational institutions are the Brevard Community College-Cocoa Campus, Broward Community College, and Tallahassee Community College, among others.


