Title: 
Flying Out of Philadelphia?  Experience The PHL

Word Count:
455

Summary:
If you live in the Philadelphia area and are planning a trip that will fly you out of Philadelphia International Airport, or are a traveler that will be connecting through or flying into this airport, you are in for a wonderful experience! Flying, especially these days, can often times be stressful and even a little intimidating with so many new rules and regulations. But Philadelphia International Airport, or PHL as it is also called, has taken many steps to make it really comfortable and convenient for you.


Keywords:
PHL, philadelphia international airport,travel,airlines,air travel,internet access,usa today,philadelphia,traveler


Article Body:
If you live in the Philadelphia area and are planning a trip that will fly you out of Philadelphia International Airport, or are a traveler that will be connecting through or flying into this airport, you are in for a wonderful experience! Flying, especially these days, can often times be stressful and even a little intimidating with so many new rules and regulations. But Philadelphia International Airport, or PHL as it is also called, has taken many steps to make it really comfortable and convenient for you.

USA Today has ranked Philadelphia International Airport as one of the highest scoring airports in the country in terms of amenities for its passengers and visitors. Some of these include:

Live Music – The Performing Arts Program entertains travelers with an assortment of local musicians, singers and dancers. They even have costumed characters, caricature artists, face-painting and other surprises for special occasions. Performances take place twice a week and daily during the summer and winter holiday seasons.

Culture – Philadelphia International Airport sponsors revolving art exhibitions with displays that change throughout the year to illustrate the area’s unique culture and lifestyle. The airport offers you access to a wide variety of art forms including fine arts, crafts, design and photography by artists from Philadelphia and around the world. Presently, there are only a handful of airports in the world with temporary art exhibitions.

Internet Access – At all of PHL’s gate areas, you can have Wi-Fi access for a fee of only $7.95 for a full 24 hours. You can also charge your laptop at many of the convenient public seating areas and half of the airport’s semi-private pay phones have data ports with work surfaces. If you’ve got a need for more extensive business services, they’ve even created something called ‘Laptop Lane’ which is located just inside the Terminal B checkpoint on the A-B walkway.

Relaxation – Philadelphia International Airport also offers fine dining at its two award-winning Cibo Bistro Wine Bars located in Terminals B and A-West. PHL has even got a Day Spa called Xpress Spa located in Terminal C near Gate C-16 to help its customers weary from travel to unwind with a variety of massages, body treatments or just a relaxing pedicure or manicure. They’ve also got convenience stores and stands located throughout the airport where you can purchase items like as diapers, aspirin, newspapers, magazines and gifts or souvenirs.

Visit Philadelphia International Airport’s website at www.phl.org to get information on flights and the convenient Rail Connection to the City which is a service that directly connects the Airport with the downtown area. The fare is only $5.50 each way, and the trains run every 30 minutes and stops at every terminal!


