Title: 
Free online money making opportunity with adsense

Word Count:
575

Summary:
Make money at home, or start your own homebased business, Have you ever tried or wondered how to make lots of money at home online or make money at home? 
If so, you may or may not of heard of Google Adsense, if not then it is true that many thousands of people throughout the world make Lots of money from the Google Adsense programme each and every month


Keywords:
make money at home, adsense ready websites, adsense, adsense websites, get rich , get rich quick, start online business, make money from home, work at home, make money at home online, make money online, people earning $10000 through adsense with payment proof, make money surfing, easy make money online, homebased business, homebased business opportunity, free make money online, online money making opportunity, online money making idea, internet making millionaire, money online riches secret simple, internet making money, make money at home, adsense code google making money never


Article Body:
Make money at home, Google Adsense, is one of the most popular ways to create passive income.It shows ads that are relevant to your contents and integrated very well inside your website. 
Instead, Google Adwords allows to make advertise on Google search engine, so your ad may appear next to the search results. Even if you already appear in Google's search results, AdWords can help you increase your traffic on Google and other websites. Google's text advertisements includes one title line and two content text lines. 
What's happens when an advertiser signs up for a Google Adwords account. Well, it can create one or more advertisments that it want to have appear on Google's search result pages or on websites. 
The best way of this business is that advertise pay only when customers click on the banner ads. This amount it comes subdivided between Google and website owner. For example, if Google pay website owner around $o.40, the advertiser has paid around $2.00. So if you have a few thousand visitors a week, you have a chance to make about $50 from your website in a week. 
In this brief introduction I walk you through the key features of what looks to be a great affiliate programs. 
Step 1) Sign up for an Adsense account. All you have to do is enter your website URL, and your personal data. You can use Adsense code testing on your blog only after you're approved by Adsense Team. 
Step 2) Now it's time to configure your own Adsense banner (layout size and color scheme). AdSense offers a number of ad formats and advertising products. I encourage to experiment changing the placements once to week. 
According to the Adsense policy, users can put up to three ad units on each page, and up to three link units may also be placed on each page. Like Ad format I use a large Rectangle(336×280) on the top of the home page and inside on any my blog posts. 
Step 3) What colour palettes are the most successful? If you want the biggest revenue impact for the smallest effort, we recommend optimising your colour palettes. Choosing the right palettes can mean the difference between ads your user will notice and click on and ads he/she will skip right over. I use a white background color and a white border color that's are the same as the background color of my page. 
Step 4) Alternate ads allow you to use your ad space in the event that Google is unable to serve targeted ads to your page. By default, Google shows public service ads (PSAs) if no targeted ads are available. By specifying a colour, image, HTML page or ad server of your choice, you can make sure that your advertising space is always being used effectively, either by targeted Google ads or by your own choice of content. 
Step 5) Give in mind, any method that artificially generates clicks or impressions on your Google ads is strictly prohibited according to Adsense police.
  Best way to make money at home is , get any good adsense ready websites, package if you don’t have time to make websites. Then we recommend adsenselover to make money at home, just make a search in google  “adsenselover” and you will find a good adsense websites package from adsenselover. These all pre_built websites are fully optimized for to make good adsense revenue and all are highly keyword targeted and search engine optimized.


