Title: 
Get Rich With Little Work? Here's How

Word Count:
568

Summary:
You've heard all the warnings before. There's no such thing as get rich quick. If it sounds too good to be true, it probably is. If there's a business that requires no work, I haven't found it.

If you aren't very curious, don't think very hard, and try your best not to look around you, it's pretty easy to accept those bits of conventional wisdom as fact.

You'll hear government pamphlets tout them (since when did career government people know anything about getting rich)...


Keywords:
mlm,biz opp,opportunities,home business


Article Body:
You've heard all the warnings before. There's no such thing as get rich quick. If it sounds too good to be true, it probably is. If there's a business that requires no work, I haven't found it.

If you aren't very curious, don't think very hard, and try your best not to look around you, it's pretty easy to accept those bits of conventional wisdom as fact.

You'll hear government pamphlets tout them (since when did career government people know anything about getting rich). You'll hear media people warn you to stay away (and in case you forgot, media folks have spent their lives as corporate employees).

I sometimes think the only reason they tell us we can't get rich is they want us all to keep working our jobs at low pay! But enough of that.

It's easy to see people all around you who are doing VERY well financially, not working too hard at it, and enjoying life tremendously:

- The investor who keeps putting money in stocks and soon has hundreds of thousands of dollars in the bank.

- The person who buys houses, fixes them up, rents them out, then sells them at a big profit.

- The person who gradually starts several small businesses, using the profits from one to finance another and hiring people to run them.

- The woman or man who joins a Network Marketing opportunity, then builds up their organization and earns thousands per month doing very little work -- for life.

Think for a minute, and just about everyone reading this article knows one or more people just like this. They're earning, or will soon earn, FAR more money than they would working a job. Many aren't working any harder than they would in a job. And ALL of them are having the time of their lives.

But how am I going to get the cash and time I need to start my own business venture, you ask. These days you don't need a bankroll OR a lot of time to succeed. You definitely don't need to quit your job. You can easily run your business in your spare time, even if you have VERY LITTLE spare time.

The vast number of people who want to own their own home-based business have made it possible for organizations to sprout up, all designed with one purpose in mind -- to make it EASY for anyone to go into business.

Entry fees are often quite low. For FAR less than you would pay for an office, staff, and equipment, you can have your own high- end web site, automated prospecting system, and even a professional team of sales people who bring home the customers for you.

That last feature is what interests me most! Many people running a home-based business just hate to sell. In fact, that's the one thing that keeps them from making money. Having a professional team of sales people working for you can solve this problem, since they talk with prospects and sell them on your products and services BEFORE sending them your way.

Because a lot of small businesses are using their service, your cost to have the sales team work for you is quite inexpensive. So stop putting off owning your own home-based business. Don't let anybody tell you that you can't do it. All the tools, ideas, and systems are already in place to make you a HUGE success.


