Title: 
Getting Unexpected Profits With a Car Wash Fundraiser!

Word Count:
398

Summary:
Instead of wasting lots of precious time on thinking what's the best fundraising idea, go with what works. Setting up a car wash fundraiser may not be the most original thing to do, but it has always proven to bring great results.


Keywords:
car wash fundraiser, carwash fundraiser, car wash fund raiser


Article Body:
Instead of wasting lots of precious time on thinking what's the best fundraising idea, go with what works. Setting up a car wash fundraiser may not be the most original thing to do, but it has always proven to bring great results. As long as you settle your team on a high traffic area and generate a sound attention-capturing system, the rest practically takes care of itself. Unlike complicated fundraiser event ideas, a car wash is a simple concept to apply. However, you still need some minimum planning.

First things first. Design or have someone design a simple straight to the point flyer that includes the following:

- Purpose of your fundraising group
- Price of the car wash
- Location and time
- Any other information that relates to your cause

In order for you and your team to be extra successful with your car wash fundraiser, you have to squeeze everything you can out of it. For example, while the car washing is taking place you can sell coupons and make an extra profit. If you notice that you can't handle everything, consider partnering yourself with another group with similar values. Charge an extra fee for additional services such as waxing or vacuuming. Instead of aimlessly standing in the middle of nowhere trying to stop cars, sell tickets several days before the event to ensure a hefty lineup of cars to attend.

Setting up a car wash is no big deal. Your team just has to be prepared to work hard for several consecutive hours during one day. If your group is big enough, it's better to have two lines instead of one. When it's time for action follow these four steps:

1. Attract your customers with eye catching signs.
2. Make the sale
3. Wash the car
4. Dry the car

Yes, that's the beauty of a car wash, pretty much anyone can make it happen. There are several other things you can do to make it even a greater success. For instance, you can offer the car wash for free and simply accept donations. This way you don't put a cap to your earnings and will probably get the best out of generous people. Also, you can try to get free advertising in your local radio station, magazines or newspaper. Finally, remember to have fun! Having energetic music playing in the background and providing refreshments for your crew stimulates the best performance.


