Title: 
GOING GREEN THE IMPRINTED PROMOTIONAL PRODUCTS WAY

Word Count:
438

Summary:
Using eco-friendly green promotional products and renewable energy sources reduces greenhouse emissions that have a negative impact on our planet.  

Using solar; water and shake powered products such as Solar Flashlights helps keep batteries out of our landfills. Annually, nearly 3 Billion batteries are used and then thrown away by American households. Using biodegradable products reduces landfill build up.


Keywords:
promotional products, green products,  eco-friendly products,  water bottle, non woven bags


Article Body:
Using eco-friendly green promotional products and renewable energy sources reduces greenhouse emissions that have a negative impact on our planet.  

Using solar; water and shake powered products such as Solar Flashlights helps keep batteries out of our landfills. Annually, nearly 3 Billion batteries are used and then thrown away by American households. Using biodegradable products reduces landfill build up. 

GREEN FACTS:
According to the Container Recycling Institute, Americans used 4 billion pounds of plastic in the form of bottles in 2002. The main culprit is “use once & toss” water and beverage bottles. It takes a plastic water bottle 700 years before it starts to decompose. Why not “Go Green”…use a reusable Polycarbonate Sport Bottle  from MyLogoImprinted.com instead. 

The average American family of four tosses out approx. 1,500 plastic bags a year. Each one can take up to 1,000 years to decompose. Most of these bags are not biodegrading; the plastic slowly breaks down into smaller components until it leaches into the soil or water. Paper bags are biodegradable but the energy, chemicals, trees and water consumed to recycle them is a drain on the environment. Why not “Go Green”…use reusable non-woven bags, organic cotton bags, and natural jute bags for everyday use as you grocery shop or go to a business tradeshow. 

Since there are lots of ways to be Eco-Responsible and use “Green Products” and it is not always clear what makes one approach better than the next, listed below are qualities and questions to help inform you on what makes a product eco-friendly.

Recycled – materials destined for disposal are reclaimed and converted into new products such as Polycarbonate Water Bottles, Non-Woven Bags and Reusable Grocery Bags. 

Bioplastic – what percent of a product is made from a renewable resource so you won’t be mislead.

Organic – what percentage is organic so you will not have to guess

Natural – knowing when a product is made from materials and exactly what the ingredients are.

Reusable – what products were created with intent to be used in place of a disposable item.

Creating innovative “Green Products” for the future will be important by finding new ways of utilizing recycled materials that can corporately impact your business as well. Many corporations are taking up the call of being responsible by requesting eco-friendly products and giving them away as marketing tools to let you know they are being responsible when it comes to promoting there company and taking-up the call of making sound environmental choices. 

If we combine all of our individual and corporate efforts, together we can make a difference to our World today and more importantly we can make a difference to our future!


