Title: 
Hands On Trade Show Exhibits Lure Attendees

Word Count:
480

Summary:
When trade show exhibit goers walk the vast exhibit hall floors and come upon highly creative, interactive trade show displays, they get to stop and join in some fun.  The trade show attendee becomes part of the exhibit.  By using experiential activity, the trade show exhibitor not only entertains but also educates their key customer prospects with entertaining “hands on” experiences.


Keywords:
trade show, trade show exhibit, trade show display, custom modular exhibits, trade show booth


Article Body:
When trade show exhibit goers walk the vast exhibit hall floors and come upon highly creative, interactive trade show displays, they get to stop and join in some fun.  The trade show attendee becomes part of the exhibit.  By using experiential activity, the trade show exhibitor not only entertains but also educates their key customer prospects with entertaining “hands on” experiences.  

Why are such participatory activities important at trade shows?  Quite simply: they boost traffic to the trade show exhibit site, leading to product interest and often substantial sales from experiencing first hand a dynamic new product.
When Event Marketer covered the Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas in early January 2006, they found exceptional trade show exhibits that offered interactive experiences.  Here are a few exhibitors whose “hands on” trade show displays showcased new product trials on the trade show floor:

Canon -- Canon’s goal was to get attendees’ hands on its products.  They had three hands-on display islands staffed by representatives. One of the islands featured PowerShot and EOS cameras and camcorders, another showcased printers, and the third island featured smaller digital cameras and camcorders.  Canon also had a theater that mimicked a working film set with camera booms and professional stage lighting.  Visitors demonstrated Canon’s new products and took photos and videos of a working model-train village choo-chooing away in their center island.

Dolby -- A TrueHD Theater was Dolby’s centerpiece to run demos of its high-definition audio technology. Separate semi-enclosed zones showed off Dolby’s audio technology for HDTV home theaters, surround-sound video gaming, and PC home audio.  The gaming zone offered visitors a chance to try Burnout, the new Xbox 360 racing game. The Xbox’s Dolby Digital sound technology seduced game enthusiasts to come try their new products.

Garmin -- Several interactive demonstration stations helped Garmin get its portable navigation systems into people’s hands. Two circular islands each featured eight handheld navigation units for visitors to try, while plasma screens atop the stations ran videos about the products.

Nokia – The company divided sections of the trade show exhibit—which featured everything from its mobile office products to its latest Bluetooth-capable phones—to create individual environments for products and presentations. Visitors checked out the products on tables on the main floor. Nokia created interactivity with touch-screen computer kiosk booths, where trade show attendees could learn more about key product features. 

Remember that people want to try before they buy.  At trade shows, they want to see for themselves and be part of the action. That is why the use of interactivity works especially well at trade show displays that introduce new products and services.

Dick Wheeler is President of Professional Exhibits & Graphics, headquartered in Sunnyvale, California. The firm is a full-service premiere trade show exhibit, graphics and management services company. For addtional information, go to www.proexhibits.com.
© Copyright 1996-2006, Professional Exhibits & Graphics. All Rights Reserved


