Title: 
Having Fun With Thought Crimes

Word Count:
1169

Summary:
Find out what I learned in a smoke filled back room of a Las Vegas Casino when... I became a Thought Criminal ."
Find out what a self-confessed "thought criminal" discovered about hypnosis, NLP, Persuasion
and manipulation and how easy it is to get what you want from ANYONE... even YOURSELF.


Keywords:
nlp, hypnosis, JK Ellis, Mind Control, Persuasion, Influence, 


Article Body:
Becomeing a thought criminal means thinking your own thoughts and going after what you and deciding to get it no 

matter what. 

Patience for the operator comes from having a clear outcomes. “Outcomes” are defined as goals that are under the 

control of the operator. Anything that is not under the control of the operator falls into the category of wishes and 

hopes and the operator is advised to ignore them. 

With an understanding of outcomes, the rest is a matter of time hence the need for patience. The operator has an 

understanding that while the end outcome has  value the next most recent outcome is the most important outcome. 

This mindset prevents the hurried rush of urgency that is often accompanies unrestrained youth. 

The Mystery of Silence
Silence, as you'll learn, creates a unique sense of mystery. The operator does well to apply the following rules when 

considering his outcomes:

Conceal your intentions. 
Being open with your intentions invites people who will obstruct, steal and hijack what you've intended. 

	Demonstrate through actions never through argument. 
Telling people what you do will invite the thought that you are a braggart and  you risk boring others with stories of 

your accomplishments. If these stories are remembered they are likely to be retold with scepticizm.  People remember 

what is done and build stories and mythologies around your actions by combining their story with their own emotions. 

Use this to your advantage and let other people speak of your actions.

Always say less than necessary. 
There is a mystery that comes from the “strong silent” type. Saying something outright can be forgotten but if you 

allude to something, even something you know will happen, when it occurs the mystery will be confirmed.
This does not mean that you are unemotional or cold. Instead you behave as if you know something that most people 

don't know or something that they shouldn't know. 

Make what is difficult seem easy. 
This again adds to the mystery of the operator. There are several ways that this can be done, one such way is guile 

like slight of hand or prestidigitation. One method using guile is to allude to an unforeseen incidence as if you did 

knew about it before hand but this should be done sparingly. Another such way to make the difficult seem easy is skill 

and experience and has the strongest impact. 

With this strong emphasis on mystery it does not mean that you act completely unaccessible. Instead, what you teach 

should be treated as a mystery. What you know is for few to discover and only those rare individuals who are ready can 

learn it. This will allow you to mix in any social circle, tease, laugh, flirt and cajole while the mystery of your 

knowledge and understanding follows you like compelling lover. 


Conviction
Conviction is a fairly simple concept. It means that you are certain of what you are doing and why you are doing it. 

Conviction means that you are so convinced that what you are doing it right, justified and good that it compels you 

act. Strong conviction will compel you so powerfully to face any opposition without fear or hesitation. Conviction 

will also cause you to ignore any personal fears or anxieties. 

With that as a definition of conviction ask yourself if there is anything you feel that strongly about? If there is 

the dive into it and use it as a resource. 

If you don't yet have something that motivates you to that level of conviction it's not too late. Think about the 

things that you love to do and be active in. remember times when committed yourself to do something simply because you 

knew it was right and felt good. 

If you ever want to watch two people empowered by their conviction speaking to the public just watch any old videos of 

Rev. Billy Graham or Adolf Hilter. Ignore the message  and  turn off the sound. Just watch them. Both are compelling 

speakers that are hard to ignore.  That is the level of conviction you might want to aspire. 

Focus

If you have a strong conviction that what you are doing is right. You won't need too much help to build your focus. 

But let's assume you have no idea what focus really is. 

First, your sense of focus is to be used and demonstrated whenever you are with someone who could be a prospect, 

recruit or initiate. When you are in their presence there should be nothing more than them on your mind. 

Your goal it create an experience for them (you're a guru remember?) that they are the most important person in the 

world to them at that moment in time. 

In order to do this let's take a look at how most of our lives are like. 

First, there is no secret to the fact that no matter who you are shit is going to happen. You are going to have to pay 

bill, feed your belly and think about where the next dollar is coming from... this is just a part of life. 

Your ability to focus and get what you want with a prospect, recruit or initiate can be directly effected by all of 

these things if you let them. Even if they never come up in conversation. If those distracting details are on your 

mind during a conversation you will not impact anyone to the degree that you could.  

What you have to do at those moment is intentionally put aside everything that could distract you from paying 

attention to that person. When you do that nothing else is important and it will affect them in a very powerful way. 


Winning no matter the outcome; The God Complex

The God Complex is my favorite subject and so I hope I do it justice. 

The God Complex has absolutely nothing to do with a growing sense of infallibility and megalomanical behaviors. 

What makes up the God Complex is really a perspective that is far more distant than your next outcome.  

Let's face it. With every goal you have a possibility of failure. That's just life. It does happen and it will happen. 

 

But if you incorporate any possible failure into your “big picture” and find a way so that you can benefit from it 

there will never be a disappointment or surprise. 

Most people “fail” only because they invest too much of themselves in their success so that when it falls short they 

are devastated. Some never recover. However if they realize failure is possible and incorporate it... should it happen 

all they do is continue on with their business. 

They have a bigger picture of themselves, Life, and their goals. 

The result is they are more flexible to respond to what life throws them. Nothing surprises them except 1) when 

someone truly “gets it” or 2) when someone who should get doesn't.  They are kinder to themselves and to the people 

around them because they feel in control no matter what the situation.


