Title: 
Hot Servings of Daily News

Word Count:
462

Summary:
Since its introduction newspaper printing has gone a long way. From the printing press used to the manner of gathering news significant advances has helped news delivery improve to a great level.


Keywords:
newspaper, printing, color, digital


Article Body:
Imagine getting tomorrow’s newspaper today. Sounds impossible and bizarre, right? But this has been the theme of one television show a few years back. Kind of a futuristic show that allows one man to know beforehand what will happen tomorrow, hence, he has the ability to stop an accident and change a person’s life forever. Funny how one paper can change the entire future.  

Newspapers have been around since the Roman Empire. The urge to inform the public of official developments and announcement gave way to the first newspaper in history. Until today, newspapers are used to inform, notify and even humor the public. Everyday thousands of newspapers are printed from all over the world. You can just imagine the hardwork and dedication that reporters, editors, photographers and printers put into producing one edition. They stay up all night gathering news, writing and editing them so that by the time you set your eyes on your breakfast, the morning paper is next to your coffee and bacon. But have you ever thought of how these newspapers get printed? How newspaper companies are able to effectively deliver the news crisp and fresh everyday? Well, you must have though of these questions just for a short time even in-between your sleep or perhaps even amid your fantasy of the curvaceous long-legged girl occupying the cubicle next to you.  

Since its introduction newspaper printing has gone a long way. From the printing press used to the manner of gathering news significant advances has helped news delivery improve to a great level. With the advancement in printing technology, newspaper printing has become much easier and faster. Publishers take advantage of these modern printing techniques to be able to achieve higher circulation and reach greater readers. 

The prime source of revenue for any newspaper is still advertising. Without enough paid advertising, the newspaper will stop to exist. Commercial newspaper publishers strive for greater circulation so that advertising in the newspaper are more effective, thus, allowing the newspaper to attract more advertisers. But some says that the future of newspapers is cloudy with the advent of the television and the Internet. Additionally, high-quality tabloids seem to have stolen the limelight from newspapers. This smaller and easier to hold sheets appear to have drawn younger readers who are otherwise abandoning newspapers.   

Nevertheless, the technology exists and the capability for producing a myriad of quality informative newspapers is just around the corner. As long as there are people who would prefer to read the news in ink and paper then the industry is far from dead. There will always be stories to tell and news to share, thus, newspaper printing will continue to prosper despite modern advancements. Who knows maybe you’ll start getting tomorrow’s newspaper today.


