Title: 
How to Make Money with the Reverse Funnel System?

Word Count:
335

Summary:
There’s not to much to this… the Reverse Funnel System makes you money, bottom line.  But it is a system, albeit a very profitable system, but a system to say the least.


Keywords:
Home Business, Marketing, Business, Work At Home


Article Body:
There’s not to much to this… the Reverse Funnel System makes you money, bottom line.  But it is a system, albeit a very profitable system, but a system to say the least.

That means the system needs you to drive traffic into the system.  Without a person manning it all the system will is just sit there.  But if you spend your time submitting articles, posting to blogs, spending time on myspace marketing, and everything out there that there is on the internet to drive traffic into your system then it becomes successful.

All the reverse funnel system is…is an automated sales process that closes people into your business for you automatically.  Ty Coughlin and the inner circle hired VERY expensive copy writers, and web conversion experts to design the system.  It is a brilliant system.

But you are the fuel that feeds the system.  Get out there, start working and start generating traffic and if takes two weeks, three weeks for the traffic to really start coming along, don’t get down on your self, think positively because if the traffic is there, the money is there.  The conversion rates with this system are mind blowing, because the system works.

You make money with the reverse funnel system by driving traffic to your copy of the system and the system does the rest.

I have had very good results in the reverse funnel system, but like I said before if your first two weeks produce nothing you don’t have to worry about it.  I didn’t sell a single paid survey let alone a full GRN membership.  But before the end of my first month I had almost 20,000 dollars in commissions and thus can only expect  this to expand in the future.

The system works when you work it.  If you’re out there marketing and driving traffic the system will be out there making you money.  And that’s the bottom line to making money with the Reverse Funnel System.


