Title: 
How can residents stall the dilapidation of their building ? - RealAcres.com

Word Count:
619

Summary:
How can residents stall the dilapidation of their building ?


The performance of our homes and buildings depends on how well we maintain them. A sign of deterioration (crack , corrosion, dampness etc) observed in a flat or in a building is called a ‘distress’. If we are watchful, we can take the necessary action needed to counter such distresses before they become worse.
    Today, we shall look at some commonly encountered types of distress so that you can recognize them when you come across them in your flat or your building.


Keywords:
realacres , india 


Article Body:
#Concrete and RCC:

These are predominantly used in the structural components of the building such as columns, beams and slabs. Any distress observed in such components may indicate loss of strength and therefore, call for ‘structural repair’. This is a common checklist in this category-

Cracks / hollowness / dampness in concrete

Spalling (local internal separation of concrete )

Falling of cover concrete (surface layer )

Corrosion of bars

Thinned / broken bars

Deflection / sagging of beam and slab

Sinking of column


#Walls and plaster:

Distress caused by seepage primarily spreads through walls. Watchful occupants can easily locate many from the following list of distress-

Dampness or seepage

Salty deposits / efflorescence

Fungus / plants growing on wall

Holes in walls

Termites

Separation cracks found at the junction of RCC and wall

Diagonal ( inclined) cracks near the junction of column & beam

Hollow / loose plaster

Local absence of plaster

Disintegration of mortar between bricks / blocks

Sinking of walls on ground floor


#Doors / Windows:

The checklist in this category commonly covers the following-

Decay / cracks and disintegration

Termites

Distortion of door / window frame

Absence of chajja for window

Cranky movement of sliding windows


#Flooring / skirting:

This is a common list in this category-

Cracks in tiles

Looseness / heaving of tiles

Growth of fungus

Rough surface ( excessive scrubbing )

Seepage through flooring joints

Sinking of flooring on ground floor


#Plumbing:

Distress in plumbing and drainage are closely related to the sources of seepage of water. Watchful occupants can easily locate many of the observations in the following list –

Cracks / loss of joints in the pipes causing leaks

Broken / absence of rainwater pipes

Absence of vent pipes for toilets

Pipes running too close to walls and accumulating laitance

Backflow from kitchen / toilet

Corroded water supply pipes 

Broken / uncovered chambers


#Toilets and kitchen:

Seepage though a toilet or kitchen above can be very annoying. Nevertheless, it is pretty common too. Many of the points mentioned above apply to this category also. Additionally, the following points may also be noted –

Leaking flush tank 

Rotting of door frames

Exposure of tile joints

Improper sealing of fixtures

Distress in RCC loft


#Waterproofing:

Bad quality of the terrace waterproofing system can cause considerable agony for the occupants of the top floor, year after year. Once seepage from terrace starts, it progressively becomes worse and locating the source of seepage can be extremely difficult.
In fact, the sources may be many. Local treatment may not prove to be effective and complete re-waterproofing is expensive. Members should, therefore, look for the early signs of the following points and take an early action on them-

Cracks on surface associated with hollowness

Excessive roughness of surface

Inadequate surface slope

Obstructions to flow of rainwater

Cracks / blocks at the   mouth of rainwater pipe 

Pipes running too close to parapet walls & accumulating laitance

Too few rainwater pipes for a zigzag shaped terrace

Improper watta / drip mould at the junction of slab and walls

No protective cover on the parapet wall

Water tank directly touching the slab.


#Miscellaneous:

Some of the other watch points are as follows-

Leaking water tanks 

Sagging lift room slabs

No paving or rough / cracked paving

Cracked / tilted compound wall

Broken RCC jail for staircase

Corroded electrical conduits

Non- functional fire fighting system

Rodents (rate) in premises


#Applications:

You can apply these watch points to the external and common areas ( building faces, stilts, staircase , terrace etc) as well as to apartments. In some cases you can even identify the cause of distress by proper correlation of your observations. Observations concerning structural distress and distress in the common areas should be brought to the notice of the Managine Committee of your Co-op. Housing Society and action on other observations should be taken by the members themselves. http://www.realacres.com


