Title: 
How To Increase The Chances A Prospect Contacts You By 50%

Word Count:
365

Summary:
Do You Really Need a Toll-Free Number for Your Business? The answer is YES! If you run a home business, whether it's a direct sales business, a part-time venture, or if you work full-time from home, if you don't have a toll-free number, you could be leaving money on the table. 

Studies show that a potential client is 50% more likely to contact a business who has a toll-free number. Marketing via the internet draws potential clients from all over the globe. That's what make...


Keywords:
home business, home based business, increase sales, internet marketing


Article Body:
Do You Really Need a Toll-Free Number for Your Business? The answer is YES! If you run a home business, whether it's a direct sales business, a part-time venture, or if you work full-time from home, if you don't have a toll-free number, you could be leaving money on the table. 

Studies show that a potential client is 50% more likely to contact a business who has a toll-free number. Marketing via the internet draws potential clients from all over the globe. That's what makes the internet such a powerful money-making vessel. 

A lot of businesses just starting out try to cut corners and may assume that a toll-free number is too expensive. This could not be farther from the truth. These days, you don't have to spend a fortune for toll-free service. 

When I started my business, I found out about a very reasonable toll-free service provider called Kall8. With Kall8, there is only a $2.00 set up fee. You get to choose your phone number from a list of available numbers. Once you do this, there is a low $2.00/month base charge and 6.9 cents per minute. You will have instant access and can set up your account the way you want. They offer tons of services such as: 

Instant Activation 

Secure Web Account Management 

Detailed Call Reporting 

Interactive Voice Response 

Custom Call Routing 

Voicemail 

Caller ID 

Conferencing 

Inbound Fax 

These are only a few of the many features included in the flat $2.00/month fee. With the custom call routing feature, I have my calls set up to go directly to my cell phone so that I can still receive my business calls while I am away from home. When my cell phone rings, I know it's a business call because it will show my toll free number, then I can answer it in a professional way. I have been using Kall8 for over 2 years and never had a problem with their service. Their competitors charge 5 times more for less calling features. 

Direct sales representatives, work at home moms, new and experienced internet entrepreneurs can take their business to new heights with toll-free service. Couldn't your business use a boost?


