Title: 
How To Accept Credit Card Sales

Word Count:
527

Summary:
No matter how long you’ve been in business, you may not be sure about how to accept credit card sales from your clients. Perhaps you long to start processing credit payments so you can increase the amount of your sales revenue or offer your clients more payment transactions. Maybe you’re just tired of chasing bad checks or waiting for monthly payments on client accounts. If you’re ready to add credit card processing to your line of customer services, a merchant services accou...


Keywords:
How to Accept Credit Card Sales


Article Body:
No matter how long you’ve been in business, you may not be sure about how to accept credit card sales from your clients. Perhaps you long to start processing credit payments so you can increase the amount of your sales revenue or offer your clients more payment transactions. Maybe you’re just tired of chasing bad checks or waiting for monthly payments on client accounts. If you’re ready to add credit card processing to your line of customer services, a merchant services account may be just what you need. 

A merchant account associate can show you how to accept credit card sales by using the right type of processing equipment. By signing up for a merchant account, you will soon find out if you’re approved, and upon approval, you can start using your account to implement a credit processing system for just about any type of business you’re in. A simple credit card terminal equipped with a printer can be plugged into an outlet at your store or shop to let your customers quickly swipe credit cards for easy payments on the purchases they make. Your merchant account underwriter will charge a certain amount for each transaction, or you might be able to opt for a low percentage rate on your monthly credit payment volume. If you’re in a window washing or another service business, or if you deliver items like baked goodies, you can lease or buy a wireless credit card processor to take with you in your travels for point-of-sale credit card payments. 

How soon can a merchant account let you know how to accept credit card sales? The first thing to do is find a bank or another financial backer who will provide this type of account for your business. Then apply for your company account by filling out an online application or by completing and mailing a printed form. Some banks may charge an application fee of $100 or more, so find out ahead of time if you will need to pay this fee, and if so, you might want to consider shopping for another account provider. Also check into the costs associated with a particular merchant account so you can find the best deal, as these can carry several types of fees, some of which may at first appear to be hidden. When your account is approved, you can immediately get set up with the right equipment to handle credit card payments, e-checks, and debit payments as well. You may even want to consider setting up a digital processing system so your customers can dial a toll-free number, browse products online or from a print catalogue they have already received, and punch in their orders as well as a credit card number and expiration date for payment. You don’t even have to hire someone to staff the phone line, although it is probably a good idea to have someone available for a few hours during a typical business day. 

Ask your bank or another financial lender to tell you more about the ways in which a merchant account can show you how to accept credit card sales.


