Title: 
Industrial Safety

Word Count:
562

Summary:
This article discusses safety issues regarding industrial companies and ways to ensure the safety of individuals working in these areas. Safety equipment and safety wear are also discussed.


Keywords:
industrial, industrial safety, automobile industry


Article Body:
Industrial safety is important for all employees on a daily basis and working in an area without safety awareness may result in serious bodily harm or possibly even death. Industrial safety is a key factor in running a company and there are many aspects to consider when providing overall safety for your employees. You must ensure that employees have special equipment and procedures to ensure eye safety, ear safety, head protection, fire prevention and respiratory protection. Here are ways to ensure you (or your employees) are protected in each of these areas.

Eye Safety - Any injury to the eye can be very serious and possibly cause permanent eye damage to the victim. It is important to make sure your eyes are covered at all times by wearing goggles or other forms of eyewear. Make sure the goggles you are wearing provide protection around the sides of your eyes as well, otherwise flying debris may come in through the side and puncture your eye.

Ear Safety - Ear safety is important because without it, our ear drums would be severely damaged from the loud noises constantly occurring in the workplace. Ear plugs and ear muffs are the most common forms of ear protection, however there are other alternatives as well, such as disposable hearing bands. By wearing these pieces of equipment, you are not only protecting yourself from loud noises, but also from flying debris which may enter the ear and possibly cause infection.

Head Protection - Protecting your head is easy and can end up saving you a lot of pain if an unwanted situation does occur. Wearing protective head gear can be as simple as putting on a helmet or hard hat before entering a location where there may be falling objects. Head injuries may result in brain damage, but you can significantly decrease the chance of serious injury by wearing head protection.

Fire Prevention - Working in an industrial area means that there is always a possibility that a fire may occur. If a situation like this arises, you will want to be prepared and the best way to do so is by having a fire extinguisher on hand at all tomes. Fire extinguishers are the best way to eliminate or control fires until the fire department arrives.

Respiratory Protection - Working in an area in which the air is constantly filled with pollutants can be dangerous and may ultimately result in serious respiratory problems for individuals working in these areas. A simple way to protect yourself from poor air quality is to wear a respiratory mask when working in these areas. Wearing a face mask can greatly decrease your chances of suffering from respiratory problems in the future.

Other Safety Wear - Other forms of safety wear which are critical in industrial areas include work boots and gloves. These are important in areas which you will have hands-on contact with dangerous equipment or areas where you may possibly drop the equipment onto your feet. 

It is important to research and follow all safety rules when working in an industrial area. Everything can change in a split second and you want to ensure you are as prepared as possible for any situation which may arise.
 
Sentence Summary: This article discusses safety issues regarding industrial companies and ways to ensure the safety of individuals working in these areas. Safety equipment and safety wear are also discussed.


