Title: 
Internet Marketer Gets $87 Million in Google Pay-Per-Click Ads FREE!

Word Count:
761

Summary:
Internet Marketer Gets $87 Million in
Google Pay-Per-Click Ads FREE! ... And
Makes Over $314 Million as a Result! ...
And Now He's Going to Give You This
Same Secret for Next to Nothing!"
Everyday Google sells several $10 million’s in pay-per-clicks. But 
I get all mine absolutely FREE – and now I am going to show you 
how to get yours FREE also!”

That’s right – Start Sharing in the *Incredible* Secret So Few Others Know About that Allow Them to Actually Get All Their Pay-Per-Click Advertising Absolutely FREE!
http://www.autohitsmachine.biz


Keywords:
earn money,home business,online business,make money,work from home


Article Body:
Internet Marketer Gets $87 Million in
Google Pay-Per-Click Ads FREE! ... And
Makes Over $314 Million as a Result! ...
And Now He's Going to Give You This
Same Secret for Next to Nothing!"

 



 

“Everyday Google sells several $10 million’s in pay-per-clicks. But 
I get all mine absolutely FREE – and now I am going to show you 
how to get yours FREE also!”

That’s right – Start Sharing in the *Incredible* Secret So Few Others Know About that Allow Them to Actually Get All Their Pay-Per-Click Advertising Absolutely FREE!

Fast facts about this amazing NEW SECRET!... 

This is an incredible system developed by none other than Dr Jon Cohen, MD (retired) who found a little-known “twist” in how to use the pay-per-click (PPC) and paid-for targeted advertising programs at Google™ and the other search engines. 

Dr Jon has personally used this to:

Eliminate over $87 million in otherwise paid-for and PPC ads at Google™ and other search engines over the course of about 9 years now! 
Generate over $314 million in product sales as a result of this incredible savings! 
Acquire a personal wealth of more than $68 million! (Net) 
Start and develop 16 online ventures of his own. 
Has coached “live” where he taught others this same amazing formula - including 198 executives from major Fortune 500 and FortuneSM 1000 companies, 14 representatives of publicly-traded companies on the New York Stock ExchangeSM (NYSE), 82 more on the NASDAQ®, 5 members of investment houses on the American Stock ExchangeSM (AMEX), as well as at least one former US Congressman (now retired also) who now stays at home and runs a home-based online family business, among countless others. 
This system has nothing to do with Google “vouchers” or “AdWords™ credits.”

Also, it has nothing to do with adding any special magical “code” or “script” to your website that will bar Google and other search engines from being able to bill you.

Instead, Dr Jon’s system is very unique to say the least, and allows for the elimination of advertisers having to suffer the burden of costs of their Google and otherwise paid-for search engine advertising expenses!

It can even create many additional streams of income flooding money directly into your pocket very quickly!

Above all, it’s unlike anything you’ve ever seen!... 



Wednesday, 9:35 a.m.

Dear Friend,

I hope you hate spending money on all your Google™ pay-per-click advertising, because if you do you’re in luck!

Finally, after many years of getting ALL my PPCs at Google, Yahoo, MSN and literally 100’s of other TOP Search Engines for FREE, I’m finally ready to let YOU in on “MY” most closely-guarded secret! 

The FACT is: I’ve been advertising on Google (the world’s TOP search engine!) as well as on Yahoo, MSN and literally 100’s of others WITHOUT spending any money!

        >>  I’ve literally enjoyed over $12 million a 
                           year in Google advertising alone (but all 
                           absolutely FREE!)

And BEST of all, I’m NOT lying (I really do get literally $millions$ in FREE advertising each & every year at ALL the TOP Search Engines!)

And *MY* secret has made me very, very, AMAZINGLY RICH!

But the ironic thing is: It wouldn’t surprise me 
if you’ve never even heard of me!

… and I don’t really care either.

I’m not one of the more popular well-known Internet gurus who loves rubbing his name in your face over and over again! (I mean, who cares who they are, or who I am? -- We are all just people regardless of how well-known or rich we become, right?)

I have personally owned and operated 16 different Web-Businesses over the last 9 years (since the mid-1990’s) and have sold EVERYTHING you can imagine!

Yes, I’ve even done the whole “eBay” thing!

I’ve now built well over a dozen Internet-based firms that specialize in selling everything from women’s cosmetics, men & women’s clothing, electronic publishing (i.e., ebooks), hardcopy publishing (real “tangible” books), special industrial machinery, building supplies, pet food & pet supplies/toys, children & adult games, DVDs/CDs, Subscriptions, all the way to Memberships Sites (with recurring billing!)

Plus a lot of other things too!

And in selling all these things with all these Web-businesses I’ve owned, I’ve NEVER paid for any advertising whatsoever!

       >>  I learned an amazing secret very early on 
           that allows me to advertise on TOP Search 
           Engines, but WITHOUT spending any money on 
           pay-per-clicks!

You see, the BEST part of having my secret in YOUR possession is this: You NEVER have to worry how expensive all your PPC-advertising is because quite simply, IT DOESN’T MATTER!
http://www.autohitsmachine.biz


