Title: 
Joint Ventures in Real Estate

Word Count:
520

Summary:
Many real estate success stories happen in joint ventures.  Joint ventures are two or more people partnering up to invest in properties.  Joint ventures in real estate can offer you the ability to obtain properties you once thought were not in your budget.  Joint ventures also give you many different investing view points from other investors.


Keywords:
joint venture, residential joint ventures, joint venture agreements, joint ventures, joint venture companies, real estate joint ventures, jv


Article Body:
How many times have you heard the story about the guy who just lost his job, had no money, and his credit history was shot?  Yet somehow he made fortunes by investing in real estate.  Believe it or not this can happen.  Many success stories happen because of join ventures in real estate.

The concept is not new.  It is simply a matter of using someone else's money for profit.  There are many people who are very interested in becoming real estate investors; however they do not know the first thing about the real estate market. This is where someone like the guy mentioned above can profit.

If you have a keen sense of real estate and finance and know what would make a good investment, but have no cash flow, then you are a good candidate for a joint venture in real estate.  Your knowledge and someone else's money can generate a profitable venture for both of you.  It just takes some know how to get it all done.

There are many people who are willing to use their credit or finances to gain a profit in the real estate investment world.  You will need to find these people, either by soliciting in the local papers, on the Internet, or by forming a local real estate investment group.  This type of group is beneficial to everyone involved.

There are times when an investor has done nothing but buy and flip properties.  He or she knows nothing about renting the properties.  The typical investor also usually has one niche he or she sticks with.  Someone who buys strictly commercial properties may know nothing about residential and vice versa.  By forming a real estate investment group in your area, this knowledge from all the investors in the group can be shared.

This can also work to your advantage should you come across a property you may want to invest in but lack the information that comes with the type of property.  There may be another investor in the group who will want to form a joint venture with you in order to take advantage of the deal.  Many times there may be two or three investors who are willing to make the deal happen.  This is also a great way to break into commercial investing.  The more investors there are on a project the less out of pocket expense each one has. You may also find the odds slightly more in your favor with the lenders when you have a team of investors who want to purchase a large commercial property together as a joint venture.

Joint ventures in real estate can offer you the ability to obtain properties you once thought were not in your budget.  You can gain knowledge from seasoned investors or you can profit from a new investor who is willing to back you financially in a real estate deal.  The list is endless when it comes to the benefits of joint ventures in real estate.  By forming the real estate investment group in your area, you can open a whole new world of real estate investing.


