Title: 
Know Who Your Company Hires With A Background Employment Check

Word Count:
448

Summary:
In an age of rampant documentation puffery and legal complications in dealing with employees, it's more important than ever to know who you're hiring.  A basic background employment check can verify who the person you're considering hiring really is and if their credentials match up with the application and resume.


Keywords:
check background, background checks ,free background check ,background check criminal ,background checks free ,free criminal background check ,criminal background checks free ,absolutely free background checks


Article Body:
In an age of rampant documentation puffery and legal complications in dealing with employees, it's more important than ever to know who you're hiring.  A basic background employment check can verify who the person you're considering hiring really is and if their credentials match up with the application and resume.

Over the past few years pre-employment background checks have gained in importance for all employers no matter what the size.  This is especially true of employers who are halos defense contractors or work for some aspect of the government.  This would include security personnel at airports and even manufacturing people working on defense contracted parts for military equipment.  

Companies typically do the validation and background check internally or outsource it to an investigation service.  Either way brings a measure of due diligence that the company can relay on in the event that something negative should occur.  

Background checks are typically done following the guidelines and requirements of the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA). This places effective limits on how far back someone can legally check and required the consent of the job applicant.  

Companies are becoming much more aware of the problems disgruntled employees can have on the business.  Further, the experience and educational claims of some applicants have been shown to be false or puffed up to the point of being almost unbelievable.  Another reason for doing a more comprehensive background check is that lack of full disclosure from previous employers.  A persons previous employer may actually be glad to be rid of them but wouldn't be candid with you due to the possibility of being accused of any number of illegal statements by the applicant

Companies should therefore publicize and do background checks as a matter of policy on all applicants that are under consideration.  By making the policy of background checks public, it puts job seekers on notice and may act to deter the level of inaccurate information on resumes and applications.  

A standard employee background check verifies previous employment, social security number, education, personal references and military background if any, along with possibly driving and credit records. Along with this historical "credential check" a drug test administered by a local medical facility and paid for by the company may also be required.  The level of checking is dependant on the job requirements.  Security minded companies typically are much more careful about knowing who is being hired while others may only need a more cursory check.  Hiring for someone who will be driving company vehicles would need a closer check on driving records than an office worker.  Positions that entail financial access would naturally demand a careful check of credit references along with professional certifications.


