Title: 
Lake Cowichan Hotel - Cathy Youlden - Daryl Youlden - CQ enterprises Ltd

Word Count:
446

Summary:
Lake Cowichan BC riverfront accommodations. SCAMMER ALERT. Cathy Youlden and Daryl Youlden accommodations on lake cowichan riverfront. SCAMMER ALERT.


Keywords:
cathy youlden,daryl youlden,cq enterprises


Article Body:
If you are considering staying in beautiful Lake Cowichan in British Columbia avoid Accomodations on Lake Cowichan Riverfront. Myself and a travel companion just returned from a 3 day stay and were basically mortified at our experience. Firstly, let me explain that we chose Accomodations on Lake Cowichan Riverfront primarily because they are pet friendly and we have one medium sized dog we travel with. Although the pictures on the website look fantastic the accomodations are anything but. 

At first blush our room was extremely tiny and terribly filthy. There was a large iron burn on the rug and sheetrock dust everywhere, and oh, did I mention the overbearing smell of fresh latex paint! It was very apparent that the workers who had just renovated this unit were anything but qualified craftsmen. 

Accomodations on Lake Cowichan Riverfront is located right in the heart of downtown Lake Cowichan and run by a baby toting hippie woman and her creepy boyfriend that is evidently stoned on something through out the entire waking hours. 

When we first arrived to check in we were greeted by a poorly dressed hippy woman breast feeding a 3 year old child at the front desk, not that there is anything wrong with a woman breast feeding her child in public. But have some class! The grounds are poorly kept and there is no way you are going to relax on the 'wharf' as they call it. The river is very cold and the current is amazingly fast, swimming is definately a huge risk. The caretaker and her boyfriend can be located amidst wofting marijuana smoke clouds in a tent out back if you should require any assistance, but beware of their rotwiler / pitbull cross companion as he is very mean and running freely on the property. In fact he attacked our dog and others on more than one ocassion. 

We also had the displeasure of meeting 'Cathy' the owner of the complex during our stay. All I can say is that the accomodations reflect her compulsive, extremely odd behavior. Avoid talking with her unless you want to spend an hour listening to someone tell you how great they are and how they know everything about anything.

I could go on and on but I am sure by now you get the point. There are many very nice bed and breakfasts within walking distance that we discovered through another family staying at the hotel that are pet friendly also. Accomodations on Lake Cowichan Riverfront doesn't even deserve a star rating and certainly isn't worth your time or money. If you are planning a stay in Lake Cowichan avoid Accomodations on Lake Cowichan Riverfront like the plauge.


