Title: 
Legal Transcription

Word Count:
287

Summary:
Legal transcription services assist young or experienced attorneys to prepare for trials, documenting relevant facts and information pertaining to lawsuits, organizing and maintaining client files.


Keywords:
legal transcription, legal transcription service, legal transcription service


Article Body:
Legal transcription service is about preparing legal documents from written or dictated information. It is the conversion of the spoken word into a printable form, such as the proceeding of a court hearing. Here, the legal transcription service assist young or experienced attorneys to prepare for trials, documenting relevant facts and information pertaining to lawsuits, organizing and maintaining client files. The persons working for legal transcription service are trained and qualified in the entire range of legal branches, which include:

1. Court proceedings,
2. Licensed appeals,
3. Presentations,
4. Seminars and conferences,
5. Depositions, hearings, and judgments,
6. Evidence or legal argument.

The legal transcription service provides service to solicitors, firms, and attorneys. Legal transcription service includes both legal and paralegal services like transcribing letters, reports, and different types of correspondence that a solicitor firm handles in a day. The objective is accuracy, fast turnaround and quality reporting.

Legal transcription service should be reliable, prompt and cost effective which in turn will save the valuable time and money of lawyers, attorneys, and professionals. Legal transcription service should include:

1.	Competitive pricing
2.	Fast turnaround time
3.	Good accuracy
4.	Confidentiality

The primary responsibility of legal transcription service should be to provide cost-effective, timely response to transcription needs with a high quality finished documents. Clients should be assured of complete accuracy in content and spelling with editing and grammar correction.

Most importantly, legal transcription service should include a high level of confidentiality to assure the safety of sensitive information being held and processed with strict procedure and confidence.

As different areas of the country and different courts have slightly different formats, the legal transcription service should transcribe in all legal formats. For that, legal transcription service provider should be professional and expert in linguistic skills in specialized area.


