Title: 
Luggage Packing Tips for The Road Warrior

Word Count:
630

Summary:
Getting annoyed or paranoid about bags to be packed for the next retreat need not be a required part of your every holiday. Though it might seem repetitive, following certain tips in packing can make the errand quick, easy, and efficient!


Keywords:
golf travel case,callaway golf bags,golf club travel bag,cleveland golf bag,golf travel bag,golf travel bags


Article Body:
Getting annoyed or wary about bags to be packed for the next vacation need not be a mandatory part of your every holiday. Though it might seem tedious, following certain tips in packing can make the errand quick, easy, and efficient!

For a more effortless packing experience, remember:

1. Lists, lists, lists: All destinations require different things to be packed. Once the place is fixed, make a list of things you and the family will require. You might want to make separate list for every family member to prevent missing anything essential.

Lists expedite packing and help you fill up luggage claims in the event of lost bags! However, beware of too numerous lists. They could confuse you and make life difficult. Also, keep the final list in your hand baggage or wallet where you can refer to it in the event you need it.

2. bags type: On the surface it appears like an unnecessary discussion but could make a considerable impact on your holiday! Consider packing fragile crystal in soft-sided luggage, not a great idea, is it? If the trip is going to be a long and arduous one, perhaps a hard-sided luggage will be a better companion. Choose according to requirements not only on fashion dictates! When purchasing bags for a trip, look for in-built characteristics like:

a. hanger rods

b. Reverse-fold designs

c. Packing fixtures

d. extra pockets

e. Wetpacks

f. Retractable wheels

g. locks that do not dangle too much

f. Size that allows the luggage to be carried for its intended use. For instance, if it is a handbag then it should fit the flight overhead luggage location.

3. The business of packing: the quickest steps to packing are:

a. Clear a flat surface for packing and open your packing cases on it, one at a time.

b. Stack all the material to be packed next to the bag. Make separate stacks for separate bags.

c. Place heavy objects like shoes, toiletries, and hairdryers at the bottom of the case. You can call up the hotel you are staying over at to confirm if they provide things like hairdryers and avoid lugging too much.

d. Next, use wrinkle-free clothing like jeans and lingerie to cushion heavy items.

e. Now, start with the heavy clothing-suits and dresses. Keep the shoulders of the suits straight, next to the hinge of the bag. Fold clothes over each other to avoid creasing and wrinkling.

Fold all clothes on their natural creases to minimize the space they take. (Note: check with the hotel if they provide laundry service, if they do you can reduce the number of things you have to carry.)

4. Packing the hand baggage: It is imperative that you are equally or more cautious about what you carry on your person.

A checklist is given below:

a. your PASSPORT and TICKETS.

b. Wallet and identification like drivers license or other identification.

c. Insurance papers.

d. Travelers checks, money, and any other valuables.

e. Itinerary with confirmation numbers and required telephone numbers.

f. Your medication.

g. Film rolls that you can ask to be hand checked to avoid damaging them with x-rays! Its best practice to get the rolls developed wherever you are before traveling, even though it might be more pricey to do so but at least you are guaranteed that they are not getting spoilt!

Lastly, travel light. Coordinate outfits to avoid lugging too many clothes. Dont be too flashy so that you dont draw too much attention to yourself and your luggage. Mark off your luggage well to avoid it being mixed up and to make out it quickly on luggage conveyors.

Hello Traveler! Visit our site for fantastic golf travel destinations as well as golf travel case products to enable you to have a blast in style!


