Title: 
Make The Internet Your Personal Home Theatre

Word Count:
476

Summary:
A few years back, a simple visit to the theatre would not cost you much. But then, prices started to escalate and then came the concept of DVD rentals. Though DVD rentals were initially popular, their prices too started going through the roof.


Keywords:
A few years back, a simple visit to the theatre would not cost you much. But then, prices started to escalate and then came the concept of DVD rentals. Though DVD rentals were initially popular, their


Article Body:
A few years back, a simple visit to the theatre would not cost you much. But then, prices started to escalate and then came the concept of DVD rentals. Though DVD rentals were initially popular, their prices too started going through the roof. Many a time, I find myself yearning to go to the cinemas to watch that latest action flick. But unfortunately, it seems to burn a hole in my wallet more often than not and I am sure that I am not the only person who has experienced this. As a result of these factors, people are now turning towards the next most feasible solution to watch their favorite movies online.
The concept of online theatre has not yet materialized as a global phenomenon but is slowly catching up everywhere. People are realizing that watching movies online at the comfort of their homes is way better than paying a visit to the local theatre and is cheaper as well. Following this trend, many sites have sprung up what offer the latest episodes of all your favorite TV shows. This has tasted huge success as well. Apart from watching streaming movies online, another option is to use torrents. Using torrents enables you to download movies permanently on to your desktop. But there is downside to it. Torrents are often accompanied with spyware and other kinds of malware. Also, it eats up your disk space at a very fast rate and causes your computer to slow down enormously. So the next best option available at hand is to watch streaming movies online. 
Several sites have capitalized on this and have launched easy to use online services. You won’t have any trouble finding these sites as most of them are listed on Google. Though most of these sites are plagued by piracy problems, traffic is still at the peak. All your favorites and the latest releases, free, fast and at your fingertips. If you are impressed and want to join the millions who are already addicted to this service, then the question you must be asking yourself now is where to watch movies online.
There are several sites to do this. Some of the sites where you can watch movies are:
http://watch-movies-free.info
http://sidereel.com
http://watch-movies-online.net
Many of these sites might require you to do some form of registration but most of it is fast and free. Here, you can find most movies categorized based on the genre, release date and based on keywords. They also offer in-depth reviews on the movies as well as information on the actors. Anyways, all crap aside. These sites have made several heads turn towards them and yours might just be the next one. So if you are interested, stop reading this article at once and go ahead and watch all of your favorite movies online!


