Title: 
mnm

Word Count:
423

Summary:
mnm Composites Pvt. Ltd., is one of the leading manufacturer & supplier of different types of Adhesive Coated Products like EPDM Gaskets, Door window seals, Butyl Sealing Strips, Foam, Felt, Rubber Gasket, Adhesive Tapes , Acoustic foams , Glass Sperators.

We can develop any type of Foams or Gaskets to meet clients specific requirements.


Keywords:
Epdm Gaskets,Door Window Seals,Self Adhesive Foams,Butyl Sealing Strip,Acoustic Foams,Removable Pads,Glass Seperators,Tapes


Article Body:
EPDM Gaskets
A gasket having the profile of a mould for slush moulding articles of two or more colours such as simulated leather products or the like from materials chosen from thermoplastic, thermosetting and elastomeric resins in powder form, the profile being that along that line of the mould which defines on the moulded article the corresponding separation line between two different colours, the gasket being fixed to a separation wall which defines two separated half-spaces within the mould, in which gasket there being arranged a plurality of rigid material inserts in a predetermined distribution, each being independently controlled by an actuator device to enable the gasket to undergo expansion or retraction movements by operating the inserts.

Door Window Seals
A gasket having the profile of a mould for slush moulding articles of two or more colours such as simulated leather products or the like from materials chosen from thermoplastic, thermosetting and elastomeric resins in powder form, the profile being that along that line of the mould which defines on the moulded article the corresponding separation line between two different colours, the gasket being fixed to a separation wall which defines two separated half-spaces within the mould, in which gasket there being arranged a plurality of rigid material inserts in a predetermined distribution, each being independently controlled by an actuator device to enable the gasket to undergo expansion or retraction movements by operating the inserts.

SELF ADHESIVE FOAMS

Self Adhesive foam, in particular Foam, felt, rubber & fabrics for technical applications have undergone rapid expansions in the last decade and has established itself as a major raw material source for all industries. 

Butyl Sealing Strips
Sealant Non Woven: BUILDING INDUSTRY, The MNM 511 Butyl is an extruded butyl sealing strip covered with cellulose based non woven.

Removable protection Pads
Pads can be stuck on any rigid surface like glass/steel etc and can be removed without
leaving any residue. Solvent free adhesive ensures that painted surfaces are not damaged by the adhesive. Can be used to separate two sheets of glass during storage and transit. The peel strength of 400gms ensures that the pads do not fall of due to handling.

Glass Seperators
Pads can be stuck on any rigid surface like glass/steel etc and can be removed without
leaving any residue. Solvent free adhesive ensures that painted surfaces are not damaged by the adhesive. Can be used to separate two sheets of glass during storage and transit. The peel strength of 400gms ensures that the pads do not fall of due to handling.


