Title: 
Online Temptation Blocker

Word Count:
546

Summary:
In a business context, computers and Internet access represent the ultimate double-edged sword that requires discipline and self-control when it comes to the endless possibilities of how to spend your time.  Now, for all of us who fall into the category of needing a tad more will-power to stay on task, help arrives in the form of a free software app for PC called "Temptation Blocker."


Keywords:
safe surfing, efficiency, temptation blocker review


Article Body:
Copyright 2006 Jim Edwards

One of the best things about doing business online involves the fact that with a computer and Internet connection you can do just about anything you want.

One of the worst things about doing business online involves the fact that with a computer and Internet connection you can do just about anything you want.

In a business context, computers and Internet access represent the ultimate double-edged sword that requires discipline and self-control when it comes to the endless possibilities of how to spend your time.

Now, for all of us who fall into the category of needing a tad more will-power to stay on task, help arrives in the form of a free software app for PC called "Temptation Blocker."

Originally developed to help the software's author avoid playing "Half Life 2" (a great game, by the way) while under pressure to meet a critical deadline for his work, "Temptation Blocker" operates with a very simple purpose.

He knew that if he could just let the sane part of himself set limits, he would head off the game playing in moments of weakness later on during the day.

Now, for the rest of us who need a little help avoiding temptation throughout the day, we can use this same program in a variety of ways.

The software comes free of charge for PC users (sorry, no MAC version at this time) by logging on to http://thenetreporter.com/temptation-blocker.html

Download the software and follow the simple installation steps and then restart your computer.

Once the software installs, you start it up and see a list of the programs in your computer's Start Menu.

You can check off the ones you want to block, tell it how long to block them, and then get to work.

If you ever give in to temptation and try to start the blocked programs, a dialogue box pops up telling you how much longer until the programs are available again.

If the program you wish to block doesn't show up in the list, you can browse for it and add it to the program list.

If it lists programs you know you'll never want to block, you can right mouse click them and remove them individually from the list.

You can then create profiles to block specific programs based on the job you need to get done.

* The Email Addict *

I admit it: I'm addicted to email.

I've developed a compulsion to click the "Send/Receive" button on my Mail Washer software at least every 5-10 minutes throughout the day.

Not only does it distract me to run down at least a half- dozen rabbit-holes daily, but it also adds greatly to my overall stress level.

By blocking access to my email program, I'm actually weaning myself out of the habit of constantly checking email every few minutes and reclaiming valuable time.

* Get Work Done! *

No matter what deadline you face, by blocking those programs which tempt you to sidetrack and waste time, you'll actually get more time to enjoy them!

Instead of fragmenting your time into inefficient bits, you can concentrate on one task at a time, get it completed, and then do whatever you want with the extra free time - and do it with a guilt-free conscience.


