Title: 
Open Virtual Offices In NYC, London And Paris For 10k A Year - For All 3

Word Count:
345

Summary:
Expanding your business can be very expensive.

Even if you are only expanding to another city, you will need to find and rent offices. You will also need to find, interview and employ staff. With staff come all the associated costs of providing facilities for them, from restrooms to canteens. You will need to lease vehicles for your staff and cope with absences for illness and holidays.

Expanding to another country is ten times more expensive because you have to employ ...


Keywords:
virtual office, virtual assistant, answering service, virtual presence


Article Body:
Expanding your business can be very expensive.

Even if you are only expanding to another city, you will need to find and rent offices. You will also need to find, interview and employ staff. With staff come all the associated costs of providing facilities for them, from restrooms to canteens. You will need to lease vehicles for your staff and cope with absences for illness and holidays.

Expanding to another country is ten times more expensive because you have to employ local agents to perform all the tasks above. You will need to open foreign bank accounts, pay local taxes and employ foreign accountants. Check out http://www.international-virtual-office.info

Nowadays there is an alternative to having an office in every major country, costing 100K a year as a minimum. You can have a virtual office costing 1K a year in each country.

A virtual office package can include phone answering, signing for mail, a prestigious local postal address (with mail forwarding), cell phone forwarding, fax-to-email services and more.

The only way to have a presence in e.g. UK or Canada used to be to open expensive office premises in London, Ottawa or another major city. The premises required workers who needed paying. Rent, fuel and local taxes all added to the exorbitant cost of maintaining a presence in a country.

Now a virtual office gives you all the advantages of having a local presence, at only a tiny fraction of the cost.

You can also find a Virtual Assistant (VA) who is trained to respond to phone calls as though employed in your local office. This person can maintain your diary, answer emails and post, as though you were answering it yourself. Another massive savings is on employing a personal assistant in every country. Your VA answers the phone in a local accent, and gives you a really credible local presence that will help you increase your local sales.

Virtual Offices and Virtual Assistants make it possible for any business to maintain a presence in every single country or state they market to.


