Title: 
Paid Surveys – Outline and Review

Word Count:
618

Summary:
This Article is a review of paid surveys.


Keywords:
Paid Surveys, Surveys, cash surveys, how to make money surveys, online surveys, money making surveys, surveys making money, surveys online


Article Body:
There are many companies searching for people to get their opinions to help improve on products and services.

A survey is a means to gather opinions and receive more information about a certain product, service or just basic information about a group of people. For example, a company can conduct a survey to gain a better profile of their customers - their gender, age, occupation, incomes and so on. Most surveys take from 5 to 15 minuets to take.

Another example is the common surveys for usability of certain products - in this case, customers are asked questions about the product that will help the company to improve it.

Government &amp; Agencies…

In certain occasions, the government or another agency will perform a survey in order to receive the opinion of the nation about specific question. Surveys can also be performed by statistic agencies to gather statistic data (when there are elections coming for example).

A common way of gathering people's opinion nowadays is the paid survey. In this case, people are paid to participate in a survey. The company who needs the information can conduct a paid survey or a third party that is doing it on behalf of different companies can conduct it.

Paid surveys can bring you extra income. Payments vary among different surveys - you can be paid from $10 to $200 for completing a single survey, or participating in an online focus group. In general, the remuneration depends on the survey type and its length. If we assume you complete five paid surveys per month of an average of $50 you can see that you have made $250 quite easily.

Well, if you're like me, it sounds interesting and tempting so far. Now you are asking yourself, how do I get into this paid surveys thing?

The quickest and easiest way is to search the internet. You will quickly find hundreds of web sites offering paid surveys. However, do not jump at the first offer. Check each site carefully to see if it is genuine. Unfortunately, there are many fake companies offering paid surveys and later you may discover that there are no payments at all.

You should first look if the site looks credible, if it shows a contact address and phone number, are there testimonials from other people participating in their program. Some sites may ask you to pay a set up fee upon registration. It is an application fee for your enrolment in the site's database. It may sound fair enough for you however, this is the easiest way to be fooled - they can just take the money and forget about sending you surveys.

Find discussion groups or forums dedicated to paid surveys - you will not only find the best sites for paid surveys but you will see peoples recommendations and suggestions about how to make the most out of this opportunity.

Finally be very careful to whom you are disclosing your personal information. While some paid surveys are genuine and conducted with research purposes, others might be used for unsolicited mail shots or email spam. Call the web site and ask for explanation to see what kind of personal information you will have to give them and how it will be used. This is always a good idea before you commit yourself.

I will be posting several reviews over the next few months on various sites. Come back from time to time and check. You can find a link at the top of this site for a paid survey site that has had proven success.

Feel free to visit all of my sites <a href="http://paid-surveys.free-info-review.com" title="Paid Surveys">Paid Surveys</a> and <a href="http://online-surveys.free-info-review.com" title="Online Surveys">Online Surveys</a>


