Title: 
Quality MLM Leads – How To Generate Responsive MLM Leads 101

Word Count:
982

Summary:
Information on achieving higher conversion or more MLM Leads, your MLM, Network Marketing and Home Based Business Opportunity.


Keywords:
mlm leads, network marketing leads, mlm, leads,


Article Body:
Copyright 2006 Fionnuala Downhill

So, you have a website open to the public, now what?

Basically your general premise for having a website is simple: to provide prospects with information in order to answer their unanswered or spur of the moment questions relating to your business. Your message to your visitors should express, “this is why you want to do business with our company”.

The basic allure of shopping or doing research online is that a prospect will not have to talk to anyone to get the information they are after. It is a fieldtrip so to speak, they can look and not touch, go where they are told and not ask any questions until the end of the tour. Your visitors (like kids on a field trip) are on your site because of some simple curiosity that has led them to your site. You are their tour guide. They expect you to know where you want them to go and show them everything they want to see. Every click from a visitor on your site is an unspoken question looking for an answer. These clicks represent an opportunity for you (the tour guide) to answer it correctly leading your visitors to the light at the end of the tunnel. So, visitors better get what they want as quickly as possible or they’ll click their back button and look for another tour guide.

When the usability and content of your website convinces a visitor that your information is valuable to them; they give you something of value in return. They give you their valuable information by becoming a lead.

Let’s get one thing straight, it doesn’t matter if your website has a simple or complex sales process. The nature of any website in the context of this article is irrelevant as the underlying objective of any website is plain and simple, it is persuasion.

You may or may not have heard of “reverse marketing”.  So, what is reverse marketing”?

Reverse marketing is a customer centric approach of going backwards in the whole evolution from prospect to lead, lead to customer and customer to repeat customer. In order to go backwards in the process, ask yourself these questions: who, what and how?

Who do I need to convince? What am I convincing my visitors to do?

When the objective of your site is generating leads, you want to convince your visitors to fill in a contact form for more information, register to download a white paper or demo, register for special offers, opt in to a newsletter or e-mail list, or use “email a friend” to forward interesting content on your site to those they know with similar interests.

Now that your target audience has been developed, in this case, business seekers or business opportunity seekers which represent your “who” from above, and you have identified the action you want them to take, which is turn them into a lead. You will now need look at configuring an online experience that incorporates your answer to the third basic question:

How do I most effectively persuade my visitors?

Relevancy = More MLM Leads Conversions

Identify what really matters to your visitors. What motivates them to seek you out? What problems do you solve for them? Identify the benefits and value your products or services offer. Think in reverse (remember reverse marketing), what motivated you to sign up into this business. 8 times out of 10, the reason is the same for the rest of your prospects as it was for you.

You Want Qualified MLM Leads for Your Home Business, not overzealous money seeker leads.

So Hold the Hype and Industry Lingo Unless you’re speaking to a targeted group of people, who know your industry inside and out, do not get lost in translation. Your message needs to be clear; it always helps to state your message clearly for the largest audience possible. When speaking in industry lingo, your audience will more than likely think you are not interested in talking to them or persuading them. Create an FAQ or glossary on your site for industry lingo terms you can link to if you must use industry specific lingo. This will deliver your message without delivering your visitors to your competition. Don’t worry if you are uneasy about creating ad-copy or writing to capture an un-illusive audience, the marketing materials provided by your upline has been carefully orchestrated to persuade a large audience. Remember reverse marketing, what worked for you will work for your audience too.

Leave out the hype. People buy from people, not from super duper, cutting edge, one of a kind, solve all systems. Because people buy from people, don’t brag about yourself or tout how great you are and how much money you’ve earned. Your visitors are interested in finding out what you can do for them. In the process of finding this out, they will want to know who is speaking to them. Have you ever noticed how authors write a brief biography in the back of their book? You should do the same. However, on a webpage you will want to create an “about me” page where people who are interested can click there to read about your accomplishments. This shouldn’t read like a resume, but rather the ever popular interview question, “tell me about yourself.’ Talk about where you went to school, where you reside, your family, and what motivates you. Bring yourself to their level and earn their trust by answering their unanswered question of “who will I be dealing with?” Remember, people buy from people, so identifying with your audience is very important. This is enough for now to let you research further.

The next part of this two part series will include information on achieving higher conversion or more MLM Leads, your MLM, Network Marketing and Home Based Business Opportunity.


