Title: 
Rank High in Google with SEO Authority

Word Count:
281

Summary:
Search Engine Optimization techniques have changed recently because Google has made a change in their algorithm. The new emphasis is websites with "Authority." There are three, very powerful and totally free methods to get Authority for your website.


Keywords:
Affiliate Marketing, Networking, Internet Marketing, Make Money Online, SEO, make money at home


Article Body:
The new word in Search Engine Optimization is "Authority." Google has been making a shift in their algorithm over the last two years. Now they are emphasizing websites with Authority. What this means is that a web site is given Authority from other web sites and from Google itself. There are 3 ways to get Authority.

1. Web 2.0

Everyone knows about the Web 2.0 explosion. Socially oriented networking web sites (My Space, Facebook, etc), You Tube for video, blogging and social bookmarking web sites. Using these types of web sites is the newest way to increase the Authority Google gives to your website.

2. Links

One huge determining factor in Google page rank is the number of links from web sites with high Google page ranks. When these links are one way inbound links they give your website authority. This is a powerful statement that says your website is high quality and good enough for them to link to you. Link exchange can be useful as long as you are exchanging with websites that have high ranks with Google. The more, quality links your website has, the higher you page rank will become..

3. Content

Targeted content is essential. Know what your target market is looking for and provide the solution with your targeted key words and key word phrases. Your web site should consist of minimum 250 words of content that is continually being updated. Google will see your web site as a fresh resource for the keywords you are targeting. This will give you upper hand over many websites that allow their information to become irrelevant because they don't update on a regular basis. This will give your website Authority in the eyes of Google.


