Title: 
Social Networking service

Word Count:
510

Summary:
The internet has come about to be an effective marketing tool. The fact that more and more people are realizing that this global platform can be used effectively to widen their horizons is evident from the huge number of websites that are being created each day


Keywords:
social networking service,social networking site,social networking website,social networking sites,social networking,social bookmarking services,social bookmarking service, SEO, Page Rank, Advertising


Article Body:
The internet has come about to be an effective marketing tool. The fact that more and more people are realizing that this global platform can be used effectively to widen their horizons is evident from the huge number of websites that are being created each day. Advertising online brings forward a whole lot of opportunities which was otherwise unimaginable. Once the website is created the next step would definitely be increasing the traffic to the website so that the client base can be widened with more number of visitors. Trying to find new and more effective ways of getting traffic to the website has resulted in developing new concepts like social networking services. You can register with any of the popular social networking sites by opening an account and creating a profile. You must be an active member on the forums of the social networking website. This would bring about an interaction between you and like-minded people and once you have established yourself on the social networking site you would realize that it provides a great platform to market your products and services. 

Once you have established yourself on the social networking site , it would be a very productive platform to promote your business. Social networking not only gives you an opportunity to connect with like minded people but you can also simultaneously promote your business and increase the traffic to your website and thus make a positive impact on the profitability of your business.

All that you have to make sure is that your site is interesting for people to go back and visit again. The content of the site should be interesting and should not only be able to attract the attention of the visitor but also retain it. Regular updates would work in the favor of the site. SEO is another technique used for generating traffic to the site. People have content on the site that has a certain keyword density . This gets the site a high page rank in the search engines priority list thus, the site would get a lot more traffic which the search engine itself would divert based on the keyword searches.   

Social bookmarking services are another way of increasing traffic to the website thus, contributing to the profitability of the business. One has to register the website with a social bookmarking service . This would lead to the website being listed with the social bookmarking service and any person making a search here would be directed to your site. With social bookmarking sites being very popular , by registering with a social bookmarking site you can actually cash in on their popularity. 

With a little bit of effort and creativity the internet can be converted into a gold mine that would generate business for you on a regular basis. There are several social networking sites like Myspace, Tribe and the like. The secret to success lies in finding the right  social networking service. Once you know how to utilize the services on the web to generate traffic then there is absolutely no looking back.


