Title: 
Stainsafe

Word Count:
385

Summary:
Stain safe - In a time where we all strive to be faster, smarter, better, stronger, it's hard to simply come home, relax, and forget about the stresses of the day. Stainsafe is here to help you live on your furniture without worry.


Keywords:
Stainsafe, Stain safe, Furniture Clean, Furniture Service, Furniture Protection, Safestains.


Article Body:
Life is Stressful Enough

In a time where we all strive to be faster, smarter, better, stronger, it's hard to simply come home, relax, and forget about the stresses of the day. But what's worse is coming home to more stress. A large stain on your family room couch, a coffee stain on your favorite chair, a nasty scratch on the dinning room table. Who wants to deal with that after a long day of work? That's where we come in.

Our Offer

At Stainsafe we have been protecting furniture investments since 1985. We know not everyone can afford to buy new furniture every year, and sometimes your furniture has to last a lifetime. To help people better protect their furniture investment, Stainsafe has created Furniture Protection Programs.

In most cases, furniture is one of the largest investments you will ever make after a home and a car. To protect this important investment, Stainsafe offers Limited Product Protection Programs for your furniture. Rather than paying high out of pocket expenses for costly furniture repairs, when you have a Stainsafe Limited Product Protection Program, we give you the peace of mind that comes with knowing your investment is protected against most everyday stains.

New Furniture

Getting new furniture is always exciting! Furniture is an expression of your style, your way of life. From casual to formal, furniture sets the tone of all rooms in a home. Protecting you new investment may not be a main focus when purchasing your new furniture, but it should be.

When you purchase new furniture in conjunction with a Stainsafe Limited Product Protection Program, you are getting more than a piece of paperyou're getting a promise. If you accidentally damage your new furniture, we will do what we can, according to our warranty, to help you repair that furniture. We want you to take pride in the way your furniture looks in your home, and with our help, you always can.

Let Us Help You

Stainsafe is here to help you live on your furniture without worry. Accidents are going to happen! But with the Stainsafe Limited Product Protection Program, we can help you turn those glaring accidents into nothing but a distant memory.

This article is originally published here: <a href="http://www.stainsafe.net/" title=" Stainsafe " target="_blank">Stainsafe</a>


