Title: 
Start A Hauling/Shopping/Taxi Business

Word Count:
535

Summary:
Here is a simple business anyone with a van or SUV can perform: haul stuff for other people who don't have a way to do it themselves. 

You could move lawn mowers, bags of garden soil, playground equipment, Christmas trees, musical instruments, furniture, big dogs from the groomers-you get the idea. 

Starting this home business is easy. Make sure your vehicle is in good shape. Be sure your car insurance is up to date. You don't want any trouble if your vehicle should get...


Keywords:
home business, van, SUV, dog, children, Christmas, senior, car insurance, parent, furniture, money


Article Body:
Here is a simple business anyone with a van or SUV can perform: haul stuff for other people who don't have a way to do it themselves. 

You could move lawn mowers, bags of garden soil, playground equipment, Christmas trees, musical instruments, furniture, big dogs from the groomers-you get the idea. 

Starting this home business is easy. Make sure your vehicle is in good shape. Be sure your car insurance is up to date. You don't want any trouble if your vehicle should get into a fender-bender. 

Now, print up flyers advertising your business. Place the flyers in furniture stores, garden centers, grocery stores, laundromats, and wherever else you can find a bulletin board. College bulletin boards are prime hunting grounds for business. Also, place ads in your local newspaper. 

Once your business takes off your customers will soon be telling their friends, "Hey, I know a guy with a van who will haul it". Word of mouth is a priceless form of free advertising. 

How much you should charge for your service depends on what you're hauling and how far you have to haul it. You want to keep the price reasonable, or word will spread of your high prices and your customers will go elsewhere. Reasonable prices and friendly reliable service will build your hauling service fast. 

Here's another way to put your gas-guzzler to work: Start a grocery shopping service. 

Your customers would call or fax their grocery order to the supermarket. Your customer gives you the money to pay for the groceries. You go to the store and pick up the order for your client. 

The growing senior population would love this service. Make sure you place ads in the paper and flyers in supermarkets, laundromats, and senior citizen clubs. 

Here's one more way you can put your vehicle to work! If you have a safe driving record you could provide a taxi service for senior citizens and any latchkey kids who need to get to an after school activity. 

You could charge five or six dollars per trip. Give your frequent travelers a break by offering a free ride after a certain numbers of trips. 

It would be wise to provide the parents of any kids you transport proof you can be trusted. If the parents say it isn't necessary then insist they check out your driving record, car insurance, and whether or not you have a criminal record. You are protecting yourself by doing this. Bad things happen. You don't want to get caught in the crossfire. 

Make sure your vehicle is comfortable and clean for your travelers. Have a fully outfitted first aid kit, a primed fire hydrant, and a toolbox in your car. Accidents do happen, people, even to the safest of drivers. You need to consider the safety of your passengers so insist everyone buckle up. 

Prove to be a reliable and trustworthy taxi service and many other parents will soon have you shipping their kids to and from soccer practice. 

Hauling furniture, grocery shopping, and a taxi service. You use your vehicle to do these chores for yourself all the time. Start making money doing them for others!


