Title: 
Sweepstakes: You really can be a winner

Word Count:
474

Summary:
Anybody can win a sweepstakes. No special skills are required. Unlike a contest, you don't have to have a way with words, a knack for cooking, or any particular ability. In this article I'll show you how easy it is to get started with sweepstakes.


Keywords:
sweepstakes, contest, prizes, win prizes, sweeps, online sweepstakes


Article Body:
Anybody can win a sweepstakes. No special skills are required. Unlike a contest, you don't have to have a way with words, a knack for cooking, or any particular ability. In this article I'll show you how easy it is to get started with sweepstakes. 

Make no mistake about it, sweepstakes are games of luck. But you'd be amazed by how much you can improve your chances of winning them. Anybody can win a sweepstakes. No special skills are required. Unlike a contest, you don't have to have a way with words, a knack for cooking, or any particular ability.

I believe that entering sweepstakes and contests has been widely overlooked as a means of unwinding from the stresses and strains of everyday life. I find that sitting down in front of the television after a long day at the office, and taking a little time to fill our entry forms can be quite therapeutic. You should enjoy the process of entering sweepstakes and contests and not just its rewards. If you can do that, then you'll never be a loser. Your life will be enriched by spending your free time doing something you find truly entertaining.

Tips to help you win more.
Enter The Small Ones. Its natural to skip over the events with smaller prizes and go for the big ones. However, since they get fewer entries, the odds of winning the events with small prizes are better. A smaller prize might not be as appealing, but you’ll probably have a better chance of winning it.

Enter The Hard Ones. Some events require you to “jump through hoops” to enter. You may have to complete a survey, answer questions, or perform some other activity. Once again, fewer people will enter these types of events giving you much better odds. A few of the “hard ones” will also allow you to mail in your entries without performing any of their online tasks

How to get started.
First you need to find the sweepstakes and for that you can use one of the free sweepstakes directories like www.sweepswire.com or www.prizetune.com here you'll find new fresh sweepstakes everyday grouped in categories and entry type. Daily Sweepstakes, weekly sweepstakes, monthly sweepstakes and new sweepstakes.

Automated entry services, speed up winning.
If you would like to speed up your number of entries you can use a service like www.fastsweeper.com. Here you can enter hundreds of sweepstakes everyday with a single click. I have tested fastsweeper and it returned 4 wins in three months; $500 cash, Ipod, 3days/2nights vacation to Florida and a new laptop computer.

At this point, it's all up to you. The work isn't hard, and if you find it as relaxing and therapeutic as I do, then you can't go wrong. You're one step closer to winning already.


