Title: 
The Power of Action vs Luck

Word Count:
530

Summary:
This is something that I think we all probably neglect. We all have good intentions and want our business to succeed,but we all tend to find an excuse for not doing what we should, when we should.  I am as guilty of this as anyone.  Remember, there is no such thing in business as "LUCK".  All of the really "lucky" people


Keywords:
business, marketing, action


Article Body:
This is something that I think we all probably neglect. We all have good intentions and want our business to succeed,but we all tend to find an excuse for not doing what we should, when we should.  I am as guilty of this as anyone.  Remember, there is no such thing in business as "LUCK".  All of the really "lucky" people

I have met were successful in their business because they took action, not because they were lucky.  In other words, the harder they worked, the "luckier" they became.

The Power of Action is undoubtedly an extremely important part of realizing and utilizing the unlimited potential that has been made available to you. In the center of every being, whatever its form, the power of action is present. Joy is an emotion by which the body's power of action is increased or assisted. Make joy an integral part of your everyday life. Take a few minutes each day to do something that you enjoy doing. See the tremendous difference it makes to your ability to take action on the things you must do.

The vision of a "golden life" varies with each person. How essentially simple life is, and how we complicate it. Have you ever wondered how to make major changes in your life? Action assumes importance as you contemplate making changes. Most of what you have encountered in your life, so far, is the result of your beliefs. There are two great blessings in man's life, thoughts and action. To change your life you must start by changing your habits of thought. "Impossible" and "can't" must be removed from your thought processes. Science has proven that when you think you can do something that your mind will find a way to do it. Once the mind has found a way to accomplish what you desire, then action is required. Where there is action, there is life and creation. One of the turning points in your life will be when you discover the power of action, your power of action. Life has an amazing way of working out when you choose not to give up, but to harness your power of action.

Do you want to have a wildly successful business? For maximum effectiveness in life, love or business, it helps to have the right habits. Wisdom with the power of action is the true secret to wealth in life as an entrepreneur.

One of the laws of success is that the universe rewards those who take action. Action is the foundation of success. You are programming yourself for greatness and success when you take action on your goals and ideas. Acting on your goals will bring success into YOUR life. There can be no success without it.

Awaken your potential knowing that the power of action is within you. The power of action is just like dropping a stone into a pond. The ripples continue outward affecting everything around you. Education is great. Knowledge is great. Experience is great. Planning is great. Ideas are great. But the power of action is gigantic. Without it the rest is useless. You must take action to get what you want.


