Title: 
The Dangers Of Get Rich Quick Schemes -And Other Money Pits

Word Count:
552

Summary:
It is an understandable that millions of people have ambitions, desires or passing wishes to have their own business. Let's face it, countless millions of people are in jobs they do not really like, nor get any satisfaction from. Financially, they get by from to month to month, but cannot build up real wealth. It seems a constant strain to make ends meet; frustrations are commonplace because people have little control over their own lives, they have to live day to day in thei...


Keywords:
home business,get rich quick,scams,working at home,get rich quick scam,home biz,work at home


Article Body:
It is an understandable that millions of people have ambitions, desires or passing wishes to have their own business. Let's face it, countless millions of people are in jobs they do not really like, nor get any satisfaction from. Financially, they get by from to month to month, but cannot build up real wealth. It seems a constant strain to make ends meet; frustrations are commonplace because people have little control over their own lives, they have to live day to day in their employers' cage; frustrated like grounded eagles with their wings clipped. 

Maybe they are helping to make their employer rich, but what of themselves? Don't we all deserve the freedom, the riches, that the owners of successful businesses enjoy? 

What is easy to forget is that, usually, those business have been built with a lot of blood, sweat and tears. Running a business is very hard work; running a successful business is even harder. Those who have succeeded have usually had a vision, taken calculated risks, researched, worked long hours, and have learnt from inevitable setbacks and mistakes. They have learnt about their market sector, how to run a business, marketing, finance, and the law as it affects them in their business. Although what you may now see is a big business in glossy corporate offices, you can be sure it was originally built from hard graft. 

Aah, you may be thinking, that was before the internet. Anyone can do it now! Sorry to disappoint you, but having a successful internet business requires hard work too; it involves an awful lot of learning, maybe years of frustration, many a false dawn that will lift you to the sky and dump you back down on the nearest rock. 

Does all that put you off having your own business? Does that all seem too much like hard work? Do you want the benefits without the hassle? Do you resent the rewards of your bosses but turn your nose up at the thought of hard work? If you answer eyes to any of those questions, then you are prime fodder for the Get Rich Quick Schemes : 

Welcome To The Internet Danger Zone 

Once you start turning your attention to earning money online, you will soon be bombarded with hundreds, thousands, of "opportunities". You will see promises of millions of dollars, doubling your money every few days, turning $1000 into a $1000000 in just a couple of years; promises of thousands of people paying you $20 into your Paypal account for the rest of your life; instant businesses with no work, as someone else will be doing the work for you. 

Now, stop and think about it. Be honest with yourself. How realistic are all of those claims? While each of them is possible, how sustainable are they really? 

Many newcomers to the world of internet business are wary of scams, and that is good. There are scams around; many of them. But the biggest danger is not deliberate scams, but bad management. The fact is it is easy to set up a business online, which encourages people to do so who have no idea how to run a business, plan for business success, manage finances etc.

This get rich quick article was written by Roy Thomsitt, owner author of the Change Direction website.


