Title: 
The most popular search engine today for finding information about different companies

Word Count:
463

Summary:
Finally there is a one shop stop for all business related inquiries. On B2Bcompass people can find thousands of listings of companies worldwide providing top notch products and services.


Keywords:
b2b, business to business, search engine, company data, export, import


Article Body:
"If anyone today has a general enquiry about business or enquiry about a specific product or service then B2BCompass proves to be the best site for all business requirements. No matter in which part of the world people stay, they can find a company which caters to their exact requirements. People can search for companies located in their cities or even companies that are located in different cities in their own country or cities across the world. 
 
To make search easier, the site is divided into different categories according to the nature of business that the companies undertake. For example, there is the Art, Gallery and Advertisement section where people can find online art galleries from where they can buy paintings. The other sections include health and medical companies for any health enquiries, automobiles for all auto companies, beauty companies for beauty products, etc. Hence people can easily find their way around the site. Information about each company is provided in detail so that the customer can directly get in touch with the respected companies by calling or mailing them.         

There are many customers who would like to browse the companies according to the products and services that they offer. B2BCompass has a provision where you can look out for a specific product by browsing through the alphabetical list of products in the products & services section. Hence if someone is looking out to computers, he can simply go to the “C” section of the products and categories section and find out exactly what he is looking for in double quick time. In case a person is looking for a particular company like Arena Animation he can simply visit the Companies section where all the companies are categorized alphabetically. The customer can simply visit the A section in order to find a company by the name of Arena Animation. 

The best part of B2BCompass is its powerful search feature where one can simply enter the company or the product that one is looking for in the search text box and then also specify the region where he wants to look for. The online directory will quickly search its database and display results that match the user’s query. One can simply register one’s own company or product at B2BCompass so that people can become aware of it and then simply ask for more information about the product or the company. As a result people can come to know about the company in there area and can also become regular patrons of the company.   

B2BCompass has a very user friendly homepage where people can simply find what they are looking for in just a couple of minutes. This saves people a lot of time and effort in the bargain.    "


