Title: 
The Most Incredible Residual Income Ever

Word Count:
665

Summary:
Residual income is the holy grail of income streams. You stop working, but you keep getting paid. Sweet!

But the truth is, most people turn away from the more common vehicles for residual income. For example, MLM (Multi-Level Marketing) is a very common vehicle today that CLAIMS you can earn a residual income. The fact is, the claims are true, you CAN get paid a residual income. But you might not, in fact you will probably never earn anything in MLM, that's just the number...


Keywords:
dispensing, POC dispensing, point of care dispensing, physician dispensing, doctor dispensing


Article Body:
Residual income is the holy grail of income streams. You stop working, but you keep getting paid. Sweet!

But the truth is, most people turn away from the more common vehicles for residual income. For example, MLM (Multi-Level Marketing) is a very common vehicle today that CLAIMS you can earn a residual income. The fact is, the claims are true, you CAN get paid a residual income. But you might not, in fact you will probably never earn anything in MLM, that's just the numbers. If you listen to all the hype out there, you would think all you had to do was sign up and you could be rich! Don't we all wish that were true!

What about investments, that's residual, right? Of course it is. You worked to earn the cash, now make that cash work for you. There is the stock market, forex and commodities markets, and other more riskier investment opportunities. The problem with these types of residual incomes is the knowledge they require to make it work for you, and the sometimes large amount of cash required to get started. With investing, the potential for gain is high, but for anything other than the most conservative investments, the potential for loss is equally as high. Be very careful if you decide to invest, talk to experts!

So what is left? There are other less familiar residual income streams, you might even be thinking of one as you read this, but I have learned about one in particular that you just MUST hear about right now! It is called Point of Care (POC) Dispensing by Physicians. Let me tell you, this is so incredibly hot right now, I can't believe it is even legal!

So, you've never heard of POC Dispensing by Physicians? Don't worry, a lot of Physicians have never heard about this either. And honestly, I am amazed by this fact. Anyway, back to what this is, POC Dispensing. Actually, it is very simple, rather than a Doctor writing a prescription to give to a patient who then takes that prescription to a pharmacy, the Doctor simply dispenses that very same medicine to their patient right there in the Doctor's office. Rather than the patient paying the Pharmacy for those medicines, they pay the Physician's office roughly the same price, sometimes even a little less. 

This sounds a little boring, so what, the patient gets their medicine from the Physician's office now, big deal, right? WRONG! Now the Doctor makes the profit on that medicine rather than the Pharmacy down the street, and this profit can be significant, between $20,000 to $40,000 a year for the average Physician.

So what does this have to do with residual income streams? Until now, nothing at all. You see, there are many repackagers of medicines that sell this opportunity to Physicians. But they traditionally do so with a salaried sales force. They employ you, pay you for your time, and that is it, just another job, really. But that is all changing now. For the first time, repackagers of medicines are beginning to allow ISO's (Independent Sales Organizations) to work with them in hiring a sub-contractor sales force. This is where this gets incredible!

As a sub contractor with an ISO offering this opportunity to Physicians, you get paid every month for as long as that Physician remains a customer. There are going to be MANY sub contractors earning into the six figures this year with this. Let me run through some numbers for you to help you understand:

1. There are about 400,000 Physicians in the target market.
2. Only about 7%, or 28,000 currently dispense.
3. 50,000 to 90,000 MORE Docs will dispense in the next 3 to 5 years.
4. Find 100 of them, and your income could reach $100,000 a year!

Can you find 100 out of 50 to 90 thousand!

Of course you can! This is why Physician Dispensing is so fantastic for anyone looking for an incredible residual income stream. Physician Dispensing will become known as the most incredible residual income of this decade.


