Title: 
The Millionaire Master Plan: A Strategic Blueprint For Success

Word Count:
541

Summary:
Is there a blueprint for success? Do the people who achieve great level of success follow a very defined and specific path to attain their accomplishments? If so, the why is it so hard for others to duplicate it? These questions and more are answered in The Millionaire Master Plan – A 6-step blueprint for achieving success in any profession.

Excerpt from The Millionaire Master Plan: 

Professionals Get Paid, Amateurs Don’t 

It has always baffled me that so many people...


Keywords:
success plan,business development,network marketing,mark yarnell


Article Body:
Is there a blueprint for success? Do the people who achieve great level of success follow a very defined and specific path to attain their accomplishments? If so, the why is it so hard for others to duplicate it? These questions and more are answered in The Millionaire Master Plan – A 6-step blueprint for achieving success in any profession.

Excerpt from The Millionaire Master Plan: 

Professionals Get Paid, Amateurs Don’t 

It has always baffled me that so many people refuse to turn pro. People in every field, especially sales, seem to forget to engage in anything that actually creates wealth or cash flow. In Network Marketing, just like golf, millions engage in amateur activities and a tiny handful earn the huge checks. The difference is, in Network Marketing, everyone gets to chose to be a professional regardless of experience, talent or practice. Still many folks refuse to do professional networking. It’s easier to be an amateur. Unfortunately, amateurs are not paid. I have never encountered a company in this field or for that matter in any sales industry that rewards people for doing anything other than selling a product or service or recruiting others to do so. 

Professionals do what pays and amateurs do everything else. People all over the world who are indignant about failing contact me. Usually they’ve read one of my books and want help pinpointing the causes of their failure. They generally begin by describing what they’ve been doing and I listen as they describe a litany of amateur activities. Once they’ve finished their stories, I simply ask them how many people they asked to buy their product that day, or how many people they attempted to recruit onto their frontline. Many have great excuses for having done neither and some act upset that I would ask such questions. 

I have some great news for everyone. To earn huge checks, you need only engage in professional activities for a short time each day. Two hours should do it. That’s about how much Tiger Woods actually plays golf in professional tournaments. Average his time and he spends about 2 hours a day, 10 months a year engaged in professional play. Those two hours of professionalism each day result in all his income including the endorsements off the course. In fact, were he to play amateur golf 10 hours a day for 12 months a year he wouldn’t earn the big money. 

So pay please pay attention. No one in our industry is compensated to visit with upline leaders. No one is paid to attend mixers, watch television, visit with cross-line distributors or business associates, surf the web, play video games, or walk their dogs. None of us receives any pay for those amateur activities. Professionals engage in two things for a couple of hours each day and during those two hours, they cover as much territory as possible. Professional networkers spend two hours a day selling and recruiting, face-to-face or phone-to-phone. 

In one of the 24 High Road to Success Modules, we cover shotgun-recruiting strategies that really work. But for now, suffice to say, be a professional two hours a day. Dare to ask new prospects to purchase your products or sign up as business associates.


