Title: 
The Magnificent Metal Building

Word Count:
738

Summary:
Whether you are looking to expand your current retail or commercial location or build a brand new facility, choosing to use metal for the construction of your building makes the best sense because it is cheaper than conventional construction methods,  is safer, and it offers you a variety of choice in design.


Keywords:
metal, buildings, retail, systems, construction, maintenance, commercial, business


Article Body:
If you are expanding your current retail or commercial location or building a new facility, choosing metal for the construction of the building saves you the most money because it is cheaper than conventional construction methods, provides a safer building when completed, and the building systems offer a variety of design choices. In fact, for these reasons (and more) metal buildings now dominate the one and two-story building markets, as cited by architects, engineers and owners across the world. Investigate for yourself the reasons why building with metal can be good for you as well.

Most metal companies comply with customer’s design requests presenting you with endless options. For example, the exterior of the building may be enhanced using a variety of finishing materials, such as decorative brick, wood, stucco, glass, and aggregate panels, in order to match the look of existing buildings, meet local zoning requirements, as well as eye-catching to attract customers. With open span interior space and high ceilings, a metal building offers your tenants such a variety of configurations and layout options for the interior, as well. For example, your needs may include rows and rows of merchandise, an office environment filled with cubicles, conference rooms, and mechanical equipment, or a restaurant filled with tables, comfortable seating and kitchen space. A metal building can be efficiently and easily modified to suit your tenets’ changing needs—be it an increase in personnel or a shrinking storage capacity. Building expansion is simple and easier because metal buildings are designed with growth and your budget in mind. From the inside to the outside, your project manager can help you achieve the look you want in the most economical way possible.

Using metal in your construction can help you design an attractive retail building within your projected budget. Consider just a few reasons. To begin with, it will help prevent many of the problems and maintenance issues that are associated with low-quality buildings. Many types of retail buildings begin to deteriorate over time. Since metal is highly resistant to water, mold, mildew, termites and other wood-destroying insects, a metal retail building will last longer and require less maintenance than many other types of retail buildings which saves you money! Also, because sometimes a business needs a new building under a strict deadline, metal buildings offer the magnificent benefit of being pre-drilled, pre-welded, and pre-punched at the plant giving you a structure that is quickly and easily erected so your tenants can move in, open their business and promptly begin adding to your profits. Constructing a new retail building can be very expensive; but, using a retail metal building system has proven to save up to half the cost (depending on the supplier you choose) compared to similar buildings designed using conventional construction methods.

Metal buildings do not require any harmful chemicals such as resin, adhesives, wood treatments, or pesticides. Also, a retail/commercial building made entirely out of metal has added strength and durability to increase the structural integrity. As a result, metal retail buildings are resistant to major damages that are caused by high winds and adverse weather conditions. Metal buildings may also be designed to meet and surpass your local building codes regarding wind and snow loads. Customers in the Mid-West and Gulf Coast regions will have added security for their property. (Nevertheless, it is still highly recommended to evacuate during an approaching hurricane.) Many building systems use wood framing, making it vulnerable to fire and difficult to extinguish. Since metal does not burn as quickly as wood, the fire may spread slower, making the environment safer. When a fire occurs in a metal building, it is often possible to contain the fire to a single room. As a result, personnel and customers, not to mention valuable merchandise, equipment, and company files, are well protected in a metal building; and interruption of business operations can be kept to a minimum.

A metal building is indeed the most practical and economical as it will save money, provide a stronger structure, and more choice for interior planning and exterior beauty. The finished product will easily accommodate a retail environment, office space, a restaurant, warehouse facility, or any other type of business operations. Satisfied customers everywhere attest to the magnificent benefits of having their retail or commercial building built with metal. Why take chances with your real estate investment? Choose the design that provides a lifetime of benefits.


