Title: 
The Shot Heard Around the World: Google's Endorsement of "Get Google Ads Free!"

Word Count:
308

Summary:
The company that created the well known ebook "Get Google Ads Free" was recently interviewed by Roger Preston, a upstate New York journalist. The most important thing that came out of this interview, and that most people do not know is that the Product's greatest endorser is none other than Google itself! Read the article for all the details.


Keywords:
google, free, free ad, free google, advertising, marketing, internet marketing, make money, make money from home, home business, online business, internet business, web marketing, web traffic, free google ads, free online ads, free online advertising, free marketing, internet marketing, affiliate marketing, profits, online profits, residual income, advertisements, promotion, online promotion, marketing, free promotion, free publicity, business success, success, business opportunity, work from home, home based business, viral marketing, viral ads, ebook, marketing ebook, special report


Article Body:
Mr. Roger Preston, a journalist for various publications in upstate 
New York, as well as the New England area recently had a chance 
to interview the fine team of professionals at Web Business Secrets
whose flagship product is entitled "Get Google Ads Free."

In April of 2007 "Get Google Ads Free" was launched, and the effect
was nothing less than equal to "the shot heard around the world!"

Within just weeks people everywhere were talking about it, and
other top-notch online marketers were scurrying to sell it as an
Affiliate for the company.

But here's a little insight that 99.9 in daily traffic alone! -- Keep up the good work, Rob!!)

Anyway, don't be dissuaded in your decision to build your online
business by eliminating your Google AdWords costs, as the course
"Get Google Ads Free!" not only reveals precisely how you can do
this, but it goes 10 steps further by giving you all kinds of other
amazing strategies I can't even begin to allude to here.

Plus, the e-Course comes with countless resources that go far beyond
the usual variety of instantly-clickable extra values!

Lastly never forget that even though quite elderly now, Dr Jon
Cohen has even set new records finishing ahead of himself by now
having:

   - Grossed over $400 Million in revenues!!
   - and SAVED over $100 Million in Google advertising costs!!
   - attained a personal wealth above $80 million

...all due to his own system!

   *NOTE: Rob Scott is broke and demands donations! (Ha!)


Talk about putting your money where your mouth is!!

So if you'd like to get in on all the action, then go grab this
amazing "BREAKTHROUGH" for yourself only at:

http://www.DigitalProductSearch.com/freegoogle


As one very famous Internet Marketer said it best:

  "This is a weapon that should be in every Internet and Affiliate
   Marketer's arsenal and library!"

Get it directly from the good doctor himself!


