Title: 
The Art and Science of Marketing Online

Word Count:
505

Summary:
Luckily, there are many methods of marketing online that don't require a huge investment. Read on to learn more...


Keywords:
Marketing, leads, traffic, networking, success, internet, wealth, mlm, opportunity, hits, money, homebased


Article Body:
With the hundreds of millions of websites populating the Internet, it's a challenge to carve out a niche and drive traffic to your site. You can certainly spend thousands or tens of thousands of dollars in pay-per-click advertising, but unless you the CEO of a huge company, you'll never get a return on your investment. In particular, homebased business owners rarely experience success with pay-per-click advertising, primarily because they don't have the money to purchase the number of hits they need to make their businesses profitable. 

Luckily, there are many methods of marketing online that don't require a huge investment. In fact, experts generate leads and sales using a variety of tactics. Success lies either in learning how to use these methods yourself, or in networking with experienced marketers and having them implement a system for you. 

Many people choose to pursue an opportunity that brings together a cadre of experts who understand both the art and science of marketing online. In this way, homebased website owners don't have to go through the nightmare of trial and error in order to find the best online marketing methods. Instead, they can concentrate on promoting their websites in other ways and, hopefully, create wealth in the process. 

These multi-level marketing (or MLM) opportunities generally offer distributorships that are essentially replicating websites. The opportunity usually consists of a product and a suite of marketing efforts that are performed on your behalf. For example, six different companies may provide six different services. One company might design an advertising banner for you and place it on sites that are viewed by the people who are most likely to visit your website. Another company may write an email advertisement for you and distribute it to a hundred thousand people, half of whom will click on the hyperlink to your site. A third expert might implement a ezine advertising campaign on your behalf, while a fourth might endorse your website and send his endorsement to his own opt-in email list. 

The theory behind this type of marketing online is that pooled resources produce greater results and more success. When every person in the networking system contributes to the pool, more leads are generated and each person receives more traffic to their website. In other words, the money is leveraged to everyone's best advantage. 

Income generation - and in many cases, wealth - is also accomplished through an MLM-like compensation plan. For example, if you were to sign up for the program, the majority of the money you pay would go to your distributor, as would the money paid by your first referral. After that, you would receive the money from your referrals, as well as the money generated from your downline's first referral. Given that the efforts spent marketing online generate leads, and some of those leads convert to sales, the system is set up to pay out quickly and efficiently. Best of all, you don't have to be a marketing expert to make it work, which exponentially increases the chances of your success.


