Title: 
There’s a Book in You!

Word Count:
453

Summary:
Self-publishing basically allows the author to be in control of the entire creative and selling process of his book.


Keywords:
book, digital, printing, press


Article Body:
You know you have the skill, knowledge and ability to write a book. But what’s keeping you from writing is the problem of publishing it. You don’t have a direct line at the editors of some of the biggest publishing house in the country and you certainly can’t afford getting rejected for several times by these publishing houses. If this is your dilemma, then maybe it is time to consider self-publishing. 

But what is self-publishing? Self-publishing basically allows the author to be in control of the entire creative and selling process of his book. Self-publishing is one of the fastest growing book publishing method in the publishing industry. If you are a self-published author you pay the full cost of producing your book and are responsible for marketing and distributing it. This means that all subsidiary rights, the copyright, all finished copies and all money received from book sales are solely your.     

Printing the book is just a small part of publishing your book. Selling it is the most important factor. There are hundreds of printers out there that are willing to print your book. But you must be careful in selecting the right one or it could cost you thousands of dollars in sales. 

Profit may not always be your reason for writing a book. Your book may be designed and created to fill specific needs of a business, organization or your family or it may be designed to explore your own interest. As traditional publishing houses prefer books that will interest the mass market, they will not usually accept a book intended for a small audience. Thus, self-publishing may be right for you. 

Some of the reasons that people self-publish their work are because of time, control, profit, legacy and locality grounds. Because a book is a reflection of the author, self-publishing gives you the final word on the direction of your work. All decisions are wholly yours and not entrusted to third parties who have interests different from your own. Additionally, as a self-publisher you own all rights to your book. If you use a traditional publishing company, they will own all rights. Thus, if they lose interest in your book you will not be able to print additional copies unless you purchase your rights back. What’s more, people do not only publish their books to make money. They publish to share what they have learned or leave a legacy.  

As a writer you would not want your precious books to end up in some dusty garage. So if you think self-publishing is right for you then it’s time to start moving and polishing your pages to get them snapped up as soon as possible.


