Title: 
Tips On Starting Your Own Personalized Pen Business

Word Count:
406

Summary:
There is a saying that the pen is mightier than the sword, and history has proven it true. The ball point pen was invented in 1938 by the Hungarian journalist Laszlo Biro. Since then, it has been responsible for changing the annals of history. Wars were won and lost because of a pen. Deals were made and broken because of a pen. A single pen made businesses flourish although for some, it sealed their doom. But most importantly, a pen can spread love or hatred among people. A p...


Keywords:
personalized ink pen,cheap personalized pen,personalized business pen,business pen,pen business


Article Body:
There is a saying that the pen is mightier than the sword, and history has proven it true. The ball point pen was invented in 1938 by the Hungarian journalist Laszlo Biro. Since then, it has been responsible for changing the annals of history. Wars were won and lost because of a pen. Deals were made and broken because of a pen. A single pen made businesses flourish although for some, it sealed their doom. But most importantly, a pen can spread love or hatred among people. A pen is that personal. It is used by everyone, everywhere. The business of making and selling personalized pens is always a good idea. This is a money making venture where you make a specific design or look for a pen that fits a certain person.

1. Personalize Your Business

In any business success, the key is to know what your customer wants and give it to them. For your shop to flourish, you need to know what makes a personalized pen really personal to an individual. Your personalized pen shop should have specific guidelines to know your customer.

2. From Whom, For Whom, And For What?

To make a personalized pen unique, you should first know your customer and who they are buying the pen for. Also, determine the reason why your customer would like to give a customized pen. The pen can also be personalized for the customer himself. The most common market for this type of business is people who are looking for the perfect gift.

2. Personalized Pens As Gifts

- Birthdays
- Anniversaries
- Truce / Make Peace
- Congratulations

3. Pen Design - The Ultimate Mark of Personalization

Now that you know the reasons behind the transation, you proceed to the design and type of pen. Personalizing your pen is the fun part of this business. Here are possible specifications that you need to know. It is advisable for this business to have all types of pens refillable so that the pen can be used for a longer period of time.

a. Type of pen
Ballpoint pen
Fine-line marker pen
Artist’s pen
Fountain pen

b. Color
c. Size
d. Shape
e. Ink Color
Red
Blue
Black
Multi-colored pen

f. Scented or Unscented Ink

Scents:
Rose
Apple
Strawberry
Lemon

g. The budget

Lastly, you need to know what your customer is willing to spend. By doing so, you can adjust the personalized pen’s design so that it could fit your client’s budget.


