Title: 
Tips for Carpet Cleaning

Word Count:
365

Summary:
An unbeaten carpet care program commences previous to installation and than keep on with the regular vacuuming, maintenance, clean-up and episodic renovation efforts. It calls for utmost care to shield it against wear and tear and the other hazards of every day use.


Keywords:
Areal building services, Cleaning, Carpet cleaning, building cleaning maintenance services, janitorial cleaning services.


Article Body:
An unbeaten carpet care program commences previous to installation and than keep on with the regular vacuuming, maintenance, clean-up and episodic renovation efforts. It calls for utmost care to shield it against wear and tear and the other hazards of every day use. 

Here are some implications for upholding the carpets:

1.	Vacuuming the carpet repeatedly with a strong suction, rotating brush and tight filter will reduce the soil buildup. 

2.	Examine the carpet before scrubbing, extracting or spotting for the fact that some carpets are very sensitive to acid type cleaners and lose their color in a great extent while other carpets are sensitive to harsh alkalis.

3.	Do not apply strong spotting agents if not required and always neutralize high alkaline or high acid cleaners after use. Make use of appropriate spotters starting with the mildest.

4.	Brushing the spot is not a solution for the cleaning. The correct method to do away with the spot is to rub it towards the middle and then compressing into the cloth by means of brush or the other tamping devices. 

5.	Increasing quantities beyond the recommended solution levels is not going to boost the cleaning efficiency. It will result in residual left which will lead to a rapid re-soiling that thorough vacuuming also can’t eradicate. So, take extreme care with the detergents.

6.	Since over wetting can cause brownout, adhesion problems and carpet shrinkage so take care not to make it over wet in a tremendous amount.

7.	After cleaning, please ensure your carpet is dried within twelve hours, otherwise mold or mildew may grow on them. Careful use of good ventilation, central heating and air conditioning systems will help the drying process. 

8.	The ideal way to get a fresh Chocolate Milk spill out of the light colored carpets is to use a product entitled--Simple Green (It is non-toxic). 

Your carpet will last for a length of time, if clean-up procedure is applied accurately. How often you clean up the carpet will depend on the weather and traffic. Usually, carpets in light traffic region should be cleaned once in a year; in normal traffic areas, once in six months and in heavy traffic areas almost certainly once in a month.


