Title: 
Toner & ink jet cartridges and ways to save money

Word Count:
610

Summary:
A few ways on how to save money when buying ink jet & toner cartridges.

www.discount-notebooks.net


Keywords:
laptops,notebooks,computers,accessories,dell,verizon,toshiba,acer,compaq


Article Body:
Tired of the high cost of printing? You’re not alone, Many people are . For example, they believe paying £20 per small cartridge for printer ink and £70 to £150 (or more) for a toner cartridge is way too much.

Most of the big printer manufacturers have adopted the similar marketing strategy as the razor blade & mobile phone industry. Simply stated, they sell you the printer for cost or less in order to sell you printer ink and toner cartridges at stupid markups. In many cases, they charge seven to ten times what it costs to produce these products.

In addition, these major companies spend thousands of pounds advertising to convince you to purchase only their products. They strongly criticize printer ink and toner cartridges offered by other companies. However, did you know that many of these major companies are now selling their own recycled cartridges… and you’re still paying full  price for them!.

With the advent of online marketing, consumers have more choices than ever. There are a large number of reputable companies that sell printer ink and toner cartridges at {terrific|significant}}} savings. It is very common to save 50-85% when purchasing your printer supplies. In addition to great savings, you'll get a money back guarantee and your order is normally shipped the same day.

so here's a few ways to save on printer ink and toner cartridges:

1. Purchase a compatible inkjet cartridge. These are cartridges made from new parts and manufactured to meet or exceed the OEM specifications for you exact printer.

2. Purchase a remanufactured inkjet cartridge. Third party companies collect empty printer ink cartridges. They refill them with ink and test them vigorously to make sure you get exactly the quality and quantity you expect from your  inkjet cartridge.

3. Purchase an ink refill kit. You’ll get step-by-step instructions, the tools and printer ink you need to refill your ink cartridge in just a few minutes. On the average, you can refill an inkjet cartridge ten times.

4. Your inkjet cartridge will eventually wear out.rather than purchasing a brand name cartridge, purchase a compatible or remanufactured cartridge. Then, when compatible cartridge is empty, refill it with printer ink just as you did your original.

5. When you’re printing, always use draft mode until you’re ready for your final print.

6. Whenever possible, select black and white print. If you’re final product is to be in colour, your draft can be done in black and white until you’ve double-checked everything. Then, print your final copies in colour.

7. Purchase a compatible toner cartridge. Third party companies make these toner cartridges from  new parts. They are manufactured to be equal to or better than your original toner cartridge.

8. Purchase a remanufactured cartridge. Many companies collect empty toner cartridges. They empty any toner waste and then refill the cartridge. They quality check the drum and other parts of the cartridge to insure maximum performance for the consumer.

9. Purchase a toner refill kit. These kits include the tools and instructions necessary to refill your own toner cartridge. On the average, you can refill a toner cartridge about three times.

10. When you toner cartridge is not producing the quality of print you expect, check to see if you can replace the drum, instead of the entire cartridge. This will keep money in your pocket.

11. Purchase multiple ink and toner cartridges if you can. You will save substantially over the already discounted cost, plus you will probably get Free shipping.

By ordering your printer ink, toner or ink cartridge online, you’ll experience the best service, the best warranty, and the best products available, for all your printing needs.

laptop computers
www.discount-notebooks.net


