Title: 
Top 2 Reasons Why Auto Transport Has Become Big Business. Fast.

Word Count:
390

Summary:
Is it me or am I the only one who was oblivious to the auto transport industry before 5 years ago? It appears to me that there are auto transport companies popping up all over the US, seemingly overnight. Where was this industry 10 years ago. In fact, I only first heard the term 'auto transport' about 5 years ago. There are a few reasons for this phenomenon. Not surprisingly, this has to do with the internet. What most people don't understand about the web is that it has spaw...


Keywords:
auto transport, car transport, auto transport service


Article Body:
Is it me or am I the only one who was oblivious to the auto transport industry before 5 years ago? It appears to me that there are auto transport companies popping up all over the US, seemingly overnight. Where was this industry 10 years ago. In fact, I only first heard the term 'auto transport' about 5 years ago. There are a few reasons for this phenomenon. Not surprisingly, this has to do with the internet. What most people don't understand about the web is that it has spawned entire new cottage industries that just weren't all that big a decade ago. The auto transport business is a prime example of an industry like that has been rapidly tranformed (or 'put on steroids,' as a lot of my more colorful friends would say) by the web. Here are the two reasons why auto transport has taken off. 

1) Ebay. Did you know that Ebay Motors is now the largest used car dealership in the world. Yes, Ebay sells more cars than anyone else on the planet. And Ebay wasn't formed that long ago (late 90s if I'm correct). Well, chances are that if you want to buy a car, it probably isn't going to be located anywhere near your present location. And your car has to get to the new owner somehow. That's where auto transport companies come in. Ebay has been a shot in the arm to the auto transport industry. Now, when you buy a car, these companies arrange the vehicle to be delivered to you. Ebay is the one single company that has had a massive effect on the auto transport industry. 

2) Increased mobility and price comparison ability. Besides Ebay, there are tons of other small car dealers and auto lots all around the country who have websites. They list their inventory and people from around the country (even around the world) can peruse the merchandise. If you like a car in Dallas and you happen to live in Philadelphia, you can have it shipped to you through an auto transport company. 

The web has revolutionized many industries, auto transport being one of them. Learn all about auto transport and how to save on the fees by getting informed. Like anything, there is a right way and a wrong way to go about it.


