Title: 
Travel Is WEB Easy

Word Count:
636

Summary:
Utilizing the web for travel information


Keywords:
luggage,discount luggage,travel accessories,corporate gifts,luggage sets,leather wallets


Article Body:
Is stress getting to you, and are you feeling down by the day- to -day grind? Do you have the need to get away desperately?  You most probably need a vacation!  However, there's more to traveling than grabbing your luggage, travel wallet and TSA locks. You will need to pack the appropriate clothing and bring along the necessary travel accessories.  Of course, you can research the information you need from your computer.  It's no longer necessary to buy loads of books, or go to the library.  Everything you need to know is available to you on the WEB.  You’ll need a destination for that vacation. Are you looking forward to just relaxing or do you want lots of activities?  Is price important or convenience?  Will any type of accommodation work or are you looking for the best in luxury accommodations?   Need help choosing where to go?  There are travel magazines, which also offer frequent e-mails.  Some of the most popular ones are www.frommers.com, from Arthur Drummer’s Budget Travel and www.ravelandleisure.com from Travel & Leisure magazine, and www.concierge.com from Conde Nast Traveler.  Want to know what to pack?  There’s www.weather.com to let you know if you can expect rain, snow, hot or cold temperatures.

     To begin with, you might want to check out the major airline Web sites.  There's American Airlines (www.aa.com) and US Airways (www.usairways.com) and Northwest Airlines has www.nwa.com while Continental has www.continental.com and Delta has www.delta.com.  United Airlines is available at www.ual.com and Islandair has www.icelandair.com.  We cannot forget British Airways www.ba.com or www.Continental.com for Continental airlines or www.United.com for United Airlines. There is also Southwest Airlines, which is www.Southwest.com and Jet Blue Airlines at www.jetblue.com.  Many of these airlines have specials available only on their websites and almost all have at least a $10.00 savings for making your reservation on line.  Visit these sites often to keep abreast of the many specials available.

     There are other sites that collect and organize different fares from the airlines.  Try www.smarlterliving.com for immediate results.  Don't forget www.Expedia.com, www.Travelcity.com, www.Orbitz.com, and www.Lowestfare.com.  Also remember www.Quixo.com and www.travelzoo.com.
They will compare the fares of other search engines.   Almost everyone has heard of the great deals available at the popular web sites www.Hotwire.com and www.travel.nextag.com.  Another popular site for comparing fares is www.priceline.com.

      Information on airport terminals and transportation at nearly 200 airports is available from www.Worldairportguide.com.  Want to know what the best and worst seats are by jet type?  Go to www.Seatguru.com.  Resort stays can be found at www.Luxurylink.com.  Need a great gym?  Information can be found at www.Healthclub.com.  

     Last minute travel information is always available at www.Site51.com or www.Sidestep.com or www.Smartliving.com.  Planning to drive to your destination?  Destination maps are available for North America and Europe from www.Mapquest.com.  Interested in renting a house or condo?  Help is available from  www.Rentvillas.com and www.Resortquest.com.   How about voltage and phone information for foreign destinations?  Go to www.Kropla.com.  Many of your may wish to travel by train throughout Europe. Interactive route maps and point-to-point information along with information on rail-pass tickets are available from www.Raileurope.com.

     Find lively descriptions and low prices for cruise you've always to take on www.Icruise.com and www.Cruiseonly.com.  Other cruise sites are www.smartcruiser.com and www.cruises.com.
  
      Now you're ready for that vacation.  Grab your Briggs & Riley luggage or your Mosaic luggage, pack and go!


