Title: 
Turn Your Hobby Into A Successful Business (With Minimal Investment!)

Word Count:
513

Summary:
Many of the world’s most successful businesses began as a hobby. Probably the most popular company that actually began as a hobby is the major online auction site of Ebay. Other well known companies that were hobbies first include Dell Computers, Famous Amos Cookies, and Wendy’s.

If you’ve been considering starting your own business, but haven’t determined exactly what that business should be- think about the types of activities you enjoy doing. What are your hobbies? Do y...


Keywords:
turn hobby into business, home based business, work from home, online businesses


Article Body:
Many of the world’s most successful businesses began as a hobby. Probably the most popular company that actually began as a hobby is the major online auction site of Ebay. Other well known companies that were hobbies first include Dell Computers, Famous Amos Cookies, and Wendy’s.

If you’ve been considering starting your own business, but haven’t determined exactly what that business should be- think about the types of activities you enjoy doing. What are your hobbies? Do you enjoy hiking through the woods, or jogging around the track? Maybe you enjoy writing poetry or painting ceramics. Regardless of your particular hobby, there is a way for you to profit from your experience and knowledge.

Many entrepreneurs-to-be do not have much for start up capital. In fact, one of the most common reasons for considering a new business is because people are attempting to make more money to pay off existing debt and be able to afford more entertainment in their lives. While there are many businesses that would require a hefty initial investment, there are also hundreds of businesses you can start right now that are related to your hobby in some way, that don’t require much of a financial investment. You’ll need to invest your time, energy and devotion- and with these three ingredients, you’ll be on the path to a successful business venture in no time.

Low Investment Hobby Business Ideas

Affiliate Programs- If you are very new to online marketing and maybe even the internet in general, you may want to start with an affiliate program. An affiliate program allows you to earn commission on the sales you generate for someone else’s product. If your hobby involves playing poker, you could join one of the many online poker room affiliate programs (for free) and get your feet wet, learning how to use the internet to market a product, how to generate traffic and turn website visitors into buying customers. Once you’ve learned a few tricks of the trade, you can move on to actually creating your own business, rather than earning a commission by promoting someone else’s!

Audio & Written Interviews- If you have a hobby that features famous individuals, you could start a business by interviewing people and distributing the audio recordings of the interviews online. You could write out the interviews and sell to magazines or newspapers, or industry specific trade publications involving your hobby. For example, if you want to do something that involves skateboarding, find and interview Tony Hawk, or someone who has skated with Tony Hawk.

Retail Sales- If your hobby involves the creation of objects, you can develop your own product line and sell them via a website or mail order catalog. In order to keep your start up investment minimal, you’ll want to only make a few items for display purposes, and then make products when they are ordered from customers. Look for wholesale places to purchase your raw materials, in order to gain a larger profit when you sell the finished product.


