Title: 
Use What You Know Best To Excel In Business

Word Count:
490

Summary:
With energy prices going up and the job market staying flat, a great many of us are thinking about starting some kind of business to earn some extra income.

You're probably also thinking in the back of your mind that your business could take off, make a lot of money, and you could say good-bye to your boss, commuting, and spending so much time away from home.

Good for you! I KNOW you can do it and here's why.

Usually when people start thinking of going into business ...


Keywords:
home business,biz opp,mlm,network marketing


Article Body:
With energy prices going up and the job market staying flat, a great many of us are thinking about starting some kind of business to earn some extra income.

You're probably also thinking in the back of your mind that your business could take off, make a lot of money, and you could say good-bye to your boss, commuting, and spending so much time away from home.

Good for you! I KNOW you can do it and here's why.

Usually when people start thinking of going into business for themselves, they concentrate on all the things they DON'T already know. They try to learn more about computers, take a class at the community school, read reports online, and talk to others who have worked in the business.

Those things are good, but what will really help you excel in business are things you ALREADY have and know how to do well.

* Do you show up for work on time day after day? That's DISCIPLINE. It's the one must-have factor that separates the go-getters from the tire kickers. You have to be able to set your sights on something, know what you believe in, and not give up easily. You have to show up and do your job day after day until the cash starts rolling in. I know--that's common sense. But you would be surprised at how many people fail at business simply because they didn't give it a little discipline.

* Sell what you LIKE and KNOW. People like to buy from business owners who not only know a lot about the product or service, but are also ENTHUSIASTIC about it. It really helps if you know and like what you're selling. If you have a hobby, base your business around some aspect of that. One guy I know loves to play the guitar, so now he makes a fine income selling used guitars on eBay. I spent many years in body building and fitness. Now I sell a popular line of health and wellness products. If somebody wants to know why these products work, I tell them, and I tell them with enthusiasm. It works remarkably well.

* Team up with others. It's really beneficial to have help from somebody who has been in the business a while. They can save you countless hours by showing you the pitfalls of the industry. They can also greatly speed up your progress by showing you what works. But most importantly, a mentor can give you encouragement when your enthusiasm and discipline is waning. We all have those days when we get a little discouraged. An email or phone call from a mentor can get you back on track fast. And that's what it takes to succeed.

Consider these three important ideas before going into business. Then know that you CAN succeed. Creating your own business can be the best, most exciting thing you will ever do for yourself or your family.


