Title: 
Web Site Tracking Software

Word Count:
507

Summary:
There are ways to track who will be visiting your site. The more traffic you generate the more money you will make.


Keywords:
web site tracking software, tracking software, traffic, more traffic, track the traffic, tracking system, where people are coming from, traffic statistics, web traffic statistics


Article Body:
There are ways to track who will be visiting your site. The more traffic you generate the more money you will make. You want to make sure that you have all you need to see if you're getting the traffic you want. There are several ways to track the traffic on your site and each has its own pros and cons. It will fully depend on what you need at the time and how much you are willing to invest. Some devices simply tell you how many people visit you and some have actual reports with fine details. You would want to use a more sophisticated tracking system if you want to know which search engines are bringing in the most traffic or where people are coming from. The simpler methods are used just to know how many people total have visited your site since it got up and running. These ones won’t offer any other type of information such as how many per day or where they came from. 

1. Counters: These are usually used by newbies. You won’t see them on more professional sites. They will tell you and the visitor exactly how many people have visited your site. 

2. Trackers: Tracking software will give you a detailed path your visitors take when they visit your site. This tells you way more than just a simple tracker and isn’t seen by the visitor. For the free use you might be required to put a button or graphic up. Many site owners will prefer to put in their own tracking scripts onto their servers.

3. Use Your ISP Statistical Package: Your ISP provider keeps a log of every hit to your site. This will let you know where your traffic is coming from and what pages they are looking at. Make sure your hosting company offers access to your raw log files.

4. Web Traffic Analysis Software: this is a program that will take your raw log files and generate a report on your traffic. The quality will completely depend on what program you are using. There are some free ones that come with some hosting packages or there are the paid software packages that would generate high quality reports.

Your web traffic statistics are an extremely valuable tool for information about your web site. You will be able to make decisions on improving your site through the information they give you. They will let you know what web pages are the most popular and also the ones that are very rarely used. A tracker will tell you who is visiting your site. You will learn which web browsers to optimize your pages for and which search engines are most useful. They can even tell when you get errors or have bad links on your page. Analyzing your web traffic can help you determine what type of marketing strategies work for you and your site the best. You will then be able to change according the most successful methods and boost your traffic and ultimately your sales.


