Title: 
WEBconference applications for personnel

Word Count:
253

Summary:
Integration of new employees is a difficulty faced by many companies. The new additions are left to fend for themselves, hoping to learn directly in the arena.


Keywords:
eb presentation, webcast, teleconference, webinar, internet video conference, audioconference,  webconference, web conference, emeeting, skype, software,training, sales, meeting, video conferencing, e-learning, customer loyalty


Article Body:
Problems
 In such a situation, a training method that is a continuing formation adapted to the ever-changing needs of the firms would be illusory; also, efforts to manage all the information within an organization as back-up data would be unrealistic. Often, consultation with employees is usually nonexistent, too. Hence, it can be safely concluded that the research result which says that clients' loyalty is directly proportional to employees' motivation is true.

Solution
Pedagogical methodology has profoundly evolved during the last ten years. Virtual classrooms have appeared, with long-distance training. Closer to us, "coaching" has become a common practice. Both these methodologies can make use of the web conferencing technology. By constantly recording the training sessions as well as the meetings, information can be made widely available to everybody. Usually, these concern  better practices or strategic visions that can be shared. Also, thanks to the polls and votes during a web conference, the management gets to know the personnel's opinions which they can actively implicate.  
    
Results 
First of all, optimizing training to integrate new employees shortens the time needed for them to fully develop their capacities and to perform better. Profit targets are met faster as costs get reduced, as well. Moreover, the organization's efficiency in the developing of exchanges and the sharing of best practices improves, too. This has a considerable impact on profits. The higher the individual motivations pyramid, the more the people will feel the need to belong, to be appreciated, and to accomplish something. In short, the key is bidirectionality.


