Title: 
What You Should Look For in a Web Hosting Service

Word Count:
332

Summary:
If you are thinking up putting up your own website, the most important thing you should consider is the type of web hosting service you'd like to avail of. There are a lot of web hosting services in the internet today. Some of them are even offered free of charge.


Keywords:
web hosting, web hosting reviews


Article Body:
If you are thinking up putting up your own website, the most important thing you should consider is the type of web hosting service you'd like to avail of. There are a lot of web hosting services in the internet today. Some of them are even offered free of charge. 

Web hosting services vary greatly in the features that company provides. And when it comes to web hosting the following features are the things you should check first:

1. Total web space provided. 
Web space corresponds to the amount of files you can upload to the server. Of course, the bigger the web space provided, the more sites and sub-domains you can host. You can also install many applications, as space is not going to be a problem. 

2. Total amount of traffic allowed.
Some web hosting services measures the traffic a certain website get. When it comes to this aspect, unlimited traffic is best. If there's a limit to the monthly traffic delegated to your site, chances are, your website won't display on the browsers of the visitors who are above the limit. This won't make your site look good. 

3. Server uptime. 
You want your website up 100% of the time, if possible. This feature is usually dependent on the servers of your web-hosting provider. You have to make sure that you go with the company that is totally reliable. 

4. Software, applications and bundles included.
This is where the freebies come in. There are a lot of web hosting services that offer application installation support. The most common web hosting scripts and programs today are Java, Php, and Frontpage. Try to find out which of these are supported by your web hosting provider to determine if your web page will work for them or not. 

The performance of your website relies on your web hosting service. Make sure you trust your website only to the experts. Go with the company that understands the needs of their clients when it comes to uptime and functionality.


