Title: 
When Your Product Makes People Feel Great, You Make Money!

Word Count:
322

Summary:
We've all heard about the importance of offering a product or service that is a good value. The better the value, the more sales you will make and the more money you will earn.

Sometimes good value can be based on a low price, or finding an otherwise hard-to-find product or service. Good value can have more to do with customer service or service after the sale.

But how about this one: the best value comes from a product or service that makes you FEEL good. Think about i...


Keywords:
business,marketing,home business,Gogi


Article Body:
We've all heard about the importance of offering a product or service that is a good value. The better the value, the more sales you will make and the more money you will earn.

Sometimes good value can be based on a low price, or finding an otherwise hard-to-find product or service. Good value can have more to do with customer service or service after the sale.

But how about this one: the best value comes from a product or service that makes you FEEL good. Think about it for a minute.

McDonalds and Burger King became restaurant giants not so much because they produced food at low prices, but because customers felt good when they ate there. Those companies earned some of the largest fortunes in the world based on the simple principle that millions of people had a good time and really enjoyed themselves when they visited their restaurants.

There are a lot of products or services that provide a good value, but the ones that make us FEEL GOOD are the ones we'll buy time and time again.

When you search for a new business opportunity or new product or service to sell, consider how the product makes people feel. Does it give them a energetic lift? Does it boost their spirits? Do they feel good after using your product or service?

Answer "yes" to those things, and you're well on your way to earning nice, consistent profits.

Also make sure your product or service is unique. Yes, there may be other products in the same category, but make sure yours is different from the others in important ways. It can me more potent, more powerful, less expensive, more natural, or a host of other positive factors.

Emotion is probably the most effective factor in marketing. Sell a product or service that affects customers' health, mood, and general well being and you'll have a winner.


