Title: 
Why Buy Coach Handbags and Purses?

Word Count:
357

Summary:
Coach Inc. has been the leader in the handbag and purse industry for quite some time and continues to bring fresh and elegant designs to the market.


Keywords:
coach handbags, coach purses, coach bags


Article Body:
Coach handbags are the most popular designer handbags on the market today. Coach Inc. sells $2.6 billion in handbags and accessories per year. They have the largest segment of the handbag market, greatly exceeding any of their competitors. There's good reason why Coach is doing so well at dominating the handbag market.

Coach handbags and purses are made from the highest quality leather and are manufactured by highly skilled workers that take pride in the products they make. Coach takes no shortcuts in the manufacturing process nor accepts any materials that do not meet their standards, which are very high. Coach only accepts 10% of the leather from most of their suppliers. The leather is painstakingly softened for days in large drums. There's no rushing the process. The leather has to be perfect in texture, color and softness. There are no seconds when it comes to making the finest handbags and purses in the world. Coach double stitches areas that need strength using a superior grade of spun cotton. It's stronger than most stitching. Coach takes pride in their products and backs every Coach handbag with a lifetime warrantee. If you buy a genuine Coach handbag and it gets damaged in any way, send it back to Coach with $20 for shipping. Coach will repair the item or if it is not repairable send a brand new Coach handbag to you or offer a huge discount on your next purchase. How 's that for service?

Coach Inc. has been designing and manufacturing handbags and purses for over 60 years. Coach began as a 6 person family owned business and has exploded into a multi billion dollar business. Coach manufactures their handbags the same way they did when the had 6 employees, one at a time and mostly by hand. Every Coach handbag and purse is thoroughly inspected before it is sent off to a retail store. Coach manufactures their products in China and the Dominican Republic. Manufacturing is much more cost effective in these countries but the headquarters is based in New York. Coach manufactures quality handbags and purses unmatched by anyone and continues to design new handbags that are stunning and functional.


