Title: 
Yes! Get Paid to Shop and Eat!

Word Count:
1525

Summary:
What if I told you it was possible to get paid $10 to $50 an HOUR just to go to your shopping at your favorite mall ... eat at your favorite restaurants.


Keywords:
get paid, paid, eat, shop, reateaurants, hotels, make money


Article Body:
Yes! Get Paid to Shop and Eat!
$10 to $50 Per Hour! Start Today!

Shopping Jobs Here delivers real jobs that pay you to go shopping for cloths.. eat out at restaurants... go on a luxury cruises ... get a spa massage... go bowling... rent movies ...and so much more .... 
 
Get Paid To Go Shopping And Keep Everything For FREE!
Get Paid To Eat At Restaurants!
Get Paid To Travel Worldwide or Go On A Caribbean Cruise!
Get Paid To Golf At Your Favorite Golf Course!
Get Paid To Go To Amusement Parks!
Get Paid To Go To Luxury Spas!

What if I told you it was possible to get paid $10 to $50 an HOUR just to go to your shopping at your favorite mall ... eat at your favorite restaurants... golf at your favorite golf courses... or enjoy a movie at your local theater … AND get it all for FREE!! PLUS, not only do you get everything for FREE and recieve a great paycheck for your time, but someone pays for the gas to drive your car!
THIS IS A MUST FOR ALL STAY AT HOME MOMS!
But not just for women, men can be shoppers too!
Sound too good to be true ?

I 100% guarantee it’s not !!!

How do I know ? 

I do it all the time !!

Why is ShoppingJobsHere.com the easiest and most reliable mystery shopping directory on the internet today? First a little history ....

My name is Carolyn McCarthy and I started as a mystery shopper over 15 years ago .. way before computers made finding jobs so easy. I have worked for almost every mystery shopping company in business today. Unfortunately finding jobs was not always easy, and most of the time very frustrating and time consuming. I knew there had to be a way to make finding, completing, and getting paid for jobs fast and easy. And most importantly, available to anyone, anywhere, no matter where they lived. That is why I created ShoppingJobsHere.com and began the most comprehensive, easy to use mystery shopping job guide online today. We are the experts in mystery shopping, and make it easy for you to get a great paycheck just for giving your opinion!

We have over 300 companies that will pay you to: 
Go to the movies and give your opinion of the trailers and movie  
Rent movies and give your opinion of the rental service  
Go to your favorite golf course - golf for free and give your opinion  
Go to apartment buildings and give your opinion of the cleanliness 
Go to the bank and give your opinion of the customer service and the list goes on and on......


As you can see almost everything you do on a daily basis is something you can get a paycheck for! The average hourly pay for mystery shopping is $10 to $50 per hour, although many times it is higher. There are jobs that pay $200+ per assignment. Even after all these years I still love to mystery shop. I love getting FREE STUFF! Why pay when you get it free?


 
Here's my normal day at work …tell me if this is something you might like to do..... 
I call my sister or one of my girlfriends to see if they want to go shopping with me. Or, if I have my kids, I take them along to spend a fun day with mom. My assignment today is to go to Neiman Marcus to buy three things - anything I want - but I have to ask the sales lady to try to find another size for me. That's part of my assignment .. but heck, I do that all the time anyhow. The sales lady is really helpful and finds my size. I have a wedding to go to in a few weeks, so I really need a nice cocktail dress. I find one I love! Then I pick out a really cute matching pants and shirt set. Okay, great! Done! I go to check out and look at my watch as I get in line, and I look at it again when I am finally checking out... two minutes... not bad, and the service here is fantastic. Everyone is really helpful. I make a mental note of that and I'm done! Okay, one more thing to do before I'm done with my day. I have to stop by the local large chain retail store and check things out. I have $50 to spend … I LOVE FREE STUFF!! I pick out some makeup, tissue, and maybe a tape for my son. Hey, these are things I need anyhow, and someone else is paying for it … DOES IT GET BETTER???

I once again glance at my watch as I get in line and again as I check out. Seven minutes .. a little long, but they were crowded … but then again, they should have opened another cash register. I make another mental note of that, and as I leave, I check out the parking lot for cleanliness. Looks okay, but there are carts everywhere. Someone from the store should have picked those up. Another mental note. Okay, all done at my day of work! I go home, fill out an online form the company gives me, noting all my findings for the day. I email it to the shopping company I work for, and they send me a check for my time and items purchased.	 

Restaurants TOO!
One of the companies I work for has all my local Chili's restaurants as a client. Of course I took that job right away! At least once a week I get an assignment to go to Chili's, have a FREE meal, get paid $20 an hour (the kids love it!), and just give my opinion of the service and facilities. Can you believe someone will actually pay you to have a free meal!? Other restaurants I work with ... Lone Star Steakhouse, Olive Garden, Outback, Taco Bell, McDonalds, The Chart House, and many many more!
Grocery Stores!
I get these types of jobs often. Many companies pay grocery stores a lot of money to put up their displays for specials that week. The companies want to know they are getting what they pay for. They need someone to check to make sure their displays are set up and located where they are supposed to be. They pay me to stop by the store to check the display. If the display is not there, I just report back to the company and they contact the grocery store. I don't have to do anything but check. This is such an easy assignment that takes almost no time at all ... and I get paid for it!

I LOVE THIS JOB!!!
I know what you are saying. WORK? You call that work? Yes, I do..and I love it!!! Okay, so I'm not going to be making six figures any time soon, but it's great extra money (I average $100 to $800 a week depending on how much I want to work that week), and I'm a stay at home mom. What other job pays you $10 to $40 an hour and lets you take your children with you. PLUS, I get most of my clothes, makeup, house products, and even dinners FREE!!! Also, I get reimbursed for the gas it takes me to drive to all these places!
This is not just for women or stay at home moms! Men, college students ... anyone can work as a professional shopper.
 

The best part of This Job?
You Set Your Own Hours - You Make Your Own Schedule
Even if you work during the day you can always take 
assignments and work nights or just weekends!!
I can work as much or as little as I want!
You are never obligated to take any assignment.
You can pick and choose what is good for you.

I can even work if I go on vacation! 
I just go on the job board before I leave for vacation, see what jobs are available 
in the location I am traveling, and I get tons of free stuff when I go on vacation. 
PLUS, I get paid while I'm on vacation!
Shop Online!
Many times you don't even have to leave
your house to shop! Many online companies will pay you 
to shop their online stores and evaluate the service you receive.
And your online order is FREE!

Golf Courses!
Yes, there are companies that will pay for
your golf fees just to give your opinion of the 
golf course! Courses all over the US!

Amusement Parks!
Amusement parks nationwide will give you and your family
free admission if you give your opinion about the parks services.
Restaurants!
There are many companies that pay you hourly AND pay 
for your dinner just to tell them what you think of the service!! 
FREE DINNER for you and your family!

Movies!
There are many companies that give you FREE movie tickets just to go to the movies and 
give your opinion of the theaters! Others just want your opinion of the opening 
trailers (previews). Stay for the first 15 minutes, or stay the entire movie... your choice.
Why pay $8.00+ for a movie ticket when you can go for FREE!?


