Title: 
10 Tips to keep your cleaning staff motivated

Word Count:
342

Summary:
In any cleaning operation the cleaning supervisor or company owner is probably the most important person who can motivate cleaning crews to take pride in their work. But how one can motivate, instruct, communicate and lead the cleaning staff?


Keywords:
areal building services, building cleaning maintenance services, janitorial cleaning services, property management services.


Article Body:
In any cleaning operation the cleaning supervisor or company owner is probably the most important person who can motivate cleaning crews to take pride in their work. But how one can motivate, instruct, communicate and lead the cleaning staff?

In every job that I have had from cleaning floors to managing teams across the nation – I have used motivation to drive high performance and results from my teams and myself.  
Motivating and leading is what I love to do.

Often time cleaning company owner face the problems keeping his supervisors and cleaning crew member motivated. Cleaning crew member start outs doing a great job from the first day, but when cleaning company owner starts trusting him, his performance goes downhill.

This makes the company owner to think how can he motivate, instruct, communicate and lead the cleaning staff to have the same interest that one do have as a owner?

Here are some basic tips for the cleaning business owner to motivate their crew members:

1.	Find out the strengths and weaknesses.
2.	Praise them for their “strong” points and reward them publicly.
3.	Identify their weak points and encourage them for improvement.
4.	Give them recognition as things happen.
5.	Provide interactive discussions, fast paced meetings, and up to date equipments.
6.	Emphasize on the importance of taking breaks.
7.	Bring in temporary help to support your team during peak workloads.
8.	Offer competitive salaries and commissions
9.	Maintain a sense of humor and friendly relationship with your staff.
10.	Conduct a staff interest survey to see if they are in the most appropriate position.

Whether you are looking to energize your cleaning supervisor, manager or crew members these 10 tips will work for you. But you must need to realize that no one will ever do things just like you.

Investing a little or more time in motivating your cleaning staff is the raw material of personal energy that makes every person and every organization successful. De-motivation or poor moral is a cancer and can infect a lot of people and yourself too in your organization.

So, keep motivating your employees.


