Title: 
10 Time-tested, Battle-Hardend Blog Traffic Techniques

Word Count:
304

Summary:
Follow these 10 blog traffic strategies and your blog just might be the next Engadget, TechCrunch, JohnChow.com, StevePavlina.com or BoingBoing.net.


Keywords:
blog traffic, traffic, blog, blogs, blogging, money, make money


Article Body:
1. Blog Regularly - many of the top blogs post 10-20 times per day.

2. Create Authority Articles - instead of blogging frequently, post less often but focus on creating Authority Posts -- lengthier articles that are really well put together which will attract attention from other bloggers & users of social bookmarking sites like Digg, reddit, etc.

3. Comment on Other Blogs - do not keyword spam in these, but rather use your own name and add value to the conversation.

4. Link Out Frequently to Industry Leaders - show some linklove to other bloggers in your niche.  In turn, they might eventually link back if you have a quality post on a topic they have not covered yet.

5. Participate in Blog Carnivals - these are a way for bloggers within a niche to get together and periodically highlight posts from one another's blogs.  You can find an index of these at BlogCarnival.com.

6. Do Guest Posts - not just for A-List bloggers, but B-List and beyond.  Be sure to work up some good material first, so as to make a good first impression.

7. Article Marketing - chances are, you're reading this via a site that syndicated this article using an article marketing script of some sort.  Join a site like ArticleMarketer.com and syndicate your articles to thousands of participating sites.  If distributed via the web, these sites are required to link back to you via a byline (see below).

8. Social Digging/Mixxing - join sites like Digg, Mixx, Bumpzee, etc. and encourage your users and/or friends to submit your stories.

9. Social Bookmarking - join del.icio.us, Furl, Wink, Backflip, etc and submit your popular articles to these sites to seed them into the community.

10. Use Great Headlines - okay, which sounds better "Some Ways to Get Readers", or "10 Time-tested, Battle-Hardend Blog Traffic Techniques".  Many readers are particularly fond of "Top X" lists, or "How To ..." posts.


