Title: 
20 ReasonsTo Have Your Own Homeworker Website

Word Count:
516

Summary:
Owning your own Home based Business Opprtunity website, or hobby website, can be a daunting task. Heres a few reasons why it can be a worthwhile undertaking.


Keywords:
best home based business ideas ,homeworker  business ideas, work at home business


Article Body:
1. Improve your Credibility as an Internet Marketer, as a Teamleader, as a home based business entrepreneur, whatever your niche is.

2. Send email using your chosen domain name.

3. Make your training info/tips easily available to your affiliates by writing it on a webpage.

4. Setup a Blog on your site. Posting to your Blog on a regular basis will improve your site's exposure on the Search Engines. I have just been learning about how to use a Blog to get traffic to your site from the Social BookMarking sites. 

It is in some ways similar to posting ads to Free Classified sites. I will tell you more on this later. 

5. Similarly auto-install a Forum where your Team's affiliates could help one another and you could help them all. You could make a private formum for your SFI Team Members only.

6. Adding your own content on a regular and continued basis will likely get you noticed by the Search Engines. You could allow your affiliates to submit Articles which you could host for them to get them a link back to their site or to their Gateway pages.

7. Initially you could setup a page to FRAME your favorite Gateway (or for several Gateways).

8. Make ebooks, software, Special Reports downloadable in your Teammembers Only section.

9. Host a site for one of your affiliates as a folder of your main website. For instance mysfiwebsite.com/XXXXXXXX where XXXXXXXX could be their affiliate number or their name or company name.

10. Remember that the site can do much more for you than just contain a link to your SFI Gateway.


11. Setup an RSS feed so you can deliver your Sales messages or Training messages without needing their email address. If you need to become familiar with RSS, first get an RSS reader and find a site with an RSS feed to subscribe to. My favorite reader is free at: http://rssreader.com (That site also has an RSS Feed Publisher for free.)

12. Setup a Form on a page to collect visitors name and email address. Set the form to post the information to your Autoresponder or at least a database on your site.

13. Setup a page for exchanging relevant links to other websites to improve in bound links. 

14. Allows you to join Traffic Swarm or other traffic exchanges to get some free traffic. Copy/pasting code to some of your pages (following instructions).

15. Install (follow instructions) an Autoresponder on your webserver so you can use it to automate your email followup tasks.

16. By copy/pasting some code, you can setup a webpage to redirect to another page. This allows you to hide your affiliate number from your link. 

17. You can also use the redirection code above to shorten a long affiliate URL. http://moreinfo247.com/xxxxxxx/free could become http://mydomain.com/yourbusiness/

18. Setup a FAQ (frequently asked questions) page to post those questions that you are often asked and your person answer to each question.

19. Put Audio or Video on a webpage. Saves you typing and saves the Visitor Reading.

20. Sell the Skills that you learn to write sites for others.


