Title: 
3 Powerful Tips for Getting into the Right Business for You

Word Count:
795

Summary:
In two previous articles, I answered one of the single most frequently asked questions I'm asked. Although it's asked in many different ways, the question really boils down to... What's the best "right" business or profession to get into if I want to get rich? In this article, I'll share with you three powerful tips for getting into the right business or profession for *you*.


Keywords:
business, rich, profession, wattles, wallace d wattles, wallace wattles


Article Body:
Copyright 2006 Tony Mase

In two previous articles, "The #1 Best Business to Get Into if You Want to Get Rich" and "How You Can Find the Financial Success You're Seeking", I answered one of the single most frequently asked questions I'm asked.

Although it's asked in many different ways, the question really boils down to...

What's the best or the "right" business or profession to get into if I want to get rich?

Regardless of how it's asked, my answer is always the same...

A business or profession which you like!

If it uses your strongest abilities, skills, or talents, all the better. If it doesn't, no big deal, you can develop the necessary abilities, skills, or talents as you go along.

Here are three powerful tips for getting into the right business or profession for *you*:

Tip #1 - Take a close look at what you *don't* like to do.

Although I don't generally recommend looking at anything from a negative perspective, there are times when it's helpful and this is one of them.

One of the easiest and fastest ways to narrow your search for the right business or profession for you to get into is to figure out what the wrong business or profession for you to get into would be.

For example...

If the very thought of selling something to someone makes you want to...

Well...

Let's just say...

Throw up...

Then I'd suggest you don't consider any business or profession that involves sales or at least direct sales.

I can tell you from personal experience...

If you get into a business or profession that you don't like, you'll be miserable in the process and ultimately you'll fail.

So...

Why set yourself up for misery and failure ahead of time?

Tip #2 - Take a close look at what you *do* like to do.

It might be something you're doing now or have done in the past to earn money. It might be a hobby or special interest of yours. It could even be related to a class you took in school or a particular subject you're interested in...

Anything...

Absolutely anything!

Remember this...

You can get rich in *any* business or profession.

There are folks right now, right this very moment, who are getting rich in *every* conceivable business and profession...

And so can you!

There's a way or ways you can get rich doing absolutely *anything* you like to do.

Here's a great example...

I know a gal who earns a *serious* full-time income doing exactly what she likes doing better than anything else...

Going to tag sales (also known as garage sales or yard sales depending on where you live) and buying "stuff".

Now...

There's a downside...

She really doesn't like selling her "stuff". She finds the selling process boring and tedious. She gets all her "jollies" from finding and buying her treasures.

So...

How does she possibly make any money?

Simple...

She's developed a rather elaborate network of dealers willing to buy her "stuff" in their specialty areas at wholesale prices from her, consignment shops willing to sell her "stuff" for a percentage of the sale, and she has someone who sells her "stuff" on eBay for her (who, interestingly enough, likes the selling process but doesn't like to go out to find and buy "stuff" to sell) for a percentage of the profits.

Although she makes less money per item doing it this way, she makes far more money in the long run because it allows her to massively do the one thing she likes to do better than anything else...

Going to tag sales and buying "stuff".

Remember...

There's a way or ways you can get rich doing absolutely *anything* you like to do.

Tip #3 - Take a close look at your strengths and weaknesses.

The ideal business or profession for you to get into would be one that you like doing and one that makes use of your strongest abilities, skills, or talents.

However...

Although you should consider them, your abilities, skills, or talents shouldn't be your first consideration when choosing a business or profession for you to get into.

Why?

Two reasons...

First...

There may be all sorts of things you're good at that you don't really like doing all that much.

Second...

There isn't any ability, skill, or talent that you can't develop if you want to.

In his book "The Personal Power Course", Wallace D. Wattles, best known for his classic masterpiece "The Science of Getting Rich", wrote:

"Perhaps the most essential part of wealth-culture consists in finding the place where you will be happy in your work."

When you're "happy in your work" your work ceases to be work and it becomes fun.

Your "fun" combined with constructive thought and constructive action can make you rich!


