Title: 
7 Benefits Of Mobile Document Shredding Services

Word Count:
401

Summary:
Federal laws require businesses to safely and thoroughly destroy documents that contain sensitive consumer information.  Fortunately, mobile shredding trucks can make mincemeat of these records and do so on the spot with a company representative to witness it. Do not let important documents leave your business site intact or you may be liable!  Here's how to have them shredded them on site with a mobile shredding service.


Keywords:
mobile document shredding, document destruction, document shredding service


Article Body:
Mobile document shredding service companies come to the physical location of your business and take care document disposal for you.  These services typically use a medium size truck with the shedding device built into the back of the vehicle.  This is so the shredder can go to the company location and shred all the documents on site before taking the particles to the dumping area for final disposal.

What are the benefits of mobile shredding service?

* Containers: Many shredding companies furnish nice looking steel locking containers for use in your office.  These containers can be emptied on schedule, or whenever they get full.  Many mobile shredding companies offer flexible scheduling.

* Certification: You may get a “Certificate of Destruction”.  While this certificate doesn’t totally absolve the business of responsibility for the document security, it does help.

* Ease Of Use: Why risk transporting tons of documents off-site when you can witness the document destruction in the back of the truck right outside your office!

* Unrecoverable: The professional process used by mobile shredding companies makes it impossible to reconstruct documents.

* Affordable: It can cost only pennies per pound to shred business documents.

* Verified Firsthand: Company personnel can witness the shredding is done on-site.  You don’t have to entrust the drivers and a chain of people to destroy your documents…you can witness it firsthand without leaving your office parking lot!

* Less time consuming: Shredding these documents by hand would waste valuable employee-hours.  With a mobile shredding service, huge piles of documents can be shredded in a fraction of the time.


Mobile shredding is probably the easiest, most secure, and most rest freeway of disposing of documents. 

Some of the service options frequently offered by mobile document shredding companies:

Ongoing scheduled service
One time bulk shredding.
Onsite shredding          
Offsite plant based shredding
One time purges
Electronic destruction / Recycling
Daily, weekly, monthly, and semimonthly (or, biweekly) schedule

For a company, it can be a good investment to hire a mobile shredder to come to the site regularly and dispose of sensitive documents. After all it can cost a lot of money to warehouse this type of data. Instead of documents sitting around collecting dust, a mobile shredder can make mincemeat of them with minimum hassle and clear the clutter. 

You can find more information about certified <a href="http://www.document-shredding.biz">mobile document shredding</a> and paper shredding in general at our website.


