Title: 
A guide to fancy dress wigs and look like a star

Word Count:
365

Summary:
Amy Winehouse certainly has created a unique look and with the help of fancy dress wigs you too can look like Amy, Elvis or one of your favourite icons.


Keywords:
elvis, amy winehouse, wigs, fancy dress, parties


Article Body:
Many of the fancy dress wigs on the market offer value for money and include wigs for period fancy dress costumes and can transform you instantly. A wig made from synthetic hair is also sensitive to heat and can be easily make your head hot . 

They really are such a fun way of changing your persona. Fancy dress parties are popular all year round in both Scotland and England and with so many different colours, styles and themes all you require is your imagination.

 Some of the most popular wigs are some great bride of Frankenstein wigs which stand very tall on the head. Fancy dress costumes from the 60s vintage plus 70s retro clothing and wigs are still very popular. Older classics like the Bishops and other clergy wear fancy dress, judges wear wigs etc are still popular at parties. Fancy dress wigs have the power to transform the mundane into something attractive, or, if you wish, they can do just.

Why people still buy wigs?
 Wigs for fashion, wigs for parties, fantasy wigs, wigs for hair loss or simply wigs for a great change of style - instantly! Wigs for parties, parades, shows, theatrical performances, plays, Halloween, Christmas and all occasions and they do not need to cost a fortune and for these reasons are why wigs are still so popular today.

If you're going to a fancy dress party or just feel like a change in your appearance then a wig is the best option, have fun in a wig, While you can always hire or buy costumes from most fancy dress stores, why not use a bit of imagination and create a look yourself?
 
Costume wigs are a quick and easy way to transform an everyday hair style their purpose is short-term wear for disguises, parties, and special events. A great selection of fancy dress costumes & wigs, whether it's for bedroom fun, or parties such as halloween, Christmas or new year. 

For younger clubbers the current trends are the our afro wigs, red party wigs, afro wigs, 70's wigs, bob wigs, flick wigs, beehive wigs, mullet wigs, Cher & Abba wigs and dressing up wigs. TV, Movies & Cartoon Wigs to name a few.


