Title: 
A Look At Architectural Engineering

Word Count:
435

Summary:
Anyone who is skilled in planning, production and operation of building may have the talent to find a successful career in architectural engineering.  An architectural engineer is responsible for designing and planning the interior workings and foundation of a home or building.


Keywords:
architecture,architectural,engineer,engineering,technology,art


Article Body:
Anyone who is skilled in planning, production and operation of building may have the talent to find a successful career in architectural engineering.  An architectural engineer is responsible for designing and planning the interior workings and foundation of a home or building.  Architectural engineers are responsible for overseeing plans and blueprints for everything from towering city buildings and bridges to small country homes and luxurious mansions.  A successful engineer must be versatile and creative while maintaining respect for local building regulations and codes. 

There are a number of jobs available in the world of architectural engineering, including self employment.  A qualified individual may produce a home or building blueprint, which consists of both interior and exterior elevations, foundation and floor plans, roof details, electrical layouts, cross sections and other general instructions.

In order to find a career in architectural engineering, an individual must become licensed through an accrediting agency.  In addition, an architectural engineer must make themselves familiar with building codes, local laws and regulations and must be skilled in their craft.  In order to learn this information, engineering hopefuls must pursue a college degree and learn firsthand how the process works.

In addition to designing a home or building, engineering professionals also make adjustments to already developed plans.  This may include altering blueprints for a home, business or landmark in order to be customized to the individual or local area needs.  Many individuals hire an architectural engineer to oversee the design and construction of their project, but others decide to enlist a professional after construction has already begun.  If problems arise in the construction or they simply need a helping hand, many individuals and companies turn to the world of engineering for a professional evaluation and redesign.  

Concerns surrounding both energy costs and safety have, in recent years, prompted many areas to require an architect and/or engineering seal be placed on a blueprint prior to construction.  In addition to the actual design process, many engineering professionals review plans and offer consultation services on independent creations.

While many engineers find great success within a design and development firm or working directly with individuals or companies, many find that they are happy working on a freelance or consultant basis.  This means that they work directly with the company or individual, own and operate their own business and handle every decision within the company.  The freedom of self employment in the world of engineering can be very fulfilling, both financially and emotionally.  Much like a doctor, lawyer or accountant who branches out into their own private practice, an engineering professional may also enjoy that same freedom.


