Title: 
A Look at Used Metal Detectors

Word Count:
273

Summary:
There are many kinds of metal detectors - gold detectors, coin and jewel detectors, relic hunting detectors, beach-hunting detectors, and underwater metal detectors. Buying a metal detector can be a tricky affair. Before one decides to buy a metal detector, here are a few points to consider.


Keywords:
Metal Detectors, Used Metal Detectors, Walk Through Metal Detectors, Hand Held Metal Detectors 


Article Body:
There are many kinds of metal detectors - gold detectors, coin and jewel detectors, relic hunting detectors, beach-hunting detectors, and underwater metal detectors. Buying a metal detector can be a tricky affair. Before one decides to buy a metal detector, here are a few points to consider.

How often will it be put to use? If it is for a new hobby, it may be a good idea to buy a one with a lot of features.  

Where it will be used? Will it be used on the beach, underwater, or in the woods?

Who will use it? If it for use in the family, there are detectors that have adjustable arm cups and separate pouches to mount the electronic box.

How much will you spend on a detector? It is advisable to be a little flexible in this regard so that one can buy one that most suits the requirements.

Buying used metal detectors usually offer the best value for your money. It is always best to buy used metal detectors from a respected dealer, rather than a classified ad. Most dealers offer a money back guarantee or a trade-in option. If you are buying from someone other than a dealer make sure it is someone you know and trust. Most dealers sell only tested metal detectors. 

Prices of used metal detectors vary from $275 to $700 for all-purpose metal detectors. Underwater metal detectors can cost around $500. Most used accessories can cost $200. It is also a good idea to keep in mind that a used metal detector will not have the manufacturers warranty, but dealing with a reputable dealer will eliminate some of the risk.


