Title: 
A Solid Choice for Business cards

Word Count:
397

Summary:
In order to keep pace with today’s busy world, you go out with a potent handy tool. It must be so accessible that you can put them in your pocket. Tiny yet powerful, what do you think will it be?


Keywords:
4 color printing, 4 color brochure printing, 4 color postcard printing, 4 color poster printing, 4 color sticker printing, 4 color flyers printing


Article Body:
In order to keep pace with today’s busy world, you go out with a potent handy tool. It must be so accessible that you can put them in your pocket. Tiny yet powerful, what do you think will it be?

Whether you are a businessman, lawyer, doctor, engineer, model, marketing analyst, you are definitely in need of business cards. Let’s face it, we cannot cope up just by talking the whole day. Our facilities are limited thus, we have to extend them through the help of marketing tools. 

Business cards are powerful in the sense that it can transmit valuable information by just handing them to individuals. Whether you know them or nor does not matter. What matters is that you give them to the right recipients. 

Who then, are the right recipients? They can be your prospective clients or customers, your friends, your associates and employees. With this, you can be assured that your money will not be put to trash but will serve as an investment to make your business or profession productive. 

Brochures need to be eye-catching so as to attract attention. Thus, they must be printed in the most effective manner. The solid choice though is 4 color business cards printing. Why? Simply stated, it is outstanding – outstanding for the cards, outstanding for your resources. 

To choose how many colors to use in a brochure printing job is an easy task. You will just have to consider the text, image, graphics, logo and the likes. This is another reason why 4 color printing is such a big hit. With it, colors are like a huge palette available to be used by the printer. Second, it is not expensive like six-color printing and spot colors. 

To achieve color quality, avoid doing color separations just by yourself. Seek assistance from printers. 4 color process is pretty exacting and may not be tolerated by amateurs. Thus, you have to have assistance from the pool of experts when it comes to 4 color business cards printing. Printers can adjust to your business card printing needs. 

Business cards are advised to be printed on coated paper. After that varnish or liquid lamination is applied. This will make them durable and lasting. To be sure that you will be getting high-quality prints, request for matchprint proofs.

Make a lasting business card impression, 4 color business cards printing can be your valuable formula!


