Title: 
About Heavy Equipment And It's Uses In Construction

Word Count:
498

Summary:
Find out about the heavy construction industry and how it works...


Keywords:
heavy equipment, heavy construction, construction equipment


Article Body:
There are different types of construction that can be performed depending on what needs to be fixed or built in society.  For instance one major type of construction is heavy construction.  Heavy construction is the type of work that occurs when infrastructure is added to an already built up environment, such as building a highway.  Those who own heavy construction projects are typically national or local level government agencies that deal with large contracts that last quite a length of time.  

Heavy construction projects are usually done in the best interest of the public to service them better.  Of course, it is hard to agree with this when you’re stuck in traffic while the roads or the sewers beneath them are being replaced, but indeed the end result has us in mind. That being said, not every heavy construction project is undertaken by the government. Some large, private corporations, such as power companies, harbors, railroads, mines and golf courses, are also involved.  These private companies, among others, undertake heavy construction in order to create dams, railways, massive earthwork projects, etc.

Some developments that are considered heavy construction projects include:

- buildings
- parks
- playgrounds
- apartments
- stadiums
- factories
- malls

The most important part of heavy construction that makes it successful is the equipment that is used.  Heavy construction equipment is essential to the project, because without it, even the basic construction work could never be completed.  They are typically quite large, and are created specifically for one or two different uses. The primary equipment used for heavy construction includes but is not limited to: bulldozers, cranes, well drilling machinery, earthmoving equipment, loaders, draglines, cable plows, scrapers, generators, rollers, light towers, etc.

Each piece of heavy construction equipment plays an important role in the project.  For instance, as far as groundwork is concerned, heavy rollers are used.  Heavy rollers set up the project and find the base.  They are then used to raise and drag tons of stones and iron from one place to the next.

The biggest problem that often occurs with heavy construction is the cost of building.  Heavy equipment is quite expensive, and the people needed to work these machines and tools need to have the skill and experience in order to handle them.  That being the case, many companies make the decision to rent or lease heavy equipment, sometimes even with or without the operators.

Unfortunately, because operators need to have both the skill and knowledge to work the equipment, they have become practically as indispensable as the heavy equipment.  This can sometimes cause problems for companies who require heavy construction projects.  To beat this problem, some companies hire people and then pay for their training, as opposed to trying to find someone who already has the training and is therefore going to request a much higher salary.

Despite certain problems, and expenses, most heavy construction projects are completed.  The result of a heavy construction project is usually something that many people can benefit from and enjoy.


