Title: 
Accessories for your laptop computer

Word Count:
660

Summary:
A few pointers while travelling abroad with your notebook computer


Keywords:
laptops,notebooks,computers,accessories,dell,verizon,toshiba,acer,compaq


Article Body:
Accessories for your new notebook  computer  

Just spent big money on another notebook?.Now you need accessories.Here are a few accessory ideas you may want to think about to make the set up complete.

1: Notebook bag

You can't very well go travelling around the globe with your laptop exposed to the weather.

When it comes to laptop bags, you can spend £15 for a basic case made from cheap materials or up to a hundred pounds on one made of quality leather.some notebooks have the bag as a give-away, i find that you can get an affordable one by shopping around and not neccessarilly buying the exact one, but one that will do the job. Personally i pick one that  is big enough to hold a few accessories besides.


2: Software

Did your notebook come with software? If so, did it come with the right software - the software you actually need to perform whatever tasks you require?

Don't just assume you have everything you need. You'll probably need to add some software, as well as go on the net to update the software that was included.

3: A Real USB Mouse

The inbuilt touch-pad does the job. However, given the choice, most people would rather use a real mouse.

If you stop and think for a moment, you're likely to realize that many places where you'll be computing actually are suitable for a real mouse.

So one of the most useful laptop accessories you can buy is a USB mouse, keep it with you, and use it whenever you're able.

4: A Cat5 Ethernet Cable

Your built-in Ethernet port won't do you much good if you get to your hotel room, discover an Ethernet connection, and don't have a cable. Some hotels provide them; others don't. Always come prepared with the right cable.

5: A Standard Telephone Cable

The same holds true for your modem connection. If you don't have a cable to get you from your computer to the phone jack, you're not going to link to the internet.

6: Disposable Cleansing Cloths

Over time, the display on your notebook is going to get dusty, or even grimey. You're diceing with the death of your laptop if you attempt to clean your display with paper towels and spray cleaners.

Instead, use disposable cleansing cloths. These essential laptop accessories are designed specifically to clean laptop displays and they are cheap to boot, about £2 a pack . Always have a pack on hand.

7: USB Drive

A USB drive is a storage device about the size of your thumb that plugs directly into a USB port.

Capacity-wise, they're relatively small - usually well under 100 MB. However, they're very useful for moving files quickly and easily from one computer to another, e.g., moving a PowerPoint presentation from your laptop to your business associate's laptop.

A USB drive also makes a great temporary backup medium for the really important files you create on the road.

8: Blank CD-R Discs

You've just finished your big sales presentation. Someone from the audience approaches you afterward and asks for a copy of the presentation.

You'll make a better impression if you  burn them a CD of the presentation on the spot.

9: Stereo Headset

It's great to be able to watch DVD movies no matter where you are. Imagine watching your favourite flick at 30,000 feet.

There's just one problem.

The family in the row behind you has absolutely no interest in hearing the dialog from the latest drama movie 

Do yourself and everyone around you a favour. When you're watching movies or listening to music in public, use your headphones.

10: Security Device

Laptop security devices come in many shapes and sizes.

For example, most laptops include a security dock that allows you to attach your laptop to some immovable object via cable, much like you'd lock up your bike on the street.
                     laptop computers

      david is the owner of www.discount-notebooks.net which deal in great bargains on the latest laptops,notebooks & their accessories


