Title: 
Advantages of Writing e-Books

Word Count:
559

Summary:
Writing e-books can be a more cost effective means to promote your work while being environmentally friendly in the process. If you are meaning to make a name for yourself as a writer, then perhaps writing e-books is something you might like to try.


Keywords:
Writing e-books 


Article Body:
Writing e-books can be a more cost effective means to promote your work while being environmentally friendly in the process. If you are meaning to make a name for yourself as a writer, then perhaps writing e-books is something you might like to try.

If you have had no luck in the pieces you have been sending to publishers in the past, you can keep trying other publishers until one of them notices your talent and decides to publish you. However, in the meantime, you can start writing e-books and distributing them online. This way, you will be able to reach your audience even if you have not gotten your book to the printers yet. True enough, the market for e-books is not as significant as the readers for traditional paperback and hardbound books.

However, writing e-books will give you the chance to gather constructive criticism from e-book readers and this in turn will help you polish your work and may help you eventually get the attention you deserve from publishers. This means savings on your part because having to print your book yourself can be quite expensive. If you write and distribute e-books instead, it will barely cost you anything.

Plus, it costs the environment less because you won't be cutting down trees to write e-books. Cutting down trees from uncertified forests as we know contributes to our already growing problem with Climate Change. The carbon dioxide accumulated by trees in its lifetime is released back into the atmosphere at the event of their death.

What's more is that, writing e-books is easy. You do not have to be a super technical person to do it. You can just write your book in a normal program like Microsoft Word and save it as a PDF file, which most e-book reader programs will readily open. Once you are set with writing e-books, you can join e-book forums and distribute your work there while communicating with your possible readers there for comments and such.

Before anything else though, after writing e-books and before distributing them to online business, do take the time to protect your intellectual property rights by registering your work in the relevant government agencies. This will take some time, effort and money for fees, but this step in the process is quite important. After all, once your e-book is distributed online, there will be nothing to stop unscrupulous individuals to plagiarize your work.

Imagine this: you finally see your work published on the shelves, selling like hotcakes but the one getting the fame and glory is someone else who has stolen your work for his or her own. So taking the time to get your work registered is a necessary step to ensure that you continue writing e-books successfully.

Proper risk management is an essential foundation of becoming successful. If you follow these simple steps needed for writing e-books then chances are you might be able to begin to establish yourself as a writer. You may not have the large base that traditional paperback books enjoy, but you have to start somewhere.

Also, you just never know who will be able to read your work. The world wide web is vast and who knows-maybe someone important or beneficial to your success as a writer will come across your work and give you the break that you need.


