Title: 
Aircraft Maintenance

Word Count:
281

Summary:
Flying in the sky like a free bird has always been a dream and motivated the Wright Brothers to create this marvelous machine called Aircraft. But to ensure optimum performance, reliability and safety from it, you need to maintain the Aircraft as well.


Keywords:
maintenance, aircraft maintenance, car maintenance, equipment maintenance


Article Body:
Flying in the sky like a free bird has always been a dream and motivated the Wright Brothers to create this marvelous machine called Aircraft. But to ensure optimum performance, reliability and safety from it, you need to maintain the Aircraft as well.

Aircraft Maintenance has two main critical functional models- preventive maintenance and requirement-based maintenance. In Preventive Maintenance, some extra steps are usually taken to protect the aircraft from snags that could possibly occur in future, like wing inspection after every flight to foresee and rectify problems that could possibly create problems while landing or in the air.

Requirement Based Maintenance involves rectifying the problem as and when it occurs, i.e., it is requirement specific. It usually involves critical activities, so instructions are usually prepared proactively for every foreseen problem to ensure minimum time wastage during its occurrence.

Aircraft Testing is the most critical operational activity that maintenance technicians perform. Every part, like wings, fuselage, tail plane, pumps, valves and communication equipment, is inspected and immediately replaced if found problematic. 

Testing procedures are usually repetitive, complex and meticulously designed. These procedures are divided into certain levels depending upon the kind of maintenance the aircraft needs. Under normal conditions, an aircraft is inspected after every flight (Level 1) and subsequently the level increases with increases in flying hours. The experts suggest getting the Aircraft checked every six months at a Maintenance Yard for thorough inspection.

Taking passenger safety into account, Aircraft Maintenance has never been considered as an ordinary maintenance activity. International Aircraft Maintenance agencies like the Federal Aviation Administration (USA), EASA (Europe), and AIATA (Australia) have laid stringent rules and guidelines for Aircraft Maintenance to ensure maximum safety for passengers.


