Title: 
An Introduction To Pallets &  Their Uses

Word Count:
512

Summary:
When you see a delivery truck open as it’s being unloaded, you will almost certainly see pallets if you take a peek inside. The majority of pallets are wooden, but plastic, paper or metal are alternate options. A pallet is a flat structure, which is used to transport a variety of goods while being lifted by a forklift. In some areas, but less widely used, metal pallets are also available. Before being lifted, the goods are placed on the pallet and secured by straps to ensure ...


Keywords:
pallets, freight, b2b, moving, storage


Article Body:
When you see a delivery truck open as it’s being unloaded, you will almost certainly see pallets if you take a peek inside. The majority of pallets are wooden, but plastic, paper or metal are alternate options. A pallet is a flat structure, which is used to transport a variety of goods while being lifted by a forklift. In some areas, but less widely used, metal pallets are also available. Before being lifted, the goods are placed on the pallet and secured by straps to ensure safe transportation. 

The most economical of pallets, which are made of softwood, are disposable and are generally discarded once they reach their shipping destination. Both hardwood and plastic pallets are more expensive and are used time after time. Some manufacturers choose not to discard older wooden pallets as they can be used as donations of firewood. Paper pallets, on the other hand, are used only for light loads because they are not as strong as those made of wood. Paper pallets are most widely used in businesses where recycling and hassle free disposal are necessary. 

The most common place to see pallets would be in a warehouse or factory, which is where delivery trucks are loaded and unloaded. Rows of merchandise are transported on pallets and longevity is very important when transporting such a large quantity of merchandise. The more items being delivered, the higher the value and the more dependable the mode of transportation must be. 

In addition for providing efficient shipment, pallets are used to save time. Consider a situation where a retailer orders 250 boxes of one product. A pallet would save much time in that all of the products are unloaded at one time, using a forklift. Were it not for a pallet, the store workers would have to make continuous trips on and off of the delivery truck just to get the product in their store. A pallet allows all of the products to be removed at once and placed on the floor for easy distribution. As such, pallets are widely used among retail or manufacturers for loading and unloading a heavy load of merchandise at one time. 

In order to efficiently operate, virtually all businesses must incorporate the use of pallets. From large retailers to small jewelry stores, each business uses this product either in-house or in a warehouse for easy retrieval of their products. Automobile manufacturers even use pallets in transportation of spare auto parts or deliveries from their suppliers. 

Perhaps one of the best aspects of pallets is the various ways they can be relocated. As mentioned previously, they can easily be moved using a forklift. In addition, they can also be transported using jacks and human strength. A forklift is a very expensive piece of equipment, but a jack is far more economical and can be purchased at a fraction of the cost of a forklift. As such, there is a transportation for pallets no matter what the budget. Whether a large retail corporation or a small, start-up business, pallets are readily available for all to use.


