Title: 
An Underground Singapore Affiliate Marketer Reveals How He Makes $11,353.80 in 3 months

Word Count:
257

Summary:
There are many  ways one can earn money online. One of the easiest way is definitely via affiliate marketing. Have you heard of Affiliate Marketing? Affiliate Marketing is basically promoting other people products and getting a commission whenever a sale is made. However, Affiliate Marketing  has evolved to such an extent that you can make money even without making a sale!


Keywords:
ppc, cpa, affiliate marketing, ppc marketing, AM, IM, ppc to cpa, cost per lead, cost per action,


Article Body:
One aspect of CPA marketing that commonly gets overlooked is researching what the customer wants and expects.  Not only is researching an important aspect of CPA marketing, it is one of the most important.  The following paragraphs will help explain why this step in CPA marketing is so vital.  

If you are new to PPC/CPA marketing and trying to figure out the best way to get started, this is a must-read.

Cost-per-action (CPA)- An online advertising payment model where payment is based solely on qualifying actions such as sales or registrations. What we are doing over here is driving traffic through PPC search engine such as Google Adwords, Yahoo Search Marketing and also MSN Adcenter. We then create a landing page to tempt visitors to fill up a form requesting for some sort of freebie or information about their topics. We will then get paid a certain amount of commission from the Affiliate Network.

One of the most important things about CPA Marketing is developing your model of how you want to market your offers.  Without proper research and planning your strategy about how you are going to market your niche, you are most likely going to lose money on PPC search engine without getting a lead. 
Thus, you will need a proven system for you to follow so that you will not make the same common mistakes when promote CPA offers via PPC as promoting CPA offers via PPC can be quite expensive and will lose a lot of money if you are not careful


