Title: 
Answers to 5 Questions about Ty Coughlin and the Reverse Funnel System

Word Count:
471

Summary:
What, exactly is a reverse funnel system and who is Ty Coughlin? Read on to find out....


Keywords:
Reverse Funnel system, home business, home-based business, business opportunity, roadmap to riches, 6 figures in 6 month


Article Body:
Among those looking for home business opportunities, there is a lot of buzz about Ty Coughlin and the Reverse Funnel System. What, exactly is a reverse funnel system and who is Ty Coughlin? Read on to find out....

1. What is the Reverse Funnel System?

The reverse funnel system refers to the way that prospects are accepted into a specific home-based business opportunity. Instead of simply collecting names of prospects, many of whom may not be serious about the business opportunity, a reverse funnel system asks prospects to pay a fee in order to get additional information about the opportunity. The fee is relatively low - usually about $50 - and serves to weed out prospects who are not inclined to follow through with the business opportunity. The reverse funnel system is sometimes known as a "funded proposal" or "funded prospect" system. If you sign up for the system and launch your own business, you will generally get a significant percentage of the prospect fees that are paid through your referrals. 

2. Who is Ty Coughlin?

Ty Coughlin is the person who has used and codified the Reverse Funnel System to make it profitable for others. According to his biography, Ty Coughlin lives in Hawaii and worked for a construction company prior to owning his own business. He had also tried multi-level marketing, and eventually came up with his own Internet-based system that utilizes Internet marketing and advertising. His system has proven to be a roadmap to riches for many people, since it has few variables.

3. What Actions are Required?

Once a person is accepted into the program, he or she has to take high converting advertisements developed by Ty Coughlin and then place those ads. As leads start coming in, the person has to answer any questions that arrive through email and attend a daily conference call. 

4. Does it Cost Money to Start the Business?

All business owners invest money to launch their businesses, and the Reverse Funnel System is no exception. However, when compared to other business opportunities, such as franchises that can cost tens or hundreds of thousands of dollars, this home business opportunity costs around five thousand dollars. The person who signs up is responsible for paying the prospect fee, as well as the costs of marketing and advertising the business. Typically, however, there is a money back guarantee. If a person is not accepted into the business, their prospect fee is refunded. 

5. What are the Advantages to the Reverse Funnel System?

According to the website of Ty Coughlin, there are many advantages. There is a potential for making 6 figures in 6 months, access to a proven system that can produce seven different income streams, and business automation advice. In addition, the system is self-replicating, so new business owners don't have to have a lot of knowledge about building websites or Internet marketing.


