Title: 
Apollo applicator for small delicate labelling

Word Count:
207

Summary:
New from the creators of EASYLABEL has announced the introduction of the Apollo 1, a new label printer that features an optional label applicator designed for small, delicate, high-precision print and apply applications like electronic components and printed circuit boards. Like others in the Apollo Series, the Apollo 1 will also offer the stand-alone feature that allows label printing with or without a computer attached.


Keywords:
labelling,applicator,label,label printer,thermal transfer,print and apply


Article Body:
New from the creators of EASYLABEL has announced the introduction of the Apollo 1, a new label printer that features an optional label applicator designed for small, delicate, high-precision print and apply applications like electronic components and printed circuit boards. Like others in the Apollo Series, the Apollo 1 will also offer the stand-alone feature that allows label printing with or without a computer attached.

The Apollo 1 applicator is a tamp-type unit that provides delicate, high precision application of small labels with an accuracy of +/- 0.02 inch. Field tests for placement accuracy have recorded a best of 0.008 inches and a worst case of 0.031 inches. The smallest label end-users are currently applying is five wide by two inches high. The applicator attaches to the front of the new Apollo 1 thermal transfer label printer and provides a very small overall footprint.

The new Apollo 1 features 300 dpi print resolution running at eight inches (200mm) per second with a 4.2 inch (108mm) print width. The Apollo 1 comes standard with an internal rewind and ribbon saver, as well as a high-speed 32-bit processor with 2MB of RAM. The Apollo 1 also features three printer-resident scalable typefaces, and supports the primary bar codes including UPC/EAN, Code 39, Code 128 and Interleaved 2 of 5, and two dimensional symbologies such as PDF417.


