Title: 
Are You Stacked?

Word Count:
512

Summary:
Get your mind out of the gutter.  We're talking chairs.  If you're still using folding chairs, you better be running a Bingo night.


Keywords:
computer desks, computer furniture, computer tables


Article Body:
Get your mind out of the gutter.  We're talking chairs.  If you're still using folding chairs, you better be running a Bingo night.  If you're storing extra chairs for conferences, presentations, or anything else that needs to appear professional and not give your guests a backache they'll spend more time thinking about than your Power Point slides, you'd better make sure you have decent chairs.

We found attractive, comfortable stackable chairs at Versa Products.  The Versa Stack Chair features a black polypropylene seat positioned on a solid chrome frame.  An opening integrated in the sculpted 19 inch by 12 inch seat back allows for ease of movement and enough lumbar support to help your guests think about something besides how badly their lower back hurts (it won't).
The chairs are light, easy to carry, and one person can stack and move up to forty chairs at a time, cutting down on time intensive set-up and break-down.  The floor glides prevent marks and scratches on the floor, and eliminate "tipping."

Perfect for schools, conference centers, churches, meeting halls, and offices, these chairs are also great for home use and take up less space than folding chairs.  Priced at only $45 each for 51 units or more, or $49 each for ten units or less, they're also affordable.  And you don't need to worry about the cost of replacing them.  Like all of Versa's products, the Versa Stack Chair is guaranteed under Versa's no-hassle Lifetime Warranty.

Versa also offers three other types of chairs, all protected under the company's comprehensive warranty and all made of the same high-quality materials.  The Versa Task Chair is a height-adjustable, easy-to-tilt, comfort-cushioned chair ideal for any computer desk or workstation.  It's ergonomic and can be ordered with or without arms.  Steel rollers on a weight-distributing base allows for easy movement, and the Task Chair comes in gray or black.

The Versa Drafting Stool makes up the third chair in the line-up, a perfect companion to both Versa's Drafting Table and Art Table. It features one-touch height adjustment, steel casters, and can be purchased with or without arms.  The contoured cushions—available in both black and gray—cradle your body, making it one of the most comfortable drafting stools on the market.

Last but not least, is Versa's beautifully upholstered black vinyl Side Guest Chair.  Attractive and sleek, the contoured back rests on a steel  frame, sporting comfort pads on the elbow rests.  These chairs are wonderful as guest chairs in any office, but also work well in conference rooms, waiting rooms, and home offices, too.  At $79 each, they're a bargain, but Versa's Side Guest Chair also boasts one of Versa's best quantity discount pricing tiers.  At only 25 chairs, the price drops to $69 per unit, and of course, as is with all of Versa's products, shipping is totally free.  This chair is only available in black.

In addition to seating solutions, Versa also carries complete lines of computer desks, computer lab tables, computer desk accessories, drafting furniture, computer carts, laptop drawers, cable management systems, and much more.  Visit them online to request a catalog.


