Title: 
Are you in the right business? - Part 2

Word Count:
637

Summary:
This is the second part of the home business tip about the most important things you must know to be sure if you are in the right business or not, which will of course, determine your failure or success...Visit our online archive for the first and the thrid part of this article.


Keywords:



Article Body:
Are you in the right business? - Part 2

by Polydoros Gavrilakis

In the first part, I talked about the 1st step you have 
to take in order to determine if you are in the right 
business...

The second and also very important step is to know your 
product fully.

Have you bought and actually used the product you are
promoting?

It doesn't matter if it's top notch, recommended by 10s
of gurus, or it's been advertised all over the net...

What matters is, what do you think about it.

Forget about the compensation plan, the commission 
pay out...and any possible residual income opportunity...
and ask yourself the following question:

If there was no income promise, would you buy this 
product for that price?

If the answer is NO, then you are definitely in the 
wrong business.

Why?

Simply, because that's what others will also think when
you try to sell it to them and they won't buy, except
of some people like you, that will buy it just to make
money, and after not making any, they will disappear...
and with them your 'residual' commissions will disappear, 
too.

If you are just a free affiliate for that product, then
do you need to buy it?

Yes, only if you want to make money - if you are an 
affiliate just for fun and don't care about profits, 
that's ok!

But, if you do want to make money, or if you have already
sold 1-2 copies of that product, the first thing you 
should do is buy it to see for yourself what this product 
actually does, do they deliver what promised? do they 
provide top notch customer support? 

Even, if you have sold 10s of copies of that product for
some time, you need to be sure that it is of the highest
possible quality, in order to not waste your money and
time with it…because even if people buy it, if the product
does not deliver what promised many people will get a
refund and you will eventually end up losing money and time...

So, that's it...

Before you decide to maximize your marketing and advertising
efforts...

Before you decide to focus your time and money on that 
product or opportunity... 

Make sure to spend that little amount needed to buy it and 
also take the time to use it to see for yourself if 
this is for you.

You can't imagine how easier it is to persuade others to
buy something you have used and know that it works!

I hear your question...

'What if the product is a very expensive one, but has a 
very attractive compensation plan? like for example, those
opportunities where you are asked to buy some online tools
for $500 or more and then refer others to earn 80-90% of 
that huge price?'

Please, answer this simple question:

Would you pay that amount, for example the $500, for these
tools, if there was no compensation plan? just for the 
product - nothing else? would you do that?

If the answer is no, then, you really don't have to lose 
any more time and money with it...

Is there anything more you need to know to be sure
you are in the right business?

Stay tuned to Home Business Opportunity News for more
details next week...

You are free to publish this article online or offline 
in any media, as long as it remains unchanged and the 
resource box below is included.

----------------------------------------------------
Polydoros Gavrilakis is the Editor of Home Business 
Opportunity News, the ad-free newsletter that 
delivers ONLY the quality information you need to 
succeed with your home based business. Get Your
FREE Lifetime subscription NOW to find out a secret,
but simple and secure way he's using to earn $1000s 
per month online: http://www.HomeBizOppNewsletter.com
----------------------------------------------------


