Title: 
Best practices for eCRM

Word Count:
331

Summary:
The Customer Relationship Management is first of all and before anything  else, a business strategy technologically supported and not the other war around. It consists on identifying the value of the clients, to keep them, develop them and get new ones. In this perspective, the prospecting of acquiring new clients begins with WEBinar while sales in itself, especially the presentation to prospects, is done in eSales.


Keywords:
web presentation, webcast, teleconference, webinar, internet video conference, audioconference,  webconference, web conference, emeeting, skype, software,training, sales, meeting, video conferencing, e-learning, customer loyalty


Article Body:
Preparation
Make the difference between the development of current clientele and market prospecting. In the first case, contacts are identified and are established in the client’s account. Therefore, is convenient to organize a presentation since Conferenceware automatically generates the information required for an invitation, the description, schedule and the mode for voice broadcasting within the format of a new message. From there, you just have to select the persons you want to invite among your contacts. Consequently, a copy of the invitation is saved in each of your contact’s file, in your CRM software. In the case of prospecting by WEBinar, the list of registered persons is imported in CSV format in order to automatically build contact information in your CRM software.
 
Progress
The objective of commercial presentations is usually to get information regarding the prospect’s business problematic and to identify the persons with power among the organization that have the weight to make the buying decision making. Is through the interactive questionnaire that is possible to evaluate the preoccupations in terms of problems along with the buying criteria of each of the persons influencing the process. While meeting with them, you are able to identify each person’s role within the acquisition, user, evaluator, and their level of knowledge, beginner or expert as well as their attitude: ally, neutral or hostile. In the case of acquired clients, the interactive questionnaire is precious to evaluate their loyalty particularly their disposition to make referrals. 

Follow up
The report of a reunion indicates not only the participants but also the answers they have provided to the questions submitted: problems, retained buying criteria, loyalty index. From there, you should be able to prepare a differential proposal, showing by the grade of pertinence, your understanding of the client’s needs. Moreover, by recording a meeting, in which voice and image are synchronized, it can be replayed to check the fine tuning and be kept in the file as an attachment to opportunity.


