Title: 
Body Worn Cameras Simplify Stealth Operations

Word Count:
252

Summary:
Backpacks, sunglasses, buttons and baseball caps, what do these items all have in common? They are just some of the things that body worn cameras are concealed in. Even cell phones, pagers, day planners, watches and pens can contain the new types of miniaturized surveillance cameras available for covert use. There is even a blue denim jacket with a concealed camera that is used by police departments and television stations.


Keywords:
Spies, spy gear, surveillance products, Spy Gadgets


Article Body:
Backpacks, sunglasses, buttons and baseball caps, what do these items all have in common? They are just some of the things that body worn cameras are concealed in. Even cell phones, pagers, day planners, watches and pens can contain the new types of miniaturized surveillance cameras available for covert use. There is even a blue denim jacket with a concealed camera that is used by police departments and television stations.

Do you need to take hi quality digital photographs on the sly? One of the types of body worn cameras, that is a watch, can take up to 320 pictures and download those images straight into your PC. There are body worn cameras that look just like a pen, and that actually work if you need to write with it. These pens are wireless and come with an external transmitter that can be hidden in a pocket or bag. The wired versions of these pens can be plugged into a camcorder or micro VCR.

What if you just want a body worn camera on you to take quick pictures whether for fun or covert operations? There are body worn cameras that are smaller than a credit card and are actually used as key chains. They can also be used as a web cam. 

Are you a smoker? With an imitation cigarette lighter that is actually a digital camera, you can take great pictures, simply and easily as these cameras feature automatic exposure. These little beauties can also be used as a PC camera.


