Title: 
Buying and Selling Restaurant Equipment Equals Big Money

Word Count:
530

Summary:
If you are looking to make a lot of money in a field that few people dare to dive into then you should look at buying and reselling restaurant equipment.


Keywords:
beverage air, used beverage air, beverage air cooler, resaurant equipment, restaurant equipment


Article Body:
If you are looking to make a lot of money in a field that few people dare to dive into then you should look at buying and reselling restaurant equipment.

You can go out to local auctions or store closeouts and purchase used restaurant equipment for pennies on the dollar.  You can find items such as Hobart Mixers or Beverage Air Coolers and steal them away for a couple of hundred bucks.  You will need about a thousand to get a decent start in the business, but you might look for an investor to really give you business a huge push.  Once you have purchased your first lot of items from your local auction then it is time to clean up the equipment and then test it.  A little elbow grease will go a long way, and you can increase the worth of your product just by taking the clean the grease off of it.  Then plug the item in and check to see if it works, if it does you will pull in double to triple what you paid for, and if it does not work then you can just sell it broke, and still make a couple of bucks off the item. 

The biggest problem with selling restaurant equipment is space.  You need to move the equipment fast enough so that you are not wasting space, and you are profiting even with the cost of storage.  With that said you can always start with your garage and work up to a storage unit, and then when you are up to the big boys you can purchase a warehouse.

If you are looking to get started in business then you need to learn about the different brands, and also you need to learn everything you can about ebay.  Ebay is the easiest way to branch out nationwide. You will also need to learn about freight and how to freight an item, and be sure to watch you cost.  You can many times shop the different freight companies and find one that will work with you at a discount if you are going to give them a lot of return business.  

I think this is one of the biggest money making businesses that you can start with low capitol, and build up.  I don't believe in starting in the hole, so I would start with one auction and build up from that.  I have friends in this business that I work with and they can do 25,000 in sales in a couple of days on eBay.  It is important that you understand this business is a lot of hard work. But, if you work it correctly you can reap the benefits of success.  

So, if you are looking for a huge return on your money, and don't mind working for it, then you should take interest in restaurant equipment.  Remember buy used because it's cheaper and has a higher profit margin.  EBay is your best friend in this business, and I would advise you to find someone that is doing this already and see if they will show you the rope of the business, and try to get a jump start.


