Title: 
Cash Paid Surveys – Finding the Best Companies

Word Count:
518

Summary:
This is about cash paid survyes and comanty sites


Keywords:
Paid Surveys, Surveys, cash surveys, how to make money surveys, online surveys, money making surveys, surveys making money, surveys online, Cash Paid Surveys, get paid surveys


Article Body:
Cash paid surveys are fun and have become a source for extra cash for lots of people today. It is a convenient and easy way to earn extra money with not a lot of work, in the comfort of your own home.  Sounds hard to believe to some, but it is true.

If you are looking for such an income generator, then prepare yourself before taking the plunge.

Basic Steps to Getting Setup with Cash Paid Surveys

First, select a few sites that offer cash paid surveys and read carefully what they are offering you. Some sites will offer you direct access to the marketing companies who process the surveys. In this case you will have to browse the database and apply for the surveys you are interested in, other sites act as “the middle man” - thy have agreements with big marketing companies from which they receive the surveys and then distribute them through their registered users. In this case, you will have to passively wait for surveys to complete.

Also, bear in mind that not all paid surveys are actually cash paid surveys… Some surveys do not offer money as a reward for completing them. Instead, you might receive a free product or a service; discounts at certain merchants, vouchers or coupons, free trials, etc. there are even surveys that allow you to join a competition upon their completion. If you are not really after these kinds of remunerations, it's better to make this decision yourself in advance to avoid disappointment later.

Another important thing to consider is how you will get the cash and who is paying. If you have joined a mediator type of site, you are usually paid by that site, not the one you are doing the end survey for. If you have joined a database of companies seeking survey participants you are likely to be paid by the surveying company. Regardless of the details you should be aware of the payment method - are you going to be paid by check or by bank transfer etc.

Double Check Your Details!

Finally make sure that your personal details will be used as stated in the contact details you originally submitted. Unfortunately, there are many fraud survey web sites that would offer you to participate in a cash paid survey, for the sole purpose of getting hold of your personal details. From there, your details can later be sold to many other companies and you may end up receiving hundreds of unsolicited mail and SPAM emails. Make sure you investigate the company in which you are going to participate with. Do a browser search on your computer and see if any reviews appear in your search. 

Remember if you get with the right companies, cash paid surveys can be fun and easy. If you would like more reviews and tips check out my links below. 

Feel free to visit all some of my sites <a href="http://cash-paid-surveys.free-info-review.com" title="Cash Paid Surveys">Cash Paid Surveys</a> and <a href="http://get-paid-for-surveys.free-info-review.com" title="Get Paid For Surveys">Get Paid For Surveys</a>


