Title: 
Changing Business Etiquette Affects Secretary's Day Gifts

Word Count:
430

Summary:
Once upon a time a boss could take his secretary to lunch, or give flowers and candy for what began in 1952 as "National Secretaries Week". Today, the etiquette for what is now known as "Administrative Professionals Week" has changed, according to human resources experts. It's leaving bosses wondering what kind of gifts are appropriate to give their office staff in today's workplace.

"There's increasing concern over what's proper for a boss to give an employee in the workp...


Keywords:
secretary day, gift, administrative professionals week, secretaries week, gift giving


Article Body:
Once upon a time a boss could take his secretary to lunch, or give flowers and candy for what began in 1952 as "National Secretaries Week". Today, the etiquette for what is now known as "Administrative Professionals Week" has changed, according to human resources experts. It's leaving bosses wondering what kind of gifts are appropriate to give their office staff in today's workplace.

"There's increasing concern over what's proper for a boss to give an employee in the workplace," said Daniel Karpelman, who edits gifting advice for GiftCertificates.com. "Are flowers too personal? Is taking your admin for lunch and cocktails inappropriate? Bosses are worried about crossing the line in the current atmosphere of workplace etiquette and potential liability."

Karpelman notes that giving the right corporate gifts can not only motivate and reward, but helps build employee commitment and strengthens your organization from within. Taking time to choose the right gift can enhance the employee's appreciation of the gesture.

"Gifts that demonstrate some thought and effort are always better than something that feels hastily purchased, said Karpelman. "Many people enjoy a gift certificate to their favorite store - they are thrilled that you've recognized their diverse interests and given them a choice! When accompanied by a handwritten note, your gesture is sure to be appreciated; everyone likes to be recognized for hard work."

If you're puzzled on what interests your staff members might have, GiftCertificates.com has an innovative solution - a SuperCertificate® which gives your employee the gift of choice. Imagine sending your secretary on a virtual shopping spree with a certificate redeemable at over 200 top stores and restaurants including gifts like clothing, jewelry, electronics, movie tickets and much more. SuperCertificates® are easy to give, never expire and can even be sent by email.

Karpelman adds that although it's only natural for co-workers to compare their gifts, the monetary value of your gift certificate need not be the same for everyone on your staff. "If there are wide discrepancies in the gifts that you give, be aware that hurt feelings could arise. However if the same individual has worked for you steadily for 20 years, it would be perfectly appropriate for that person's gift to be substantially more significant than for someone who has only been with the company for six months."

Whether you call them secretaries or administrative professionals, a stellar one is the heart of a well-run organization. This year, National Administrative Professionals Week is April 23-29. Make sure you don't miss this opportunity to let your staff know how much they are appreciated with a gift that is appropriate and welcomed.


