Title: 
Checklist for Your Metal Building Project

Word Count:
647

Summary:
If a business is considering a construction project for a new building, then it is necessary to have all the facts on metal buildings. For any construction plans, there is a basic checklist to consider that will help you with a metal building project and should be considered and understood before undertaking any metal building project. The checklist defines the roles of the people involved in the project and here in this article.



Many companies w


Keywords:
metal buildings, dealer, designer, construction, contractor, documents, building, supplier


Article Body:
Many companies will save money when they operate in a metal building. Metal buildings are cheaper to construct than conventional methods and can be built in about half the time. Not only will a business save money in construction costs, but in maintenance costs over the life of the building. Metal buildings are also more adaptable than other types of buildings as they can have a column-free interior, thus allowing any floor-plan configuration needed for maximum production, storage, or personnel capacity.

Therefore, if a business is considering a construction project for a new building, then it is necessary to have all the facts on metal buildings. For example, metal buildings of today are not the limited use and unsightly structures that were built in the past. To the contrary, thanks to recent innovations, metal buildings are used for a variety of applications--from small, one-car garages to large, aircraft hangars able to accommodate jumbo jets. For any construction plans, there is a basic checklist to consider that will help you with a metal building project and should be considered and understood before undertaking any metal building project. The checklist defines the roles of the people involved in the project and is listed below.

The Construction Project is all encompassing and includes all materials that make up the metal building system and work that needs to be completed at the jobsite. The foundation work, land preparation, and finish work should also be included in the definition of a complete building project. 

The Contract Documents are the legal instruments defining the work and materials needed to complete the construction project. For a metal building construction project, it is normal to have separate documents for the contractor, general contractor, and metal building dealer. Contract documents, at a minimum, outline the work to be completed, pricing, timeline, and any other requirements that are applicable to the metal building project.

The Contractor is that person who will supply materials and complete the erection of the metal building system.

The Dealer (an independent contractor) is that person who will order and purchase the metal building system from the supplier. The Dealer resells the building to the end-user and may or may not be the person to complete erection or provide other services to complete the metal building project.

The Designer is the person responsible for the design of the metal building. The Designer can be an architect or engineer that is hired to implement the desired and required design specifications for the metal building project. This would include the metal building system and its erection. The Designer can also assist in the overseeing of the construction project to ensure contract compliance.

The End-user owns the metal building construction project for eventual occupation, leasing, and future sale of the metal building.

The Erector assembles or erects the metal building system. The Erector could also be the contractor, general contractor, or a third party working under a sub-contractor.

The General Contractor is responsible for providing all the materials and work for the metal building project as itemized in the contract documents.

The Metal Building Supplier designs and supplies the materials for the metal building project.

Review all of the above aspects of the various personnel involved in a metal building project and have a clear understanding via legal documentation of all roles and responsibilities before beginning construction. In conclusion, while a metal building provides the best structure for just about any business needs, it is important to have all the facts before construction begins to avoid any confusion and have accurate expectations of the roles of the people involved in the project. You will indeed save valuable time and money with a metal building. Using a metal building is certainly a smart decision for your business. Therefore, know the various roles of the people involved to make the process move forward swiftly and more smoothly.


