Title: 
Choosing A Business Gift

Word Count:
318

Summary:
The business gift that you choose says a lot about you. It provides for your partners a look into the appreciation that you actually have for them. While you may not think much about it, thinking that a gift is a gift, they do. So, choosing the right business gift is quite important. The question is, how can you do this? 

To choose the business gift that will work, follow these guidelines: 

• Purchase based on value and meaning rather than price. If you should shop with...


Keywords:
Business gift


Article Body:
The business gift that you choose says a lot about you. It provides for your partners a look into the appreciation that you actually have for them. While you may not think much about it, thinking that a gift is a gift, they do. So, choosing the right business gift is quite important. The question is, how can you do this? 

To choose the business gift that will work, follow these guidelines: 

• Purchase based on value and meaning rather than price. If you should shop with a $200 dollar fruit basket, they won’t appreciate it as much as $50 tickets to their favorite basketball teams next game. 

• Purchase a gift that you know they will love. Find out something about them. Do they love the opera? Perhaps you noticed that they love a certain restaurant. Find out just what it is that they enjoy. Taking this small bit of time will ensure that your business gift is well valued. 

• Don't make a big deal about it. Don't present your gift in front of an office full of people to outdo others. If you think that the boss doesn't notice you showing off, he does. Not to mention that this can cause competition and then you'll be spending a whole lot more. Just be polite about presenting your business gift. 

• Include a personal message. Thank them, tell them you appreciate them. Provide them with a thought of friendship or pride that you may think means something to them. No, don't try to win them over here. Be honest about it. 

If you are purchasing a business gift for a client, make sure to include that note of personal thanks. Don't just have the secretary stick your card in the envelope. Take a few minutes of your time and make sure that whoever you are sending your business gift to, will really appreciate your thoughtfulness.


