Title: 
Choosing a Metal Manufacturing Facility

Word Count:
632

Summary:
Manufacturing technology continues to change, allowing factories to produce more goods at faster and cheaper rates. Metal buildings offer the best environment for manufacturers to operate. Yet, such high-quality comes at a very affordable price. See for yourself the extraordinary benefits of a metal building.


Keywords:
metal, buildings, manufacturing, money, facility, quality, building, business


Article Body:
Manufacturing technology continues to change, allowing factories to produce more goods at faster and cheaper rates. It is therefore very important to be able to stay up-to-date with the latest technology in order to keep up with the competition. When a manufacturing facility is constructed with metal, reconfiguring the floor-plan may be done easily thanks to the column-free interior that has no load-bearing walls or columns. A well-planned manufacturing floor leads to more efficient productivity, and likely, more profits. Another savings of time and money comes from the extraordinary construction design. Metal buildings may be pre-welded, pre-drilled, and pre-punched at the factory before being transported to the construction site, allowing for rapid, systematic assembly. Again, the sooner a manufacturing facility is up and running, the sooner it can begin earning profits. The bottom line is that metal offers the most cost-effective solution to designing and building a new manufacturing facility. Consider the cost-saving reasons to build with metal.

Manufacturing companies want a quality building, but at an affordable price. A metal building system offers significant savings in construction costs (even up to half the costs) allowing the money saved to be invested elsewhere. Money is also saved in the form of lower insurance costs. Some insurance providers offer building owners special discounts for buildings that are framed with metal because the material is inflammable and highly durable against severe, potentially damaging weather. Fires that burn wood-framed buildings are difficult to extinguish; yet, a fire inside a metal-framed building may be contained in just one room. As a result, employees and equipment are better protected in a metal building. Take no chances with a cheap wooden-framed structure. These tough buildings are designed to last! Make sure your business investment is safe by choosing metal in the framing of your new manufacturing facility.

The majority of companies anticipate having their new manufacturing facility in use for many years to come. No one wants to have to build a new factory every few years. If you want your building to last, it will be necessary to use a high-quality building system. A metal building system will require less costly maintenance and last longer as it is unaffected by water, mold, mildew, termites. When you frame with metal, the connections are air-tight and therefore produce a building that is climate-controlled—saving you hundreds in heating and cooling costs, as well as protecting sensitive equipment from the danger of heat, cold, moisture or humidity.

Metal buildings may be designed in other ways so as to accommodate your manufacturing needs. For example, a metal building can offer the choice of a wide-range of door sizes for your loading dock, such as bi-fold, bi-parting, and stacking are available. Just because it is a manufacturing facility does not mean it has to have an “industrial” look. Rather, the exterior is easily enhanced with decorative brick, wood, stucco, glass, or aggregate panels to fit the look of your company. Therefore, it will not have to look like an ugly metal box that is an eyesore for the surrounding buildings; but instead is an attractive building sure to be a recognized and welcome landmark for many years to come.  

When building a new manufacturing facility, you will want it to have as much quality as the products you manufacture. That standard of quality can be guaranteed when you build your new factory with metal. All the aforementioned reasons make the investment in a metal building worth every penny. Your business is too important to compromise on a cheap warehouse that falls apart in only a few years. Having a manufacturing facility with little to no maintenance problems can give you peace of mind that production will not be interrupted. Choose the best that will last and you will not regret the decision.


