Title: 
Choosing The Right Keywords Is Of The Utmost Importance

Word Count:
390

Summary:
Unless you have a huge advertising budget, using SEO optimization and effective keyword strategy in the long run will be less expensive than buying ad space or purchasing placement with click campaigns.


Keywords:
search engine placement, search engine placement services, search engine placement service, top search engine placement, better search engine placement, improve search engine placement, search engine optimization search engine placement, improved search engine placement, higher search engine placement, internet marketing search engine placement, guaranteed search engine placement, search engine placement and optimization, search engine placement improvement, high search engine placement, search engine placement specialist, search engine keyword placement, uk search engine placement, free search engine placement, search engine placement internet advertising, search engine placement marketing, guaranteed top search engine placement, search engine placement company, top 10 search engine placement, search engine placement e marketing, pay for placement search engine, search engine placement firm,submit web site search site search engine placement web site promotion ranking, affordable search engine placement, better search engine position placement, internet search engine placement, free ebook, free e-book, free SEO e-book, free SEO ebook


Article Body:
Know what words your customers will use when searching.
You might know what your customers search for. If not, find out. Is it a description of  "pants" or "jeans?" One may be searched more often than the other, but why not target  both? How about "executive gifts?" Maybe "desk accessories" will broaden your web site  marketing strategy.

Ask all kinds of people. Get advice from people in all walks of life including management,  employees, customers, vendors, friends and family on how they would search for effective  search engine positioning keywords. Ask them how they would search for different products  and services. It's really not about what you think they would search for, its about what they  think. Believe me, they can many times be two totally different things.

Once you have successfully harvested a meaningful keyword list, remove any keywords that  are too targeted or not to specific. Also remember that keyword placement is important.  Try to put as many keywords as possible in the beginning paragraphs, and of course the  title line.

The higher the value of the keyword the more competition you will have. Every SEO utilizes  tools similar to the Overture Keyword Suggestion Tool and also know the value of a  keyword. The lower the value of the keyword the less competition we will have. 

We don't want to aim to low but we also don't want to aim to high. We need to find a middle  ground. For you that may be a keyword with a value of no less than 1000 and no more than  10,000. It will be up to you to determine what you deem reasonable. 

Also, the keywords should appear regularly throughout the opening Web page. It is  especially important that they appear frequently in the opening paragraphs.
However, resist the temptation to overuse keywords. The search engines can spot it and will  reduce your page rankings. Tools are available to help with optimal keyword density.  However, avoid software that writes the site's pages. Search engines can sniff these out, too.

A good rule of thumb is: Never sacrifice quality of content for keyword placement. This will  affect your page ranking. Most importantly, your site won't appeal to visitors. For a FREE  EBOOK detailing the fastest way to the top of the search engine, visit:
http://www.ride-to-the-top.com   or  
http://www.1stepsystem-premier.com


