Title: 
Contact Lenses or Spectacles?

Word Count:
331

Summary:
While plenty of people still wear glasses, there seems little doubt that they’re on the way out.


Keywords:
glasses, spectacles, contact lenses


Article Body:
While plenty of people still wear glasses, there seems little doubt that they’re on the way out. There’s no doubt that putting them in and taking them out can be scary at first, but once you’re used to it they are much more convenient than having bulky glasses on your face, not to mention almost invisible, even to people who get close to your eyes.

Vanity isn’t the only reason to wear contact lenses, though. For many people, it is simply more practical – they work better for sport or any kind of manual work, for example, where glasses could easily get damaged. Contact lenses are also not subject to the many things that can go wrong with glasses, such smashing, breaking, or being affected by the weather (when they get rained on, for example).

If you’re just entering the world of contact lenses, though, it can feel like a bit of a maze. What should you get? Hard lenses or soft? Daily lenses or monthly? Each option comes with its advantages and disadvantages.

The easiest question to tackle is probably that of hard lenses. While hard lenses are still used in many parts of the world, this is mainly down to reasons of habit – people who are already using them are unlikely to switch. To the new user, hard lenses offer no advantages, and they are incredibly uncomfortable until you get used to them. It is much better to simply go with soft lenses.

When it comes to the question of whether daily disposable lenses are better, however, there is some controversy. Once you factor in the cost of cleaning solution for monthly lenses, there is little difference in price, but some people simply prefer not to buy and throw away so many lenses. Ultimately, though, daily disposables tend to be thinner and therefore more comfortable, as well as costing you less if you happen to lose one, which makes them better suited to the beginner.


