Title: 
Corporate Gift Baskets

Word Count:
548

Summary:
Corporate & Executive Gift Baskets


Keywords:
corporate gift baskets, executive, business gift baskets, client gifts


Article Body:
Copyright 2006 Hali Shipon

The Corporate Gift Basket concept has grown hugely over the last few years.  Business owners have realised that there is nothing so important as cultivating their relationships, both with their clients and with their most outstanding employees. Fostering and nurturing professional relationships, whether employees, or clients, is absolutely vital to develop and maintain loyalty.

Giving a corporate gift basket really shows that you care --- and if you are able to send a basket which reflects a hobby or a theme of interest to the recipient, your gift basket will be appreciated all the more. For example, if you know the person receiving the corporate gift basket is a keen golfer, then look for golf related gift baskets.  Some of the more exclusive gift baskets contain useful items, such as practice golf balls.

It really does pay to get to know your customers and your employees likes and dislikes. On the other hand, if you want to say a big “thank you” then check out gift baskets with that theme.  These baskets are particularly appreciated around the holidays, which is an expensive time for most people.  Employees with large families may buy gifts for everyone else, and nothing for themselves. When selecting your online corporate gift basket provider, ensure you choose a company which offers quality items, delivered in a timely manner.  These two points are absolutely vital.  Attention to detail and care in presentation is also important.   Whether you are trying to say “Thank You” or “Keep Up The Good Work”, the corporate gift basket is a wonderful way to impress with your thoughtfulness and taste.   It is important to ensure that your gift basket is appropriate to the level of relationship you have with the recipient.  If anything, then err on the side of being more generous, rather than less.  After all, you are trying to further your business relationship with this person, and if they feel you have scrimped or saved a few dollars, the effect of the gift basket will be wasted.   If you are sending a corporate gift basket to a client who spends millions with your company, then sending an obviously cheap or badly presented basket could have an adverse effect. Also, sending one basket for an office of fifty people would not look good.   On the other hand, sending a basket worth a thousand dollars to someone who spends only a couple of hundred bucks every other year is not economically viable. And what a fabulous way to thank a much valued employee for clinching a lucrative deal for the company, or for completing a project successfully.  After receiving a corporate gift basket, it is unlikely that your valuable employee will be vulnerable to being head-hunted any time soon.

There is no better way to show you appreciate and value your employees.  Sending a corporate gift basket is virtually guaranteed to win the hearts of your employees. Personalising the basket is important, especially for high spending clients.  Everyone likes to be treated as an individual, rather than a group.  Maybe you can afford to send two baskets --- one for the office, and one for the individual?  The benefits of sending a luxury corporate gift basket are long term --- you will be reaping the rewards for many years to come.


