Title: 
Different Kinds of Spray Booths

Word Count:
502

Summary:
There are many kinds of spray booths for painting, applying powder and many other applications, both large and small.


Keywords:
spray booths, paint booths, spray systems


Article Body:
There are various types of spray booths for practically any project you have in mind. And, if you can’t find what you’re looking for, custom spray booth manufacturers can make one for you. Following is a description of the different types of spray booths and a little about their uses. 

Spray Booths for Vehicle Painting: This is typically what many think of when they think of a spray booth. This type of spray booth is a well-ventilated, enclosed building-like structure used for spray painting a variety of vehicles, from boats to cars to airplanes. 

Painting any type of vehicle is an exacting, dangerous undertaking that should only be done by professionals. In fact, many do-it-yourself car enthusiasts often take their lovingly restored vehicles to experienced professionals for the paint job because they don’t have the equipment necessary to do a professional job – and safe – job. 

If your hobby ever becomes a full-time business, it is critically important to have the right structure to do the job. Because large amounts of harmful chemicals are being emitted, spray booths are necessary to help maintain things like airflow, temperature, draft direction and more. Spray booths have to adhere to strict environmental and safety codes. It is a highly regulated industry designed to protect man and nature. 

Powder Spray Booths: These are used when you want to apply a powder-based colorant to a surface. Unless you’re applying this type of colorant, most experts recommend regular spray booths for most jobs. In fact, they are ideal for everything from a regular car painting job to creating intricate airbrush designs. 

Spray Booths for Wood Finishing: If you’re a carpenter or furniture builder/manufacturer, a wood finishing booth is an ideal investment in your business. Wood finishing booths come in a variety of designs. 

For more of the hobbyist, there are so-called “bench top” versions that can sit atop a work table or bench to apply lacquer and other finishes. For the more commercial businessman, there are full-on versions that fit in a shed or workshop. In fact, some wood finishing booths act as sheds/workshops themselves.  

Spray Booths for Artistic Purposes: These are mostly used by hobbyists who use them to paint model trains, cars, airplanes, etc. They are small, lightweight and portable. And, they can be set up almost anywhere. 

Now that you know the different types of spray booths, following is some further information to help you choose the right size. 

Spray Booth Dimensions: What size spray booth do you need? You want to be sure to give length, height and width. And, do it for the largest size object you plant to use the booth for. 

For example, if you want to add spray booths for automobile painting, remember to measure each booth according to the size of the largest vehicle. Size matters because the larger the spray booth dimensions are, the larger the motor and fan wheel need to be to generate the necessary airflow into the recovery system.


