Title: 
Diverse Hampers

Word Count:
339

Summary:
Diverse Hampers provide the perfect unique gift for someone special.


Keywords:
hamper, hampers, hamper towers


Article Body:
Business Services UK carry out independent small business reviews from selected businesses within the UK.

Diverse Hampers

Diverse Hampers is a relatively new venture that is located in Somerset, the business is owned and managed by Niki Stewart. I asked Niki about her business life and why she decided to start up Diverse Hampers. 

After leaving school I started up an office supply company that became very successful, the company had an average turnover of £1.5 million. However due to personal circumstances I decided to leave last November. 

I realised there was a niche in the market for providing unique tower hampers within the UK. After spending 6 months researching the business concept, I launched Diverse Hampers in June this year. 

Diverse Hampers is slowly growing into a main player in the hamper sector. Niki is well aware she needs to concentrate her efforts on improving her online business model and continue with her marketing strategy. Her company not only provides hampers to the general consumer, she also targets the corporate world by sending out free miniature samples. This strategy is gathering momentum and leading to an increase in orders.

I have fully researched the hamper tower business within the UK and I believe Niki is right when she says there is room for Diverse Hampers to become the main provider in the UK. There product is very attractive and I can see franchise opportunities in the future. There is also potential to move this business into the European market.

Niki is a passionate about business, she is very experienced in business marketing and although Diverse Hampers is still a relatively new venture it is already showing the signs that it could grow into a much larger business.

The best testament we can pay her business is that we have already ordered our own hamper from her company. The team at Business Services UK wish Diverse Hampers all the best for the future. We are sure with a lot of hard work this business will turn this into a huge success.


