Title: 
Do People Know Exactly What Event Management and Event Marketing Is

Word Count:
513

Summary:
Event management starts well before the day of the event and requires much follow up work afterwards like requiring planning, marketing, invitee registration, confirmations and reminders must be very well thought out, and carried out, prior to your event. If all this is well done step by step, your event management company will be successful.


Keywords:
event,management,marketing,organizing,social,personal,national


Article Body:
The answer is No….As nowadays any Tom, Dick or Harry has an event management company without knowing the A B C of event management. Event Management is principles and practices associated with planning, managing and staging special events. There are a lot of important components like stage and logistic management, marketing, promotion, event evaluation and event reporting which lead to a successful event.

Now event management and event marketing are two sides of the same coin. Event management can’t go without event marketing, so any company or individual doing event management should think about marketing these events first. 

Any event management or marketing company or individual has to ensure success for which they are working. The event management company will work closely with the person for whom they are doing event management for as an extension of his team, providing the focus needed to manage each complex element of the event management process, leaving him free to concentrate on his core responsibilities.

We can categorize events as national events, social events and personal events.
Social events:  consists of award functions, fashion shows, musical shows etc.
Personal events: are marriage functions, birthday parties or any personal celebrations.
National events:  like Republic Day and Independence Day, they are considered to be very important events.

Conducting an event is not an overnight job. These events required proper planning and depth. An expert event manager or organizer has to start the work of organizing event few months earlier. Firstly an expert planner will think of sponsors to conduct the shows. To be very clear, national and personal events do not need marketing, but for social events like award functions, fashion shows etc. proper sponsors, advertisement and of course marketing are required.

Initial step to organize any event is to divide it into different parts.
1- In first part there will be a team of skilled marketing people, who could find good sponsors for the show. Advertisement is also a basic need for the success of an event.
2- Secondly, a group of people works on the venue where the show is to be conducted. The venue, day date and time are equally important factors, as such the place where event is to be conducted should be suitable for the public and even the day and time when the event is going to take place.
3- In the third part the important thing is practice of the show. The other expert group of people works upon the costumes, type of sub events like singing, dancing etc. of the participants. They conduct rehearsal again and again for the success of the show.
4- Fourth part is the selling of tickets in the public and of course the planning of proper security services. It is very necessary to be able control the whole crowd.

Lastly, when all these important functions get clicked together, a successful grand event is organized. In short, to make any event successful the most important thing is planning, and the other step is to follow up accordingly to the plans i.e. e hard work and keen efforts.


