Title: 
Dumpster Rental - Skip Hire - An overview for first timers

Word Count:
298

Summary:
If you have never hired a dumpster before there are all sorts of potential problems you need to be aware of, including legal restrictions on where you can put the thing and the different types of dumpster there are.l


Keywords:
dumpster hire, dumpster, dumpster rental, skip hire, skips, skip rental


Article Body:
Dumpsters  (Skips in UK) come in a range of sizes and shapes; from 2 cubic yard mini dumpsters to 30 cubic yard garbage roll on-roll off dumpsters suitable for retail premises. 

The basic builders' dumpster that people see at construction sites and on the back of trucks is 8 cu yds. This can hold up to around 10 tons of rubble. Even the most simple of building jobs produces an amazing amount of rubble, as you will know if you have ever had a simple job like a blocked off chimney opened up again. 

This type of dumpster is commonly dropped off from the back of a small truck with a pair of arms that lifts the dumpster off and on the truck. 

Different dumpster hire firms, in different cities, have different bases for their charges. Some charge per week, others just for each load taken away. Some charge by the ton. Obviously, you need to ask about the company's charging structure when you are booking and work out which package is going to suit your needs the best.

If you cannot accommodate the dumpster on your drive or front yard, you will need to provide lights and may need planning permission to leave the dumpster on the road. Find out in advance. The hire company will normally provide you with the legal minimum lights you need.

Some companies have drop-front or drop-side dumpsters, perfect if you are hoping to wheelbarrow your rubble directly into your dumpster. These dumpsters are in heavy demand, particularly in summer, so book ahead. If you can get one you will also need to obtain a builder’s 2 inch thick plank to wheel your barrow up, but it saves you all the work involved in lifting the rubble a shovel full at a time to head height.


