Title: 
EMS India

Word Count:
622

Summary:
Tandon Group offers EMS, IT Services, wireless applications, Software development services. Its group of companies providing services catering to various domains. It includes applications for defense, wireless communications, technology, IT Services and solutions, RFID manufacturing, Outsourcing Services.


Keywords:
EMS, IT, Defense, telecom, wireless applications, software development, RFID, MEPL, Syrma, wireless communication, State Police Department


Article Body:
Electronic manufacturing Services, IT Services, Outsourcing solutions provider: Tandon Group

Dynamism, vision and commitment to quality have been the keys to rapid growth in the world driven by technology and information. These are qualities that Tandon Technology Ventures (TTV) has owned and grown with across the last 30 years. Today the company continues to charge forward with new and diversified initiatives not losing sight of the singular goal of making India a technology and electronics leader. Tandongroup is EMS Provider Company which also provides Software development, BPO Services worldwide.

TandonGroup is formed by four different companies focusing on different domains.

1)	Tandon Information Solutions Pvt. Ltd: 

Tandon Information Solutions Pvt Ltd (TISPL) is a leader in providing custom software development and consulting services with a vision of creating a competitive advantage with software and becoming our clients' most valued partner. TISPL use leading edge technology in its operation and products/services which provide advanced solutions and support to keep our client at the top in the market. It is one of the Software Development company based in USA, operating from India

2)	Syrma Technology:

Syrma Technology Pvt. Ltd. is one of the well-known electronics manufacturing companies, which manufactures quality RFID Passive Tags, Precision Coils and Magnetic for various industrial applications. Located at Chennai, India.  Syrma Technology is part of the Tandon Group of Companies. Over the last 30 years, Tandon Group companies have been pioneers in electronic manufacturing and outsourced design services. Syrma has built a reputation of providing world class, high quality electronic manufacturing services to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) across wide industry segments: Telecommunication, Computer, Industrial Controls, Automotive and Medical.

3)	Memory Electronics: 

Memory Electronics Pvt Ltd (MEPL) is a Tandon Group Company. The company is having the manufacturing units in Nasik and Mumbai. Set up by the Tandon Group, MEPL is ready to give total solutions to customers in the field of Defense and non Defense Market in India and other countries.


4)	TISBPO:  TIS-BPO

(formerly known as Azure InfoTech) is a leading business process outsourcing company out of INDIA having its processing centers at Mumbai, Bangalore and Chennai TIS-BPO is part of the Tandon Group, which has over 30 years of varied experience of technology outsourcing for many industry giants across the globe. TIS-BPO specializes in end-to-end business processes, which include imaging, automated and manual data capture, data format conversions, back office processing and workflow solutions that are spread across diversified industries

5)	3G Wireless Communications Pvt. Ltd: 

This Company is formed by Techno-Commercial professionals. Main vision of the company is to be a premier Communication solution provider. Mission of the company is To be a premier consulting services company and provide the customer a one stop shop for all communication requirement in the Wireless market place, through Knowledge Management and Value added Services. 

6)	Tandon Technology Pvt. Ltd: 

Tandon Technology Pvt. Limited (TTPL) is a leading memory module manufacturer and has been manufacturing PC & Server memory modules since 1998 at its facilities in Sri Lanka. The company’s Fulfillment Centers are located in Singapore, India, U.K. & USA. Through its distribution partner network, TTPL is a leading supplier of memory modules and related products in the Indian market.

Tandon Technology Ventures took shape in 1978 as Tandon Magnetics, when the first magnetic recording heads were manufactured for floppy disk drives. The products made their way into the first generation of IBM PC. Since then there has been no looking back. As a pioneer in operating out of India’s Special Economic Zones, TTV companies consistently ranked as the highest electronics exporter out of India. 

For more information about our services you can log on to – http://www.tandongroup.com.  We always strive to serve our customers better. For any information you can contact us at links@tandongroup.com


