Title: 
Find a Notary Public

Word Count:
506

Summary:
Everyday in communities across the United States, thousands of people need to find a Notary Public to notarize legal, personal and other documents.  There is a tremendous need for notarizations,


Keywords:
notary public,mobile notary,find a notary, need a notary,notaries, notarize,search for a notary,needanotary,loan signing,mortgage loan,commissioned notaries,mobile notary service,court fingerprinting


Article Body:
loan signings and fingerprinting services at times and places other than during standard business hours or at routine locations (banks, title, attorney escrow and real estate offices) because many people can't afford the luxury of travel to a Notary Public’s office due to scheduling conflicts, disabilities, child care, working hours, or transportation problems.

Mobile notary publics provide a broad range of services such as loan document signings, administering traffic school test, witness deeds of trust, and notarize immigration papers, that oaths, provide expert witness service in court, fingerprinting, and seal other official documents from the privacy of your own home or office.

Mobile notary service has recently become a very popular career choice for individuals just looking to earn extra income or persons looking for flexible schedules. The mobile notary has become the icon for real estate, mortgage and title companies over the past 10 years. In many cases the notary is the only individual other than the appraiser that a borrower will physically see during a loan transaction. Before, one would usually have to pack the kids, get their identification, jump in the car and drive to the attorney, title or escrow office to sign important documents. Today, the mobile notary public will meet you at a specific time and location to and avoid you having to leave work early and fight traffic to get across town to the handle your business.

With the aid of the Internet, it is awfully easy to find a mobile notary service these days as many commissioned notaries have their own websites, some banks and credit unions have notaries, but they usually won't travel to meet you. There are some Internet sites like needanotary net that provide an extensive listing of notaries, whose credentials have been verified by a human being. This provides and assures you confidence that the person you engage is a trusted professional. This also saves your from unnecessary phone calls to verify the capacity of the person you are considering engaging. These types of sites can put you into contact with local notaries that are within your local area or neighborhood.

Some of these sites cater to businesses that use notaries as a core part of their business as well as to the general public. I personally would stay clear of any sites that require you to register, as they are usually contract service companies that normally charge you 30% - 50% extra, to dispatch a notary at your convenience. Dealing directly with the notary public will in most cases get you the best pricing. Most Internet sites allow you to enter your location via a zip code, city or county in order to find a notary.

When you actually contact a notary and schedule an appointment, accurately describe the exact nature of what it is that you need done and where you are located and expect to meet, so they completely understand the task at hand and price it accordingly. Also make sure you completely understand the services to be provided and the fees for such services.


