Title: 
Find An Offline Passion To Help Your Online Business Prosper

Word Count:
437

Summary:
Have you ever had the feeling that you are just in the middle of nowhere with your online business?

That you are on your own out in the cyber desert?

Totally separated from the outside world?

Should I use the term alienated from the outside world?

Did these weird feelings put their negative marks on the your daily performance of your online marketing efforts?

If the answer to these questions are YES, than I have good news for you:

YOU'RE NOT ALONE!

I don’...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Have you ever had the feeling that you are just in the middle of nowhere with your online business?

That you are on your own out in the cyber desert?

Totally separated from the outside world?

Should I use the term alienated from the outside world?

Did these weird feelings put their negative marks on the your daily performance of your online marketing efforts?

If the answer to these questions are YES, than I have good news for you:

YOU'RE NOT ALONE!

I don’t have physical proof(!) but I am almost sure than hundreds of thousands of honest hard working online marketers feel the same way every day.

After working 3 days straight in your home office you pop down to the local mall and it feels like that you're on Mars.

What are these people doing here?

They are talking to each other.

They are serving flesh and blood customers and others are cleaning brick and mortar premises?

Are they nuts?

Or am I nuts?

NONE of the ABOVE.

ALL online marketers can get into this weird state of mind and loose perception of the outside physical world one way or another.

I know I can.

But here's the quick fix for the problem:

Find a totally traditional offline activity, stick to it and practice it at least once a week.

What kind of activity should I look for, you may ask?

Any kind...fencing, play the guitar, dancing, songwriting cooking, gardening, playing the drums, embroidery, swimming.

Whatever...OFFLINE!

Your options are endless, but you need to pick one.

You will re-discover a totally different world. The REAL ONE.

You will come back to life and terms with your profession, which is online marketing: spending 8-14 hours in cyber world.

You need to talk to real people too. Talk to your neighbors, friends, family. Go to clubs, pubs.

Go out to the local park, and just run, run run...

Breathe in some fresh air.

I have just recently discovered my all time passion which is songwriting.

I can’t dedicate too much time to my passion, but I do dedicate a certain hour of a certain day of the week and spend time with my music teacher to write songs, play the guitar, and learn how to sing as well.

It is meditation. It is therapy. It's a cure.

It simply feels great.

It helps me immensely to push my online marketing business forward, to be more help of my family, my business partners and friends and to be more creative in every aspect of my life!

Find your offline passion to prosper in your online business!


