Title: 
Freightliner: it's not a truck it's a brand

Word Count:
312

Summary:
The advantaged to towing with a SportChassis is pulling your trailer using the frame rails, not the body. This ensures that the structural integrity of the body remains sound even after hundreds of trips and hundreds of thousands of miles.


Keywords:
sportchassis, freightliner trucks, horse trailer, exiss trailer, sundowner trailer, bison trailer, sooner trailer, titan trailer, horse trailers for sale, horse trailer listing, 2 horse trailer, 3 horse trailer, 4 horse trailer, 5 horse trailer


Article Body:
The Freightliner Truck Company is known for more than its rich heritage and benchmark products. Freightliner LLC manufactures the best heavy-duty trucks, truck chassis along with various semi-trailer trucks. Freightliner LLC continue to be a part of Daimler Trucks, North America.

Currently, Freightliner is still the leading brand in the manufacture of heavy-duty trucks.  Now Freightliner is manufacturing class 5 to 8 commercial vehicles along with pioneering in the manufacturing school buses, walk-in van markets and Diesel Class A recreational vehicle chassis. Freightliner Specialty Vehicles, Inc. was formed in the late 1990s when the need for a new kind of medium duty truck became apparent. These trucks have become widely popular with rodeo members as well as ranchers. Utilizing industry expertise and relationships forged during its time as an ambulance manufacturer, the Freightliner Sport Chassis product was born. A strategic relationship with Freightliner L.L.C. developed into a dynamic partnership pushing their Sport Chassis model instantly to the top of the market their market.

The 2008 Freightliner Sprinter Van 2500 is similar to its 2007 model as it's basically a commercial work vehicle. These vans are every increasing on American highways as they deliver the top performance in both storage and economy. This sprinter van is available in two wheelbases and two roof heights. It has a 3.0 liter CDI turbo diesel engine with a tall roof and a very low step-in height and also has wide opening rear doors. Used In 2008 Masters Golf Tour it features standard air-conditioning with an automatic temperature control and it also includes a four-wheel disc antilock brakes. It's priced anywhere between $36,435 and $41,980 approximately.

All in all these a great vehicles made by a great American company, Freightliner continues to lead in the industry of hauling and dominate their field. If ever you are in the need of a vehicle that can get the job done this is the one for you.


