Title: 
Garage Sale Hints For Displaying Your Merchandise To Sell More

Word Count:
414

Summary:
Garage Sale Hints for Displaying Your Merchandise

Garage sales are a common thing from early spring until just before the winter snows begin to fly. We’ve all been to dozens in our life and for the most part I’d say most people feel pretty comfortable that they could put on their own reasonable garage sale if they wanted too. Well we’d like to think that the following list of garage sale hints will help out those of you who are perhaps a little inexperienced in selling.
...


Keywords:
garage sales, garage sale hints


Article Body:
Garage Sale Hints for Displaying Your Merchandise

Garage sales are a common thing from early spring until just before the winter snows begin to fly. We’ve all been to dozens in our life and for the most part I’d say most people feel pretty comfortable that they could put on their own reasonable garage sale if they wanted too. Well we’d like to think that the following list of garage sale hints will help out those of you who are perhaps a little inexperienced in selling.

One of the most common mistakes that people make is in the way that they display the items that they are wanting to sell. If you spend just a few minutes thinking about what you are selling and how to best organize it, you will sell more stuff at a higher price. So…

Once your tables are set up either inside the garage a few days before the sale or outside on your driveway the day of the sale, it is time to put your merchandise out on display in a way that makes it easier for people to find and buy what they are looking for.

It is really critical that you don’t simply put everything out randomly, in big piles, or scattered all over the place on the ground. Ideally, you don't want people moving things around on their own. Take it from someone who used to work in retail: left to their own devices, people will make a royal mess of any organization system. 

If you can keep people from rummaging about, in, and underneath your carefully organized displays, you will save yourself a lot of reorganizing headaches later. Starting out with easy to access displays that are organized logically is a good thing. Here are a few other hints to keep in mind as you put out your garage sale items.

- No clothes should be thrown on the ground
- Small items should not be placed in boxes under the tables
- Everything for sale should be displayed when the sale opens
- Group items by price. 
- Divide the tables into areas for different price ranges and put a sign up letting people know what that range is
- The arrangement should make it easier for your customers to find what they need, what they want

These garage sale hints should help first-timers to have everything run smoothly. Just be sure to put like things together and give people enough space to move around.


