Title: 
Guide on Hen Parties games for fun and games

Word Count:
361

Summary:
If you are planning a hen party then ensuring the party goes with a bang has to be the priority of the hen or party organizer so having some party games are always a good idea.


Keywords:
hen parties, party, fancy dress costumes


Article Body:
Why not consider these games after you have purchased some fancy dress and hen party gifts for your guests.

Hen party number 1- The cross your leg game

When everyone is seated for 'present opening time', hand out a clothes peg to each person (I prefer plastic pegs, as wood could snag and ruin delicate clothing).

Each guest must clip the clothes peg to their skirt or pants, then sit back and let the party begin.

The aim is to not cross your legs. If you catch someone crossing their legs, you get to put your clothes peg on their skirt/pants. But the same goes for you... don't get caught crossing your legs. 

This might sound really easy, but you wouldn't believe how we unconsciously cross our legs when seated! Guests get absorbed in chatting and watching the presents being opened and completely forget themselves, crossing their legs. Lots of laughs. At the end of present opening, the winners are those who have been able to keep the clothes pegs away.

Hen party number 2 - Mr. and Mrs. Game

Since the popular TV program has come on to our TV screens in the UK this is a popular game and so easy to play, the questions can also be easily be changed.

Where was your partner born?
What colour are his/her eyes?
 Is your partner a tidy person?
Does he/she like cooking?
 Does he/she like sport?
What is their favourite TV programme?
What was your partner's first job?
How much does your partner earn now?
What newspaper does he/she read?
What is his/her favourite place?

Hen Party number 3 - Naughty bananas
This is quite a fun game, and also it's easy to set up. All you need are two bananas, two pairs of handcuffs, and two volunteers. 
Sit your volunteers on chairs, and put a banana in-between each of their legs, handcuff their hands behind the chair. The object of the game is to peel and eat the banana (without hands). The first one to finish is the winner.
Whatever you choose to play or venue selected hen parties are normally remembered for the right and wrong reasons!


