Title: 
Hand Pallet Trucks

Word Count:
322

Summary:
Pallet trucks are for moving pallets from one place to another. Pallet trucks not only make transportation of pallets easier but also ease loading and unloading while ensuring utmost safety. They can minimize time of transport considerably. Since the pallets can be rather heavy, pallet trucks need to be very strong and functional. Pallet trucks are generally used in industries like chemical and pharmaceutical factories, warehouses, food storage industries, retail stores, and others. Most pallet trucks can move loads of around 4,000 lbs.


Keywords:
pallets, pallet racks, pallet rack systems, pallet trucks


Article Body:
Pallet trucks are for moving pallets from one place to another. Pallet trucks not only make transportation of pallets easier but also ease loading and unloading while ensuring utmost safety. They can minimize time of transport considerably. Since the pallets can be rather heavy, pallet trucks need to be very strong and functional. Pallet trucks are generally used in industries like chemical and pharmaceutical factories, warehouses, food storage industries, retail stores, and others. Most pallet trucks can move loads of around 4,000 lbs. 

Pallet trucks are being designed to suit all kinds of environments and terrains, including highly corrosive and unsanitary conditions. Some pallet trucks are being made from zinc, and stainless steel, and some are chrome coated and galvanized to resist even highly moist atmosphere like pharmaceutical and chemical factories. These are suitable for clean room, laboratory, wash down, and corrosive material handling applications. 

There are different types of pallet trucks: low-profile pallet trucks, pallet trucks with scale (for weighing the load), big-wheeler pallet truck (for uneven floors and heavy loads), specialty pallet trucks (made of zinc or stainless steel for unsanitary environments), wheel-nose pallet trucks (for placing pallets closely in a row), ergonomic pallet trucks (for ease of operation), economic pallet trucks, "Freight Saver" pallet trucks, all-terrain pallet trucks (for any kind of terrain), foldable manual pallet trucks (light-duty trucks especially beneficial for going down narrow aisles, through doorways, or around tight corners), electric pallet trucks (with AC drive motor, battery pack, and regenerative braking system), and so on.

Some pallet trucks also have adjustable push rods, a wide turning radius, skin adaptors, and integral scales. There are some highly advanced pallet trucks that even contain a printer, LCD display, and a keypad with automatic tare functions that works on rechargeable batteries. 

Used pallet trucks are also available. Pallet trucks can be ordered and bought online at exclusive manufacturer websites. The internet is a good source for information about pallet trucks.


