Title: 
Hate Your Workspace? Convincing Your Boss To Change It Could Benefit Everyone

Word Count:
336

Summary:
Working inside an office cubicle may be hazardous to your workplace happiness. As a matter of fact, if you aren't satisfied with the physical workspace at your current job, you have lots of company.


Keywords:
Hate Your Workspace? Convincing Your Boss To Change It Could Benefit Everyone


Article Body:
Working inside an office cubicle may be hazardous to your workplace happiness. As a matter of fact, if you aren't satisfied with the physical workspace at your current job, you have lots of company. A recent study found that nearly three-quarters (73 percent) of respondents felt the same way.

That's something many businesses are taking note of. With more people spending more time in their office, the visual appeal and physical comfort of their work environment are becoming increasingly important.

How important?

It's been shown that properly designed workspaces can increase employee productivity, creativity and collaboration. To make that happen, one Connecticut-based company built an 85,000-square-foot, high-tech, open office complete with chairs and movable desk configurations on wheels, no cubicles and a rotating collection of art from local artists.

Open Door-less Policy

Employees at that firm, Vertrue Incorporated, can still find privacy for meetings or phone calls in separate "quiet rooms." However, their computers are connected to an "Electric Eel," a set of springing cable cords that extend from the ceiling and provide the voltage to power each mobile workstation. This allows them to roll up next to their colleagues for impromptu meetings.

And that open "door-less" policy extends all the way up to CEO Gary Johnson. "It's part of our commitment to making this a happier, more fun place to work," he said. 

Convincing Your Boss

So how do you get your employer to make changes? And should you aim for the same lactation room for nursing mothers, high-tech café featuring flat-screen TVs, and "comfort room" for ill employees that Vertrue opted for?

Experts say you should consider the following tips:

&#8226; Conduct research on the Internet on other companies that have created open-office environments.

&#8226; Ask your boss or human resources representative for a private meeting to discuss these ideas. 

&#8226; Create and distribute an employee survey, asking others for their suggestions on which changes in the office might make them happier on the job.

Remember, the space you work in can affect the pace you work at.


