Title: 
Hot Franchise Opportunities

Word Count:
528

Summary:
A franchise is a license to use a trademark in exchange for payment of fees or royalties and involves some material assistance from the trademark owner. The typical business franchise provides the franchisee with a complete operating system that includes all of the systems, techniques, practices and sometimes equipment that the franchisee needs to get up and running and continue running. Usually, the franchisor also provides a marketing program and other support services. 
...


Keywords:
franchise,business


Article Body:
A franchise is a license to use a trademark in exchange for payment of fees or royalties and involves some material assistance from the trademark owner. The typical business franchise provides the franchisee with a complete operating system that includes all of the systems, techniques, practices and sometimes equipment that the franchisee needs to get up and running and continue running. Usually, the franchisor also provides a marketing program and other support services. 

Franchise businesses account for about one third of total retail sales in the United States, 10% of all fulltime businesses with employees, and franchises provide employment to over 7 million Americans. The average investment, before real estate expenses in over 75% of franchises, is less than $250,000. For this reason alone, franchises are appealing to many entrepreneurs. 

There are a few franchises that are new, up-and-coming and are hot in the franchise offerings right now. 

Health Career Agents provides healthcare providers with unique employment placement services through independent channels. The capital requirement needed to invest is $27,900. 

Right at Home is a company that offers in home care and assistance and is dedicated to improving the quality of life for its clients. The capital requirement to invest is $50,000 - $60,000. 

FranNet is the world’s largest network of franchise consultants. Consultants at FranNet assist new franchisees with every step of setting up their own franchise business. The capital requirement needed to invest is $30,000. 

Altoids Ò gum is being sold from designer candy machines. You can own these gum dispensers as a franchising opportunity. The capital requirement needed to invest is $16,000. 

Diet Center is advertising that it is ideal for the female entrepreneur population. They are a leader in the weight loss industry. The capital requirement to invest is $29,292 - $55,374. 

Mathnasium is a learning center that focuses purely on improving student’s math skills. The capital requirement to invest is $41,000 - $65,200. 

Vendstar vending machine sells to individuals who are interested in business opportunities. The capital requirement needed to invest is $2,500 - $25,000 depending on how many machines you want to own and operate. 

Ace Hardware has been in business for over eight decades and is still on the hot list of franchise opportunities. The capital requirement needed to invest is $150,000. 

Protect Painters provides painting services to residential and light commercial customers. The capital requirement needed to invest is $38,000 - $44,250. 

Discount Boxes, Inc. supplies moving supplies and boxes to people who are moving. The capital requirement needed to invest is $15,000. 

Clix is a unique retail portrait and on-location digital photography event company. Capital requirement needed to invest is $237,000 - $298-000. 

Ubuildit assists owner-builders to complete their self-managed new construction or significant remodel project. The capital requirement needed to invest is $100,000 - $225,000. 

SmartBox is a portable storage company similar to PODS. The capital requirement needed to invest is $350,000 and you must own 5 units. 

360 Degree Solutions LLC provides workshops, leadership training and offers business development consulting. The capital requirement needed to invest is $10,000 – $25,000. 

Of course there are franchise opportunities out there that will fit your skills, interests, passions and budget. Think of the success of McDonalds and Burger King and other restaurant franchises. If you’re interested in becoming your own boss, and making money for yourself, then perhaps owning a franchise is for you.


