Title: 
How to Start an LLC in Nevada

Word Count:
334

Summary:
Registering a limited liability company in Nevada is easy. There are a few basic processes which qualify organizations for LLC status. Any Nevada LLC formation must contain articles of organization that must be signed by at least two persons who are organizing the LLC. These articles should be delivered, along with a copy, to the Nevada Secretary of State, Corporations Division, for filing. Nevada law calls for the inclusion of certain information in the articles.


Keywords:
Nevada LLC, Nevada LLC Formation, How to Start an LLC in Nevada, Nevada LLC Forms


Article Body:
Registering a limited liability company in Nevada is easy. There are a few basic processes which qualify organizations for LLC status. Any Nevada LLC formation must contain articles of organization that must be signed by at least two persons who are organizing the LLC. These articles should be delivered, along with a copy, to the Nevada Secretary of State, Corporations Division, for filing. Nevada law calls for the inclusion of certain information in the articles. 

This information to be included in the articles must include several things. The first item required is a business name. The name that is chosen must have either ‘Limited-Liability Company,’ ‘Limited Liability Company,’ ‘Limited Company,’ or ‘Limited’ at the end. Alternately, the name can also contain abbreviations like ‘Ltd.,’ ‘L.L.C.,’’L.C.,’ ‘LLC’ or ‘LC.’  Further, the word ‘company’ can be abbreviated as ‘Co.’ The names selected should also be clearly distinguishable from the names of any other Nevada limited liability company. Additionally, there are several other obligations to be adhered to in selecting a name. The details of these are available with the service agents or the Nevada government.

The Nevada LLC application must also contain the resident agent’s name and address. The application should also carry the name and address of each of the organizers signing the articles. Furthermore, the application should carry the details such as the name, address and business details of any managers.

After organizations file for a Nevada LLC along with all original articles of organization, a certificate of organization is issued by the state government and delivered along with the conformed copy to the LLC representative. The original articles of organization are filed with the Secretary of State, along with information such as the month, day and the year of filing.

A Nevada LLC formation also requires the applicant to include some other documents like the Operating Agreement, a proven minimum 5 members, and adherence to rules on resignation of membership and the specificity of the mode of member contribution.


