Title: 
How To Start A Vending Machine Business

Word Count:
667

Summary:
If you’ve been considering your business options, vending machines are certainly worth putting on the list. There are some nice profits to be made.

Vending machines can be owned or rented by a store owner or by an entrepreneur that distributes the vending machines among store locations. Once you obtain the vending machines you want, you need to find locations for them and keep them stocked with merchandise.

If you own your machines, the profits you make are usually shar...


Keywords:
vending machines


Article Body:
If you’ve been considering your business options, vending machines are certainly worth putting on the list. There are some nice profits to be made.

Vending machines can be owned or rented by a store owner or by an entrepreneur that distributes the vending machines among store locations. Once you obtain the vending machines you want, you need to find locations for them and keep them stocked with merchandise.

If you own your machines, the profits you make are usually shared between you and the business that is housing the machine. The main types of machines include candy, pop, and snack vending machines; but there are other types too such as postal service machines or lotto machines.

As a vending machine operator, you will need to convince other businesses to allow you to place your machine in their outlet. Of course the higher the percentage of the profits they make the more enticed they will be to have your machines. You will have to get used to the word “No,” and not worry about it though.

When approaching a business where you would like to place your vending machines, make sure you are talking to one of the decision-making people. A common mistake is speaking to an employee rather than the owner or a manager that is in charge. Be ready to have 90% of the businesses you approach tell you no, but remember that leaves 10% that will tell you yes.

That means if you approach 100 businesses in a day, 90 will say no and 10 will say yes and that 10 has the potential of earning you a substantial income. So don’t worry about the 90%. Instead focus on the 10%.

Once you get the yes, you need to focus on determining the best location for the machine so that you optimize your revenue. Entrances and exits are always great spots. So are restrooms, lunch rooms, near the coffee maker, and next to other vending machines. You might also consider near a cash register, ATM, or in a waiting room. You need locations where people stop or gather and where they might potentially be looking for a snack.

Bulk candy machines, and toy or gumball machines do well when they are placed where there are kids, and where those kids are standing still waiting for their parents. That’s why you’ll often find them in the front of a restaurant.

These machines are mechanical. The money is placed in the slot and in return a ball, gumball, jewelry cap, or a handful of candy are released. The profit margin on these machines is very good. Your cost per item runs from ½ cent to 5 cents depending on your supplier, and your machines charge from 25 cents to 50 cents. The machines themselves are also a lot cheaper then soda type machines. However to make a full time living on these machines you will need to have many in place.

The soda and snack vending machines are definitely capable of providing a full time income. The advantage to these types of machines is the demand for the product. Combine that with good strategic locations and you’re in business. In fact many companies will actually contact you looking for the placement of a vending machine, especially in lunch rooms and places where the public might gather.

And once you’ve got your machine in their business they are unlikely to ask you to remove it unless you are providing very poor service to the company. After all they aren’t interested in dealing with repairs and stocking of these machines; they just want the convenience.

There are also specialty machines that you might consider such as those found in restrooms that sell hygiene products, condoms, medicine, and other toiletries. These machines do well in airports, bus stations, and truck stops.

Vending machines make a great business. There is plenty of opportunity and you require no special skills other than it’s helpful to be a little mechanical. So why not give it some consideration?


