Title: 
How To Get FREE High PR ONE-WAY Backlinks To Your Website Using Articles

Word Count:
576

Summary:
This article explains how to get High PR backlinks to any website just by using this one link building strategy.


Keywords:
link building strategy,one way backlinks,article marketing,link exchanges


Article Body:
We all know it, the more HIGH Quality links you have pointing to your website, the higher the search engines will rank your website. The questions is..."How can you get them without having to spend all that time doing traditional 'Link Exchanges' between webmasters, and more importantly, how can you get those high PR 'One-Way' Backlinks?"

Those are good questions indeed and I'll explain them in a moment.

But, before I do, let's first define what a "One-Way Backlink" is.

A "One-Way Backlink" is simply a link that points back to your website from someone else's without you having to reciprocate back.

It doesn't have to get anymore difficult than that.

The more pointing back to yours, the higher the search engines will rank your website depending on your keyword competition and the quality or PR(Popularity Ranking) of the backlink.

These are very important factors to consider when doing link exchanges because you want the best links possible.

I know I do, and I'm sure you do to.

If your new to the Internet Marketing scene then what I'm about to reveal to you within this article will literally save you *tons* of time and get you those much needed "One-Way Backlinks" so you can have a fighting chance for the keywords your website is optimized for.

So... what's the BIG Secret?

ARTICLES!!

Why 'Articles' you ask and how do they get you "One-Way Backlinks"?

Well, first off, if you've been online for any length of time then you know that 'Content Is King', but the beauty of writing and syndicating articles is you get to include a 'Resource Box' with your articles that has all your website details in it along with your "URL".

It's that easy and if your good at writing articles and write them often and they target a specific niche that needs to be filled then they should have no problem getting picked up and spread around the Internet with all your website details and URL attached.

And... just so you know, articles are also considered one of the Best forms of VIRAL Marketing available on the Internet, so this should give you some incentive to get started as well.

Well, that covers the first question. Lets now move onto the last which is... "How do you get those high PR 'One-Way' Backlinks?"

Two words... "Article Directories".

Article Directories are hungry for content and are always looking for fresh NEW content to add to their databases for their readers, webmasters and for newsletter and e-Zine publishers.

The great benefit to submitting to "Article Directories" is that they usually have high PR(between 4 and 6) within the search engines depending on if its new or not and is where you'll benefit.

And that's not all either. Everytime you submit a new article to an article directory it creates a NEW Optimized Page just for your article with all your website details and URL(MOST Important), so the more article directories you submit to, the bigger your network will grow with more "One-Way Backlinks" pointing back to your website from other high PR article directories.

And as those article directories are getting spidered daily by other search engine robots(known as Spiders) your new pages will get pick up and indexed within their databases as well building your link network BIGGER and Bigger.

If you see ANY potential in using this linking strategy then don't sit on the fence.

Get started today.


