Title: 
How You Could Take The First Step To Become Financially Free

Word Count:
1493

Summary:
Short description 

The author explains what “truly wealthy” means. Various possible routes to achieve this through earning passive income are suggested but Internet Business is recommended because it is by far the most exciting, rewarding and the best home based business. Tips are given that are for professional business working from home. 

Like the majority, I have been working very hard each day believing that the harder I work, the more money I would get. I would bus...


Keywords:
best home based business,internet marketing,making money online,


Article Body:
Short description 

The author explains what “truly wealthy” means. Various possible routes to achieve this through earning passive income are suggested but Internet Business is recommended because it is by far the most exciting, rewarding and the best home based business. Tips are given that are for professional business working from home. 

Like the majority, I have been working very hard each day believing that the harder I work, the more money I would get. I would bust my proverbial butt out working year after year slaving away for BOSSES who show little sign of appreciation, to earn a paycheck that could hardly pay my bills. 

After some trying and tiring years, I realized to my disappointment that I was not getting anywhere. I tried many other alternatives but none could work to my satisfaction and I began to resign to the fact that I’ve to forget about my DREAMS and continue to live life of the majority i.e. get up in the morning...get into the traffic jam...go to work... come back from work...have dinner...watch TV... go to bed...kind of life! 

Still, deep down in my heart, there was a burning urge to continue my search. I attended seminars after seminars to seek out a suitable direction that I can follow. 

At long last, in one of these seminars, I chanced upon an interesting finding - most of the very wealthy people do not actually work hard at all! I'm talking about people who live life on their own terms. 

They’re people who have all the money they need, yet they seem to have a choice to work when they want to...where they want to... for whom they want to. Best of all, they have all the free time in the world to travel...to spend with their kids... do gardening... lower their golf scores... to learn a new recipe in the kitchen... and to really, really enjoy life.

I also learnt the word,“LEVERAGE”which these multimillionaires used to create wealth by doing the minimum while harvesting the maximum. The true meaning of“wealth”suddenly dawned on me.

“TRUE WEALTH”means the ability to do what you want, however you want it and whenever you want it. This is “FINANCIAL FREEDOM” many of us are and should be yearning for. 

Also, the time when you're due to retire has nothing to do with your age. You can retire any time you want once you've achieved financial freedom. 

This can happen when you reach the age of 30, 35 or 40, not necessarily 55 or 60 as we're all brought up to believe. There're people who're in their 60's or 70's but could not afford to retire because they need their jobs to continue paying their bills! 

I was advised to stop“THINKING JOB". We, for many generations, our parents, their parents and their parents’parents had been brought up to have only one major objective in life -- JOB. We work hard in schools so that we could get good grades to advance to colleges and universities where we worked even harder so that we could get a good and secured JOB. Once we’ve got the jobs we want we continue to work very hard in order to maintain them and to climb the so-called organizational ladder of success. 

As a result, we all have fallen into the trap of the RAT RACE. 

Although some of us could be drawing quite a handsome income, we're not truly“wealthy”because we're not free to do what we want and when we want.

I've heard of many sad stories of rich EMPLOYEES not being able to spent badly needed valuable time with members of their families who're sick in hospitals because they could not afford to be away from their place of work for too long as their services are urgently required by their employers. 

Doctors could not really relax and enjoy a long vacation for fear of the loss of income or patients while their clinics remain closed. 

The bottom line is - we all have our JOBS to look after! We have no time to think of becoming TRULY WEALTHY and FREE.

I therefore suggest that you stop THINKING JOB effective from today. You should now realize that a job would not make you rich. If you have a job, you're being paid a salary for your EFFORT. Is it possible to get paid for putting zero or very little effort ? If your answer is “No”, you're dead wrong! Because you're still thinking job!

What I'm about to propose to you is this - copy what the truly wealthy people are doing (or rather not doing). They earn their income through various LEVERAGE STRATEGIES which allow them to make money while they’re sleeping, meddling with hobbies, or having vacation in far away places such as the beautiful beaches in Hawaii or Malaysia.

The first step we need to take is not to have a job working for others. You should start having your own business and work for yourself. Don’t get me wrong! I’m not suggesting for a moment that you start investing heavily in building a store, shops or even factory, getting employees, build up inventory, getting permits and licenses etc, etc. If you did this, you’d end up putting a lot of EFFORT and still having a “JOB” to look after this TRADITIONAL physical business!

There’re many routes the rich and wealthy are taking but not all of these would be suitable for you. You have to screen them carefully before deciding on the right one to copy.

Here are some of the more popular CONVENTIONAL routes: 

1) FRANCHISING 
This sounds like a good idea. You could tie up with big reputable organizations who could help you set up your business real fast. But you need to invest quite a huge sum of money and eventually you still end up having to look after the business physically. You still have a “JOB”. Is this what you want? No, I don’t think so.

2) STOCK, COMMODITY AND OPTION TRADING 
On paper this is a very exciting proposal. Many make their money from the trading. Despite the fact that there’re many tempting and seemingly attractive strategies put forward by hundreds of trading gurus, statistics still show that 90% or more of the traders would end up getting their fingers burnt in the long run. Is this what you want? No, I don’t think so.

3) LONG TERM INVESTMENT 
You could consider this possibility. Many had tried this and attained success in their lives. We need to invest considerable amount of money at the outset and reap the profit only after 5, 10 or even 20 years. Warren Buffett had the initial capital and enough resources to wait for 10 to 20 years. But can you wait that long? No, I don’t think so. We want more immediate results.

I’m talking about getting a system that allows you to “recruit” thousands if not millions of “salesmen” who are willing to work for you 24 hours a day and 7 days a week. The best part is the fact that they’re willing to do so for nothing!

I’m talking about a system that allows you to switch your business to “Autopilot” mode so that you could continue to earn money whether you’re awake, asleep or holidaying in Bangkok or Penang.

I’m talking about a system which allows you to work from home or some places 10,000 km or more away from home.

I’m talking about a system by which you could make money even if you do not have large capital or any products of your own.

I’m talking about a system that allows people who hate selling to perform excellent sales job to a level which is beyond their WILDEST IMANGINATION.

Yes, I’m talking about Internet-home-based-working-in-pajamas-online business. And I would seriously recommend that you pick the “Affiliate Programs” to start off.

The easiest way to get into business on-line is through affiliate programs which allow you to sign up as an affiliate member. You’re set to go within one to two weeks with your own websites all created for you…very often free of charge! You earn a referral commission from selling the program owners’ products.

These products are usually information products such as electronic books (eBook) and software that can be delivered as a file that is then downloaded directly to your customers' computers.

They could be reproduced, downloaded and sold repeatedly at no cost. There’s no packing, shipping and delivery cost. Owing to this, affiliate program owners usually pay their affiliates high commissions (50% or more).

I look forward to seeing you in the Web. Get ready and start working tonight in your pajamas to take the first step in your exciting journey to becoming TRULY WEALTHY and FINANCIALLY FREE!


