Title: 
How to Make Money from Home with a Free Rebate Shopping System

Word Count:
499

Summary:
This article discusses how a free rebate shopping system works and how to earn an income from home using this little-known business model...


Keywords:
make money from home, free website


Article Body:
With the Web being so popular today and shoppers buying everything from perfume to gift baskets online, there's an amazing opportunity to make money from home. One little-known method that many stay-at-home moms and dads are taking advantage of is a free rebate shopping system. This system enables individuals to stay home, own their own business, and save/earn money while doing what they love most - shop!

With the free rebate shopping system, you're able go shopping right from your own home and save money on items you usually buy anyway. The main differences are you can earn rebates on all your purchases and have all your products delivered directly to your doorstep. The free rebate shopping system saves you time and money.

How It Works

The shopping system works through large online malls. You receive your own free website and mall, and then shop through your mall to enjoy savings and rebates on purchases. Then you recommend others to get a free online mall as well. When they receive a free mall and start shopping, you earn commissions from their rebates. Some online mall businesses offer a tiered system where you can earn from many others down the line.

Is a Free Rebate Shopping System for You?

A free website and mall for rebate shopping is not for everyone. But if you love to shop, know others who love to shop, and want to earn a substantial income from home, the mall may be for you. Consider the factors and risks. Are there any risks to start your mall? Will you have to pay later? Will there be any hidden qualifications to start earning money? Do you have a passion to work at home part-time or full-time? These questions should be answered before considering this endeavor. 

Pros and Cons

The primary advantage to having your own free rebate shopping system is that you can have freedom to work flexible hours, if you can actually call shopping work. You can spend more time at home with your family while enjoying savings on all family and household products. You can also make money from home on a part-time basis with this type of business. If you're able to do this full time, you'll save many dollars on gasoline and babysitters. Another advantage is your malls might be very busy during the holiday shopping months, so this can help you make it through those dreaded holiday slumps.

The disadvantages are that you must rely on others to do some shopping under you to earn a good income and that you must be prepared to operate as a business for accounting and tax purposes. Also, as with any business, you should be prepared for slow times and busy times.

Keep in mind that a free rebate shopping system only works if you put forth some effort. Determine if you would enjoy inviting others to start their own online shopping malls. Then it's time to jump in and shop for your favorite items!


