Title: 
How does the Reverse Funnel System Work

Word Count:
408

Summary:
All the reverse funnel system is…is an automated sales process that closes people into your business for you automatically.  Ty Coughlin and the inner circle hired VERY expensive copy writers, and web conversion experts to design the system.


Keywords:
Home Business, Marketing, Business, Work At Home, Internet


Article Body:
All the reverse funnel system is…is an automated sales process that closes people into your business for you automatically.  Ty Coughlin and the inner circle hired VERY expensive copy writers, and web conversion experts to design the system.

But how does it work for you?  You need to work the system and you need to get hard workers to work underneath you.  When working for GRN (Global Resorts Network) you and your uplink get a $1,000 commission.  So when you become the up line your worker’s and you get $1,000 commission.  That’s a thousand dollars free for you as long as you teach the people under you valuable marketing skills.

So the Reverse Funnel System is a system that has enormously high conversion rates on the back end, 30-40%.  On the front end you run traffic to a provided front end sales page and will hopefully get most people to fill out the $50 paid survey.  

Then your traffic gets sent to your copy of the system, a brilliantly designed access page that tells it all, and it tells a lot; value, stories, marketing skills, personal information.  It tells enough to get your already very interested customer (he/she paid the fifty dollar survey fee) to trust that he has fallen into the right business opportunity.

That is why the Reverse Funnel System works so well.  It builds anticipation and value by making potential sales go through a paid survey while at the same time it weeds out those who would be uncommitted and a waste of your time and energy.  

As long as you are out there and working and driving traffic the Reverse Funnel System will do its job and work for you.  Take this advice however, put value on your front end sales page, put information about yourself, and methods of marketing, try to be friends with your traffic because if they sign up under you, you will become friends because you will be working together as often as you can to make sure that traffic is driven

The system works but the system needs you to push the traffic into it.  If you have any system, lets say your cardio-vascular system, if you don’t push that traffic of oxygen into your lungs, your blood will not get this vital element and you will die.

If you don’t push that traffic into the Reverse Funnel System it wont die but it will be useless.


