Title: 
How to be a True Professional in Your Cleaning Business

Word Count:
772

Summary:
With the large number of cleaning businesses out there, how do you get your company to stand out? Being a professional in all aspects of your cleaning business will go a long way towards showing your customers and potential customers that you are serious about doing the best job that you can do


Keywords:
professional, cleaning business


Article Body:
Copyright 2006 The Janitorial Store

With the large number of cleaning businesses out there, how do you get your company to stand out? Being a professional in all aspects of your cleaning business will go a long way towards showing your customers and potential customers that you are serious about doing the best job that you can do. Do you have the background, knowledge and experience to become a professional? You bet! Doing the best job that you can do and having a professional attitude is what it takes to show your clients you go that extra step.

There are several factors that come to mind when you think of being a professional in the cleaning business: appearance, dependability, continuing education, pride in your work, treating customers and employees with respect and honesty, and abiding by general etiquette rules.

Appearance: As a cleaning contractor you most likely won't be wearing a suit and tie, but your appearance is still important and it can leave a lasting impression on people. While cleaning an account your clothes will no doubt become soiled; however, when meeting with clients you should always have a neat and clean appearance. Work shirts with your company name and logo also give you one more way to market your company. Besides your personal appearance, your equipment and company vehicle should be clean. After all, if your clients see that your equipment isn't clean, what faith will they have in your cleaning abilities?

Dependability: Your cleaning clients depend on you to provide timely services so their buildings are clean for their employees, customers and visitors. Your employees should show up on time and do the work as required. Whether it is just you or your cleaning staff, your clients are depending on you to not only clean, but to do so without breaking items or ruining carpet, flooring or furniture. If something does happen, you need to be a "professional" and let your customer know you will take care of the damages.

Continuing Education: There are constant improvements in chemicals, equipment and cleaning procedures. It is important to realize you can never "know everything", but be willing to spend a little time every week reading and learning what is new in the industry.

Pride in Your Work: No doubt some jobs will be easier than others, but putting 100% into every job, large and small, can set you apart from the other cleaning companies in your area. There is also nothing more satisfying to any professional than seeing a job well done.

Treating Customers and Employees with Respect: Cleaning customers can be easy to work for or extremely difficult and demanding. It is always easier to smile and say hello to a friendly face, but it is just as important to be friendly to those demanding customers.

Although you may have started your cleaning company as a one-person business, once you have employees on board, treat them as individuals and valued members of your team. Ask for their opinions and be open to their ideas. Make sure that your employees know what you expect of them and that they too are expected to act as professionals.

Honesty: Be honest with your clients about the services you provide and what those services cost. Stick by the guidelines set out in the agreements that you have with your clients. And don't be afraid to let a cleaning customer know there are services that you do not provide if you do not have the staff, equipment or knowledge to do a job properly.

Also abide by the following general etiquette guidelines:

* Leave your personal problems at home and your work problems at work - even if you work out of your home make sure there is a separation between the two.

* Avoid the use of foul language.

* Don't eat, smoke or drink on the job.

* Stay out of desk drawers and file cabinets and don't read loose papers that are left on desks and tables.

* Don't take any items from customers even if it something that they threw in the trash.

* Don't use a customer's phones unless you have permission to do so and then only in an emergency or if it is required for you (or your employees) to clock in and clock out.

Your cleaning company can stand out from the crowd by incorporating the above guidelines into its everyday routines and practices. A true professional is someone who takes pride in their work and is always willing to go that extra mile. Putting that little extra in to what you're doing will show your customers that you are the best one for the job!


