Title: 
How To Start Your Own Residential Cleaning Business And Make Extra Money

Word Count:
1162

Summary:
With rising fuel costs it just seems like everything we buy on a daily basis is going up in price.  For some people it's becoming hard to make ends meet and getting another job on the side to work for eight dollars an hour isn’t going to make a huge dent in anyone’s pocket book.  An easy way to make extra income as your own side job or business is to pick up a few cleaning accounts.


Keywords:
cleaning supplies, cleaning information, janitorial supplies, janitorial distributor, vacuum cleaners, mop buckets


Article Body:
With rising fuel costs it just seems like everything we buy on a daily basis is going up in price.  For some people it's becoming hard to make ends meet and getting another job on the side to work for eight dollars an hour isn’t going to make a huge dent in anyone’s pocket book.  An easy way to make extra income as your own side job or business is to pick up a few cleaning jobs.  There are two types of cleaning businesses, residential and commercial.  Residential cleaning is becoming a sought after skill and for some a profession.  In today’s busy world some people don't have time to clean and end up coming home to a messy house night after night.  For some of these people who make a little more, paying you $50 dollars a day to clean their house is a good deal.  To clean and organize a home on a cleaning schedule can take as little as 1 to 2 hours after a routine is set up.  With just two residential cleaning accounts you could be making an extra $3000 dollars a month for 2 to 4 hours a day of light cleaning and organizing while being your own boss.  You can start your own cleaning business for as little as $500 in tools and supplies and permits.  There are a few things you need when starting your own cleaning business but following the right steps can save you a lot of hassle latter.

When you first start up a cleaning business you need to create a registered company in your state.  Taking in income without paying taxes is illegal and people do get caught every year by cheating the IRS, play by the rules and you'll come out ahead.  When you register your company make sure to list it as an LLC company to protect your current assets.  By shielding yourself behind a limited liability company you are in fact protecting yourself from a lawsuit just in case something should happen at your cleaning account.  Things that can happen at a cleaning account are you could be blamed if something turns up missing, a fire could start when you’re their cleaning or you could just be blamed for something that is not your fault.  It costs around $100 to set up an LLC company in most states and its well worth the money should something happen.  The next thing you need is to be insured and bonded.  Being insured and bonded can protect you from mistakes that you might make like ruining someone’s counter top, or staining their new hardwood floor by the toilet with an acid bowl cleaner.  Call around your local insurance companies and ask for quotes, make sure to let them know you're shopping around and the best price is needed.

The second thing you're going to need when starting a cleaning business are clients.  Start small and don't get discouraged, this is the hardest part of starting your cleaning company.  A great way to set up your cleaning plan is to make a list of the cleaning chores you do around your own home and type the list up neatly so you can present it to your clients as an ala carte cleaning menu that they can choose cleaning tasks from.  Everyone is different and every client will expect extra detail in some cleaning task or another depending on how clean they like their house.  Advertising is easier than most people think.  The easiest way to advertise is to network and tell others about your cleaning company endeavors.  It usually always works out that some body knows someone who is looking for a part time cleaner for their own home.  Another good way to advertise is to run a small local ad in a weekly shopper newspaper or have magnetic signs made for your car, this can cost as little as $75 and is well worth the investment.  If you have a computer which you should if you’re reading this article you can also print up simple flyers and hand them out in a middle to upper class neighbor hood in your town (check with local ordinances on handing out flyers before you do this).

After you have gotten yourself one or two clients it’s time to set a price.  Meet with your clients and present the list of cleaning tasks you are willing to perform.  Get a good idea of how large the area is that you are cleaning and how well they want the cleaning task done.  Come up with a fair price and write down their cleaning expectations for each cleaning task you are to perform.  Some examples of cleaning tasks are cleaning windows, cleaning surface areas, vacuuming, sweeping and mopping, cleaning toilets, cleaning bathtubs and showers.  Keep it simple to start because you can always add cleaning duties at a later date for an extra fee.  Keep a record of their cleaning expectations so you can reference it if they question a duty you are performing. 

After you’ve got your client and your list of cleaning tasks you'll need some basic cleaning supplies.  When running your own small cleaning business keep you’re cleaning supplies down to the basics.  You'll probably need a vacuum cleaner, surface cleaners, cleaning towels, a mop, mop bucket, window squeegees and bathroom cleaning chemicals and utensils.  Don't buy more than you need and check your cleaning duties list to see if you really need it.  When you first start out buy a run of the mill vacuum cleaner that’s not fancy and will get the job done.  You don't need a commercial vacuum at this time because your watching your investment money and a two motor upright vacuum cleaner with all the bells and whistles is just overkill.  If you're unsure of what to buy don't be afraid to ask.  Most cleaning supplies companies and janitorial distributors are more than willing to steer you in the right direction and it's alright to let them know you're on a tight budget.

Once you've got your cleaning supplies and you've set up a schedule with your clients it's time to go to work.  With your first cleaning account you'll want to do an extra good job.  Word can spread fast if you do a good job and more accounts could come your way quickly.  The same goes for if you do a bad job, word can spread quickly and you could be out of business before you know it.  Be honest and always keep good communication channels open between you and your client.  When it's time to bill your client don't get fancy, a bill written out on paper is as good as one that has been professionally typed.  If you do a great job cleaning your work will speak for itself and who knows you might be able to even quit your day job and work half as much while being your own boss.


