Title: 
How Important Is Search Engine Optimization?

Word Count:
602

Summary:
With the advent of the Internet as an effective social and business enhancement tool, the rise of search engines has enabled social organizations, interest groups and businesses to increase their visibility, as well as their profits.


Keywords:
SEO, search engine,internet,search engine optimization,web page, web site,connectivity,  connection


Article Body:
With the advent of the Internet as an effective social and business enhancement tool, the rise of search engines has enabled social organizations, interest groups and businesses to increase their visibility, as well as their profits. 

Search engine optimization (SEO) refers to the process of improving the volume and quality of traffic to a web site from search engines via "natural", which would mean either organic or algorithmic, search results. Generally, the earlier a site is presented in the search results, or the higher it ranks, the more searchers or web users will be enticed to visit that site. An SEO can also aim for different kinds of search types, including image search, local search, and industry-specific vertical search engines. 

For most small businesses, a search engine company may guarantee top rankings for keywords with a short or low monthly search volume or get rankings for higher volume keywords in smaller search engine sites that are not relevant and probably create a very minimal amount of search engine through traffic. 

According to observers, currently there are really considered the main three search engines for businesses’ or firms’ to focus on their lead generation and keyword rankings through, and these are MSN, Google and Yahoo. With these three search engines combined, analysts say a firm could cover approximately 70% of all web traffic that could potentially come through their site.

The history of search engine optimization began when webmasters and content providers began optimizing sites for search engines in the mid-1990s, as the first search engines were cataloguing the early web environment. At the beginning, all a webmaster needed to do was submit a page, or URL, to the various engines which would send a “spider” to "crawl" that page, extract links to other pages from it, and return information found on the page to be indexed. 

The process involves a search engine spider downloading a page and storing it on the search engine's private server, where a secondary program, also called an indexer, would extract an array of information about the page, such as the words it contains and where these are located, as well as any weight for specific words, which are then placed into a scheduler for crawling probably at a later date. Currently, SEO’s like jump2top.com and 7seo.com perform accurate searches or website visibility enhancement modes that are attuned to a company or organization’s preferred objectives or desired reach. 

The owners of most websites recognize that obtaining top search engine rankings for their top keywords is fundamentally important for their firm’s continued success. However, the large majority of does not yet fully understand the process of a small business SEO company’s process of achieving these keyword rankings through targeted search engine marketing and most are not aware of free SEO site appraisal. It is very important to not only invest in search engine optimization specialist techniques, but also pay-per-click management techniques also.

By 1997, the majority of search engines recognized that some webmasters were working double time in producing efforts to rank well in their search engines, and even manipulating the page rankings in search results. Early search engine startups, such as Infoseek, fine-tuned their algorithms to prevent webmasters from manipulating rankings by stuffing pages with excessive or irrelevant keywords. 

However, due to the high marketing value of targeted search results, there is a potential for an antagonistic relationship between search engines and SEOs. In 2005, an annual conference of the AIRWeb, or the Adversarial Information Retrieval on the Web, was formed to confer and minimize the harmful effects of aggressive web content providers.


