Title: 
How to start a business in the book production

Word Count:
501

Summary:
The book printing and production is a business which can offer you many satisfactions and its complexity offers you a special beauty.


Keywords:
Small machines,Spare Parts/Accessories, Sheetfed Presses, Web Presses,  Envelope Presses, KBA, Komori, Flexo Presses, Gravure Presses, Bindery&Finishing, Muller-Martini,  Machine manuals/spare parts books , Heidelberg, Miscellaneous printing consumables , Paper Products , Paper stocks , Plastics , Plates , Print antiques and memorabilia , Promotional Merchandise , Hamada, Rollers (Inking, Damping, Folding) , Services  


Article Body:
The book printing and production is a business which can offer you many satisfactions and its complexity offers you a special beauty. 

If we want to elaborate an investment plan in view of acquiring the equipments necessary for this, we must create a market study which largely comprises: the publishing houses with their market share, the types of books included in a majority in their portfolio and secondly, the competitive printing houses with their market share and with the advantages and disadvantages of each. 

As in any company from printing field, the first thing to acquire would be a computer to plate system to facilitate the work of the people from pre-press department.
 
After the computer to plate system, the list should comprise a printing machine in 4 groups with the printing format correlated with the number of editions and with the number of issued the respective publishing  houses edit per week. The printing equipment must necessarily have a perfector to ensure an increased productivity. 

Then, the following absolutely necessary equipment is a folding machine for the book interior. It is good to look for a folding machine which must have a cross and parallel folding to be able to fold  posters inserted in the book. 

We must not neglect the part of  book finishing. Here it is well to know which is the book segment that we want to reach.  For the processing of the book interior from the segment of collection books or high value books we can equip our printing house with a machine for sewing , book back gluing equipment, book block nipping and smashing press, book forming machine, equipment for stamping the covers with metallic foil. For the processing of the book interior for the usual books, we especially need a book forming gluing and jacketing machine.  

For the book jacket, it would be useful, for covering the great market majority, to buy a bending machine, a laminating machine and eventually a serigraphic equipment with a small UV dryer in order to be able to make a selective UV varnishing at the cover. 

Would  be absolutely necessary a guillotine for cutting the sheets, with maximum format correlated with the printing machine format. A three-knifes trimmer  would also be absolutely necessary for give the final format of the book.

For the magazines that the publishing houses issue for advertising the most recent news, a line of eyeleting would also be necessary, and for the smaller dimensioning of the printing house, only one eyeletter with one or two eyeleting head would be necessary. 

For the book production, the market also has complete book lines which comprise: the printing machine, the folding machine, the binding machine, and machine for book jacketing , the cover lamination equipment, the three-knifes trimmer  or any other combinations from the equipments mentioned until now.
There are extremely many types of equipment necessary, there is a great amount of work in order to accomplish a book, but the satisfaction when you see it on the shelf is huge.


