Title: 
Insider Tips To Horse Properties

Word Count:
513

Summary:
Buying horse properties, especially your own horse is similar to buying a dog except that this pet can be very expensive. Quality horses aren't cheap. If you’re in the market for a horse, you might be checking out newspaper ads, equine forums on the Internet, your state’s agricultural bulletin, notices on tack and feed stores or livestock auctions – all in search of a good horse at a good price. Depending on the animal’s breeding, health, age, size and ability, a recreational...


Keywords:
horse properties, horse training


Article Body:
Buying horse properties, especially your own horse is similar to buying a dog except that this pet can be very expensive. Quality horses aren't cheap. If you’re in the market for a horse, you might be checking out newspaper ads, equine forums on the Internet, your state’s agricultural bulletin, notices on tack and feed stores or livestock auctions – all in search of a good horse at a good price. Depending on the animal’s breeding, health, age, size and ability, a recreational riding horse can cost anywhere from several hundred dollars to many thousands. The purchasing cost of the animal, however, is just the start. Julie Lucas, a horse veterinarian comments that often enough, the cost of the horse is insignificant or rather small when put together with the cost of its care and upkeep. Needless to say, procuring horses makes for a big financial step so careful planning and preparation must taken to avoid buying less than quality horses.

Horse owners generally agree that it is better to buy horses from people who have been in the business for long. If you found a prospective dealer in horse properties like a farm or ranch owner, research about the owner and the establishment. Find out who their past clients are, and if you're willing to take the extra step, contact them and ask if they are satisfied with horse the ranch sold them. This is a better way to know your dealer rather than from brochures or Internet sites. It is also advised to buy your horse from large farms with a large selection of horses. People operating large ranches are experts in matching the need of prospective buyers to suitable horses (i.e. work horses, racing horses, show horses). Buying horses from small farms and individual owners are discouraged because they are usually just looking for opportunities to rid themselves of a problem horse. You might just end up buying another person's problem.

If you have a trainer, include him in the purchasing process. He knows your skills and can match them realistically with the suitable horse. Dealers or owners of horse properties will just match your needs, not your skill level. They can also gauge the horse's capabilities. It also helps to have realistic goals and expectations. In short, don't expect a show horse to last doing farm work, or a farm horse to perform beautifully in a competition. Your trainer can advise you on how long a horse needs to be trained before it can be expected to do perform well.

Of course, horses are only as good as their riders. Practice riding your horse especially if you're switching breeds. Your investment in horse properties will only be wasted if you can't ride your horse. It is important to be consistent and authoritative. Horses are instinctively herders, they follow the head of the herd. Make sure that your horse understands that between the two of you, you intend to be the leader. It's no good getting a horse if it constantly throws you to the ground at mid-gallop.


