Title: 
Irresistible Event Registrations: How To Overcome Objections About Credibility

Word Count:
303

Summary:
How can you build a relationship with people who object to registering for your event based on your credibility? Here are a few suggestions on improving the way your prospects view your event.

The Power of Credibility

When your event is either completely new to the market or you are trying to reach out to a new audience, establishing up front credibility with your audience is important. Even if your event is well-established, re-enforcement of its credibility will help ...


Keywords:
online registration, event registration, seminar registration, conference registration, trade show


Article Body:
How can you build a relationship with people who object to registering for your event based on your credibility? Here are a few suggestions on improving the way your prospects view your event.

The Power of Credibility

When your event is either completely new to the market or you are trying to reach out to a new audience, establishing up front credibility with your audience is important. Even if your event is well-established, re-enforcement of its credibility will help boost your attendance.

Establish Who You Are

Create credibility by establishing a unique identity such as an "Institute" or "Center" along with a description of your mission. For example, the "Center for Personal Finance" or "The National Institute of (fill in the blank)."

Use any industry or high-profile connections you may have to establish and promote an advisory board. Use "big name" speakers or co-chairs along with their photos on all of your promotional materials. Familiar names, recognizable faces, and official-sounding entities will go a long way to helping your attendees associate your event with greater credibility.

You’re in Good Company

Find yourself a reputable sponsor or co-sponsor and then shamelessly promote your partnership. If you have not yet established a reputation, "borrowing" someone else's can give you a tremendous attendance boost. You're smiling to yourself, but it's true! Think about what happens when Martha Stewart, or Warren Buffett endorses a product, service or company -- people recognize those names and associate them credibility (in certain industries, anyway).

Prominently promoting individuals and/or companies that have participated in past events can also launch instant credibility.

Do you have notable speakers? 

Jack Welch
Donald Trump
Martha Stewart
President of an industry leading company

Or sponsors you can promote?

Cadillac
MetLife
An industry leading company

More importantly...are you doing everything you can to promote them?


