Title: 
Land and Real Estate in Arizona

Word Count:
323

Summary:
Things to think about before you purchase land in arizona.


Keywords:
Phoenix Real estate, Arizona land


Article Body:
Purchasing land in Arizona

Moving to Arizona has the ultimate choices from purchasing raw land to purchasing land in a more rural area to add a manufactured home to building a luxury custom home.  Finding land is easy; Finding land that is worth purchasing is a totally different story. 

I can specifically tell you about Arizona although this might be prevalent in other areas also.  What to watch out for are Land fissures, Drinking water (how far you have to drill to install a pump), natural washes, and natural washes that become re-routed from other building and area growth, and most importantly flood plains.

 If you purchase land on a hill or close to a mountain expect to have above average ground movement and more costs for the foundations. Also high speed internet may become an issue unless you can get used to using a high speed cell card. 

If you are dreaming of a home with land to have horses and other friendly domestic animals you might check with city ordinances first.  For example if you purchase land that was recently annexed by Surprise AZ. You might be surprised by the no farm animal ordinances.  Even if homeowners nearby already have this type of animal living on the land they have owned for many years this can be a huge issue if that is what you were planning for your land.  

Keep in mind that Arizona water is a very big topic here, being in a desert water conservation is very important.  Wells that are functioning now might have to be dug deeper in the future as the land around is developed.  Large subdivisions moving in around you can lower a water table pretty fast and cause you to have to make modifications to your well, the storage tank and also how deep your well is.

Keep Scott Schulte at www.scottschulte.com in mind when your looking for Arizona real state


