Title: 
Liquidation Wholesalers Buy and Sell Stock

Word Count:
575

Summary:
Liquidation wholesalers serve an important function for both buyers and sellers. Find out how to buy stock for resale...


Keywords:
bankrupt, clearance, surplus, liquidated, liquidation, stock, wholesale, wholesalers, stocklots, goods


Article Body:
When it comes to inventory, buyers and sellers face similar dilemmas. For the individual or business that sells goods on eBay, in discount stores, or at flea markets, it's a challenge to find high quality products at wholesale prices. For the business or manufacturer that has surplus merchandise or who is on the verge of going bankrupt, it's a challenge to find wholesalers who will buy entire stocklots. 

Liquidation Wholesalers

Liquidation wholesalers serve an important function for both buyers and sellers. They buy huge quantities of clearance items, bankrupt stock, surplus stock, overstock, and end of lines from businesses and manufacturers, and then resell it in smaller lots to individuals and businesses. The customer base for a company that sells liquidated stock can include other wholesalers, online merchants, garden centres, grottos, retail shops, market traders, and even those who do car boot sales. 

If you are a business owner or an individual looking for high-quality products at bargain prices, you need a liquidation wholesaler. If you're new to the liquidation scene, here are some things to keep in mind. 

Variety of Products

Liquidation wholesalers buy from a variety of sources, including large importers, local and regional manufacturers, and bankrupt businesses. Because liquidation wholesalers deal in bankrupt stock, overstock, and end of lines, they have a wide range of product types. They may have seasonal merchandise, jewelry and fashion accessories, tools and hardware, decorative items, pet products, car products, bathroom items, and kitchenware. Virtually everything you find in a retail store will eventually make its way into a liquidation warehouse. 

Ever-Changing Products

The most successful liquidation wholesalers go through an enormous quantity of stock. Indeed, their success lies in their ability to buy huge lots, warehouse them, sell them, and ship them at a breakneck pace. For that reason, the wholesale inventory that's available is constantly changing. You might be able to buy candles and candle holders one week, but once they're sold, they're gone. That's why it's important to keep checking liquidation wholesalers' available stock. If possible, work with a wholesaler that offers a mailing list, and who will send you email newsletters about special offers and new lines that have arrived. 

Quantities

Many people assume that, in order to buy from liquidation wholesalers, they have to buy whole pallets of a single product. To the contrary, there are some liquidators that sell products by the case. Because you don't have to commit to buying thousands of the same product, you can easily add variety to your own offerings. 

Prices

Because liquidation wholesalers buy their stock so inexpensively, and because they are motivated to sell it quickly, you can get unprecedented bargains on high-value items. For example, you might be able to buy 120 wallpaper borders by a well-known designer for only £1.20 or 48 porcelain dolls for only £12.00. 

Where to Find Wholesalers

Like most businesses, liquidation wholesalers are opening up their customer bases through the Internet. Because their stock is stored in warehouses, potential customers can't browse in showrooms. The Internet, however, is the perfect medium for both liquidators and those who want to buy stock, since pictures of items can be viewed and transactions can be performed online. After a transaction is completed, the stock is shipped to the buyer, and the liquidator makes room for more products. 

Turning to a wholesale liquidator is the perfect solution for both those who need to sell quantities of stock and those who wish to buy merchandise for resale.


