Title: 
Live Chat Support and Non-profit organizations

Word Count:
334

Summary:
Non-profit organizations have probably established web-presence to present the goals of the organization, to provide information about current and finished projects and probably attract more people to join you. These institutions can include educational facilities (schools, faculties, and research institutes), embassies, organizations supporting businesses or even government bodies.


Keywords:
online support, live chat support, customer service, live customer support, online customer support, online customer service


Article Body:
Non-profit organizations have probably established web-presence to present the goals of the organization, to provide information about current and finished projects and probably attract more people to join you. These institutions can include educational facilities (schools, faculties, and research institutes), embassies, organizations supporting businesses or even government bodies. 

If you are a non-profit website owner, you must also have goals identified which you are trying to achieve through web-presence. For example: bloggers, independent journalists or experts in any field. 

In the both cases, when profit is not in question, it all comes down to achieving goals of common interest. It is important here to spread the word and get the opinion and support of as much people possible. Your website can only present yourself, your ideas and knowledge. It can also provide content from specific fields, tips and advice. But what is missing? - The feedback and cooperation from your website visitors?

So, why not use your website as a touch-point and interaction with your co-thinkers? 

Why not share your ideas one-to-one in real time, with people around the world? 

Here are some of the ways you can use live chat support on your website:

•	personally communicate with interested people which visit your website; 
•	get more opinions and ideas about possible ways to achieve the common goals; 
•	share knowledge and experiences in the field of interest; 
•	provide help, advice and tips to visitors in the field you are working in; 
•	introduce your ideas and plans personally to each visitor; 
•	monitor traffic on your website, including which pages are favored and how long people stay on each of them.

Some organizations through the online operators can also help visitors with filling required documents, helping them understand the process or even do that instead of them. For example: universities can help students enroll or get the needed documents for any purpose.

And the story doesn’t end here. You can develop your own story and make the most of the live chat support software in your way.


