Title: 
Looking for a Great Deal on Toner? Tips for Buying Toner Online

Word Count:
476

Summary:
If you're in the market for an inkjet printer cartridge or a LaserJet toner cartridge, there are great deals to be had online. Here's what you need to know....


Keywords:
Toner, laser toner, ink cartridges, Toner Cartridges, InkJet Printer Cartridge, LaserJet Toner Cartridge


Article Body:
Today, virtually every kind of printer - from photo printers to laser printers to inkjet printers - are incredibly inexpensive. Unfortunately, the toner cartridges and inkjet cartridges that replace the starter cartridges the come with the printer are anything but. If you're in the market for an inkjet printer cartridge or a LaserJet toner cartridge, there are great deals to be had online. However, there are several things you should know before buying toner online. 

Understand Your Options

When it comes to laser toner cartridges or inkjet printer cartridges, you have three options: Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) cartridges, compatible cartridges, and re-manufactured cartridges. What are the differences? Original Equipment Manufacturer cartridges are those that you find at office supply stores. They are packaged and sold with the printer manufacturer's name on them. Compatible cartridges don't have the branding from the printer manufacturers, but they meet or exceed the manufacturers' specifications for the ink or toner. Re-manufactured cartridges are, essentially, Original Equipment Manufacturer cartridges that have been used, refilled, and cleaned and quality checked.

Although the initial reaction of most people is to buy Original Equipment Manufacturer cartridges, you can save a tremendous amount of money - without sacrificing quality - when you buy compatible cartridges or re-manufactured cartridges. 

Know What You Need

As with most types of devices these days, different models of printers have relatively unique cartridge designs. Unfortunately, the lack of standardization means that you have to know the make and model of your printer when you want to buy toner cartridges or ink cartridges. When ordering toner or ink cartridges online, it's important to have this information handy. You don't want to go through the hassle of ordering the wrong cartridge and having to return it for a replacement.

Order From a Reputable Source

With so many ecommerce sites on the Internet, it's sometimes difficult to ascertain which sources for toner and ink cartridges offer exceptional products and service. If you're planning to buy a compatible or re-manufactured inkjet printer cartridge or LaserJet toner cartridge, it's crucial that the company produces or sells high-quality products. An inferior product could, at best, produce poor quality prints, and at worst, damage your printer. 

One of the best ways to select a source for toner and ink cartridges is to look for a company that has a high BizRate ranking. A company that gives their customers the opportunity to rate satisfaction through providing feedback to BizRate is clearly committed to customer service. If that same company is BizRate customer certified and receives BizRate's platinum award for customer service, so much the better. Another indicator that a company is reputable is participation in the BBBOnline Reliability Program. 

When you understand the differences between the types of toner and inkjet cartridges available, know what you need, and find a reputable company, you'll be all set to save money by ordering toner online.


