Title: 
Marketing Infoproducts: Package Your Brain!

Word Count:
1076

Summary:
You have a particular system and unique way of providing service to your clients. To make more money, create information products that will show people step-by-step exactly how you do it. Author Wendy Maynard provides 8 benefits of creating and marketing infoproducts.


Keywords:
marketing, marketing strategies, marketing tips, marketing ideas, online marketing, Internet marketing, infoproducts, multiple streams of income, passive income, small business


Article Body:
Copyright 2006 Marketing Maven

As long as you are providing a service, there will always be a ceiling on how much you can earn that is based on the number of hours you can work in a week. Even if you hire an assistant and/or raise your rates, you are only raising the ceiling a little higher. The way you can blast that ceiling sky-high is to package your brain into infoproducts and sell them online.

You have a particular system and unique way of providing service to your clients. Package it into an information product that will show people step-by-step exactly how you do it. The incredible advantage to this is that you can teach people all over the globe, day and night, every day of the week.

With infoproducts, you don’t have any limit on the number of information products you sell. While your service will always be limited by the amount of time you have to give face to face, your information product can teach countless numbers of people.

Another advantage of packaging your brain into infoproducts is that you can develop your brain into more than one product. Your packaged brain can be sold on your website and at your public speaking events as CD sets, e-books, paper versions, recorded online seminars, DVDs, and so on. Because you will be developing a loyal client base who wants to learn more and more from you, you will be able to feed this hungry audience with your infoproducts.

Here are other benefits of packaging your brain into information products

1.  A low-cost option to use your services. By offering your clients infoproducts, they can purchase your packaged brain for substantially less than they could ever hire you for. For instance, a home-study course could provide a condensed version of what a financial planner or a coach provides to clients over a series of months.

2.  A lower-risk alternative for prospects. Often your system serves as a doorway to you. Your prospect may study your system first and then later purchase your full-meal deal. This is powerful – your prospect pays you to be your lead! She begins to feel like she knows you. Remember, people work with people they know, like, and trust. Your infoproduct is building relationships for you.

3. Your products build credibility. Like writing books, producing infoproducts will elevate your perceived expertise. You reinforce your brand and people find you trustworthy because you have outlined the exact steps to solve their problem. Remember, this is always about answering “What’s in it for me?” for your target audience’s perspective.

4. You become more efficient. By turning your process into a system, you can show the precise sequence that helps your clients. Instead of trying to be intuitive about how to solve each person’s problem, take him or her step by step through your process. You save time because you will know what each session will focus on and how long it takes to achieve results.

Your customers will be impressed when you have worksheets and specific homework assignments for them to work through. It reinforces your expertise and makes them feel secure in their decision to hire you.

5. You can offer package options. Because you know each step of your system, you can offer your customers options. People are MUCH more likely to make a purchase if they have options. By giving your customers choices, they can purchase what is right for their unique situation. Your clients may decide to do one option now and add something else later. The nice thing about this is your customers get RESULTS and you don’t have to work as hard because you have a SYSTEM.

I recommend always offering options that set your customers up to work with you on a continuing basis. For example, a professional organizer could set up one package that includes an initial consultation, a clutter analysis, four weeks of room-by-room organization, and then four weeks of one-on-one work with the customer to teach them how to create systems of organizations. This option could include a Clutter Free Tips and Workbook.

A personal trainer could offer an option called Fantastic Fitness! This 6&#8209;month training package could include one-on-one workouts, a nutrition guide, a personal grocery shopping session to show how to Shop for Fantastic Fitness! and a goals and progress workbook.

6. You can turn your package into a very expensive option. Once you have your brain packaged, you can create an expensive option that will give your prospects a LOT of information in person. Most people that offer this generally offer a live event over several days.

Because you are spending hours and hours giving your audience information, people are willing to spend anywhere from $1,500 to $10,000 and more for this type of program. With a powerful sales letter that is placed on your website, you can bring 20 to 50 people to your event. You do the math.

7.  You can use your system for your talking points. Once you have a system, it becomes much easier to make sales, give presentations, and offer public talks because you have specific talking points which will always tie directly back into your infoproducts. You can offer people a chapter or a sample session based on a section of your system to give people a taste of what you offer.

8.  Prospects can become customers at many different price points.  If you are selling information products, the going rate for an e-book is between $17 to $97 and for a teleseminar, the range is about the same. For a manual, the price ranges start to spread out quite a bit. I’ve seen them between $100 and $1,000 depending on the complexity of the information. In general to command more than $100 - $200, you have to start including CDs, templates, and other value-added components. The information-product business is a wonderful one to get involved in and very addictive for both you and your customers (in a good way).

I hope this is getting your brain percolating on how you can package your brain as a system and how it will make it SO much easier for you to both market and implement it. The end goal is you can attract more customers and make more money with less effort.

ACTION ITEM: Take a look at your current offerings. What can you do to package your brain into your first infoproduct? What format will it take? How will you market it? What will it cost?


