Title: 
Michigan Realtor offers Full Service Real Estate at 1% Listing Fee

Word Count:
646

Summary:
Buying and selling a house in Michigan may not sound like an easy proposition. A number of factors will have to be taken into consideration before even putting a house up for sale or making the right purchase. First, a due diligence of the property has to be carried out by the homeowner as well as the buyer. However, before considering all these, always enlist the services of a Realtor.


Keywords:
Michigan Discount Realtor, Realty, Broker, Real Estate


Article Body:
Buying and selling a house in Michigan may not sound like an easy proposition. A number of factors will have to be taken into consideration before even putting a house up for sale or making the right purchase. First, a due diligence of the property has to be carried out by the homeowner as well as the buyer. However, before considering all these, always enlist the services of a Realtor.

Choosing the right Realtor, who can help you sell or buy a property, can be a very tricky task. Therefore, conduct a thorough review of any Realtors that may be considered for the job. One of the most sought after and professional Realtor firms that is popular among property traders today, is the Michigan Discount Realtors and Brokers.

The firm does not offer discounts on the property, but indeed provides a discount fee for the services given. The services are top of the line and most sought after by multiple repeat customers. We make selling a home or buying a house an easy job by offering traditional full service without the traditional high fees that customers shake their heads at in disbelief. A discount fee does not mean that the services will be discounted.  We believe in the full service approach and continue to address all clients in the real estate market to seek and make the right business decisions.

Because supply and demand has always dictated the direction of the real estate market, we basically cater to the needs of the Michigan home seller where losses of property value are higher than ever before in Michigan history.  At this particular time in Michigan, the home seller is seeking help from all avenues and Michigan Discount Realtors realize the condition of the state and see themselves as part of the solution. The demand for property and homes could be poor, but by being able to afford to be competitive, strengthens the odds of being sold or even viewed.

The property owners are not fetching the right price these days. In such scenarios, the property owners could be easily taken for a ride by Realtors and brokers. This is a very common scenario in the real estate market. The Realtors promise high prices for the property. In return, the seller agonizes over the potential only to be constantly asked to reduce their price.  Sensible Realty Services throws the cards on the table and charges a lot less for the truth as opposed to a lot more for the lie.  The objective is to sell-and the cold, hard truth is to the advantage of all property owners at the onset and not at the end of the day.

The entire process is customary with the exception of 6% or greater costs.  Those days are gone and the general public is catching on real quick.  It boils down to money in the pocket of the home seller vs the realtor and why more real estate brokers aren’t doing it, is beyond belief.  Right now is the time for them to redeem their reputations and stop being viewed as the analogy of being one step above the used car salesmen.

Our background is from traditional, franchised companies. And because of the day and age, have stepped out of the box to make a stand that more are eagerly turning to.  Saving money for their clients reaps bigger reward in the long haul.
We make sure that every transaction is clean and devoid of any hidden charges or fees. We are an open book and list the details regarding the fees charged. Property owners can be rest assured that the fee and charges levied, fall within the terms discussed prior to signing on.  There will be no surprises.

It is truly our mission to save homeowners substantial money and in doing so, make them competitive in the Michigan real estate market


