Title: 
Offshoring American Jobs a problem for some, a boon for others.

Word Count:
319

Summary:
There has been a raging debate since the last two years about a certain economy where a rich pool of qualified workers are using their skills more cheaply than others, resulting in the offshoring American jobs that has become a problem for the US. Of course, to be fair, trade industries thrive on doing business where they are convinced of a comparative advantage and when the US business houses themselves choose to overlook the so called plight of resident workers who demand certain salaries that


Keywords:
offshoring american jobs


Article Body:
Points to remember when considering a vendor for offshoring American jobs 
As with the transfer of any job role and functions, the nature of offshoring (migrating services to a remote location and external services provider to avail a competitive advantage) is also fraught with a certain risk level that comes steadily on the heels of obvious values. A foreign based business owner thus, needs to be aware of potential risks associated with offshoring American jobs (e.g. experience of the vendor, proven level of expertise and reliability, ability to transform business model planning to high level management and optimization, disaster management and security technology of the best grade etc.) to avail best quality services from an overseas vendor. 
Business owners keen on offshoring American jobs to developing nations are thus advised to research their chosen vendor and visit them at least once to check out infrastructure, technology and workforce capabilities, besides doing a thorough value and risk assessment. 
Pick a vendor based on his knowledge of offshore outsourcing techniques and strategies and how well he can translate your business objectives into a definite, customized business delivery model, not simply the cost-cuts he offers. 
If possible, a foreign business owner considering offshoring American jobs should participate in at least one lead group workshop conducted by the vendor to outline the professional talents of his team and work with him to ensure the service provider has the ability to analyze and develop given recommendations into concrete deliverables. 
The chosen service provider should combine a number of desirable traits, including complete consultancy and management services support for offshoring American jobs across varied industries and levels, ensure smooth and strategic integration of internal resources with exact evaluation of offshoring process’s viability, guide client on the prioritization of offshorable activities and help select the perfect offshoring model for his business.
Shoot an email to www.eupath.com and learn from the leaders themselves!


