Title: 
Online Sweepstakes: Tips to help you win more.

Word Count:
666

Summary:
A growing number of people participate in online sweepstakes and many are winning prizes everyday. For new sweepers it can seems hard to find the secret on how to win. The Prize Scouts at one of the largest sweepstakes communities – prizetune has made this guide to help you win more.


Keywords:
sweepstakes, contest, prizes, win prizes, sweeps, online sweepstakes


Article Body:
Online Sweepstakes: Tips to help you win more.
A growing number of people participate in online sweepstakes and many are winning prizes everyday. For new sweepers it can seems hard to find the secret on how to win. The Prize Scouts at one of the largest sweepstakes communities – prizetune has made this guide to help you win more.
Enter The Small Ones.
It’s natural to skip over the events with smaller prizes and go for the big ones. However, since they get fewer entries, the odds of winning the events with small prizes are better. A smaller prize might not be as appealing, but you’ll probably have a better chance of winning it.

Enter The Hard Ones.
Some events require you to “jump through hoops” to enter. You may have to complete a survey, answer questions, or perform some other activity. Once again, fewer people will enter these types of events giving you much better odds. A few of the “hard ones” will also allow you to mail in your entries without performing any of their online tasks.

Only Enter The Ones You Really Want.
Keep in mind that sweepstakes winnings are taxable income. Don’t enter an event unless you are prepared to pay taxes on the prize. Many people are so anxious for a win, that they enter sweepstakes with prizes that they don't really want. Instead, sweep smart by skipping the ones you don't truly care about winning, and focusing on the ones you do.

Follow The Rules.
Be careful not to exceed an event’s entry limit. If an event is restricted to one entry per day, and you enter it twice in the same day, you could be disqualified from the entire event. In fact, entering more often than an event allows is the main reason people get disqualified from winning. To make sure you are not disqualified, wait at least 24 hours between daily entries. Some event sponsors and their judging agencies are very strict. They will disqualify you for any failure to follow their rules. 

Be Aware Of What Happens To The Information You Submit.
Many event sponsors keep your entry information confidential, but many do not. In fact, some events are created solely to generate mailing lists. If you are not interested in receiving mailings, keep your eyes open for any opt-out information each event may provide. Usually you will have the option to exclude yourself from mailing lists when you enter an event, but with others you can only remove yourself later. If you are concerned about receiving unsolicited e-mail, you may want to consider setting up a second “throw away” e-mail account. This way you can help isolate your primary e-mail account from unwanted mailings. If your internet provider only gives you one e-mail account, they probably offer additional accounts for a small fee. There are also plenty of places online where you can set up an e-mailbox at no charge. 

Getting a free e-mail account through any of these services is quick and easy. Many of them also allow you to filter out unwanted messages.

Don’t be afraid to pick up a pencil once in a while! 
Online entry is popular because it’s so easy. There are no stamps or envelopes to worry about. But some events that allow only one on-line entry will allow multiple mail-in entries. This can give you a big advantage over everyone else who enters online only once. Check their official rules to see which events allow multiple mail-ins.

Get started with online sweepstakes.
Now you just have to locate sweepstakes to enter. A good place to start is at the Sweepstakes Community – http://www.prizetune.com or http://www.sweepswire.com they has thousands of prizes listed with prize values of more than $13,995,490.00. If you want to speed up your entries you can use a service like http://www.fastsweeper.com where you can enter hundreds of sweepstakes every day with a single click. Good luck…


