Title: 
Online Comparison Shopping Made Even Easier

Word Count:
540

Summary:
Online shopping has made it easier for consumers to get what they want, whenever they want it at the prices they want.  Every major brick and mortar retailer now has a presence online not including the smaller, more specialized retailers located around the world.


Keywords:



Article Body:
Jane is a value conscious shopper.  She is always looking to compare prices before buying any product.  One day, she walks into a local retailer pricing out digital cameras.  She writes down several camera model numbers so she can go online later that evening to see if she can find it cheaper elsewhere. Later that evening, Jane spends two or three hours surfing the Internet before she finds the camera she likes at the price she is willing to pay.

Sound familiar? 

Imagine if Jane could just call a phone number, punch in the UPC code of the camera, and wait a few seconds while a database searches the Internet to compare prices for her. Imagine if she could then buy the camera right there on the spot.  Sounds like a future technological advancement, doesn’t it?  Not quite the future; it’s already here.

Online shopping has made it easier for consumers to get what they want, whenever they want it at the prices they want.  Every major brick and mortar retailer now has a presence online not including the smaller, more specialized retailers located around the world.  However, the vast array of online retailers can make it difficult for consumers to find the products they are looking for at the most affordable price. In addition, consumers do not have time to spend hours in front of their computers scouring across Internet looking for products. Consumers are demanding a better, more efficient and less cumbersome way to compare and buy products online.  Frucall has stepped up to the challenge and has introduced a new way to compare prices online. 

Frucall is a new, innovative service that enables consumers to compare products online using their mobile phones. This alleviates the valuable time spent trying to accomplish the same thing in front of a computer.  In today’s increasingly connected world, everyone has a mobile phone with them at all times which makes the Frucall service so attractive.  

Here is how Frucall works.  Customers first sign up online for their free account.  In their profile, they store their mobile phone number and optional credit card information. Then, when they are shopping at the mall, they simply call the toll free phone number and type in the UPC code of the product of interest.   In seconds, the Frucall service will return the results and customers can choose to buy the product right there on the spot, or add it to their shopping cart, or bookmark it for later review.  It’s that easy.

At the present time Frucall’s service only queries Amazon.com because that’s currently the only service that allows Web Services queries. However, that will change as additional online retailers allow Web Services queries.

The ability to do online comparison shopping through a mobile phone is a captivating concept whose time has definitely come.  In a world where so many of our daily activities are performed with a mobile phone, the Frucall service takes its capabilities one step further.  If you are a busy consumer that values convenience and services that are helpful in saving you time, then Frucall is exactly what you need.  You have nothing to lose and everything to gain from using the Frucall service.


