Title: 
Paid Survey

Word Count:
675

Summary:
One of the most popular work at home money makers today is paid surveys. I'm sure you've seen one of the following ads:  Cash for taking Surveys, Paid Survey, Get Paid for your opinion, Online Paid Surveys, Get Paid To Take Surveys, Take Online Surveys for Cash!


Keywords:
Online Paid Suveys, Surveys for Cash, Work at home, Work from home, Cash for your opinion, surveys


Article Body:
One of the most popular work at home money makers today is paid surveys. I'm sure you've seen one of the following ads:

Cash for taking Surveys, Paid Survey, Get Paid for your opinion, Online Paid Surveys, Get Paid To Take Surveys, Take Online Surveys for Cash!

If you are like I was I'm sure your wondering how does one learn how to make money by taking surveys.

The fact is there are many companies that will pay you to participate in Online surveys, focus groups, and product tests. These are market research companies that are paid by large companies to find out what the public feels about their products. They want to know if their advertising campaigns are working and how everyday people feel about their products. Many Major corporations spend a huge amount every year on advertising. So paying you a few dollars to find out if their advertising is working is not that big of a deal and considered money well spent. They hire market research companies and the market research companies send out surveys to everyday people to see what is appealing to the public.

So now that we understand where the money comes from lets move on to how one finds which companies to do business with, because there are many companies that will waste your time and pay you nothing. The best method in my opinion is by either doing alot of major research or finding a reputable company that has done the work for you. There are a few of these companies around and I highlight them on my website. They companies are called Paid Survey database companies. It's easier to research a few of these than the hundreds of survey companies that are currently out there.

The major benefit to these types of programs is that it saves you time and time is money. You could spend hours searching the Internet for Free Survey companies on your own or you can join one of these Survey database companies that have done the leg work for you. I lean toward Paid Survey directory database companies myself, because I felt I could make more taking surveys during the time I would be going through the many Survey companies. Time is money and many of the companies I have on my website charge a modest fee for access to their database.  Online paid survey databases are not free. Paid Survey database companies charge about $35 - $60 for their paid surveys directory.  Again the time you save and the training you get is well worth the modest fee and I'm glad my wife and I chose to use one of these companies. My wife actually does that side of our business.

Okay, we understand how we make money, how to find the survey companies to deals with and now we will deal with the last bit of information, which is how do we start and what do we need to start making money from home taking surveys.

All you will need is a computer, access to the Internet, email address and a few hours a week to put into your new work at home business. I would suggest setting up a separate email address for you survey business. You don' t have to do this, but I like keeping it all separate myself.  You will need a phone line if you want to participate in some of the areas like focus groups. You can choose whether you want to do that portion or not. It's all up to you.

The next thing for you to do is to choose which Paid Survey Database Company you choose to use.  You can either do the research yourself or feel free to access my site whereby you can read and review the research and recommendations I have made.

In summary

1. Review the available Online Survey database Programs
2. Narrow down the choices to 1-3 programs
3. Find out which ones have a money back guarantee
4. Use your charge card if possible for further protection
5. Sign up & start making money!


