Title: 
Patience: Don’t Start Your Business Without It

Word Count:
837

Summary:
In this world of instant gratification, there is still a place for one of the keys virtues known to man, especially for the work at home entrepreneur: Patience.


Keywords:
work at home, patience, getting started working at home


Article Body:
In this world of instant gratification, there is still a place for one of the keys virtues known to man, especially for the work at home entrepreneur: Patience. Patience is defined as bearing or enduring pain, difficulty, provocation, or annoyance with calmness. It also means persevering; constant. Why is that so important for someone who is starting or is operating their own work at home business? Let me explain by telling you my story. 

I found out the importance of patience through a mistake I made several years ago. I enrolled in a work at home business in the mid 90's. But, instead of being patient, I decided quickly that it wasn't for me and I moved on to another opportunity. Well, I decided that one wasn't for me either and I moved to another, then another, and another. Finally, I ran across an opportunity that really appealed to me. I found it on a simple web search. I clicked on the guy's website, signed up, and waited with anticipation for more details. I mean, this was exactly what I was looking for. I patted myself on the back for being “patient”. After all, I hadn't wasted my time with those other opportunities, right? Well, it turns out that this new opportunity was the same work at home business that I had started to begin with!  So instead of not wasting time like I thought, I had wasted several years but not sticking with the original opportunity. Ha d I been patient to start with, there is no telling how far up in the business I would have been. 

Through the years, I have learned the importance of patience in several areas of the work at home business Entrepreneur.

First, you need patience to get to know your new business. It's kind of like getting to know your spouse.  Would you give your marriage 30 days and say it's too hard and leave? It takes time to get to know them. Your business is no different. A genuine work at business will offer you some type of training. You may need to go through the training several times to get the idea of how things work. You need to get to know any products you offer by studying them and giving them a try yourself. You need to understand the compensation plan so there will not be any surprises down the road when you get your commission checks. You need time to understand exactly how you are to promote your business. Be patient and you will gain the understanding you need.

Next, you need patience in dealing with and getting to know your customers/affiliates. When I first started my online business, I e-mailed my sponsor 2 or 3 times a day. Sometimes I asked the same question over and over. But you know, he was always nice and kept helping me, although I know I was getting on his nerves. His response to me was one reason I kept going. I knew deep down I could be a success and he kept reminding me of that fact. He was patient with me. Not everybody will reach your expectations. Some will join you and drop out in a day. Others will last a month and quit. But you will find quality people that are like you. It may not happen overnight but it will happen. Just be patient.

You also need patience in promoting your business. Advertising takes time, both in the time it takes to do it and in seeing results, as well as finding the best way to promote your particular business. Just because you start a business doesn't mean people will come flocking to it. It takes time to get the word out, both with online and traditional advertising. It took several months of promoting my website before I got my first customer. It takes time to send out follow-up letters to customers/affiliates you get as a result of your advertising. Advertising takes time but it will work.

In closing, let me say you need patience in the day to day running of your business. This may be the area that patience is needed the most. The thrill of getting started is wearing off. The actual work has begun. It seems that nothing is happening. Day after day, week after week goes buy. You start thinking, “I knew this wouldn't work.” But then it happens. Someone joins your program or you sell a product.  The thrill is back! You are rejuvenated! Life is good. This is the feeling that you need to hang on to even when things don't seem to be moving. This should be your focus even when that little voice is telling you that you can't do it or that you should give up or when patience is wearing thin. It may not happen overnight but you can be a success. But remember, anything worth having is worth working for. Make up your mind you are going to give it time. Be patient!!


