Title: 
Put Your Skills To Use and Help Others!

Word Count:
495

Summary:
All of us have valuable skills that we may not realize because they are so a part of who we are. You can help someone else by offering them your skills as a favor or as a way to make some extra money. You would be amazed at the types of information that people are willing to pay for these days. You can create an e-book and sell it online to those that are interested in a particular skill that you have.


Keywords:
grassroot organization, grassroot organizations, grassroots organization, grass roots organization, grass roots organizations


Article Body:
All of us have valuable skills that we may not realize because they are so a part of who we are. You can help someone else by offering them your skills as a favor or as a way to make some extra money. You would be amazed at the types of information that people are willing to pay for these days. You can create an e-book and sell it online to those that are interested in a particular skill that you have. 

My friend and I recently swapped skills and it really helped both of us. She is very creative and I have always loved the way her home is decorated. Mine is very basic as I don’t really know were to start with home décor. She came over and pointed out a few good ideas and took me shopping. We worked together for a couple of weeks to incorporate the ideas and I am very impressed with the new look.

Her one shortcoming though is organization. She has piles of papers and things on her counter in the kitchen. I am very organized so it makes me cringe! She is forever having to pay late charges for bills because she forgets to send them in, and she even let her nursing license expire because she forgot to fill out the renewal paperwork. 

I helped her to sort through all of the paperwork and get it categorized. We then made labels for files and neatly put them all away. We also made a book with her monthly bills listed so she can find out what she owes and when it is do. Some simple baskets helped to reduce the amount of clutter in her cabinets and drawers so she can find things much easier now.

Think about the skills you have and share them with others. It can be fun and you will learn to appreciate your skills more than you did before. If you are an excellent cook you can offer to teach a newlywed that is struggling to make a nice dinner at home. You can volunteer at a school to help with crafts if you enjoy working with children and have creative ideas. 

You may have been complimented on many occasions for how well your pets behave. You can teach other people how to do the same thing for their pets. Maybe your plants and your garden provide beautiful flowers and you can assist those in your neighborhood with accomplishing the same results.

Regardless of how you plan to share your skills you can be sure there are people out there that need help. You can volunteer your skills, swap them with someone for a skill you are lacking, or you can sell your skills in order to generate some extra income. Everyone has some skills where they are experts and that is what makes us so unique. Use those skills to your advantage and everyone will benefit from it.


