Title: 
Secrets Of How A 21 Yr Old Student Earn $11,353.80 Using Yahoo Search Marketing

Word Count:
251

Summary:
Yahoo Search Marketing (YSM), formerly Overture and GoTo, also allows sites to "bid" on the terms they wish to appear for.  If your goal is to build instant visibility on search engines, Yahoo Search Marketing is an excellent option to explore, putting you in the top results of many major search engines within a short period of time.


Keywords:
ppc, cpa, affiliate marketing, ppc marketing, AM, IM, ppc to cpa, cost per lead, cost per action,


Article Body:
Google Adwords is Pay Per Click advertisement technology where you pay when someone clicks on your ad link.  

Google Adwords is always making changes that can negatively affect their campaigns, actually they are DESTROYING campaigns.  Google AdWords is getting incredibly down and dirty with each passing day.  Moreover, Google AdWords is not something you can afford to screw up.  You will lose tons of money if you are not careful with setting up your campaign budget. You could end up blowing thousands of dollars before you know it. I know you may be shocked to learn that the use of Google AdWords is DEAD.

So with Google Adwords being so tough to use and drive traffic using PPC, does it mean that PPC is dead? Well, the answer is no because there are so much more traffic outside Google. There are so many other PPC search engine that can drive even more and targeted traffic to your website. The 2 PPC search engine that I personally use is Yahoo Search Marketing .

Yahoo Search Marketing (YSM), formerly Overture and GoTo, also allows sites to "bid" on the terms they wish to appear for.  If your goal is to build instant visibility on search engines, Yahoo Search Marketing is an excellent option to explore, putting you in the top results of many major search engines within a short period of time.

Learn how you can dominate Yahoo Search Marketing and drive ton of traffic to your website today and earn massive amount of money!


