Title: 
Self Storage in London

Word Count:
578

Summary:
Before we look at the facilities for self storage in London, let us be clear about the nature and advantages of self storage.


Keywords:
Bullmans, Bullman, container storage, container, storage, shipping containers, shipping, containers, container sales, sales container, container hire


Article Body:
Before we look at the facilities for self storage in London, let us be clear about the nature and advantages of self storage.

With more and more things to store, and ever-increasing cost of accommodation, both people and businesses are looking for independent storage solutions. They have two main options - entrusting the things to store with a storage company or hiring self-storage facility. 

Both solutions make available specialist storage facilities and safe storage. They also offer the convenience of keeping clutter out of your living or business space. The storage can be for a short period or for long periods. What are the differences between these two solutions?

<b>Storage Company Control</b>

When you entrust our goods with a storage company, it would be the company that would decide where to store these and how to control access. They might move it around to suit their own convenience. Access to the stored goods will be restricted by requiring prior appointments, and might even be charged for.

Traditionally, storage companies also required longer-term contracts, and charged high. You also could not move things in or out of storage as you needed and had to ask the company to arrange for these.

<b>The Self Storage Solution</b>

Under the self-storage solution, you would have complete control over storage and access (subject to the facility opening and closing times). You can move things in and out and store them in your own way (by storing the frequently accessed articles in a more accessible manner, for example). In effect, you are hiring storage space, not just storage convenience. This storage space can be a small closet to store some valuables and papers, or large space to store the entire contents of your house, say, when the house is being remodeled.

Storage periods are also more flexible. You can hire self-storage for a very short period or for years. You might be able to get a full refund for unused periods if you terminate the storage arrangement.

Self storage, however, puts the responsibility for packing, moving, loading and unloading the goods on you. Some companies might offer these services, but at extra charges. Many self-storage businesses offer trucking services, for example.

Self storage arrangements have an additional layer of security over and above the normal security provided by facility owners for the facility as a whole. The space you hire will be an enclosed place to which only you will have access. Typically, you can use your own lock and key to this area.

<b>Self Storage in London</b>

There are many self-storage facilities in London. We look at one particular facility <a href="http://www.bullmans.co.uk/selfstorage.html" target="_blank">Bullman's Self Storage</a> to get an idea of the facilities typically available.

They offer private storage units of 10'x8', 20'x8' and 40'x8' in a facility with 24 hour manned security and CCTV. The units are located at ground level and you can just roll up your trolley with your goods into the unit you hire.

You can use the facility for domestic or commercial purposes. The company offers removal, collection and distribution services, and even shipping services. They can also fit your unit with shelving or lights if required.

The location of the facility is excellent from a logistical point of view. Special rates are available for long-term storage.

This self storage facility in London is indeed a highly secure and convenient one offering you full control.


