Title: 
Shopping for the perfect briefcase

Word Count:
570

Summary:
Choosing the correct briefcase for business


Keywords:
luggage,discount luggage,travel accessories,corporate gifts,luggage sets


Article Body:
There are many factors that figure into buying a briefcase.  Let's take the features you're searching for one at a time.  If this is your first briefcase you need to look for something you're comfortable with.  If you're an accountant or lawyer then carrying multiple files and papers is the norm.  You'll want something fairly large, with expandable capacity.  Look for something that has a comfortable shoulder strap that you can manage easily.  Accountants and lawyers tend to be pretty conservative so a black or brown case will surely work.  Usually leather is the first choice, but there are many cases made of ballistic nylon with leather trim that are durable and have a professional look.

.  Today, there are many companies making cases so that every price range is covered.  Try the case on in front of a mirror.  Try it with the shoulder strap if that is the way you will usually be carrying it.  There are many new ergonomically correct shoulder straps on the market.  They fit your shoulder and are more comfortable than the old style thinner strap.  Briefcases last a long time so you want the case you purchase to be something you'll enjoy for many years.

     If you need a case that is smaller or larger than your old case be sure to bring the old case along to compare.  Cases look different in a large store than they do at home.  Some briefcases come with hidden expansion zippers to make the case larger or smaller.
   
     If you are going to be carrying a laptop be sure you know the size.  There are cases for 14" to 17" laptops.  Many have removable padded inserts that are very useful if you travel.  This way you can remove your laptop while going through security and keep it safe in the padded insert.  Other laptop cases have a padded pocket inside where the laptop is protected.  Many have very comfortable shoulder straps because these cases tend to get heavy.  There are also molded briefcases called attaches designed to carry laptops.  These do not usually have shoulder straps and are carried by one handle only.  They generally have a combination lock so they are more secure.  Some models are watertight
.  
     If you are looking for a lighter weight case, there is a large variety available.  You no longer have to rule out leather. There’s also good quality nylon or ballistic nylon cases.  Hold the cases side by side and lift them.
 
     When you begin to develop shoulder problems or neck problems, or your doctor has advised you to stop lifting or carrying a briefcase, than the rolling case is for you.  There are quite a variety of cases available now with wheels.  They come in all sizes and models.  Some have removable wheels.  They are also available in leather or ballistic nylon.  Purchase one with the good inline skate wheels, so they will roll smoothly over cement or walkways or down office halls.

     Especially for woman, but also for men there are now a wide variety of styles and colors available.  Woman can choose from petal pink to lipstick red to bright purple!  For men there is every shade of brown imaginable as well as black.  There are soft leathers, grained leathers, and combinations of leather and nylon. It’s always a good idea to have your initials monogrammed on the case so no one accidentally walks away with it.


