Title: 
softwarelady

Word Count:
516

Summary:
Making money online is not as difficult as you might think, and certainly not as easy as some would try and have you believe.

When I say it's not as difficult as you might think, normal people just like you, with little or no technical experience are making lots of money online day in day out. 

When I say its not as easy as some would have you believe, I mean that you can't get rich overnight with little or no work or effort on your part. 

Online money making is for most people a dream. And often an expensive one. Did you know that for every person making money online, many more will be losing it? I don't mean losing money through online gambling, or the sort, but losing money because they bought into the making money online dream?


Keywords:
resell,software,ebooks,earn,money


Article Body:
Making Money Online - What Separates The Dream From Reality?
The answer? Firstly accepting that making money online is an ongoing process resulting from hard work, patience and knowledge of internet marketing.

If you look for other people to make you money online, by joining their scheme or plan, then sadly, this will be the truth you will have to face again and again: You'll make them money (because they've put the work into building their online business - and know internet marketing - and are patient enough to see the results) whereas YOU will lose your hard earned cash lining someone else's pocket.

 

How to get resell software?

Buy software one by one or join a membership club?

You can go to eBay or other sites to find resell software. The problem with this is that you are ending up getting many of the same products each time you are buying a product. You must also use much time looking around the web for new products to add to your site.

If you find yourself a serious membership site where you can download  as much as you want for a small fee. You save the time looking for products yourself and can concentrate on selling and making a great site. This is what a good resell seller would do. He would let other find the products for him and concentrate himself on selling and marketing his site.

 

Who to trust?

There are many schemes out there and finding the right membership site for resell software are not easy. To help you we have tried several sites and we have a winner. The winning site is not the site with most products but this is the site that takes care of you and help you if you need it. The member service are excellent and if you are a "nice" member they will help you with free marketing of your site.

 

SoftwareLady.com

After joining and sending a couples of emails to the management of SoftwareLady, we where overwhelmed by the service of this site. We therefore decided to give them some extra point in this article. The site have about 200-300 products you can download. Most of the products comes with resell rights and others are for personal use and some you can use in your work. They have just started a forum for peoples dealing with resell products. There are not many post in this forum yet, but its a start.

The good thing about this site is that they add new products all the time, you will therefore always have access to new products. The second thing is that they always help you if they can. After joining them they gave us free submission to 20 search engines and added us to over 500 link directories. The admin of the site wrote in the email with this offer: "We are trying our best to get our members to succeed".  This is the feeling we have about this site. 

If you are thinking about starting your own internet business with resell software - www.softwarelady.com is a place to start


