Title: 
Steelware01

Word Count:
464

Summary:
steelware is a Young , vibrant & Dynamic company Manufacturing & Exporting Stainless-Steel products from Mumbai, India.


Keywords:
steelware, steelware products, steel bowls, Colenders, Table tops


Article Body:
It was an immense pleasure to know about your esteemed organisation dealing in stainless steel kicthenware products and thus we take this opportunity to introduce our company for your Perusal. Please spare a few moments in going thru this brief profile.

steelware.co.in is a Young , vibrant & Dynamic company Manufacturing & Exporting Stainless-Steel products from Mumbai, India. 

We are a REAL TIME manufacturing Factory and NO Trading company , we have four factories in the sub urban Mumbai and a have a skilled work force of over 200 people besides Technically sound and expereinced Engineers & Technicians.Our Quality Control Department adheres to highest standards and each piece is inspected individually before packing. 
We have a storage warehouse of over 40,000 SQ Ft., We are fairly new in the EXPORT industry as for the past one & half decade we had been manufacturing our quality products for various exporters and trading houses in India.
Our strongest line of productions are the following products where no one can match us in terms of prices and Quality.Its a Guarentee.
Kitchen tools 
Cutlery
Mugs
Canisters , Storage bins .
Stock pots.
Dutch oven.
Multi baking tray.
Oval tray , capsule tray , square / rectangle tray.
Bar products (Cocktail shakers,Ice Bucket,Wine cooler , Pail buckets , malt shaker etc.)
Enampled products is also our special line.
In the above mentioned product line no can compete with us. Just give us a try.
But thats not all our  specialization lies in developing new items as per specifications provided by the buyer. This not only helps in expanding our horizon but also gives us tremendous satisfaction of providing quality products to our valued customers. 
We are also specialized in low cost high value items for Dollar/Pound /Euro/99Yen stores. Our range for this category is enormous and is growing day by day. 
Our selling concept is simple, every item must be sold at an unbelievable value for money without compromising with quality. This simple concept has worked wonders for the company in creating a niche for itself in the international market. 
The development rationale of the company ensures that the quality of the support systems and ability to manage business effectively always exceeds at the demands made by a rapidly expanding dynamic business. This every rational also enables the company to recognize the needs of the customer and top fulfil immediately.
Just drop us a line with some products of your interest and i asure you that you will not regret.We will come back to you instantly with a Photo quote of that product and upon your approval shall send you the sample, We are confident that once our sample is in your hands we will not do the talking but that product will speak for itself.
Just give us a try and see our professionalism.


