Title: 
The Six Sigma Leadership Advantage

Word Count:
723

Summary:
Since you are reading this article you have at least heard of Sig Sigma. For some, it may sound like a fraternity, but it is a business philosophy for success. You may already have a business philosophy that is driving your bottom line, but if you aren't as successful as you want to be, Six Sigma may be able to help.


Keywords:
6sigma, master black belt, green belt, black belt


Article Body:
Since you are reading this article you have at least heard of Sig Sigma. For some, it may sound like a fraternity, but it is a business philosophy for success. You may already have a business philosophy that is driving your bottom line, but if you aren't as successful as you want to be, Six Sigma may be able to help.

When you read about this concept you will find a variety of definitions from the very technical to the very short. The idea is to find a definition that helps you embrace the whole concept. One of the reasons businesses are turning to Six Sigma is because it is a flexible system; it can help you improve business leadership and performance. You can use it with managers and with all employees.

Many businesses like Six Sigma because it builds on business philosophies and management ideas they already have studied, but it doesn’t' stop at just thinking about management; it moves people into action. It helps you build new structures for your business to help you sustain success.

Although it may sound like the next trend or "miracle" in business, you will find that it is more about moving your business forward. If you are looking for better ways to serve your customers, Six Sigma can help you examine the process and design marketing and other strategies to create balance in the organization.

In a sense, Six Sigma is a new concept but it is also based on common management principles. The foundation of Six Sigma is six themes that help management move forward. These themes are broken down so that each person in an organization can collaborate and focus to constantly move toward improvement.

You may be asking yourself what this has to do with leadership and whether Six Sigma will do the job for you. Your organization will undoubtedly have many uses for Six Sigma and it is a powerful program. However, a challenge may come to you when you want to implement it because the program only works if everyone in the organization is willing to actually do what is required. So, a good idea is to get organized and develop your people to head the process.

There are several key ways that you can make sure Six Sigma gets implemented well and it starts with your top leaders. Because this is a business concept it is very important to help your organization find a reason to use the process. Your managers must take the time to pull together an idea of why your business needs Six Sigma. A business that has a clear vision of why they need this particular process will get other on board easier. This is also something that everyone, including your top manager, must be ready to do.

When you use Six Sigma the organization is going to be in the midst of change constantly and change isn't always easy. A good idea to get everyone focused, is to use a marketing plan that encompasses the vision. Many organizations will include a slogan that is intended to move you forward that all your people can use. This can get things started and have everyone on a positive level. It can also be seen as an inspiring message.

Once you get everyone ready to embark upon the journey of Six Sigma it's time to assign various roles. If you use the process it will tell you exactly what to do in developing these roles and who should be a part of the decision making. Once these roles and responsibilities are in place then you are ready to start the process. How you start the process will depend on how much time you want to put into the implementation.

Although many businesses are easier to change in crisis, this may not be the right time to start Six Sigma. Instead, if you want to use this program effectively, it is best to take a look at your customers and focus on their needs. When you are working in this mode, it will automatically create change.

Six Sigma can be implemented on your own or through the use of a consultant. Many businesses use consultants that are skilled in this area because it takes away the learning curve for implementation. Now, you just have to get started.


