Title: 
The Good Things about Canvas Printing and Its Difference to Canvas Painting

Word Count:
420

Summary:
Nowadays, it is possible to print into a canvas. They say that canvas printing is ideal for reproducing many different image types and giving them added value


Keywords:
canvas printing, digital printing


Article Body:
Haven’t you notice that our technology today is fast growing and evolving? Especially in printing business, there are lots of changes from equipment to materials. They can even print now into a canvas. Yes you read it right. Nowadays, it is possible to print into a canvas. They say that canvas printing is ideal for reproducing many different image types and giving them added value.

Due to the advancement in printing technology, canvas papers for printing have been developed. For instance the Legion Premium Canvas Paper it is a matte finished, water-resistant inkjet canvas that can captures the look and feel of an oil painting. This Premium Canvas paper is also designed as for printing photographs that, when framed, will enable the photographer to convey a timeless appeal usually associated with classic paintings. The Archival Inkjet Canvas with a neutral pH is another paper canvas kind it is compatible with both dye-based and pigments based inks. The material specially crafted to be flexible to stretching and framing while maintaining durability without cracking or tearing.

Imagine your artwork or photographs as fine art canvas prints portrayed in very nice and lively colours. By using pigment based inks - to make sure that your canvas prints last a long time without fading. Also by putting an extra special protection over the canvas prints - to make sure it does not get damaged from scratches and splashes. Corners will not fade or crack.

Turning to the other side or shall I say to the artist side, we all know that canvas is used by most fine art artists as their medium to create a stunning art work masterpiece. As for definition, Canvas is a plain weave fabric formed from cotton, linen, jute, cotton, and hemp. Today, when canvas has become a generic term for heavy it is made up of tightly-woven fabric or known as polyester. Additionally, canvas serves as a support for oil painting, and is the name for the mesh fabric on which embroidery and needlepoint are done.

However, canvas printing is not the same as canvas painting; the reason is that they used different canvas. In canvas printing, the canvas used has a special receptive coating to accept the inks of the printer, which is not present in canvas painting. Artists usually use small pieces or sometimes much larger of canvas as a base for their works of art. This canvas is stretched across a wooden frame called a stretcher, and is coated with gesso before it is to be used.


