Title: 
The benefits of using an online freight loadboard

Word Count:
438

Summary:
Learn about the advantages of using an online loadboard


Keywords:
freight, loadboard, shipping, freight quotes


Article Body:
For those of you involved in the freight industry who have not yet used or heard of an online freightloadboard yet, let me tell you that you are missing out on a an incredable industry efficiency tool. An online freight loadboard is just that... it's an online medium through which both carriers and shippers can access both freight and freight capacity from the comfort of their computers in order to maximise thier haulage/shipping efficiencies. Some are fee-based while others are free.

What is a load board? A load board is an information exchange for companies in the trucking industry. A load board is generally set up for shippers, brokers, 3PLs, and other intermediaries to post loads that need to be moved. Carriers, owner-operators, and trucking companies search on load boards to find loads when looking for backhauls or to fill otherwise idles trucks. The load board serves to provide increased efficiency for every type of company in the industry.

In some cases load boards also work in reverse, allowing the posting of available trucks that can be searched by freight load brokers who have loads ready to move. Load boards today are accessed via the Internet and displayed on truckstop monitors. Load boards are also known as Load Matching Sites, Freight Boards, and Freight Matching Services.

The primary function of Posting software is to streamline the process of posting to load boards and other load matching and freight matching services. The process of posting to a load board manually is tedious and time-consuming. Some posting software allow its users to post to more load boards in less time. This allows more time for other tasks, increases the number of calls received, reduces business costs, and increases profits.

User accounts are activated immediately after payment is received. Users will then gain online access to a secure site and can begin viewing available freight offers and listing their capacity. We enforce our terms and conditions to ensure Membership integrity is maintained at all times. All ground carriers must have a MC and/or DOT registration. Any breach will result in a account cancellation and the carrier being removed from the site.

Every extra load you move makes a difference, so don't let opportunities pass you by.

For more information about this online loadbord pleaese visit http://www.freightoffer.com to realise the benfits of using an online freight loadboard.

Alex Matthews is a freight industry veteran involved in the shipping industry for the last 15 years. To get additional information about using an online freight loadboard please contact Alex at info@freightoffer.com or http://www.freightoffer.com/


