Title: 
The Learn To Earn Principle

Word Count:
470

Summary:
Do you know of anyone else, beside yourself, who has jumped on the bandwagon of affiliate marketing and started his or her own Internet business? Chances are pretty good you do, considering the thousands of people who join the ranks every year.

Have you talked with that person lately? How’s the business going? You found out they quit already? Didn’t they just get started a few months ago? You speculate as to what went wrong. You figure there’s just too much competition in ...


Keywords:
learn affiliate marketing, internet marketing


Article Body:
Do you know of anyone else, beside yourself, who has jumped on the bandwagon of affiliate marketing and started his or her own Internet business? Chances are pretty good you do, considering the thousands of people who join the ranks every year.

Have you talked with that person lately? How’s the business going? You found out they quit already? Didn’t they just get started a few months ago? You speculate as to what went wrong. You figure there’s just too much competition in the market to make any money. Or maybe this person isn’t the brightest bulb in the bunch and you figure he or she just made poor decisions. Maybe they just don’t have the time.

It’s very likely that none of these reasons played a significant part in why this person quit the business. People quit most things in life for one reason and one reason only:

The lack of early success quickly erodes the desire and motivation we have to accomplish anything we set out to do.

Persistence and patience are traits rarely seen in today’s business culture. We’re used to getting what we want, when we want it. This attitude of entitlement often results in quick abandonment of anything that doesn’t satisfy our need for immediate gratification.

Surprisingly, people don’t quit most business ventures because of being overworked either. They quit because they’re actually underworked! They’ve stopped building their business. They’ve stopped improving their strategies. And most importantly, they’ve stopped learning.

The Learn To Earn Principle is really easy to grasp, and yet only a few people seem to put it into practice in their affiliate marketing business. They get just enough information to get started and then they race to implement it, only to see poor results and zero profits.

Imagine an architect, a nurse or a plumber doing this. They begin their career journeys by learning the 101 information for their professions. Then they jump into practice without any further education or training. I don’t know about you, but I sure don’t want them designing my buildings, caring for me when I’m sick or fixing my leaky toilet. I want professionals who are fully trained and educated in their chosen fields. I want experts.

Successful affiliate marketers are experts in the business. They learn the basics and move on to intermediate instruction. They perform exhaustive research to determine the best learning resources. They get on board the right networks and are active in using interactive, expert forums to ask questions and seek review of their efforts.

Going it alone might seem the fastest, cheapest way to break into the affiliate marketing business. Without continued learning from top-notch resources, it will also be the fastest, cheapest way to fail.


