Title: 
The Importance Of Preparing A Business Plan

Word Count:
573

Summary:
While employment is a surefire way of securing your future, there are always those who believe that entrepreneurship should be a priority not only among those who are already established in life but also for students who have just finished their studies.  Other people believe that getting involved with a profitable business is still the way to go if one wants to be financially successful in the future.

People who immediately go into business without any plan at all are the...


Keywords:
business, business plans,


Article Body:
While employment is a surefire way of securing your future, there are always those who believe that entrepreneurship should be a priority not only among those who are already established in life but also for students who have just finished their studies.  Other people believe that getting involved with a profitable business is still the way to go if one wants to be financially successful in the future.

People who immediately go into business without any plan at all are the ones who end up with nothing at all, in terms of their capital or investment. This is because they have joined a war without carrying any weapon at all.

Starting a business is not an easy task as it requires the proper motivation, preparation and research. You do not go into business just because you have thought of an idea that you believe will strike gold and you want to implement it immediately.  Of course, some do this but the rate of failure will always be high.

If you want to have a higher success rate in business, then you have to do it slowly and properly and with the proper business plan.  A business plan will help you create a map of the business you want to go into plus it would help you pinpoint the difficulties that you would encounter along the way.

A business plan will serve as your guide in starting and in implementing the business and in steering such business to success. When making a business plan, it is important to take note of your reasons in wanting to go into business, whether you are into it because you want to get rid of that bossy creature breathing over your head, or you want to be financially independent. It is also important to determine the proper business endeavor for you considering your hobbies and skills, time preferences and of course your experiences.

Before doing your business plan, be able to identify the possible business area where you would like to go like if you want to go into the buy and sell business, what products would you sell? Is there a demand for the product you are planning to sell and are there other businesses in your locality which sells the same products? If there are, what would be your advantage over the existing enterprises selling the same products?

Another important thing to consider is the legal structure that you would prefer, whether you would want to go into single proprietorship, partnership or a corporate type of business. Do you have an accountant who will manage your records? Also take note of your possible sources of capital and the amount you going to need to start and maintain the business.

When you have answered these questions, then you are more or less prepared to write a business plan that will help you start your business. There are professionals who can help you make your business plan. You can also do some internet research and look for websites that are offering free business plans and guides.

Once you have completed you business plan, then you can evaluate it whether it is at par with what you have in mind. A business plan is not rigid and it can be flexible depending on your business needs. However, a person who fails to make a business plan before starting a business venture can expect to have a rough time ahead.


