Title: 
The Great Back Door Secret to Attracting Wealth that Millions will Ignore

Word Count:
625

Summary:
If you want to attract wealth, don't ignore the patterns set forth by the wealthy. This article reveals some things that millionaires do and how they achieve their goals...


Keywords:
financial freedom, creating wealth, attracting wealth


Article Body:
If you're interested in attracting wealth but aren't sure how to get started, you must first begin thinking like the wealthy of our society. Millions of people want to become wealthy, but unfortunately they often ignore the patterns set forth by real millionaires. The great back door secret to creating wealth isn't how to get more money necessarily, but it's how to use money wisely as you get it! The reason people ignore this is because it takes hard work (for most) to build wealth and keep it.

What is Financial Freedom?

Financial freedom is defined as a lifestyle in which producing new income is no longer required to cover living expenses. A person reaches a state of financial freedom when they've worked and saved enough money, and perhaps are drawing enough interest, to cover all living expenses. This may or may not mean the person is debt free. 

Unfortunately, many young adults have the wrong ideas about financial freedom. They feel they can reach financial freedom at a very young age and never have to work again. Though this would be great, it's not feasible for most. Becoming wealthy, on the other hand, is feasible and will help you work toward financial freedom years down the line if you learn how to use the wealth for future gain.

So, What Do Millionaires Do?

Many millionaires have little or no debt. They pay off their credit card bills each month, and are very frugal when it comes to shopping. Millionaires save a lot of money on a regular basis and invest in things that will appreciate or earn a return. Most are homeowners that live in nice, older neighborhoods. They worked their way to the top and did not inherit their wealth. They focus on creating wealth to help others. While attracting wealth, most millionaires live a well-balanced life and spend a lot of time with their families.

Five Character Traits of the Wealthy

Those who have attracted wealth in their life through honest, hard work typically have five common character traits. These are discipline, integrity, good social skills, a supportive spouse, and very good work ethic. Discipline means they are careful about how and why they spend money. While creating wealth, they're not spending it as fast as they obtain it! They take small steps toward reaching big goals. Integrity means they are honest in their business affairs and personal lives. They do what they do with the right motives and try to look out for the interest of others. 

Good social skills are required to work with people while attracting wealth. This means the person can get along well with others, work in team efforts, and be a leader or follower when necessary. A supportive spouse is very beneficial in personal and business affairs. The spouse is often the backbone of a millionaire's success, supporting and encouraging them to move forward even when times are tough. And finally, a wealthy person usually has very good work ethic. This means going the extra mile for the company even when it's not required. Work ethic means working hard even when times are tough or when nothing seems to be happening yet.

Before attracting wealth is possible, you must develop this wealthy mindset and stop thinking on the average level. As you can see, millionaires usually don't go with the flow of the masses. The great back door secret to creating wealth is to think above and beyond what you can have today, and start thinking of the future. Live each day as an opportunity to attract wealth and reach goals. Avoid lavish living or uncontrollable spending. Also, avoid unnecessary debt. Study the lives and patterns of the wealthy so you can start enjoying success too!


