Title: 
The 4 Secrets To Success & Wealth

Word Count:
571

Summary:
Success means different things to different people.
There are four specific factors which anyone will need to become successful:
1.  Goals and plans. Successful people have clearly laid out goals which guide them along.
2.  Optimism. Maintaining a positive attitude is very important because it will keep you motivated to work towards your goal.
3.  Focus. In order to be successful.
4.  Perseverance. This means persistence in any thing undertaken.


Keywords:
Success


Article Body:
Success means different things to different people. Success can involve personal development or achieving financial security. To others, success can be getting that 'dream job'. To others, an achievement can be related to personal life or family. Success basically means the achievement of something desired, planned, or attempted, and this may be in any aspect of one's life.

In spite of the various ways through which success is defined, there are some common traits which successful people tend to have. Being successful requires a lot of discipline and commitment to work towards the attainment of the desired goals.

There are four specific factors which anyone will need to become successful. 

1. Goals and plans. Successful people have clearly laid out goals which guide them along. These goals are broken down into measurable and achievable components, with the necessary actions for achieving these goals also stated. What do you want to achieve in one year, in two years? What exactly do you want to have? What will you need to do on a daily basis so that you can achieve those goals? If you want to become financially secure, maybe you need to start a home based business. What level of profits do you want to make with this business? What are you going to need to do to make this business a success and earn the money you want? All these questions must help you have clear goals and plans on what you want to achieve.

2. Optimism. Maintaining a positive attitude is very important because it will keep you motivated to work towards your goal. With a positive attitude, one can remain committed to the goals. Additionally, no temporary setbacks can discourage you; and you will not procrastinate doing what you must do to achieve your goals. A famous quote says "A pessimist sees the difficulty in every opportunity; an optimist sees the opportunity in every difficulty." A positive attitude also builds up courage and determination to go ahead and achieve your goals, whether it's personal development or financial freedom. "Optimism is the faith that leads to achievement. Nothing can be done without hope and confidence."

3. Focus. In order to be successful, you must have undivided attention towards your goals. Successful people pursue their goals with complete dedication and commitment, and all their energy is focused on their goals. If you want to achieve your goals and become successful, you must be focused on your vision and goals. Do not lose that vision. Being focused will also help you constantly assess your progress, and make any necessary adjustments along the way.

4. Perseverance. This means persistence in any thing undertaken; continued pursuit or prosecution of any business or enterprise begun. In order to be successful, you will need to be determined to achieve your goals. Your success will not happen overnight. Also, you will face some discouragement, and these must not stop you from working towards your goals. 

These 4 qualities set apart those who succeed in reaching their goals and those who fail. If you want to become successful or wealthy, you must have these qualities. It is worth it to make all the necessary adjustments in your mindset and personality so that you will have what it takes to become successful. It takes a lot of hard work and commitment to be successful. These qualities will help you achieve your goals, be they starting your own business, financial security or personal development.


