Title: 
The Transformation of the Home Based Business Opportunity

Word Count:
536

Summary:
To start a successful business, you don't need hundreds of thousands of dollars of capital; you don't even need an office. You simply need a computer, an Internet connection, the right idea, and the will to succeed.


Keywords:
Make Money Online, Home Based Business, Make Money On The Internet,Income Opportunities, Make Money From Home, Residual 


Article Body:
There's never been a better time to dive into the business world and claim your slice of the pie. Thanks in large part to the Internet, the playing field has become more level. To start a successful business, you don't need hundreds of thousands of dollars of capital; you don't even need an office. You simply need a computer, an Internet connection, the right idea, and the will to succeed. 

Why the Old Model Didn't Work

Indeed, the home based business opportunity has undergone a transformation - and an upgrade. It used to be that, to make money from home, you had to affiliate with a network marketing company that expected you to sell products at home parties and pester your family members and friends - and their friends. It was only when (or in most cases, if) you established a downline that you could begin earning residual income. The problem with that business model is that most of the people who sought income opportunities were so far down the proverbial food chain that they could never truly succeed.

New Money Making Opportunities

Today, the information superhighway is open to all, which means that opportunities to make money on the Internet abound. Some people choose to earn money online in order to supplement their existing income, while others look for a money making opportunity that will enable them to get out of the rat race and truly achieve wealth. 

While the Internet might be seen as the great equalizer, not everyone who tries to make money online succeeds. That's because throwing up a website and hoping that people will find it simply doesn't work. There are too many websites out there competing for the same eyeballs. Instead, the most successful home based business opportunity is one where you connect with another company that has all the systems in place to ensure that you can begin driving traffic to your site on day one. 

Advertising, Multiple Revenue Streams, and More

Internet advertising is both an art and a science, and an area that takes a great deal of experimentation and ongoing refinement in order to be effective. When you are reviewing a potential home based business opportunity, be sure that the company has Internet marketing gurus who can provide you with high-conversion advertisements and who can tell you exactly where to place your ads. The right kind of advertising in the right places will make the difference between success and failure. 

In order to earn money online, then, you need traffic that's generated from advertising. You also need multiple revenue streams. Ideally, you should have at least seven different revenue streams across a number of industries in order to succeed. Again, the company with which you affiliate can provide you with the variety that you need. 

Needless to say, to earn money online you need to approach your venture like a business. In other words, you do need to make an initial investment (although it's a fraction of what it would cost to start a business offline), and you need to commit to working a certain number of hours per week. For those who have been burned by the traditional network marketing system, though, this should be a cakewalk.


