Title: 
The Advantages of Portable Trade Show Displays

Word Count:
434

Summary:
A trade show represents an excellent opportunity to present your company and its products to an audience looking for new ideas and innovation in a specific field.


Keywords:
trade,show,display,booth,exhibit,portable,tradeshow trade,show,display,booth,exhibit,portable,tradeshow


Article Body:
Make sure you next trade show is a success by bringing your own portable trade show display. Using onsite setups or trying to "create" your own exhibit can be disastrous.

A trade show represents an excellent opportunity to present your company and its products to an audience looking for new ideas and innovation in a specific field. And even if you are not attending a traditional “trade show” but something more like a product exhibit or vendor showcase, it is important that your presentation is attractive and professional so you can attract prospective customers.

Portable trade show displays are a good choice for exhibitors who travel to shows, bring a small sales force and want an economical way to display their company and product information. Below are some of the benefits of using portable displays:

1. Portable trade show displays can be affordably shipped via UPS or FedEx. Traveling for business can be a hassle. Many exhibitors ship their trade show display and all the demo products, sales literature and computers ahead of time to make the trip less trouble. Since a portable display is made to transport easily, shipping it via UPS or FexEx is not expensive. And you can even bring a portable display with you on an airplane if you are concerned about it getting lost in transit.

2. A portable display typically fits into one or two shipping cases. We’re not talking huge shipping crates but portable shipping cases that aren’t overly heavy or awkwardly shaped. Most shipping cases have wheels and can be easily wheeled into the trade show venue.

3. No drayage fees if you bring the display with you. If your trade show display is shipped, typically the trade show venue will charge a drayage fee for storing the display until it is set up. Depending on how large your display is, the drayage fees can be hundreds of dollars. With a portable display you can bring it with you foregoing the need for the venue to store it.

4. Set up and breakdown of a portable trade show display is quick and easy. At most trade shows you have to use the site’s laborers to set up your display. This can cost $100/hr per person making set up and breakdown of your display costly. A portable trade show display only takes one person and 15 minutes to set up or breakdown, saving you time and money.

Portable displays are all about convenience. They are easy to transport and to set up and breakdown. Consider a portable trade show display when you begin planning your next trade show booth.


