Title: 
Tips for Finding a Legitimate Business from Home

Word Count:
546

Summary:
How do you find a legitimate business opportunity that will truly allow you to succeed? Here are some tips to point you in the right direction.


Keywords:
home business, internet business, legitimate business


Article Body:
Today, there are seemingly tens of thousands of home business opportunities on the Internet. While they all initially sound spectacular, upon closer inspection many Internet business opportunities promise the moon and the stars - and don't deliver. How, then, do you find a legitimate business opportunity that will truly allow you to succeed? Here are some tips to point you in the right direction.

Expect to Work

Legitimate business opportunities require work to succeed. If a home business opportunity promises that you simply have to open your virtual doors with your own URL in order for the money to start rolling in, don't believe it. Any type of true financial success requires work. 

That's not to say, however, that you have to work 40, 50, or even 60 hours a week. Legitimate business models can harness the power of the Internet so that you can make an executive-level salary working four or five hours a day. If you choose to work longer hours, your earning potential certainly increases. But the bottom line is that you do need to work. 

Find Mentoring and Support

Unfortunately, too many Internet business opportunities sign you up and cut you loose. They may have a bare bones virtual back office and they might even have a webinar or two, but all too often they give you little direction or guidance. A legitimate business opportunity will provide you with training and mentoring, as well as ongoing support - ideally from people who have already achieved their financial goals from the same business model. 

So, when you're considering an Internet-based home business, look for transparency. This means that the website should have a phone number, and that you should be able to speak directly to someone in a position of authority within the company. It should also have an email address for an individual, rather than for a general department, such as "sales" or "support."

Expect to Invest in Your Business

Fly-by-night Internet business opportunities might promise that you won't have to lay out any money, but don't believe it. Ask any entrepreneur, and he or she will tell you that start-up money is required. A legitimate business opportunity will tell you this up front. 

However, keep in mind that Internet-based home businesses do have two start-up advantages over traditional brick-and-mortar businesses. First, you don't have to rent an office or storefront, hire staff, or invest in a tremendous amount of overhead. Second, you should be able to recoup your start-up investment very quickly - often in a matter of days. 

Examine the Compensation Model

Most Internet business opportunities are based on network marketing and sales. This isn't a bad thing, but you do need to review the compensation model for each business you consider. Legitimate business opportunities provide for immediate cash flow to cover your initial expenses, as well as ongoing compensation so that you can consistently see a profit that is aligned with the time and effort you put into your business. 

Working from home in a legitimate business is a wonderful way to achieve your financial dreams. In fact, it can change the course of your life and the lives of your children. Just keep in mind that, like any business owner, you need to invest in and work at your business in order to succeed.


