Title: 
Tips For An Easy Card Processing

Word Count:
394

Summary:
Most businesses conduct their transactions with the help of credit cards. Moreover, personal transactions could also be carried out through the use of credit cards. Credit card has become very essential for shoppers since it eliminates the need to carry a large amount of cash. It gives convenience both to the customer and the seller because transactions can be done any time you want it. It helps in managing your money easier and can be especially used during emergencies. 

...


Keywords:
credit, credit card, finances, debt, wealth


Article Body:
Most businesses conduct their transactions with the help of credit cards. Moreover, personal transactions could also be carried out through the use of credit cards. Credit card has become very essential for shoppers since it eliminates the need to carry a large amount of cash. It gives convenience both to the customer and the seller because transactions can be done any time you want it. It helps in managing your money easier and can be especially used during emergencies. 

Using credit cards on online transactions boost your business profit against your competitor. 

Here are the three key elements needed for credit card processing: 

1. Payment gateway - combination of secure software and hardware that transmits payment information from customer to merchant, provides interface, credit card processing, billing, reporting and operational services. 

2. Internet merchant account-relationship between a retailing company and a merchant bank which gives authorization to collect funds from customer’s credit card account. 

3. Bank account-an account or account number that holds funds from which they can make withdrawals. 

The key to online sales is accepting credit cards but unfortunately, most internet merchant accounts can be harder to achieved because of increased security risks as to no signatures attached, and nor the card is physically presented on the point of sale. In some ways it could also be crucial for businesses because of the occurrence of credit card fraud and attack of credit card thieves. 

So you must have a secure, confidential and protected way of dealing credit card information. 

The easiest and safest way to implement an online credit card processing is using a third-party service which is a payment gateway at the same time a merchant account. Lots of third-party service or software is offered in the market today and appropriate for all types of businesses. It also incorporates a payment gateway and a merchant account. And many of these services also incorporate a shopping cart application as part of the deal. It may appear to cost more but it saves you from an initial outlay on shopping cart applications and expensive long time contracts. 

When choosing a third-party service for credit card payments, consider the volume and frequency of your sales. There are also other third-party credit card processing services available, all of which have slightly different pricing schemes. The right one for you will depend on your sales volume and cash flow.


