Title: 
Top 3 Treadmills under $1000

Word Count:
718

Summary:
Find out what are my picks for the 3 best treadmills under the $1000.00 dollar price range and learn why I picked these three.


Keywords:
treadmills, treadmill,elliptical, ellipticals, repair service, how to


Article Body:
Sole F63

The Sole F63 is an unbelievable treadmill for an unbelievable low price!  The Sole F63 can be found in many light commercial settings including Hilton Hotels Worldwide.  The value of this treadmill is found in the continuous duty 2.5 HP DC motor that will take this treadmill to a 15% incline and a speed of up to 10 MPH.  

The Sole F63 is a product of Spirit.  Spirit is a well respected Pioneer in the industry, with over 25 years of experience in the fitness industry.

The F63 offers many features that you would not normally find on a treadmill in the $1000 price range.  This Treadmill has user friendly console with constant readings of time, calorie count, incline, speed, distance traveled, pulse and pace.   

This treadmill is also excellent for someone needing to save some space in their home or office.  Sole has a patented all gear rack and pinion system that locks the deck into place for truly safe storage.  In addition to the fantastic storage capability, the F63 offers an amazing “Easy Assist Folding Deck Design” that opens without effort after unlocking the deck.  

The frame is bullet proof, and this unbelievable treadmill offers high torque motors with flywheels, which means that the flywheels allow the machine to run much cooler or less amp draw, and in turn the motor will have a much longer life.  Featuring 2 ply belts and 2.75 inch rollers this will mean that you will have a quiet workout, and you will have many years of great service from the F63 with virtually no problems.

The Hilton and Omni Hotels are sold on Sole.  The F63 is amazing for the price, and the construction could easily be compared to many $5000 machines.   If you have a Budget of $1000, don’t pass by this long lasting, well made treadmill.  

Smooth 5.25 Treadmill 


The Smooth 5.25 is offered by Smoothfitness who have been a favorite of “Runners World” for offering unsurpassed stability.   This treadmill offers a strong 2.5 HP continuous motor with speeds ranging from 0.5 to 10 MPH.  The 5.25 has a 20’ belt.  Belts of this size usually only offered by more expensive treadmills.  Runners have fallen in love with the stable feel of this treadmill due to the uni-weld design.  The 5.25 also offers 7 programs to choose from for a varied workout, and an easy to use hand grip pulse monitor. 

 Using Swing Arm technology means that the entire running deck and frame are suspended on two pivots. This will help reduce harmful impact on your ankles, knees, hips and back and ensure that you have a workout that will equal to any commercial machine.

This machine also offers the space saving feature of soft drop folding, which makes storage a snap.  

This Top Rated treadmill will amaze you, with a stable ride and options that you find only on the most expensive treadmills.  The warranty included into the price for the Smooth 5.25 features 3 years on parts, and 1 year on in home service.  

This treadmill is extraordinary, with a price to match.  The Smooth 5.25 is excellent for avid runners and novices alike.  This treadmill deserves a look from anyone needing to acquire a solid piece of equipment for an unbelievable price.

Epic 425 MX Treadmill

The Epic 425 MX is a perfect choice for the individual looking to lose weight, get in shape and not spend a fortune.  This heavy duty 3.0 CHP commercial-grade motor has an amazing weight limit of 350lbs, and speeds from 0 to 12 MPH.  The 425 MX has 10 personal training workouts for a varied regime, 0 to 12% incline, and a 10 x 20 workout matrix that displays your workouts graphically.

The Epic 425 MX offers a Comfort Stride Impact reducing belt that runs the full length of the walking belt.  The Comfort Stride helps to protect joints from undue stress while running or walking.  In addition to all of the listed features, the 425 also offers the space saving capability of folding, and Easy Drop Shock that slowly lowers the deck when the user is ready for another workout.  Epic also offers a 12 year warranty on motor, and 1 year on parts and labor.
 
This heavy duty treadmill is a perfect match for anyone that has some weight to lose, and offers stability for almost anyone interested in improving their health.  This durable treadmill will impress anyone that has ever considered purchasing a commercial grade machine due to weight constraints.


