Title: 
Welding Safety And Certification

Word Count:
419

Summary:
Welding is one of the most resourceful activities in the world.  Defined as a fabrication process that is used to join materials, welding often requires the melting of a material before joining it to another through the use of heat.  The welding industry employs a large number of workers and, because it is a dangerous job, it requires specialized training and certification.


Keywords:
wedling,job,jobs,plastic,engineering,material,materials


Article Body:
Welding is one of the most resourceful activities in the world.  Defined as a fabrication process that is used to join materials, welding often requires the melting of a material before joining it to another through the use of heat.  The welding industry employs a large number of workers and, because it is a dangerous job, it requires specialized training and certification.

In addition to pre-employment training, welding also requires specific safety measures that must be followed by every worker.  The proper knowledge combined with today’s technology can reduce the likelihood of injuries related to welding.  However, the risks associated with any job can never be completely eliminated.  Because welding commonly involves exposure to extreme heat, there is a significant risk of burns.  In an effort to prevent this risk, welding professionals must wear protective clothing, including leather gloves and special long sleeve jackets.  The additional coverage will help to prevent the likelihood of flames coming into contact with the skin and thereby helps to prevent burns.  

Actual contact is not the only risk associated to welding.  In fact, the brightness of the welding process is often damaging to the worker’s eye.  A condition may develop as a result of the cornea becoming inflamed and/or the retina becoming burned after exposure to ultraviolet light.  In order to prevent this occurrence, welding professionals are required to wear a helmet and goggles with a darkened face plate.  A number of companies also manufacture helmets with the face plate built-in.  

Welding professionals are also often exposed to harmful gases and/or smoke.  In an effort to reduce the worker’s exposure to these potentially dangerous pollutants, proper ventilation must be provided.  Employers who offer welding positions are responsible for the care and safety of their workers and, as such, are required to uphold certain safety standards in maintaining a proper work environment. 

In order to find work as a welding professional, interested candidates are usually required to attend classes for certification.  The length of time spent in this type of learning environment will vary depending on the position and required expertise of the welder.  In order to enroll in welding certification classes, candidates will likely be required to pay a small fee before signing up.  The certification process is not lengthy and classes typically last for several months.  After successful completion, the graduate is awarded with a welding certification.  At that time, he/she may apply for jobs in the industry that is related to their field of study.


