Title: 
What is an autoresponder?

Word Count:
310

Summary:
An Autoresponder is an Automated Internet Marketing tool.Like any other tool you will need to learn how it operates to take full advantage of its capabilities.


Keywords:
autoresponder,message series,leads


Article Body:
An Autoresponder is an Automated Internet Marketing tool.Like any other tool you will need to learn how it operates to take full advantage of its capabilities.

An Autoresponder sends programmed messages at specified intervals of time to recipients that are loaded into it.

The Autoresponder consists of 2 basic elements.

The messages that you compose
The list of intended recipients

Sounds simple Right?

The basic operation of an Autoresponder remains as simple as it ever was but there are many other factors that now affect the success of its use.There are a multitude of new elements to consider when using an Autoresponder.

Since using Autoresponder to send email has become popular so has the abuse of it. There are huge amounts of SPAM sent everyday and your messages get mixed in with all of it. So this makes you even more responsible for getting your message noticed.

The deliverability of your message will depend on several factors as outlined below:

HTML vs Text
Message Content/SPAM Filters
Number of messages sent per hour
Black Listing

The 2nd part of an Autoresponder is the prospect list. There are many list providers on the Internet. Some good and some not so good. Prices range from 2 cents to 40 cents per lead. It can be difficult to find a reliable source for your leads. You can ask around for referrals to lead providers that your friends or Upline have used. If that is not an option then look at some of the following factors:

How long has the company been around on the Internet?
What kind of Guarantees do they offer ?
Is their pricing competitive ?
What is their Google Page Rank ?

The bottom line is that you will need to do some testing to ultimately find out what works. It may take a few tries to find the right source for your leads.


