Title: 
What Is eFax Or Internet Faxing?

Word Count:
566

Summary:
You hear so much about Internet faxing or efaxing these days, but what exactly is an eFax and how does it work? More importantly, how can using Internet fax save you money...


Keywords:
efax,efaxing,internet faxing,internet faxing online,online faxing,email faxing,


Article Body:
Copyright 2006 Titus Hoskins

Efax or Internet faxing is simply using the Internet to send and receive your faxes. You send or receive your faxes using your email. It is faxing tailor made for our Internet world.

It is faxing done right!

Internet faxing is fast, simple and easy. It is as simple as using your email. It is also very easy to set up, anyone can have an efax phone number and account created within minutes. Plus, you can access your faxes anywhere, anytime. Since Internet fax uses the Internet, you can access it wherever you have the Internet. Nowadays, that's just about anywhere.

Another major reason why efaxing is gaining in popularity: it can be down-right cheap.

For a cash strapped home business owner just setting up shop, it is a very inexpensive alternative to the old fax machine. You save the cost of buying a fax machine, you save the cost of setting up and maintaining an extra phone line, plus you save the cost of all that paper and ink.

If your faxing needs are very minimum, you can have a fax number and account for as little as $20 a year. If your faxing needs are a little more demanding, you can set up an efax account for around $10 a month. For that matter, if you just want to only receive faxes, you can get a faxing account and number for free.

For those who want a more robust faxing account, including fax broadcasting and company faxing, there are many different Internet faxing plans and providers to choose from that are operating on the web. The prudent business person will shop around and compare these different fax providers before signing up to any one faxing service.

How does Internet faxing actually work?

Once you have signed up with the Internet fax provider that best matches your faxing needs, you will be given a local or toll-free fax number which you can give out to all your business contacts. You can send and receive faxes through your email.

You can use email programs like Windows Outlook or Windows Office to send and receive your faxes. Some fax providers have a free desktop application you can use to send and receive your faxes. Faxes are usually attached to an email in a TIFF or PDF file. Most fax services let you send a fax by simply sending an email (destination number)@faxservice.com - sending a fax doesn't get any simpler than this.

Most fax providers have a web interface (website), where you can login to access your account and faxes. You can store your faxes online for easy access. You can send and track your faxes from your online account. It will tell you if your fax has arrived at its destination. Most fax providers will also tell you the cost, especially for international faxes which have different faxing fees from domestic faxing.

Most of these fax providers are also flexible and completely scalable for heavy business faxing. Even here, there is the opportunity to save costs on your faxing budget. Rates are very competitive and you will usually save anywhere from 20% to 30% on your normal faxing costs.

For all these reasons, Internet faxing is probably the wave of the future as the Internet becomes more and more embedded into our daily lives. Online Internet faxing is here to stay. It is faxing done right.


