Title: 
What is the CyberEye Motion Detection Camera?

Word Count:
557

Summary:
With our economy slowing down, burglaries are up and you run the risk of someone else wanting to take your stuff for their own.It makes sense to have some sort of motion detection camera set up in your home or your office to catch any intruders.


Keywords:
hidden Camera,hidden camera detectors,Stun master stun gun, stun gun, pepper spray, telephone security, gps tracking devices, digital audio recorders,


Article Body:
With our economy slowing down, burglaries are up and you run the risk of someone else wanting to take your stuff for their own. While burglary rates have been declining recently, they still number about 25 per 1,000 households. It makes sense to have some sort of motion detection camera set up in your home or your office to catch any intruders.

The definition of burglary is the unlawful or forcible entry or attempted entry of a residence. Burglary usually, though not always, involves theft. The punk is usually strung out on drugs and does not work, and needs money to support their habit. The use force to break into your home or office by breaking a window or slashing a screen. They can also enter through an unlocked window or door. Whatever way they use to gain entrance to the building, as long as they have no legal right to be there, a burglary has occurred.

Also, the building need not be your home or office for a burglary to take place. Illegal entry of any garage, shed, or any other structure on the premises also constitutes a burglary. Burglary can even occur at a hotel or when you are on vacation, it's still classified as a burglary.

Unless you have a security guard inside to watch your property 24/7, the simplest thing you can do is to have some type of surveillance camera in place to protect your property. If you can't afford a multi-camera video surveillance system, there are a couple choices for single unit motion detection cameras that are self contained and can record pictures to internal memory.

One of the most economical choices is the CyberEye Infrared Digital Surveillance Camera. The CyberEye is a Motion Detection Camera that takes black & white photos, is completely self-contained, and with motion detection, the camera that will take pictures of whatever is in front of its lens, whenever motion is detected, day or night with it's built in Infrared lights. The CyberEye can be set to record images at any rate between one and sixty seconds, up to 680 images before the memory is full. 

Because the CyberEye is a tiny, self contained camera, you can set up anywhere in your home, office, or vehicle. You can point it out a window and it won't affect the image. One interesting use is to put the CyberEye in your car to catch vandals who might be damaging it, or spraying graffiti on your fence. Simply activate the CyberEye up with the included remote control, and you can leave knowing your CyberEye Surveillance Camera will record any movement. If you have children or pets, they will trigger the motion detection, so it's best to use this where your children don't play.
 
To see your images, just plug the CyberEye into a TV or VCR, and then use the remote to scroll through the images to find the ones you are looking for. Then, you can record the images to the VCR, or you can use a Camcorder to record the images to tape, and then dump that into your computer so you can make a CD or DVD. It won't connect directly to your PC, as there is no USB port. The images are stored in non-volatile memory, so you can't loose them if your battery dies or the power goes out.


