Title: 
Why Choose Dallas cleaning services by DBM?

Word Count:
526

Summary:
Warning!  What you need to know about the 3 different types of Dallas cleaning services, before you choose one!  The difference is not only significant, but it can save you time and money by notice the distinctions.


Keywords:
dallas office cleaning


Article Body:
Why Choose Dallas cleaning services by DBM?

 

Warning!  What you need to know about the 3 different types of Dallas cleaning services, before you choose one!  The difference is not only significant, but it can save you time and money by notice the distinctions. 
 
It's important to feel good about your selection of the right Dallas cleaning services, and to help you make this decision, you need to know about the 3 different types of cleaning services available.  Dallas Building Maintenance is a Type 3  Full Service Janitorial firm that has over 30 years of experience. There is a reason that our Dallas cleaning services have stood the test of time and competition.

 

Different types of procedures. From hiring, training, and supervision, are key elements in what makes cleaning companies different.

 

TYPE 1 CLEANING SERVICE:  These types of Dallas cleaning services, the Small, Local Mom & Pop or Husband & Wife Cleaning Team, have a few advantages.  This type service can give you good personalized attention, but often has little back-up if someone is sick or no-shows, so you might have more missed cleaning days. While working in a close, smaller, family business like these, you can get good rapport, but personality differences in family members could arise.  Dallas cleaning services like these may also carry lower amounts of insurance coverage. Small operations like this often  lack full service janitorial capabilities, and inspection and supervision could be lacking. 

 

TYPE 2 CLEANING SERVICE: The Large National Franchise.  This type of operation usually has plenty of man-power to staff accounts, but only a one-style-fits all cookie cutter "franchise" formula.  This is a unique and distinguishing feature as compared to smaller Dallas cleaning services.  The larger National franchisor, is a spread out type operation and could diminish the personalized "local" attention, flexibility, and customized cleaning your business may need. Franchisors often have full service janitorial capabilities, but service levels may be inconsistent from city to city. Periodically, there is franchisee turnover on accounts, and the "re-selling" of your Dallas cleaning services contract to other  franchisees could cause unnecessary turnover of accounts, and cause problems in the actual cleaning service.

 

TYPE 3 CLEANING SERVICE: The Larger, Locally Based Full Service Janitorial Firm.  Dallas Building Maintenance falls into this category of Dallas cleaning services, and offers the best combination of Large company strength and small company personal attention; Dallas Building Maintenance is a locally based and has been serving Dallas and surrounding cities since 1975, and you get the stability of a larger, established cleaning company with plenty of man-power that can provide experienced fill in help at any time, along with the flexibility to expand as your Dallas cleaning services needs expand.  You get local responsive ownership and that extra personal attention. Complete janitorial capabilities are always available with DBM, as well as top notch quality control measures.

 

In considering the different types of Dallas cleaning services,  consider a company like DBM, a company that not only keeps your place looking great at the right price, but that makes you feel and look good for having made the right decision! Dallas building maintenance is an established company with a stable track record, and can address all your facility cleaning needs.


