Title: 
Wireless Merchant Account?

Word Count:
500

Summary:
A wireless merchant account can bring your business into the 21st century by enabling you to accept credit payments while on the go. All you have to do is get approved for a merchant account and then purchase or lease a wireless credit card processor that can be transported from one location to another by employees who collect credit payments from customers. Here’s how it works.

1. Apply for a wireless merchant account by finding a reputable merchant services provider to p...


Keywords:
Wireless Merchant Account


Article Body:
A wireless merchant account can bring your business into the 21st century by enabling you to accept credit payments while on the go. All you have to do is get approved for a merchant account and then purchase or lease a wireless credit card processor that can be transported from one location to another by employees who collect credit payments from customers. Here’s how it works.

1. Apply for a wireless merchant account by finding a reputable merchant services provider to partner with. You can browse many kinds of merchant account Websites on the Internet to find those that will approve your company for a commercial account that will let you accept credit card payments using a wireless processor. Shop for banks, credit unions, or other financial institutions that offer merchant services. Apply online, by mail, or in person with local providers. In many cases you can get a response within a matter of hours, or at most, a day or two. Most underwriters look at an application to determine whether a company has a good credit history, is able to make monthly payments on a merchant account, and is not involved in a questionable or unsavory business.

2. Once you have been approved for a wireless merchant account, you can immediately select the equipment you would like to use. Check out several units to find one that is the right size and weight for your company’s needs, especially if it will be transported for off-site credit processing. You also should be eligible to get a regular credit card processor to plug into any outlet in your store or another location, if preferred. Many units combine printer and terminal for greater convenience. Purchase prices vary greatly, but you can expect to spend several hundred dollars to purchase a quality wireless unit. Your merchant account extras can add to the cost, with the potential for application, maintenance, service, gateway, and discount fees, among others. Find out in advance what you will have to pay for a particular deal up front, monthly, and annually, and make sure the expenses fit with your company operating budget.

3. After implementing wireless merchant account equipment, see how it works for your customers and the degree to which the company benefits. Processing credit payments can help to increase profits, since more customers may be eager to make purchases when they have the flexibility to pay in credit as opposed to paying in cash or by check. If the initial set-up works well, you may decide to move on to other electronic items, like a pager, a check and debit processor, and other types of equipment that can help your company operate smoothly and efficiently. Don’t go overboard with buying fancy features that you really don’t need. Simply purchase or lease the technology that addresses a specific need that you have already identified. If it works, you can always add more later. If it doesn’t, you’re only out the investment on the one item.


