Title: 
George Bush's Deception

Word Count:
503

Summary:
Yesterday, I watched in disbelief George W. Bush's convoluted speech to the House of Representatives. It was rather telling that this speech wasn't in primetime but rather at 9 a.m. (6 a.m. in the West). I know a lot about politics since I write political thrillers (www.thetwentyfirstcentury.com) and I am constantly doing research for my books and articles. But it doesn't take a writer of politics, or even one who doesn't follow politics, to realize that what George Bush said...


Keywords:
George Bush,politics,the twenty first century,21st century,war in Iraq,America at war,conspiracy


Article Body:
Yesterday, I watched in disbelief George W. Bush's convoluted speech to the House of Representatives. It was rather telling that this speech wasn't in primetime but rather at 9 a.m. (6 a.m. in the West). I know a lot about politics since I write political thrillers (www.thetwentyfirstcentury.com) and I am constantly doing research for my books and articles. But it doesn't take a writer of politics, or even one who doesn't follow politics, to realize that what George Bush said yesterday made absolutely no sense. With all the (major) problems he and the Republican party are in, it is no wonder he has suddenly chosen to speak (or deceive) the American people about America's economics: November is coming.

In essence, Bush said that the state of our economy is in good shape and is getting stronger everyday. Am I crazy, or has George Bush tripled the deficit since he took office (and doubled his salary immediately after being sworn in)?

We now, for the first time in history, owe more to foreign countries than they owe us (weakening our position as the world's super power and endangering our defenses).

The Iraqi War is going to cost close to a trillion dollars by the time it ends and we rebuild what we destroyed over there, destroying our economy over here.

There is still the rebuilding of New Orleans and other cities, not to mention what disasters are coming in the probable near future.

How about the billions of dollars a day in interest our country is accruing?

Bush wants to spend a fortune guarding our borders, not from terrorists, but from poor Mexican families who have no jobs and need to feed their families. The terrorists are coming in from Canada and other cities, not from Mexico.

Interest rates rise every month, forcing Americans to pay more on their credit cards and their mortgages and their college loans, etc. Because of that, housing prices have begun to decrease because people can't afford a home AND a huge interest rate, besides rising property taxes each year, to pay for it. Isn't this raising taxes by a different name.

George Bush still believes, and plans to continue the ridiculous tax rebate (millions to the rich, a pittance to the poor).

The price of buying gas is increasing the cost of everything we buy, although the oil companies are enjoying tremendous profits (Exxon/Mobil earned $340 BILLION last year). This residual effect has raised the prices on food, medication, clothes, everything. And it is not going to end, as I watch my gas station raise their prices almost everyday. How much poorer can we get?

The American people have less and less and George Bush says the state of our economy is good and is growing. It sure seems to me and most Americans that it's our personal debt that is growing. How many people are better off today than they were five years ago? Not me, or anyone I know.

It's all smoke and mirrors.


