Title: 
Hidden Jewel Of The West: Lake Havasu Uncovered

Word Count:
409

Summary:
Lake Havasu City has some of the most spectacular scenery in the Southwest. Actually, the lake was a previous Colorado River reservoir and was formed when the Parker Dam was built between 1934 and 1938. The town was named for the 45 mile long Lake Havasu on the Colorado River by the Chemehuevi Indians and translates into "Land of the Blue Green Water". It remains today, a water lover’s paradise.


Keywords:
lake havasu,lake havasu city az real estate,lake havasu city,lake havasu spring break


Article Body:
Lake Havasu City has some of the most spectacular scenery in the Southwest. Actually, the lake was a previous Colorado River reservoir and was formed when the Parker Dam was built between 1934 and 1938. The town was named for the 45 mile long Lake Havasu on the Colorado River by the Chemehuevi Indians and translates into "Land of the Blue Green Water". It remains today, a water lover’s paradise.

This pretty little, mountain-scaped town of twenty-six square miles, has a population of around 45,000. It runs along the Colorado River is also home to the Mohave and Sonoran Deserts. Lake Havasu has an unbelievable 300 or more days of sunshine annually making it a perfect location for both water and desert lovers alike. The city is ideal for golf, tennis and desert tours with more than 400 miles of fantastic coastline to invigorate you. It offers an abundance of water sports which include fishing, skiing, kayaking, chair planing and house boating. You can also explore the lake from its beautiful beaches, parks, campsites and scenic hiking trails. 

Lake Havasu City is famous for its London Bridge which was actually brought over from Europe by the town’s founder in 1968. And yes, it is the actual London Bridge that inspired the celebrated nursery rhyme of your childhood. In honor of the bridge’s birth place, you can go beneath it and visit the old-English style village where you can shop and dine to your heart’s content.

In addition to all of the sites and activities the City of Lake Havasu has to offer, it also holds a variety of events throughout the year. During the summer months you can enjoy their annual fireworks display which is held at Spectator Point and several regattas that run on the lake. In the fall, the town sponsors several more regattas in addition to the Chill N’ Swilling Beer Festival and Homebrew Contest. They have also started an Annual North American Model Boat Association World Cup Final. Every year at the end of October through the beginning of November, you can experience the Annual London Bridge Days which are celebrated all over town!

There is something for everyone at Lake Havasu, with so much to do and see there. The sunsets are absolutely breathtaking and the scenery, with all of its mountain splendor, is simply amazing. The town is very welcoming to tourists and is one place that you might want to consider for your next vacation.


