Title: 
On The Brink Of A World War

Word Count:
714

Summary:
Just when you think it can't get any worse, it has gotten worse. Since George W. Bush decided (illegally) to launch a war against a country and its civilians, under the guise of fighting terrorists, the American people have learned one thing: Might makes right. Our children are taught to reason and compromise rather than fight. Now, they are being taught that if you want your way all you have to do is lie, mislead, and fight for it if you must. What a terrible lesson. And how...


Keywords:
war,Israel, middle east,america,jewish, Geore Bush,politics, future


Article Body:
Just when you think it can't get any worse, it has gotten worse. Since George W. Bush decided (illegally) to launch a war against a country and its civilians, under the guise of fighting terrorists, the American people have learned one thing: Might makes right. Our children are taught to reason and compromise rather than fight. Now, they are being taught that if you want your way all you have to do is lie, mislead, and fight for it if you must. What a terrible lesson. And how much more violence will it bring to America, where we already lead the world by a hundredfold in murders and violent crimes?

Look what our American government has created. After the horrific bombings of 9/11, America waited and did not retaliate for a year and a half. But then, Bush decided he wanted to rid terrorism from the world. France, Germany, and Russia knew it was impossible. They knew that going into Iraq and Afghanistan was a mistake that would lead to even more terrorism.

The Bush administration is sending thousands of our children to their deaths, even though they know that hate begets more hate, retaliation begets more retaliation. The escalation of our vengeance, of our president's decision to make the world live our way of life, has spread throughout the globe. Chaos and fear and the death of innocents has been the result. As leader of the free world, America should have responded to 9/11 by being diplomatic, not dishonest. Rather than fighting these wars, weakening us financially at home, we would instead have the respect and assistance of our allies if we had led through example.

George Bush's determination to turn the world into a democracy is anything but democratic. Live and let live is the American way of life. The Muslim world, of which 99.9% are law-abiding, loving people, have only known one way of living for thousands of years. America does not have the right to try to enforce our modern, political way of life on them. They are a religious government. We are not. Our different ideologies will never mesh and terrorism will never cease until we understand this reality and accept it.

Now, we are losing more and more young men and women in an unwinnable war. We are killing tens of thousands, maybe hundreds of thousands according to some sources, of innocent civilians in a country that should be fighting its own civil war.

The United States is now one of the most feared and hated countries in the world. We have lost our credibility, respect, and trust. But, worst of all, we have set the stage for more problems. Since America is spread so thin militarily and cannot help Israel, Hezbollah has attacked Israel and killed and kidnapped Israeli soldiers. Israel retaliated and now we have another war in the region. The Palestinian people elected Hamas as their government. Both organizations refuse to recognize Israel as a country, the main thing Israel demands, and the main reason why Israel is still in the occupied territories. Iran has nuclear capability, and wants to destroy Israel, too. As does Syria.

There is a brewing war between India and Pakistan where the Muslim population wants control. Before we know it, the Muslim world (1.2 billion strong - 22%) will have enough terrorists in every country to destroy the Jewish people. There are already terrorist cells in every state in the continental U.S. Of course the rest of the world will try to stop that genocide, and they will join together and wage war. All of this because America approached the terrorism problem like school kids determined to fight to get what they want. Now everyone is following suit, which is creating more terrorism throughout the world than ever before.

As I ask in my novel, THE TWENTY-FIRST CENTURY (www.thetwentyfirstcentury.com), where is all this hatred coming from. And, worse, where is it all leading?

It is leading to World War III? And don't be surprised if it is fought overseas AND at home. And then watch your taxes rise, and gasoline prices rise, and interest rates rise, and prices on everything rise to pay for this our defense, now that we squandered all our money trying to fight a people we can't even find.


