Title: 
The Past of Ancient Egypt In a Nutshell

Word Count:
317

Summary:
The ancient Egyptian civilization is a fascinating one, and you will be hard pressed to find someone to disagree with you. Ancient Egypt today is situated in Africa, at the northwest corner.


Keywords:
ancient eypt, pyramids, great pyramid, egypt, egyptian


Article Body:
The long past Egyptian civilization is a great one, and you will be hard pressed to find someone to who will think otherwise. Ancient Egypt in modern terminology is situated in Africa, at the northwest area. 

The Nile River, in most cases just called the 'Nile', passed through the center of the civilization. The northern part was known as Lower Egypt, and the southern part as Upper Egypt - a fact which has lead to some misunderstanding among tourists. The Nile is understood as the longest river in the world, but recent scientists find that there is a possibility that the Amazon River situated in South America may be a short distance longer. 

Specifically there are three separate sections, or periods of time that Egyptian history can be divded up into. These are known as the Old Kingdom, the Central Kingdom, and the Modern Kingdom. Each period has specific facts which are unique to it, and are best learned and studied independently.

The kingdoms of ancient Egypt were under the leadership of the Pharaoh at the time, and in fact the ancient Egyptian individuals themselves held the strong expectation that somehow their gods were responsible for choosing each Pharaoh, thus the inhabitants could rest soundly at night, knowing that all was under control. In fact, the government of ancient Egypt can be described as the first national government in the world, and people referred to as viziers, who were officials assigned to the Pharaoh, also helped to rule.

The Egyptian culture, like the Sumerian culture, had a language and writing system of their own. A Papyrus plant was used to make paper - thus defining the origin of the word, paper!

A lot of people find the ancient cultures, Egyptian significantly, to be profoundly mysterious as a result of the incredible massive monuments, most significantly the Great Pyramid at Giza, very close to Cairo, that remain to this day.


