A Yacht Club That is Right for You

While there is no law that says you have to join a yacht club when you get a yacht, there are a number of good reasons to do so.  A yacht club gives you the chance to socialize with others who share your passion for yachting.  Unlike being with people who give you that "odd" stare when you talk about how great yachting is, your fellow yacht clubs members will nod knowingly because they too share the passion.   Yacht club members are often an outstanding peer group to be a part of who can also help you with questions about yachting, and what kinds of yachting outings you might enjoy.

Yacht clubs are tremendously social experiences and often the club will meet on board a different member's yacht each month so you can see how other member's yacht and enjoy some luxury at their expense as well.  Then when your turn comes to host the club on your club, you also have a chance to show off your yacht which is also great fun.

When you first buy your yacht then, you may wish to begin looking for a great yacht club that can give you the support group you want to enjoy your new passion with.  Going about finding the right kind of yacht club should be a process you are patient with because yacht clubs often have their own personalities.  But yacht clubs are almost always gracious settings so you can visit different clubs each week and feel welcome.  And its ok if you visit once or twice and move on to another club.  In fact, if you have a particular kind of yacht club that would fit your needs, sister clubs may point you in the right direction.

Like a lot of things, the internet can be a lot of help just finding the various yacht clubs in your area.  And when you start the search, you will often find that the better yacht clubs have web sites up with pictures, publications of their schedule of events and lots of information that will help you sort out which ones you want to visit.  Many yacht clubs have a specific focus around a particular kind of yachting so you can cut down a lot of phone calls by just finding out which ones fit your approach to the sport.  So if you are interested in yachting as a form of family entertainment, you may not want to join a yacht club devoted to yacht racing or fishing expeditions.

If you are just getting started in yachting, a yacht club can be of great help offering classes in sailing or other skills related to the sport.  So one way to get to know a club is to sign up for a short course on yacht management, sailing or yacht maintenance and not only will you learn important skills, you meet others in the club and find out if the club is right for you.  For the kids you may be able to find classes in scuba, water skiing or other water sports that they will want to know on your summer yachting adventure this year and the yacht club can help them get ready and make new friends as well.  Again  the classes are often listed on different yacht clubs web sites and you can sort out which clubs offer both educational and entertainment classes that would help you enjoy  your yachting adventure to the fullest.

Just as some yacht clubs are focused on niche interest groups in yachting such as yacht racers or those dealing in very high end luxury cruise, you will find yacht clubs that focus on why you want to enjoy yachting in the first place.  So you may be looking for a yacht club for singles because owning a yacht is part of your ongoing quest to meet new people and maybe new lovers.  Other yacht clubs may be oriented toward a family experience so not only will the events be family friendly, everyone in the family will meet peers in yachting families.  

Who knows, you may even find yourself making some lifelong friends in the yacht club, friends you may wish to join with on your next big yachting adventure.  And if that is the outcome of joining a yacht club, then that social scene will have been one of the best groups you ever joined.

PPPPP

Word Count 745


