Laying the Plans for a Yachting Adventure

You didn’t get to the level of success you have without being able to plan well in advance how to make things happen.  And to go on a wonderful yachting vacation to celebrate your success, a little planning goes a long way.  There are so many possibilities available to you from where to go to who to take and what you will do along the way that planning is important just so you will get the most out of the trip.

The yacht charter company you work with will be highly conscious of your interests and desires so they can mold the trip around you.  They make their living chartering yachts to make people's dreams come true so there is literally no desire or whim they cannot provide to you if you give them enough notice.  While they will have packages all ready to help you, you can take the packages and modify them or come in with a very specific plan in mind and let them use their skills and knowledge to turn that dream yachting vacation into a reality.

There are some questions you should ask yourself before you make contact with the charter company because they will need to know how to serve you best.  If you wish to have any involvement with the operation of the boat, that will change the nature of the charter.  A bareboat charter means you will have no crew or captain onboard other than yourself and you will manage the craft alone.  This is fine for the rugged sportsman who knows yachts well.  But for maximum fun and pleasure and to let someone else handle all the work, a crewed charter will give you the people on board to prepare the food, manage the yacht and handle all of your personal needs every day you are at sea.

What luxuries do you want to include on your trip?  If you have gone on yachting adventures before, you may already be aware of some things that are "must haves" on your vacation out to sea.  Part of the luxury of yachting of course is the food and you can design any menu you can imagine.  By including a chef in your crew roster, he can put gourmet food in front of you for every meal you enjoy on your yacht.  But other luxuries might include a masseuse, alcohol selections and how it will be served (will you want a bartender on the crew?) and any entertainment options that will make your time on your yacht totally enjoyable.

What is the goal of the trip?  How the charter company plans your outing can change dramatically based on what you want to see come out of your yachting vacation.  If it’s a romantic cruise just for two, they can see to it you visit the most sensuous night spots and have all the opportunities for love to grow as you sail.  If it’s a family vacation, fun and excitement for the kids in order mixed with perhaps some discovery of historic sites.  If your group wants to experience foods from many cultures, your captain can be sure you dock at the most exciting dining opportunities anywhere that yacht can sail.

Stops along the way.  Many packages include stops at the most popular areas in the part of the world where you will be yachting.  Whether it's South America, the Mediterranean or Europe, some historic cities seem to be perfect to make your visit to that part of the world complete.  But you or your family may have very specific places to see in that part of the world and only you know why including them on your itinerary would be meaningful.  So let your charter company know well in advance where you want to stop and for how long so they can plan to make that dream come true as well.

You are smart if you are already making plans for your yachting adventure well in advance.  The earlier you can book your charter, the better chances they charter company can customize a yacht to fit your party and the lifestyle you will have while you enjoy the experience.  So plan early and plan often because half of the fun of the trip is the anticipation.  So let everyone have lots of fun looking forward to the adventure of a lifetime on your yachting holiday.

PPPPP

Word Count 742
