The Ultimate in Enjoyment

There are unique things about taking a motor yacht charter that is totally devoted to luxury that are not like any other kind of vacation.  That is because being the "skipper" of a luxury yacht out to sea has all the elements of a high seas adventure because your course is charted by the day and it could change in a moment notice depending on your whim.  But at the same time because you have a crew on board whose mission in life is to pamper you and your guests, you have all the enjoyment of the finest resort but its all about you and its all "out there" on the high seas.

This kind of vacation is as different from the "same old same old" kind of vacation as it can be.  Unlike a vacation where you book every event on the itinerary from where you stay to the meals to the events, an adventure on a luxury yacht can be made up as you go along.  And unlike "land locked" vacations where you can really only see and participate in things that are within a drive of your hotel, your adventure on the sea can take you far and wide and you can wander without a worry in the world as long as you are back to your starting point at the time you need to end the cruise and reluctantly head on home.

Everything about life on a luxury yacht is about freedom and convenience.  You can navigate your way to just about anywhere you want with no need for reservations or even to get to a particular restaurant at any given time.  The operative word in luxury motor yacht is luxury.  So you would carry a crew that would include the staff to operate the yacht, a captain as well as a chef, perhaps a masseuse or any other personnel to make this cruise the ultimate in enjoyment for you and your guests.  

You never really have to leave the yacht for every possible pleasure that will be provided for you on board.  But because the yacht can cruise to some of the most exotic locations, exciting foreign ports and magnificent beaches, you can leave the ship and enjoy everything the world has to offer to return that night and be bathed in luxury all over again.  Moreover, unlike a hotel experience, depending on how large the yacht you charter is, you can bring as many family, friends and lovers as you wish along on your luxurious vacation trip.

Having that crew on board whose sole mission in life is to provide you with every possible luxury will be an extravagance that you will want to get used to.  Your skipper will not only make sure the yacht is shipshape, safe and able to respond to your needs and wishes as you cruise from location to location but he will also serve as concierge so no matter how exotic your request, he can dispatch a crewman to shore to fulfill that wish or desire of you or your party.  This is the kind of luxury you may want to put in a box and ship it back home to enjoy all the time.  But that what is great about taking a yacht out to enjoy the freedom of the seas in complete comfort.  The crew can spoil you, the freedom is addictive, the exotic locations intoxicating and the entire experience will be one you will want to come back to again and again and again.

PPPPP

Word Count 597


