The Yacht and the Super Yacht

In any area of life but particularly in something relating to entertainment and getting away for an excursion, there is always the ultimate experience and then more modest ambitions.  For many of us, a weekend on a yacht, just enjoying the sea, the beautiful sunset and maybe a bit of romance is plenty.  But it could be that you may one have the once of a lifetime experience where there is no request too far fetched and your pleasure is untapped and that can be achieved with an excursion aboard a super yacht.  

Super yachts are almost always very large boats but they are still charter vehicles designed for a single party to rent for a few days or few weeks of life aboard a yacht that is quite literally a five star hotel on the water.  Even taking a tour of a super yacht can take your breath away because super yachts are often over 80 feet long and have multiple levels and expansive living, dining and recreational quarters so you will never feel bored or neglected when you are on board.

When you set out on your luxurious holiday on a super yacht, there will be no such thing as going without.  You will have internet accessibility, HD Television, a chef who can compete with the finest of France or Italy and every imaginable form of water recreation from snorkeling, fishing, water skiing, scuba and jet skies.  Everyone in the family will be able to find something new and exciting to do every day on your super yacht vacations.  And when the adults need some time to themselves for indulgence or romance, there will be a crew member there to take the kids to shore to a wonderful entertainment experience or to show them the best of time right on board out of sight and mind from the adults.

The image of a cramped sleeping chamber of a conventional boating experience is the furthest thing from the truth on a super yacht experience.  Your chambers will be luxurious, spacious and filled with delights to enjoy privately with a lover.  In many cases there are so many services offered on a super yacht that there are more service persons onboard than guests as each one strives to make your experience the ultimate in pleasure and luxury.  So whether your pleasure is getting some time in the hot tub, laying under the care of an expert masseuse or being spoiled with a lavish diner that never seems to stop, those pleasures and any others you desire are at your disposal during your super yacht holiday.

If that wasn’t enough, most of the time super yacht outings happen in the most exotic of the world's paradise locations so when you turn your eyes to shore, you will have whole worlds of excitement open up for you. Super yachts are available to help you enjoy discovering some of the most mysterious and alluring locations on earth including the Italian or French Riviera, the Greek islands, Australia, South America, the gulf coast of North America or the exciting if a little intimidating coasts of Africa or Asia.  And you will be able to launch on adventures of a lifetime in these locations all under the watchful eye of your yacht captain and crew who will be there to shower you with luxury when you return.
For many of us, we know that at least once in our lives we will want to enjoy life in a five star hotel with servants everywhere scrambling to serve our needs.  So one way to enjoy that experience is to book your family and friends on board one of the world great super yachts and have all of these experiences plus some time of fun and adventure on the high seas to boot.

PPPPP

Word Count 646


