Yacht for Sale

Selling your yacht is the kind of activity that falls somewhere between selling your home and selling your car.   That is because a yacht shares characteristics of both.  A yacht does function as a vehicle because your buyers will be looking at it as a means to get out on the sea and travel from place to place in luxury and comfort.  But if the living accommodations must also be top notch because the customers for your yacht are looking for high quality and are not going to compromise their high expectations.

In fact, the last consideration you should have in preparing to sell your yacht is price.  Naturally you are not going to ask others to pay the same price for a used yacht that it costs to buy a new one.  But your primary concern to attract a buyer to your yacht is not price but how to prepare your yacht so it is as "good as new" or better.

Obviously the way to go about selling a yacht is not to make a sign and tape it to the window.  A good place to start looking for a buyer might be among friends and associates who may have been on board your yacht and expressed admiration for it.  If you did not take note of those comments at the time, now is the time to think back and pinpoint those interested associates because they may be toying with getting into yachting but have not gone far enough to "take the plunge."

You can invite that interested friend on a yachting weekend with you and really do it up big.  Go ahead and engage a crew so the maximum in luxury can be offered on the short cruise.  If you do a bit of the "driving" yourself in maneuvering the yacht around the body of water you are enjoying, having the associate come to the captains area and take the yacht for a spin himself can really "set the hook" to get him excited about getting a yacht of his own.

Once you get his interest up, you can wait for the perfect opportunity when he says in that dreamy tone that he has toyed with the idea of getting a yacht.  Then you can mention that you are thinking about selling this one to get another model.  Don’t mention anything about not being happy with this yacht but have a rational about buying one with special features like expanded cabin space so your friend will jump on the opportunity to buy your yacht.

The comparison of selling a yacht to selling your house is apt because part of preparing the sale is to do the maintenance to improve its "curb appeal".  If it has gotten some wear and tear during your many outings on the yacht then now is the time to spruce the old girl up and make her look shiny and elegant for a new prospective buyer.  But you may also want to have some expert in yacht renovation come in and do an inspection of the "guts" of the yacht including the pluming and everything mechanical about the yacht, particularly the engine.  Make sure everything is in tip top shape and that there is nothing on the yacht that is in any danger of giving out in the near future, particularly during a time when you are showing the yacht for sale.

By putting some extended tender loving care into making your yacht just as appealing as it was when you bought it, it will be in good shape for the sale.  Then it's just a matter of getting the word out that your premium yacht is available and you should have no trouble finding a new home for it and some happy buyers who make the yacht their vacation home as well.

PPPPP

Word Count 646
