10 Signs of a Cheating Spouse

Do you suspect that your husband or wife is cheating on you?  If you think that your spouse is cheating, you may be looking for confirmation.  Before you take steps to start spying on your spouse or before you decide to hire the services of a costly private investigator, read the signs below to see if your spouse may truly be cheating on you.

1 – A Change in Physical Appearance

Men and women who cheat often want to impress or entice the individual they are having inappropriate relations with.  When doing so, they often change or improve their appearance.  If your spouse starts paying more attention to their weight or buys new clothes, they may be having an affair.

2 – Distance or Lack of Communication

Until you recently started noticing a problem, how was your communication with your spouse?  If your spouse has recently stopped talking to you or distanced themselves from you at home, there is a good chance that they may be cheating on you.  This is because they may be afraid of making a mistake and talking about their affair or they may already be discussing their problems with someone else.

3 – They Constantly Work Late

Depending on your spouse and his or her career, they really may have to work late.  With that said, be on the lookout for changes and use your best judgment.  Has your husband or wife all of a sudden started working late?  In terms of using your best judgment, know what careers often call for late nights, such as lawyers, doctors, and so forth.

4 – They Spend Too Much Time with Friends

Spending time with friends does not always signal a cheater.  In fact, healthy relationships also depend on healthy outside friendships. With that said, be sure to use your best judgment.  Look for the appearance of new friends or an increased amount of time.  Has your husband or wife gone from spending one night a week with friends to three or more?  

5 – You Don’t Know Where They Are

When you are married, there is never really any reason why you shouldn’t know where your spouse is, especially late at night or for long periods of time.  If you do not know, chances are your spouse is cheating.  When they arrive home, they better have a good reason for being late or not letting you know where they were.

6 – You Hear Rumors

Many men and women are not careful about cheating. This often involves them telling someone or someone seeing them out on a date.  In these types of situations, people often talk.  Listen to what you hear.  If people are telling you that your spouse is cheating, it might be time to start listening.

7 – No Sex

Has your relationship recently become sex-free or has the sex that you do have decreased in intensity and in frequency.  If so, there is a good chance that your spouse is cheating on you.  Men and women who get sex elsewhere don’t always need to have it again when they return home.

8 – You Are Accused of Cheating

In today’s society, cheating is a major concern.  If your spouse accuses you of cheating, have you been displaying behavior that may lead them to that conclusion?  If you haven’t, there is a good chance that they are accusing you of cheating to make themselves feel less guilty.

9 – Hearing the Phrase “We are Just Friends”

The “just friends,” phrase is a big sign of a cheater.  As with all other friendships, it is important to use your best judgment.  If the friend of the opposite sex and are they are a newly acquired friend?  If so, something may be up.

10 – A Bad Feeling

Bad feelings are not something that should be easily dismissed.  If you have reason to believe that your husband or wife is cheating, they may be.  If you do not want to be in a relationship with a cheater, it is important for you to follow your heart. Take additional steps to see if they are truly cheating.  These steps may involve hiring a private investigator or spying.

PPPPP

Word Count 690
