4 Signs of a Cheating Wife

Do you suspect that your wife is cheating on you?   If you do, you are definitely not alone.  Infidelity is actually quite common these days. You can see it all over television and almost everyone has known someone who has been cheated on, in one way or another.  

If you are a husband who thinks that your wife is cheating on you, there are a number of signs that you will want to be on the lookout for.   The following are four signs that could very well confirm your suspicions. 

1 – A Change in Appearance

If your wife has gone through a change in appearance, it could be a sign that she is cheating on you.  What you will want to look for is small, but significant changes in appearance.  

For example, has she always worn glasses but has all of a sudden opted for contact lenses?  Has your wife recently started showing more skin?  Dressing provocatively is a common sign of cheating, especially if your wife typically dresses conservatively.  Switching perfumes or wearing it more often can be another sign of cheating.  This can be done to impress a new man or to cover up another man’s scent. 

2 – A Change in Affection

A change in the amount of affection that your wife gives you could be seen as a sign of having an affair.  For example, has your love life been happy and healthy in the past?  Was your relationship filled with fun, adventure, and great sex?  If so, has that changed?  If your wife no longer compliments you as she did before or does something as simple as pull away during a kiss, an affair may be going on.  Many cheating women try to avoid close contact with their husbands in fear of getting caught or letting their guilt show. 

3 – Secrecy

A wife becoming more secretive can often point to an extramarital affair.  For example, does your wife spend too much time on the phone or the internet?  If so, what does she say when you ask her what she is doing?  If you receive a “nothing,” or a “not your business,” response, something may be going on.  

In keeping with phone and internet use, does your wife automatically hang-up the phone whenever you walk into a room?  Does she shut off the computer or try to block your view of it?  If so, your wife’s secrecy may mean that she is trying to cover up an affair.

4 – Changes in Bills

One of the simplest ways to catch a cheating wife is to start paying your bills.  In most relationships, this is the woman’s responsibility, but make it yours.  Examine your wife’s cell phone bills.  Does it show what phone numbers are called or what numbers text messages and pictures are received from?  Also, closely examine credit card bills. Are there expenses listed for hotel rooms, vacations, restaurants, or anything else that you have no idea about?  If so, your wife may be cheating on you.

The above mentioned signs are just a few of the many that you will want to look for in a cheating wife.  If you think that your wife is cheating on you, just be sure to keep your eyes and ears open.  Unfortunately for the cheaters, they often make mistakes.  Many women get so comfortable, that they slip up at one time or another.  If you know what to look for, this is when you may be able to catch your wife cheating.

If you do find out that your wife is cheating on you, you may want to carefully approach the subject.  Never confront your wife in front of your children.  No matter how angry you are, do not get violent and try to keep your voice at a reasonable level.  As hard as it can be, calming approaching the situation can better allow you and your wife to have an honest discussion.  This where you can decide what will happen you to and your relationship next.

PPPPP

Word Count 669
