5 Signs of a Cheating Girlfriend

Are you a teenage boy who is in a serious relationship?  If you are do you believe that your girlfriend is cheating on you?  If you do, you may want to proof.  After all, the last thing that you want to do is be associated with a girl who likes to cheat and possibly sleep around.  For that reason, once suspicion has arose, many boyfriends want to know if their girlfriends are really cheating on them.

One of the best ways to tell if your girlfriend is cheating on you is to keep your eyes and ears open at all times.  Did you know that many of the women or even girls who cheat make many mistakes along the way?  These mistakes are signs that you should be able to pick up on, but you must know what to look for.  To help get you started, five signs that your girlfriend may be cheating on you are outlined below.

1 – If Your Girlfriend Has Changed Her Appearance

Has your girlfriend recently changed her appearance?  Did she start wearing contacts instead of glasses?  Has she started showing more skin at school?  If so, she may be cheating on you or she may want to start cheating on you soon.  This is because changes in appearance are often made to impress someone.  If that person is not you, it will likely be another boy.

2 – If Your Girlfriend Stops Hanging Out With You

In the past, did you and your girlfriend spend a lot of time together?  Did you enjoy hanging out with her friends, going to the movies, or attending parties together?  Are those days gone?  If so, your relationship may be over and your girlfriend may be cheating on you.  

It is also important to examine the friends of your girlfriend.  Do they act different towards you?  Do you still hangout with them as a group, like as much as before?  If not, your girlfriend is likely trying to keep her new romantic interest a secret.  When teenage girls try to juggle multiple relationships, they often confide in their friends.  Keeping you away from those friends may be a defense mechanism.

3 – A Rude Attitude

Unfortunately, many teenagers today are a lot ruder than they were in the past.  Since you are a teen yourself, you may not want to hear this, but it is true.  For that reason, did you know that some girls will go as far as to start a new relationship without even breaking up with their boyfriend, like you?  Some will do so just to be mean.  If your girlfriend flaunts her new relationship or if she is rude to you, it is time for you to move on.

4 – The Rumors Fly

At the high school level, you will hear a lot of gossip.  For many teenagers, gossip is a fun way to pass the time at school.  This gossip may be about you or your girlfriend.  As previously stated, your girlfriend may confide in her friends about her cheating.  What helps you is that girls like to talk and gossip the most.  If your girlfriend is cheating on you, chances are you will hear the rumors at school.  If you do hear these rumors, it might be time for you to start listening to them.

PPPPP

Word Count 552
