5 Signs of a Cheating Boyfriend

Are you a teenager who is in a serious relationship?  If you are, there may come a point in time when you think that your boyfriend is cheating on you.  As often as you may hear an adult say “you are young, you will find love again,” you may still want to have concrete proof that your boyfriend is cheating on you.  After all, if love is what you feel, you may be unsure about ending the relationship.

Although getting concrete proof that shows that your boyfriend is cheating on you can be difficult to do, there are still a number of signs that you will want to look for.  These signs, five of which are outlined below, can make it easier for you to determine whether or not your teenage boyfriend is cheating on you.

1 – He Stops Hanging Out With You

If your boyfriend stops hanging out with you or if he stops inviting you to parties or social outings with friends, there is a good chance that he is cheating on you.  As for why you may no longer be invited to social events with him, he is likely worried that his friends will talk.  Because, chances are his close friends already know that he is cheating on you.  In fact, do his friends treat you any differently?

2 – He Has Changed His Appearance 

Has your boyfriend starting changing his appearance?  Has he started taking better care of himself?  At the high school level, a big change in appearance should include hairstyles or clothes.  Chances are if your boyfriend has undergone a sudden appearance change, there is someone who he is trying to impress.  Unfortunately, you may not be that someone.

3 – A Rude Attitude

Since many cheaters feel guilty about their actions, they often try to lessen that guilt.  One of the many ways that a boyfriend does this is by being rude to you.  He may accuse you of cheating on him or he may regularly find even the smallest reasons for picking an argument.  This is because some cheaters justify their behavior by claiming that their girlfriends deserved to be cheated on.

4 – You Can’t Get In Touch With Him

Many boyfriends and girlfriends communicate through cell phone calls, text messages, and emails.  If this is how you and your boyfriend communicated in the past, have you suddenly noticed a change?  If you find it harder to get hold of your boyfriend, he might be cheating on you.  After all, why would he always answer your phone calls, text messages, or emails before, but not now?

5 – You Are Hearing Rumors

If one thing is for sure it is that high school students like to gossip. As previously stated, your boyfriends’ friends likely already know that he is cheating on you.  They may talk to their other friends or their own girlfriends.  This is likely to start rumors.  Although not all rumors you hear at school are true, you may want to listen carefully. 

The above mentioned signs are just a few of the many that your boyfriend may be cheating on you.  If you do find out that your boyfriend is cheating on you, it may be a wise idea to break off the relationship.  If you are having sex with your boyfriend, his cheating ways could put you at risk for developing harmful and painful sexually transmitted diseases.

PPPPP

Word Count 566
