5 Signs of a Cheating Husband

Spouses having affairs seems to be a common occurrence in today’s society.  In fact, they seem as if they are increasing in popularity.  Although it is often difficult to associate good news with a cheating husband, there is good news.  That good news is that it relatively easy for you to catch your cheating husband, especially when you know what signs to look for.  

As previously stated, there are signs that you can look for to help you determine if your spouse is cheating on you.  With that being said, some of these signs are so small that they often go unnoticed.  To help provide you with assistance, some signs that you will want to look for to see if your husband is cheating on you are highlighted below.

1 – Changed Appearance

If your husband has changed his appearance dramatically in one way or another, it can be a sign of cheating.  For example, he could change the style of clothing that he wears, either shave or decide to grow a beard, or start wearing cologne when he never had before.  Another major sign to look for, in terms of changed appearance, is if your husband takes extra steps to ensure that he looks his best for work or when going out with friends.

2 – Unusual Schedule Changes

If your husband has had some uncommon and unusual changes in his schedule, this could be a sign that he is cheating.  For example, does your husband normally not work overtime or stay late?  If he has started doing so all of a sudden, there is a good chance that cheating may be to blame.  What about common or unexpected business trips?  

In addition to changes with a work schedule, your husband’s friendships should also be closely examined.  When your husband spends time with his friends is he gone longer than usual?  Has a new friend or family member recently appeared in the picture?  

3 – A Loss of Interest in Family

One of the biggest signs of a cheating husband is the loss of internet in family.  Are you and your husband parents?  If so, has your husband completely lost interest in doing things with you or your children?  Your husband may be cheating if he would much rather spend time alone or with friends than with you or your family.  

4 – Displaying Guilt

If your husband really is having an affair, he is likely to be dealing with a large amount of guilt. This guilt can typically work two ways.  He could show you much more attention and give you more affection then he normally does.  On the other hand, he can display anger and frustration with you.  Anger often tends to give cheating husbands a reason not to feel so guilty.

 5 – Unusual Phone Use

Another good sign that your husband may be cheating on you is if he acts weird when using the phone.  Does your husband get quiet when you enter the room or does he hang-up the phone?  Is his cell phone being used to talk to “friends,” as opposed to your family phone?  If so, try to get hold of your husband’s cell phone to examine the call log or else checkout the phone bill.  This should be done because your husband may be cheating on you.

The above mentioned signs are just a few of the many signs that your husband may be a cheater.  With that said, the above mentioned signs are a few of the easiest to catch.  As difficult as it can be for you to learn that your husband is cheating on you, it is important to think about the long-term situation at hand.  Knowing is better than speculating.  In fact, your husband and his cheating ways can put your health at risk with the transmission of sex related diseases.  Also, if you are a parent, you have your children’s safety and wellbeing to take into consideration.

PPPPP

Word Count 656
