5 Things You Can Do When Your Teen Daughter Catches Her Boyfriend Cheating

As parents, we never want to see our children suffer, particularly at the hands of a cheating boyfriend. But, what should you do if your teenage daughter finds out that her boyfriend is or has been cheating on her?

During the teen years, everything that goes happens or goes wrong seems like it is the end of the world, so expect some overreaction from your teen.  As much as we want to fix everything for them, healing a broken heart is a task that can be hard to accomplish.  With that said there are a few ways, five ways to be exact, that you can help your daughter overcome without being too intrusive. 

1 - Be a Source of Comfort

What you will want to do is be a shoulder for her to cry on.  Also, have an ear ready to listen. Your daughter may or may not want to open up to you about her feelings and experiences right away, but be ready for when she is.  It is also important to never underestimate the power of a simple hug, as just a hug from mom or dad can help to improve so much.

2 – Give Your Daughter Space and Time

What it is important to remember about teenage relationships is that many teens think they are serious, even if the relationship only lasted a few days.  Many teens believe that their boyfriends are “the one.”  No matter how short or long your daughter’s relationship was, do not expect her to get over him overnight.  Also, do not try to over schedule what you believe to be fun and exciting family time.  Your daughter will cope at her own pace.  She may just need to be alone for a while to process her thoughts and feelings.

3 – Let Your Daughter Know You Understand

Validation is important for many teens who experience cheating or the end of a relationship.  Letting your daughter know that you understand what she is going through and how much it hurts is important for her to hear.  Remind your daughter that although you understand her hurt and pain, it will improve overtime.  Just be cautious with your approach, as you will not want to go overboard.  Now may not be the time to toss out the common “there is other fish in the sea,” line.

4 – Avoid Making Comparisons

Since cheating is becoming somewhat of a common occurrence, there is a chance that you may have experienced the same problem and emotions.  Even if you have, it is important to not compare her situation to yours.  Your daughter’s situation should be treated with uniqueness.  Plus, a comparison may make your daughter feel as if you are trying to diminish her pain or draw attention away from her needs.

5 – Don’t Let Her Shut Down Completely

As previously stated, it is important to give your daughter the space and time that she needs to cope with a cheating boyfriend or the end of her relationship, but don’t allow her to shut out the whole world.  Avoiding school and peers that know, may be a goal of hers, but do not allow your daughter’s fear or embarrassment have a negative impact on her life.  Instead, encourage her to spend time with her friends, namely those who love and support her and will provide encouragement, regardless of the situation.

PPPPP

Word Count 561
