Got a Cheating Partner?  How and Why You Should Check Phone Records

Do you suspect that your spouse is cheating on you?  If you do, you may be looking for proof.  One of the most common ways that this proof is obtained is by spying.  Unfortunately, you may be uncomfortable doing so or you may not have the financial resources needed to hire a private investigator.  If that is the case, there is another way that you can try to catch a cheating spouse.  You can do so with their cell phone.

Many cheating spouses use their cell phones as an easy means of communication.  In fact, did you know that many will use their cell phones as opposed to the family phone?  Many do so because there is less of a chance that you or someone else, like one of your children, will pickup the phone instead.  Since cell phones are a common means of communication for cheating spouses, you should use this to your advantage.

What it is important to know about cell phones is that they keep very accurate records.  All cell phones, even those that are older, keep a call log.  Often times, the calls that are made, the calls that are received, and the calls that are missed are recorded.  You should be provided with a date and a time.  If you can get a hold of your partner’s cell phone, do it.  Even if you have to grab the phone in the middle of the night and check its history in the bathroom, do so.

When checking your partner’s cell phone for suspicious activity, you will want to be on the lookout for names or telephone numbers that you do not recognize.  Also, look for constant calls to or from a certain number.  If your partner is calling one number multiple times a day or everyday, they may be cheating on you.  In addition to checking the call log, also examine picture messages and text messages.  These are easier to delete, but many cheaters do not take the simple step needed to do so because they don’t believe that they will get caught.

In addition to the cell phone itself, you can also use cell phone bills as method to catch a cheater.  This works best if you are married to your partner or if you live with them, as it should be easy for you to gain access to their cell phone.  Does your partner’s cell phone bill list the phone numbers that are called or the phone numbers that text messages were sent to?  If it does, be on the lookout for unknown numbers or repeated communication.  

Although not all cell phone bills itemize information, like on the phone calls received or placed, many companies do give you the option of doing so.  If you are the one who is responsible for paying the cell phone bill or if you are married, you may be able to change the format of your partner’s cell phone bill.  A quick call or email to the cell phone company should be enough to catch your cheating partner the next time that the phone bill arrives.

The above mentioned steps are just a few of the many easy ways that you can use your partner’s cell phone and cell phone bill to see if they are cheating on you.  If you see that your partner hangs up the phone whenever you enter the room or if they lower their voice, there is a good chance that they are hiding something from you.

PPPPP

Word Count 584
