How Cheaters Use the Internet to Seek New Romance

Are you in a relationship?  If you are, cheating may be a concern of yours.  After all, cheating is an issue that many of us have become alto familiar with.  You may have been cheated on in the past, you may have known someone else who has been, or you may have learned all about cheating from the television and movies.  

If you suspect that your partner is cheating on you, they may be using the internet to do so.   Why?  Because the internet has made it very easy for cheaters to seek new romance.  Not only is the internet making online affairs easy and convenient, but many cheaters think the internet makes it harder to get caught.  Unfortunately for them and luckily for you, the computer often tells the tale.

As for how men and women use the internet to seek new romance online, there are a number of different approaches taken.  One of those is social networking websites.  Now, it is important to know that social networking sites, like MySpace, have increased in popularity over the past few years.  Just because your partner uses a social networking website, it does not mean that they are cheating on you.  They may truly just be interested in connecting with old friends.  Be cautious, however, of a profile that you cannot see or access or the appearance of old girlfriends.

Dating websites are also how many cheaters use the internet to seek new romance online.  Unfortunately, dating websites are more risky than social networking websites.  If your husband, wife, girlfriend, or boyfriend uses an online dating site, they may have the intention of actually meeting the person at the other end of the computer.  This is when an affair stops becoming just an emotional affair and often starts becoming a physical affair.  If you ever find that your partner is using an online dating website, be aware because there is a good chance that they are cheating on you or intend to start soon.

As it was previously stated, the internet does make it easier for cheaters to start romances online, but it is also relatively easy to catch a cheater online.  To get started, check your computer’s internet history.  To do so, open up a new internet explorer window.  Along the top of the page, you will see the history icon.  This icon is in the shape of a clock with a green arrow.  Clicking on this will tell you all of the websites visited in the past few days.  Be suspicious of no information, as it may mean that the history was purposely cleared.

A keylogger program, also occasionally referred to as a keyword tracker, can also be installed on your computer.  These programs work to capture each word that is typed on your computer.  If you think that your partner is communicating with their sex partner or partners online through email or in chat room sessions, you may be able to see exactly what it is they are saying.  These types of programs can be expensive, but they can also provide you with the proof that you need.

You can also always take the direct approach.  If your partner is using the computer and acting secretive, demand to see what they are looking at.  Walk over to the computer immediately, request that they get up and you take their seat.  View the computer’s internet history immediately.  This allows you to see what they have been looking at online before giving a computer savvy cheater time to cover their tracks.

PPPPP

Word Count 591
