The Cheating Boyfriend Test:  Is There Such a Thing?

Are you a female who thinks that your boyfriend is cheating on you?  If you do, you may be looking to reaffirm that your suspicions are true.  While many other women in your shoes turn to spying on their boyfriend or the hiring of a private investigator, you may be interested in taking a cheating boyfriend test.  But wait, is there even such a thing?

Yes, there are tests that are called cheating boyfriend tests.  They may also be referred to as cheating boyfriend quizzes.  As for what they are, you will find that it depends.  They tend to target teenagers and young adults, like college students.  As for how they help you determine if your boyfriend is cheating, it is done by asking a series of questions.  Your answers to these questions will have an impact on your score, which means that your boyfriend may be cheating on you.

Although cheating boyfriend tests do sound kind of fun and neat, there are some important things you should know about them.  You do not want to make the mistake of breaking up with your boyfriend, especially if you are in a long-term relationship, just because someone’s boyfriend test says that yours is cheating.  This may end up being an embarrassing and costly mistake on your part.

The questions that are found on most cheating boyfriend tests are simple.  In fact, you could say that they are too simple.  Common questions asked include does he accuse you of cheating?  Has your boyfriend changed his appearance?  Has your boyfriend started hanging out more with his friends?  Although these questions do signal the sign of a cheater, they are not guarantees.

Speaking of no guarantees, that is why you are urged to proceed with caution.  Just because a boyfriend cheating test claims that your boyfriend does cheat, it really doesn’t mean that he does.  With that said, it also works the other way around too.  Basically, you should not invest too much into what a five question quiz tells you.  If you are truly suspicious of your boyfriend, consider approaching them and voicing your concerns.

Boyfriend cheating tests, although they do not have guarantees, are popular.  You should be able to find them online and free of charge.  There are, however, websites that want you to pay to take a cheating boyfriend quiz.  Do not do this, as it will likely end up being a waste of your money.  If you do want to do a cheating boyfriend quiz, perform a standard internet search with the phrases “cheating boyfriend test,” or “free cheating boyfriend tests.”

In keeping with costs, it is important to avoid cheating boyfriend tests that can be sent to your cell phone.  Most of these cell phone text messaging programs, like ones that allow you to receive jokes and horoscopes, are money wasters.  In fact, they could even be considered scams.  To get a boyfriend quiz delivered to your cell phone, you may have to pay a monthly or a text message fee.  You may not even get the results until paying even more money.  Stay away from these traps.

It is also important to note that boyfriend cheating tests, especially those that you find online, are not developed by professionals.  Yes, professional relationship experts do have a serious of questions that resemble these quizzes, but most of what you will find online is written by everyday individuals, just like you and me.  For that reason, do not put too much into what your cheating boyfriend quiz results are, as the information is likely unreliable and not researched.

As a recap, cheating boyfriend tests are easy to find online, with a standard internet search.  Avoid having cheating boyfriend tests sent to your cell phone, as they can get costly.  As fun as cheating boyfriend tests can be to fill out, especially when surfing the internet with a bunch of your friends, remember to not rely too heavily on their results.

PPPPP

Word Count 660


