Using the Internet to Catch a Cheating Spouse

Do you suspect that your husband or wife is cheating on you?  If you do, you may be looking for ways to catch him or her in the act.  One approach that you may want to take involves using the internet to your advantage.  The internet makes it relatively easy to men and women to develop secret relationships and to carry on affairs online.

When it comes to using the internet to catch a cheating spouse, you may not know where to proceed.  If you do not consider yourself to be computer savvy, the whole process may seem hopeless.  The good news is that you can catch your cheating spouse online and you may be able to do so in a few simple steps.

The easiest way to catch a cheating spouse who uses the internet is to install a keyword tracker program, also commonly referred to as a keylogger, on your computer.  These software programs are actually similar to programs that hackers use to get information from your computer.  They can also help you find out if your spouse is using the internet to cheat on you.  What these programs will do is record all words that are typed on a computer.  This allows you to examine emails, chat sessions, and so much more.

If you are interested in using a keyword tracker or a keylogger, be cautious of the programs that you do choose.  As previously stated, some hackers do use this similar technology.  Spending a few extra dollars to purchase a program, as opposed to using a free version online, is advised.  Many of these programs are marketed as internet safety tools for parents.

Another easy way to use the internet to catch a cheating spouse is to visit the online websites of their email accounts.  Even if you do not have a password to get into their account, there are still some things that you can do.  For example, most websites, like Hotmail and Yahoo, will automatically save the email address of the last person who used the website.  Examine these websites to see if one does show up.  Is it your partner’s main email address or are they using multiple accounts?  This may be a sign of a cheating spouse.

Your computer’s internet history may be a wealthy source of information for you.  Most computers allow you to check the websites visited within the last week or at least day by opening up a new internet window.  Next, click on the history icon button, which appears towards the top of your screen.  This icon displays a small clock with a green arrow wrapped around a portion of it.  What websites has your significant other visited in the past few days?  Be on the lookout for adult chat websites, pornographic websites, dating websites and so forth.

In keeping with the checking of your computer’s internet history, be suspicious of no information at all.  Has your computer’s internet history recently been cleared?  There are very few good reasons why it should have been.  Remember that many cheaters research ways, especially online, to not get caught.  A cleared internet history is a good sign that your husband or wife has something to hide.

If you suspect that your husband or wife is using the internet to cheat on you, there are two different approaches that you can take.  One of those approaches involves talking to them.  If you found proof online, show that proof to them.  You will then need to decide, together, where your relationship wants to go.  If you do decide to work on your relationship, please be cautious.  It is important to remember that your husband or wife now knows that you know how to track their movements online.

Another one of your options is to rely on the use of parental controls.  Treating your spouse like a teenager, however, may incite some anger in them.  There is nothing worse for a cheater than knowing that they have been caught or now needing a password to visit their favorite websites.

PPPPP

Word Count 675
