What to Do When You Catch Your Wife Cheating

Have you recently learned that your wife has been cheating on you?  If you have, you may be unsure as to how you should proceed.  After all, you may have a wide array of emotions running through your mind, including hurt, anger, frustration, and sadness.  

As for the steps that you will want to take, when you learn that your wife has been having an affair, a few suggestions are highlighted below.  By following these suggestions, you are more likely to let your head do the talking, as opposed to your broken heat.

One of the first steps that you will want to take is call your wife out on her cheating ways.  Let her know that you know what she has been up to.  What that said, it is important to make sure that you do know.  Do not confront your wife until you have concrete evidence that she has been cheating.  Whether your followed her, intercepted an email, or hired a private investigator, make sure that your wife really has been having an affair before you bring out the accusations.

It is also important to decide what you want to do, in terms of the future.  In fact, you may want to do this first.  You should decide what is best for you and your relationship beforehand.  Can you continue to live with your wife?  Will you still trust her?  Do you believe that your marriage is worth saving?  These are all questions that you should have answers to.

Once you have called your wife out on her cheating ways, give her the opportunity to explain herself.  In all honesty, there is never a good reason for cheating in a marriage, but do wait and see what she has to say.  Is there any truth to what she is claiming?  Have you been cheating or distant yourself?  Do you avoid having sex with your wife?  As a reminder, these are not good excuses for having an affair, but the answers to your wife’s questions may help to make your marriage worth saving.

Speaking of saving your marriage, you and your wife should discuss the future together.  As for why the decision should be made together, because you never know what she is thinking.  Did your wife cheat because she could or because she was unsatisfied with the sex at home?  Or, did she cheat because she met and feel in love with someone else?  If that is the case, your wife may prefer to just end your marriage altogether.

Call on professional help.  There are many situations in a marriage where help is needed and cheating is definitely one of those situations.  Do you have a friend or a trusted relative that you can confide in?  You may find your situation improving once you are able to talk about it with someone that you know or trust.  As for professional help, a divorce lawyer or a marriage counselor may be needed.

The above mentioned steps are just a few of the many that you may want to consider taking, should you find out that your wife is or has been cheating on you.  As a reminder, be sure to think about your options, as well as your needs before confronting her.  This can help to make the whole process much better and easier to deal with for all parties. 

PPPPP

Word Count 561
