What to Do When You Catch Your Boyfriend or Girlfriend Cheating

Are you in a serious romantic relationship?  If you are, is your relationship defined as being boyfriend and girlfriend?  If it is, you may still be curious about cheating.  Despite the fact that you may not be married, it doesn’t mean that a cheating partner will not hurt. 

If you catch your boyfriend or girlfriend cheating, you may be curious as to what you should do. After all, a quick internet search online will mostly produce results for married couples.  As a reminder, just because you are not married, it doesn’t have to mean that you have to put up with a cheating boyfriend or girlfriend.

If you learn that you boyfriend or girlfriend has been cheating, the first thing that you will want to do is take a step back.  You will want to fully think the situation through.  Catching a cheating spouse often results in impulsive actions.  It is expected, but it can be harmful.  As for what you should do when you do learn about the cheating, please continue reading on.

If you actually catch your boyfriend or girlfriend in the act, like if you see them having sex, leave the room.  In fact, you should do so immediately.  Verifying an affair is one thing, but staying the room, even just to argue, is not advised.  Vacate the premise immediately, unless of course it is your own home.  This gives you time to think about what you saw and what your actions should be, without having to see half naked bodies sitting in front of you.

Be sure to think about what you saw or what you learned.  If you are seriously considering ending your relationship, do not decide right away.  Instead, ask your boyfriend or girlfriend for a little bit of time apart.  This is ideal if you do not live together.  If you do live together, ask that your cheating partner stays with friends or family members.  At the very least, have them sleep in another room.

Another action that you can take is to breakup with your boyfriend or girlfriend.  As previously stated, you may not want to do this right away, especially if you are in a long-term relationship.  With that in mind, be sure to remember that many men and women who cheat often do so again and again.  Do you really want to always be wondering if your boyfriend or girlfriend is where they say they are?

If you are interested in trying to save your relationship, you should recommend counseling to your cheating partner.  Although counseling is often associated with marriage, couples counseling is also available and can be helpful as well.  Your chances of saving your relationship are better if you are older, as opposed to being a teenager, or you have been in a long-term relationship.  For many, long-term relationships are worth saving.

As for what you will never want to do, never resort to violence. When placed in situations, such as a finding a cheating spouse, both men and women have the ability to become violent.  This violence may be physical, verbal, or a combination of them both.  Whatever you do, do not resort to violence, as it often makes the situation much worse than it needs to be.

As you can see, there are a number of different ways that you can go about dealing with a cheating boyfriend or girlfriend.  Whichever approach you do take, just be sure to follow your heart, but use your best judgment at the same time.

PPPPP

Word Count 586
