A Little Mexican Adventure Vacation 

A lot of people plan their vacations months in advance. The reason why some people do it is because they would want everything to be perfect. They want the hotel checked out, they want the destination close to the hotel, they want their activities lined up and ready for them and of course they want to be treated special because after all they are paying tons and tons of money.

This is how an adventure vacation is perceived. Months of preparation followed by countless weeks of anticipation and anxiety, this is usually how a regular vacationer sees it and it's how they live out the drama of their vacation.

Now when we talk about vacation some people would think that to enjoy their vacation they would need t travel across the globe to seek out and uncharted island blissfully located in the middle of nowhere and strategically located right next to civilization. Some people would also think that they need to spend tons and tons of money just to get them there, an island bordered by the savagery of the out doors and the comforts of civilization. But sometimes when people look too far away they miss what's under their noses. 

Many people prefer going to more luxurious and popular places without considering those that could offer exciting adventure and interesting places to visit. Nowadays, when you talk about people missing things that are right under their noses—I'm talking about missing out on a good place to go to for a vacation. Some people spend too much of their time looking away to places like France, Italy, London etc. etc. when some of the good places to go to are just a border away in Mexico. 

Though we must admit not all of Mexico is for the sight seers, there are many places in the heartland of Mexico that are not really for tourist and their vacation getaways. Some are cruel realities of life that really require the attention of the government. Mexico is a really nice place to be in because of the virgin forests and the beautiful beaches, but if there would be any improvement in the tourism scene in Mexico, it has to start now.

Anyway, one of the few places that really deserve hats off is a place called San Blas, Mexico. Long before Spanish settlers set foot in this little gateway to California, people have already started settling here. Some people speculate that the lost civilization of the Incas may have been from there once.

It may not be as popular as Cancun but it does hold it own brand of notoriety especially for birds. Yes that's right birds. Many of the bird watching enthusiast flock to this little barrio surrounded by forests, lagoons, mangroves and endless islets that serve as excellent breeding grounds for both exotic and local species of birds.

Another attraction here are the ruins of Fort San Basilio built atop of a steep hill the La Contaduria. Imagine yourself on an adventure vacation high above the expanse of the town and the harbor. A good place to see the whole town and the beach, a good thing about it is that it's not too far away unlike when you need to have your fix on.

Here, you can enjoy not just a peaceful environment but also a feeling of self-fulfillment and utmost relaxation.
