A Memorable Adventure Vacation in Brazil 

A memorable adventure vacation should entail not just the people you are with but the impact of the place that you have been into. And going to Jericoacoara in Brazil can do just that. If you go on an adventure vacation in a very inviting place such as this, you will no longer have to worry about the people you are with or any other minor considerations because what the place offers will surely captivate your heart. 

Popularly called ‘Jeri,’ Jericoacoara can be found at the northern part of the Brazilian state of Ceará. Up until now, the place is still considered as a remote island because you cannot access it easily. You will need to ride in a bus for long hours and ride is a dune buggy, which will take you 12 miles closer to your destination. To many, the road to Jeri itself is a big part of the vacation because getting there is truly an adventure!

Despite the long hours of travel, you wouldn’t find it a waste of time especially upon seeing immaculately incredible beaches. You will also be amazed to see the how beautiful the eco-protected haven. Getting here will definitely give you a taste of going back to basics because you would not see paved roads, vehicles or cars, malls, banks, and even lighted street lights because there is limited and restricted supply of electricity. 

Although it lacks the conveniences that the modern world has to offer, the sheer beauty that you can remember for the rest of your life will still amaze you: landscape that is dominated by sand dunes, glorious warm sea waters and clear lagoons or a national park that boast of wildlife unique to Brazil. 

Places and activities to discover 
 
An adventure vacation in Jeri, Brazil can open up you to a world of exciting outdoor activities and places to discover. If you plan to enjoy outdoors to the fullest, try windsurfing, sandboarding, kitesurfing, or horse-riding. If you want to be more adventurous, start an exploration at the dunes, various rock formations, or visit the natural pools in nearby villages such as Guriu, a famous fishing community and Mangue Seco. 

What you need to prepare 

But before indulging into a vacation free from the toxicity of modern life, there are some things that you need to pay attention to such as knowing how to get there, places where you can stay, the length of your stay, your timetable, as well as the things that you need to bring.

Getting there is possible via air travel and land travel. When you travel by air, you can fly from New York off to Guarulhos International Airport in Sao Paulo and through North Star Air Taxi through a charter flight off to Fortaleza. By land, you can ride a bus hailing from the central bus station of Fortaleza off and head to the place called ‘Jijoca’ and ride to a four-wheel drive off to Jeri for about 6 hours. 

When it comes to the date of your vacation, you would not have to worry because the place has hot and humid weather all-year long. If you are planning to do some outdoor activities, go there between July to December. Avoid going there during the rainy season of season of February to May because not much activities can be done. 

In terms of place to stay and accommodation, worry no more because you can get the best services and amenities at the beachfront Mosquito Blue or opt for vibrant and decent lodgings at the place called “Pousada Ibiscus” which is less expensive.
