A Unique Adventure Vacation in Ghana 

People who are fascinated with places that have rich culture should go on an adventure vacation in Ghana, specifically the city of Cape Coast. The place, which can be found in the central region of Ghana, is a place that has a dark history of colonialism and slave trading. 

But, its beautiful coastline that can be seen in the present does not have traces of the place's dark history: the picture of millions of slaves that are shackled and leaving Cape Coast Castle to go to the New World. Now, the amazing coastline does not have a picture of the slaves but of fishermen who are catching various kinds of fish and other seafood for a living. 

What is truly exciting about the Cape Coast city is that is gives you a wonderful feeling being out there in the vastness of the ocean. Imagine, isn’t it quite an adventure to walk though a large stretch of a dotted coastline where you can see historic architecture that bear European style, numerous ports that have specific good to offer, several trading stations where you can find rare and valuable items, and castles—some of them are ruined by time—that surround the 300-mile stretch of Ghana's coast. 

Those who are into heritage and rich culture of a certain place will definitely enjoy an adventure vacation in Cape Coast City especially of you get to see the UNESCO heritage site, the Cape Coast Castle and the 15th-century Elmina Castle as well as the Fort St. Jago, right beside the Elmina.

If you go beyond the coast, you will find out that the land is as charming as its coastline. Traveling by land, you can visit the Kakum National Park that boast of a rainforest that can easily be accessed. It has canopy walkways that allow people to have a panoramic view of the fauna as well as the animals including exotic kinds of birds, monkeys, and crocodiles. 

If you are up for activities that would pump up adrenalin rush, you can book for a safari. You can also go trekking in the mountains, fishing for some good qualities of fish and other seafood, canoeing or sailing. For an ultimate adventure, try on being a Ghanian for a day by imbibing their lifestyle. 

Everything sounds great but you will have to prepare some things before going off to an adventure vacation in Cape Coast city in Ghana including:

- the place to stay which can either be the Bridge House that is located across the Elmina Castle and the Biriwa Beach Hotel which can be found in a small fishing village called Biriwa. The accommodations usually range from inexpensive to moderately expensive. Breakfast is the only meal that is being served with the accommodation. 

- how to get there because this will give you an idea of the place where you wish to experience your ultimate adventure vacation. There are actually two ways of getting to Cape Coast city—via air travel or land travel. If you are traveling by air, you can take Delta Airlines from JFK Airport in New York to Accra or you can travel by land by taking a taxi or cab from the capital of Accra which is 80 miles away from Cape Coast city. 

- time of going there which will ensure the success of adventure vacation in Cape Coast city, Ghana. The overall weather condition in Ghana is hot and humid the whole year. It is best to go there from October to March because these are the drier months. The peak season is from August to December where majority of the activities are held. Don’t go in the months of April to July because this is the rainy season. 
