Adventure Sailing Vacation Has No Limits

Adventure sailing vacation has no limits when even the physically disabled are able to achieve such a feat. This is as long as there are charities and clubs around that allow people with mixed abilities to work side by side with an able crew on equal terms. 

Currently, such groups can be booked for a sailing vacation that will last from 4 days or 4 weeks. Ships can be charted to go from one point in the US to another. Charters those across the Atlantic might sail south or the west to enjoy the warm waters of the Caribbean. 

Tour groups that provide these cruises are suitable for beginners and veterans alike. First timers get learn the basics and at the end of the course get a certificate. To get more experience, they will have to head out to see regularly. Those who don’t have the time can take an online course because although it is not a substitute for certification, it is a good tool in preparation for your continuing sailing education. 

But if you are just doing this for fun to spend time with friends, you don’t have to work. Given that charters already assign a trained crew, you can just sit back, relax and enjoy the ocean voyage. 

Along the way, the ship will dock in different ports. This allows people to go inland and spend some time ashore. They can sleep there as well or go back to the ship to watch the harbor and the stars at night before it is time to set sail to their next destination. 

At sea, the crew might encounter dolphins, seals and whales swimming alongside the ship. As they get closer to land, they will most likely encounter cormorants, guillemots, kittiwakes, puffins, shags, skuas and razorbills among other creatures. 

Part of the package includes good quality fresh food so you don’t have to bring anything when you come aboard. Crews will do the cooking but you can assist if you want to get into the action.  

To make such tours accessible to those who are and are not physically challenged, companies make it a point that the meeting points are easily accessible by plane and at cheap rates. Booking can be made through your travel agent or you can make the reservation online. You can look at their itinerary for the year so you know where the ship is going on a certain date. 

There are also sailing clubs for the disabled. Some will require you to pay a membership fee while others hand this out for free. 

Perhaps the biggest achievement for those who are disabled is to compete against others that have similar disabilities. Established in 1998, the US Disabling Team competes in various races annually and the biggest one this year happens to be the 2008 Paralympic Games which will be held in Qingdao, China about 430 miles east of the Capital. 

So whether it is just for fun or to race for the grand prize, adventure sailing vacation has no limits even to those with physical disabilities. This is because they can be trained to run the ship just as well as an able bodied person so they are able to set out to sea and return back to port.
