Adventure Sailing is More Fun When You Own The Yacht

You can charter adventure sailing vacation to almost any destination in the world. The only problem is that it will cost you a lump sum paying for the crew, the meals and the fuel for the trip. You can probably save money on a sailing vacation when you own the yacht but only if you know how to navigate and control it. 

The advantage of owning a boat is that you can go on a sailing vacation at anytime. You don’t have to call your travel agent or make any reservation online since the boat is just sitting at the dock waiting for you to come aboard. The only thing you have to do is buy food and fuel which should be enough to get you back to port. 

The boat also brings financial benefits because when you are not using it, this can be rented out to those who want to go on their own sailing vacation as long as they are able to pay your rate. This of course means additional revenue for you so the ship stays in good shape. 

This makes it also ideal for those who want to conduct business on board because this is a tax deductible once you register your boat as a place of business. To see how this works, get in touch with your tax advisor

Another financial benefit of owning your own yacht is the fact that this is considered to be a second home. This is as long as the boat has at least one berth, a permanent galley and a head which is the requirement of the IRS. 

If you can’t buy your own yacht, there is something called fractional boat ownership which means for a certain period during the year, you can do whatever you want with the boat. This will allow you to use it to go on a trip with your family. 

The best thing about this is that a group of you share the cost of owning the yacht which already includes its maintenance, insurance, moorage, equipment, fuel and repairs. 

This can only happen of course after you have completed a boating safety class and a safety orientation. This will not be a problem for you if you are already certified to sail a boat and know how to use all the equipment like charts, compass and GPS on board. 

The other option is to join a boat club. Unlike part time sharing, you don’t get to own a boat. But as a member, you are entitled to up to 4 advanced reservations at any given time and access to powerboats or to sailboats that are up to 30 feet in length. The club for its part will shoulder all  the other expenses such as maintenance, cleaning, storage and insurance. 

There are many of then around so you won’t have a hard time choosing one. Some cater to one market while others cater to all. They also offer boating classes for those who want to do this for fun or commit themselves in the sport. 

Adventure sailing vacation is truly better when you own the yacht as the only thing you have to do is drive on over to the docks, stow your gear on board and then sail off into the sunset.
