An Enjoyable Adventure Vacation in Panama City 

Being a local tourist destination located in U.S. Highway 98 within Bay County, Florida, the Panama Beach in Panama City is considered as one of the most sought after adventure vacation destinations today. One of the reasons behind this is the brand of Spring Break that the Panama Beach offers. Here, a tempting combination - the cheapness of an American resort paired with the lavish attractiveness of the top beaches in the world. 

Also known and dubbed quite aptly as the Gulf of Mexico’s “Miracle Mile,” and the silky-smooth sand next to the radiant blue water is truthfully a celestial sight to regard. Lay your uncertainties behind and let the water and the sun do all the work. It is the biggest city sandwiched between Pensacola, Florida and Tallahassee, Florida. It is the greater in terms of population than two major cities of the Panama City-Lynn Haven. It is the county seat of Bay CountyGR6 and is situated just east of the hottest adventure vacation destinations, the Panama City Beach.

Why take an adventure vacation in Panama City

In the recent years, the Panama City Beach, became the number 1 Spring Break spots in the United States. Not only does it have one of the most beautiful beaches in the country, but people can also enjoy parties almost anywhere on the beach. 

What makes Panama Beach a truly enjoyable adventure vacation destination is the thought of joining over 250,000 Spring Breakers yearly. In fact, the place is preferred by more and more people as their definitive good-time destination because it offers all the things that beach worshippers look for. Panama City is situated in what they dub as Florida’s panhandle, the whole 27 miles of sugary white sand that cozy up to the Gulf of Mexico, exuding warm breezes off the water's edge and breath-taking surf for the hardcore water sports enthusiasts. 

The action is just as crazy on the beach as it is off it, with local clubs cranking up the groove all day and all night long. The northwestern wing of Florida that extends along the Gulf Coast is aptly dubbed as the "Panhandle of Florida". The type of weather is a bit colder than the southern parts of Florida still it offers milder winters, sizzling summers and pleasantly enjoyable spring and fall weather. Its beaches are superb with temperate shallow waters and excellent white sand. 

The most excellent instance to stopover Panama City Florida is between May and October. All through the winter months, it turns a bit nippy for swimming and sunbathing, but is all right for golfers, tennis players, bikers and other outdoors people and their activities. From the middle of March all the way through mid April, more than a few hundred thousands of college students from all around the USA go down on Panama City Beach for their Spring Break activities. 

This is a grand occasion to stay in the locale if you are looking for feral parties and a young throng. On the other hand, if you are in search of a serene retreat, you may fancy keeping away from Panama City Beach at that time.

Other reasons that make the adventure vacation enjoyable are the key attractions including the wonderful ashen sand beaches with their temperate lucid waters where people can sunbathe, swim, go on boating, scuba diving, snorkeling or even fishing. Other land activities include golf, shell assembly, hiking, biking and walking. 
