An Exhilarating Adventure Vacation in Daytona Beach 

For those people who are living in congested and noise-infested cities across the globe, an adventure vacation would be a super. Imagine you need not worry about anything but bask in the sun and lie out in the beach a couple days off. When given a chance, most people would opt to go to a place where they can have peaceful surroundings. But, there are also those who crave for the ultimate adrenaline rush like those people who go to Daytona Beach in Florida.  

Considered as one of the world's most famous beaches, the Daytona Beach is home to thousands of people who are looking forward to an adventure trip of their lives. A very famous city in Volusia County in Florida, Daytona Beach is considered as the most famous year-round resort area, and houses some of the high rolling Universities in the country like Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University, Bethune-Cookman College, Daytona Beach Community College, and Keiser College Daytona Beach Campus. 

Daytona is mostly known for its fancy motorsports events, with both Daytona International Speedway and the classic Daytona Beach Road Course having hosted several high profile races for more than century now. Daytona, if you want it to be called accurately is a seasonal town, with large groups of out-of-towners descending upon the city, like ducks flying south for the winter, they come for the various motorsports events, and one of the most notable is the Speedweeks in early February. 

Aside from the motor sports events, the place is also visited by many people because of its natural charm. People that are living within the area are friendly and hospitable which makes the tourists come back season after season of each year. 

Off to the world's most famous beach

In the recent past spring breakers would flock the beach every single day, but since there is a shortage of services that can be offered at times because of the overwhelming demand, some would flock to Panama City instead. 

Still, the city and its beaches continues to attract over 8,000,000 tourists each year not to mention businesses So far Daytona Beach is also the home to some hotels, motels, condominiums and houses that line up along the beach front. Competition has allowed a wide variety of price range, most of the year the hotels and motels are typically fully booked except during special events, where they make room for more guests. 

Daytona Beach is also known for its high security measures around its main hotel locations, some are armed with multiple cameras for filming hotel and beach areas. Daytona Beach is one of the few places in the world where a family car can be used on an ocean beach. Most other driving beaches require 40-wheel drive or other special equipment.

But, what really makes the Daytona Beach an ultimate adventure destination aside from the "Speedweeks"—where Daytona 500 NASCAR race and the Rolex 24 sports car races, and others take place—are the "Pepsi 400 NASCAR" race on or around July 4 which is traditionally called the "Firecracker 400," the Daytona Beach "Bike Week Daytona 200" motorcycle race in March, the "Biketoberfest" in October.

The "Turkey Run" car show and events during Thanksgiving weekend which is also traditionally called the "Turkey Rod Run," the "Black College Reunion" or BCR, and the "Spring Break" as a getaway for so many college students out there.
