Belize as the Ultimate Adventure Vacation Destination 

One of the most favorite adventure vacation destinations of people nowadays is Belize, a small nation on the eastern coast of Central America. And why not? Being a place that is strategically located on the Caribbean Sea, Belize has all the adventure and has to offer compared to any place there is. 

Belize can be found between the Hondo and Sarstoon Rivers, Belize is popular for the Belize River that flows down at the heart of the country. Geographically speaking, the north of Belize is characterized by flat and swampy coastal plains. Other places are heavily forested and consist of flora that is highly diverse. 

Its south area is composed of low mountain ranges of the Maya Mountains while its Caribbean coast is lined with soft coral reefs and some 500 islets and islands called "cayes." Belize boasts off the Belize Barrier Reef which is known as the longest in the western hemisphere and is considered as the second longest in the whole world, next to the Great Barrier Reef.

Off to an extreme adventure 

When people speak of Belize, only two words will come to mind—romance and adventure. If you are planning to go to Belize for an adventure vacation, it is a must that you familiarize yourself with the place by knowing a dose of its rich history. You should also familiarize yourself with going around the place such as knowing various means of transportation such as buses, cars, motorcycles and bicycles. You should also have any idea what to expect from the place in terms of accommodations, foods, and activities that you can do. 

For an ultimate adventure vacation, the following are just some of the romantic things and exciting activities and places that you can visit:

1. The Great Barrier Reef. Being one of the world’s greatest treasures, a trip to Belize would mean nothing if you have not visited the longest reef in the western hemisphere, The Great Barrier Reef. You will definitely the visit because it doesn’t not only give you an amazing nature experience but a sense of adventure as well. 

2. Visiting the caves. Caving is indeed one of the most adventurous activities that you can do while in Belize. Here, you can witness various formations of caves with abundant limestone and wet climates.

3. Exploring the island by land. This can be very tiring but thrilling because you get to explore the place on your own and at your own pace. You can do your exploration by taking a golf cart ride, castle cars, and though bikes that are available for rent.

4. Sea adventure. Exploring the seas can be as exciting as rediscovering the land. To relish the beauty of the island and its waters, rent a charter boat with guide to go around the island or you can rent a kayak that will take you to various parts of the island. You can also rent boats for boating; you can do fishing, and do various water sports such as jetskis, waverunners, diving, snorkeling, windsurfing, kite surfing, sailing, canoeing, kayaking, and catamarans.

Aside from the activities mentioned, one great thing that makes Belize a favorite adventure vacation destination is the climate which, is tropical and is generally very hot and humid. This makes it a perfect getaway destination for people and couples who love beaches while basking in the warm and pleasant weather.

Although the climate here is generally hot, rainy season also occurs from May to November so don’t opt to go there during those times. 
