Going on an Adventure Vacation with Teens  

For parents who have teeners, it is best to plan an adventure vacation for them instead of treating them in kiddie places or giving them material things that they don’t really need. 

Planning an adventure vacation for teens can be worthwhile family activity because it ensures bonding time with the growing kids. If you are thinking of an adventure vacation for this age group, keep in mind what they will enjoy the most. Teeners nowadays are more into thrilling activities to keep them away from being bored. So, make sure that you include activities that will keep the physically active such extreme sports and others. 

Some of the activities that can be included in the adventure vacation may include outdoors activities such as mountain climbing, trekking, and biking. If your kids love the waters, bring them to a destination that has beaches where they can do so many water-related activities such as diving, wakeboarding, snorkeling and others. You might also want them to try more daring activities such kite boarding and kayaking. 

For those teens that are into the educational yet fun side, opt for activities that include exploration such as visiting ancient ruins and even finding a dinosaur fossil. You can also treat them to an ultimate nature trip by bringing then to places with huge forests, rich fauna, and interesting wildlife. 

Tips for parents 

Aside from giving the teens a break from their studies or whatever that they are busy with, an adventure vacation is sure to make the bond of the family members tighter and stronger. This is because the family member will have the chance to spend as much time with each other during the trip. 

But, before finally deciding to bring teens to a specific vacation destination, make sure that you consider the tips below. 

1. Get their opinion. Unlike kids, teens are harder to convince in so many things. This is because they feel that they are old enough to take care and decide for themselves. To avoid conflicts and causes of arguments, make sure that you ask the teeners first about your plan. If you do this, they can suggest places where they want to go. Take note of the places or destinations that they have mentioned and conduct as simple research. List down the top three possible options and let them decide on it. 

2. Never force them to go to a place that they don’t like. Parents should realize that teeners are starting to crave for independence. If they continue to command their kids and force them to do the things that they don’t really like, chances are, the trip would not be successful at all because nobody from them will cooperate. 

3. Always be prepared. Wherever you go for an adventure vacation, make sure that you are well prepared. Some of the things that you should plan ahead is the time and length of your stay in a specific place, how to get there, the available accommodation and places where you can stay, the availability of basic travel necessities, the food available in case the teeners don’t like the local food, the activities that you can do, the places that you should not miss to visit, and of course, your budget.

Once you have taken consideration to all of those things that are mentioned, you can now start making your itinerary and include the purpose of your travel. You can even start packing for your adventure vacation once these things are settled. 
