Off on an Adventure Vacation in Australia 

The Kangaroo Island in Australia is one of the most preferred adventure vacation sites in the country. This is because the place offers wonderful scenery of nature and offers a peek into indigenous wildlife in the area. The place has also become popular for providing access to a close encounter with the flora and fauna unique to Australia. 

Aside from amazing Australian fauna, the Kangaroo Island also offers a rare opportunity to walk through immense colonies of fairy penguins and sea lions, kangaroos that are visible in the hills and fields. If you are lucky enough, you can even see koalas munching eucalyptus leaves that you can only see in wildlife channels. People who love seeing animals on the wild such as wallabies, possums, bandicoots, bats, frogs, native birds, and goannas will also enjoy the exhilarating trip. 

Ultimate nature trip 

The Kangaroo Island is located at the southern coast of South Australia. Although hidden in the rugged coast, the island can be easily accessed for something that is isolated. Considered as an eco-tourism destination, not all people get a chance to discover the place because the government prefers that it remains a semi-tourist destination site. This is to keep the place clean and friendlier to animals that thrive there. 

Although it is not as commercialized as other adventure vacation destinations out there, people who are up for the excitement of encountering wildlife will surely like the place. People who are into magnificent landscapes, amazing caves filled with limestone, and great rock formations will surely insist on coming back to the place in the future. 

For those who are planning to go on an adventure vacation to Kangaroo Island, here are some of the things that they should consider before finalizing their trip. 

1. Number of people who will go on the trip. This is very important to ensure that everything will be provided for individual needs of the people going there. Knowing how many will go on the trip will somehow give you an idea what to prepare and what to do upon getting there. The number of people who will go on the trip will also help you plan your budget and the entire trip as well. 

2. The length of stay. This is very important because the length of your stay will give you an idea how many items to bring during your trip. It will also determine the budget that you have to prepare and fix your schedule while you are on your adventure vacation trip. 

3. The activities that can be done. There are countless of activities that can be done in Kangaroo Island. Most of which are inclined to discovering and rediscovering the nature. If you will go there, conduct a simple research of the things that can be done and choose from them. Choose those activities that are inclined with your interests and of the people included in the group. 

4. Means of getting there. This is very important because you can plan your budget up ahead. The available means of getting to Kangaroo Island is via ferry that can last from 45 minutes to an hour from Cape Jervis located at the tip of Australian mainland in the south, approximately 70 miles from Adelaide and via air travel which usually takes from 20 to 30 minutes from Adelaide. 

5. The available options for staying during the adventure vacation. Since it is an isolated island, there are few options to stay at the Kangaroo Island. In fact, there are only two decent places to stay including the Kangaroo Island Wilderness Retreat found at the Flinders Chase National Park and the Southern Ocean Lodge found in Hanson Bay.

The prices of the accommodations range from moderately expensive to very expensive.  
