Personal Equipment For Adventure Sailing Vacation in A Cold Climate

Adventure sailing vacation does not only happen when the seas are calm and the weather is warm. This can also happen when the weather is cold which is why everyone is required to bring some personal equipment to maximize the trip and make sure everyone is safe. 

The things you will need for your sailing adventure are a pair of sailing gloves, wet weather jacket, pants, boots, personal strobe light, safety harness, middle layer pants, middle layer jacket, thermal underwear, thermal gloves, neck tube, beanie, sun hat, ski goggles, sunglasses, sleeping bag, waterproof touch and batteries, towel and a crew bag. 

Since there will be some port calls, you better have you with some street clothes so you can do some sightseeing and shopping. It will also be a good idea to bring a camera so you can take pictures since you will never see such places back home. 

Don’t forget to bring some personal stuff like deodorant, cream, toothpaste, soap, shampoo, batteries, charger and anything else you need for the entire trip which includes any medication that you have to take as prescribed by your doctor. This should be sealed in a water tight container and this information must be shared with the skipper.

For those who have done this before and want to enhance their skills, they can bring a long a compass, chart, binoculars and GPS. This will help them navigate in the water so they can probably do this on their own when they think they are ready. 

With all these personal equipment, you shouldn’t have any problems. Now here are some things you don’t need to bring. 

Your cellular phone will be of no use out in the ocean so you shouldn’t even bother bringing it. In the event of an emergency, there is a satellite phone on board as well as a radio so the skipper can put out a distress call. 

There are also flares and other signaling devices so rescue can easily spot the ship if it is in trouble. For minor things like cuts and bruises, a first aid kit is already available so you don’t need to have this as part of your gear.

The personal equipment you will be carrying should be placed in a collapsible bag so that this can be stowed when everything you have brought is taken out and placed in a locker or bunk. This will also allow other people to do the same given that the space onboard such ships are very limited. 

What you get in return for signing up for this sailing adventure is a room, sheets, pillows, bath towels, fresh meals that is prepared by the crew and maybe even a free T-shirt. This is probably the best souvenir will you ever have aside from the pictures you will be taking and showing to those back home. 

The personal equipment for adventure sailing vacation in a cold climate is not that different from sailing in warmer waters except for the fact that you will need warmer clothing. You can get a copy of what you need to bring from the skipper or the charter company before the trip so you are sure that you have all the essentials since you will be away for quite awhile. 
