Preparing for an Adventure Vacation in Slovenia 

If you are up to an adventure vacation that is truly memorable, try going to Piran in Slovenia. The charming town can be reached for only two hours if you are coming from Venice. Compared to other places nearby, Piran is considered as one of the most interesting because it hasn’t been changed by modernization a lot. Although there are existent commercial establishments, the beauty of the town has more or less remained the same since medieval times. 

Before finalizing your adventure vacation in Piran in Slovenia, there are so many things that you need to prepare. 

Getting to Piran is one of the major considerations for your trip. In order to be prepared in going there, you must know what are the available means of transportation that you can use. There are basically three modes of traveling off to Piran. One is getting there by land using a train from Koper. Another is through ferry travel from Venice or from other coastal cities located at the northern Adriatic. You can also travel via air through a charter flight from the regional airport at the Portoroz or a flight from Trieste to Rome from New York and Chicago. 

Staying in Piran is also one of the things that you need to consider because this will entail your safety as well as of your belongings. The most popular places to stay include the Hotel Tartini located at the main square or at the Max Hotel inside an early 18th-century building. 

You also need to prepare your timetable including the date you wish to go there and the length of your stay. One week is ideal to visit all the places in Piran as well as its neighboring places. It is advisable to go there during the summer months of June to August because of the warm Mediterranean climate. (TIP: Try traveling in late spring or early fall to have cheaper prices and accommodations.)
 
Discovering a great medieval city 

One great thing in Piran is that you can see and enjoy the sights and activities that can be found in its nearby cities like Dubrovnik or in some other places in Italy or Croatia, only that you don’t have to spend so much money. This is because Piran offers one of the lowest costs to tourists in terms of places to stay, food, amenities, basic items, and other necessities. 

Piran can be considered as one of the most relaxing places for an adventure vacation because it stimulates adrenaline rush just by looking and walking through wonderful places that remind of the medieval times. Aside from the great architecture that can be seen surrounding the place, one of the things that is really exciting about this place is that it will give you an opportunity to peek into other neighboring islands and towns. 

As early as the 7th century, people from all over were amazed by the charm of this place. And since it has been under the Venice rule for 500 years, many parts of the city reflect strong influences of colonialism. 

What makes this city an ideal adventure vacation spot is its being a ‘walking city.’ People can just walk around the place for sightseeing, discovering street food, and observing the lifestyle of the locals. Encircled by narrow cobblestone streets, you can always find an activity to enjoy or a place to discover.

Having locals that are naturally friendly and accommodating, you would not find yourself bored for even just one minute. Walking through the city can open you up to many possibilities like discovering a nice local restaurant, a lovely coffee shop or can even give you a glimpse of the local culture as shown in the activities held at the town square. 

If you are up for a more thrilling adventure vacation, you can visit the Venetian-style campanile sitting atop a hill that allow you have magnificent views of Croatia and Italy or drive around and discover the beauty of the Trieste, Pula and Opatija or the Triglav National Park.

If you still have free time, visit Venice by catching a quick ferry or roam around and visit several vineyards and wineries nearby. 
