What To Bring For Adventure Sailing Vacation

When you book an adventure sailing vacation package, you don’t have to worry about food when this is usually part of the package. This means you only have to bring your own personal stuff with you on board so for those who have never done this before, here is what you should bring for adventure sailing. 

Given that you will be at sea quite awhile, you should pack a lot of casual gear which simply means lightweight clothing with long sleeves so you avoid getting sunburn during the day. It will also be a good idea to have a wide brimmed hat and a pair of sunglasses to protect your face.

If you want to lounge around on deck, you better have a beach towel with you as well as sun block. Since the weather could get cold at night, you should also have a light jacket. 

Charters usually make port stops before heading home so don’t forget to bring along a light pair of shoes or sandals so you can do so some sightseeing in the island. It will be good to have some insect repellant with you so don’t get bitten by mosquitoes and other insects. 

If you are under medication, don’t forget to bring it with you. Given that you will be a way for some time, make sure you have your toiletries so you can shave and brush your teeth. 

The most important thing to bring with you when you go adventure sailing is a camera. This will allow you to take pictures so you can share this with family and friends when you get home. 

For those who want to go swimming, don’t forget your bathing suit so you can jump in anytime into the water especially when you just want to cool off.  If there is some space in your bag, perhaps you can also pack in some snorkeling gear as some will rent this to you for a fee. 

All of this should be placed in a 10 kilogram bag which is preferably collapsible because of the limited storage space on board most ships. This will also allow other passengers to stow their gear. 

You don’t have to bring your cellular phone with you because in the event that something should happen on board, they have a satellite phone and a radio so rescue can be called in. You also don’t need to bring a first aid kit since this is also available on the ship. 

If you are bored relaxing on board the chartered ship, you can volunteer and help the crew with sailing like hauling the main sail in the morning, trimming the sails or steering a course during the day. With that, you won’t feel guilty having done nothing when you decided to go on a vacation. 

Another way to help out is to catch some fish which the crew can serve as lunch or dinner even if the ship has already been stocked with food for the entire trip. You can bring your own rod or check if they have some on board that you can borrow. 

Now that you know what to bring for adventure sailing vacation, the only thing you have to do now is book the trip. You can do this through your travel agent or online. 
