California Tan Spray Rules

A spray tan provides artificial tan through the application of dyes that are intended for use on the skin. There are two ways on how you can obtain spray tan: professionally meaning tanning booths and at home by using tanning products. Either way you will be able to get a tanned skin. However, for a more even application of tan it is preferred that you go to a tanning booth. The spray technology used by tanning booths can provide you with a flawless coverage. Unlike tanning lotion and other tanning products, which are difficult to apply evenly on the skin. 

Spray tan is employed as an alternative to harmful tanning procedures and gadgets like for instance the use of tanning beds or sun lamps, which make use of UV rays that damage the skin. Although, many people still find spray tan as unnatural or fake but the fact remains that it is a safer option compared to UV tans. Plus, major advancement in tanning technology has made it possible for you to have a natural looking tan. 

Professional tanning service is known by different names but the applications as well as the products used are basically the same. However the advantage of a professional spray tan is that you are provided with a professional assistance. Most tanning booths have skilled tanning staffs that orient first time users on how to use the tanning amenities. These same staffs also provide assistance when it comes to choosing a tone and in determining the amount of application that would suit a particular user's skin tone for a more natural tan result. 

The process employed in most professional tanning booths is likened to a shower. Users are asked to stand beneath a nozzle or a tanning spray that emits tanning solutions. But before that, a technician will first set the tanning spray in accordance to the outcome that the user would like to achieve. Once everything is set inside the tanning booth then everything is just a matter of pushing that button.

As a user of a tanning booth make sure that you understand completely all the instructions given to you since there would be no one to assist you inside the booth. You will do the entire tanning yourself. Depending on the tan that you want you may have to return to the tanning booth for reapplication. 

California Tan Spray is one of the popular tanning solutions available. And people who have tested the California Tan Spray can attest on its effectiveness. Rules for an Effective California Tan Spray 

If you want to have lasting and beautiful tan you have to follow some rules. Here are some of them:

1.	Don't forget to exfoliate. Remove dead skin cells before you subject yourself to a tanning session. Make use of a loofah sponge to remove the dead skin. 2.	Moisturized your skin. It is ideal to apply moisturizer on your skin an hour before a get a tan. Tanning solutions stick better on moisturized skin. Moisturizer can also help to prolong the duration of your tan. 3.	For a more thorough tanning coverage it would be best to go naked since all the parts are tanned plus there are some solutions that may stain your bathing suit or your underwear. 4.	Makes use of gloves. Orange palms are not cool and so to prevent such use gloves. 5.	Don't forget to follow instructions given to you in using the tanning booths. If you have questions then ask them out since once inside the spraying booth you are going to be alone. 6.	Once the spraying starts try to stand still. And afterwards towel off excess solutions. 7.	Try to go easy on your feet since they usually end up darker than the rest of your body parts.