California Tan Tanning Lotion: A Safe Tanning Solution

Tan skin is a fad that is turning into a lifestyle for some people.  However the raging craving for tanned skin has also increase the cases of people suffering from skin cancer. There are various ways on how one can achieved a tan. The most common and the least expensive is good old sunbathing but even this can prove to be very harmful for the skin since it entails direct exposure to harmful UV rays. 

Artificial tanning machines such as tanning beds, sunlamps and others are equally harmful due to the UVA and UVB rays that they emit. These too can increase the risk of skin cancer. 

Fortunately, people are becoming aware of the harmful effects that UV rays can do their skin and has searched for sunless or UV-free tanning products that can give them the same tanning effect without the risk of having a cancer. 

There are various tanning products and machines available in the market that makes use of sunless tanning technology such as tanning booths, tanning lotions and other tanning products. California Tan is known for its safe, sunless tanning products. And one of the well-known products of California tan is its line of tan tanning lotion.

California Tan Tanning Lotion
Although sunless tanning is now very popular but still there are some individuals who frown on the ability of sunless tanning products to provide a natural tan look. Tanning technology has advanced immensely that at present even tanning lotion can provide a natural looking tan. 

And that's exactly what California tan tanning lotion is all about. It makes use of advance sunless tanning technology that does not only help tanned skin but at the same time moisturized skin to provide a more lasting tan.

You see a healthy skin is very important in obtaining a beautiful tan. Aside from that tanning products hold better on moisturized skin rather on dry skin. Applying lotion on the skin is one of the easiest and proven ways of moisturizing the skin. It is highly recommended by tanning experts to moisturize skin before rendering your skin to tanning products.

How does the California Tan Tanning Lotion Works?
California Tan Tanning Lotion aside from being a moisturizer is basically a tanning lotion. It works by temporarily dyeing the top layer of the skin turning it to the tan color that you want.
And the best thing about California Tan Tanning Lotion is that unlike any other tanning product it can provide you with a weeklong tan. Plus if want for your tan to last much longer all you have to do is to simply reapply California Tan Lotion and viola!-instant tan that will last for more days. 

California Tan Tanning Lotion is a perfectly safe product that does not damaged the skin. Its moisturizing ingredients will leave your skin smooth and tanned at the same time. No other product can provide you with such wonderful combination. 

Applying California Tan Tanning Lotion
California Tan Tanning Lotion is not your usual type of lotion so in order to achieve its utmost effect you have to follow some regimen such as:

•	Before applying the tanning lotion make sure to exfoliate which means that you have to remove the dead skin. Use a loofah to scrub off the dead skin.
•	When applying tanning lotion on your skin give extra attention to your feet, elbows, ankles, knees and tan lines since these are the parts where uneven application is often very visible.
•	It is also advisable to wipe off any excess tanning lotion to even out your application.
•	Remember to wash your hands after applying the tanning lotion. 
