Title: 
Mr. Bin Laden: Tear this Wall Down

Word Count:
430

Summary:
You have wasted your money, and time, on a message of hate. It is easy to incite young people with the message of intolerance and violence. What a shame, when you think of all the people you could have helped


Keywords:
POLITICAL, POLITICS, BIN LADEN, WALL, TEAR, PEACE


Article Body:
You say, you want to help the Palestinians, but most of them still struggle in poverty. How are you helping anyone? Having been born into a privileged life, you use your wealth toward death, destruction, division, and sorrow.

Here is an old saying for you to ponder: “Give a man a fish, you have fed him for today. Teach a man to fish, and you have fed him for a lifetime.” How are you helping the people of the Middle East, learn how to help themselves, with your millions of dollars?

You have wasted your money, and time, on a message of hate. It is easy to incite young people with the message of intolerance and violence. What a shame, when you think of all the people you could have helped

You could have helped the Palestinian Red Crescent or Iraqi Red Crescent. 
God knows, they need all the help they can get. By the way, God and Allah are the same Supreme Being.

Who is Isa Al-Masih? You are an educated man, and you know the answer. 
You are killing your “cousins.” The Christians are not your enemy, and we should put the past behind us, for the mutual benefit of mankind. Judaism, 
Christianity and Islam, have sacred ties, so why keep the fires of hate going?

You have personally supervised the killing of Iraqi children by suicide bombers and car bombs. What have these Moslem children ever done to you?

Granted you and I are not the same religion, but why do fundamentalists, of all kinds, try to destroy everything, they don’t understand? A religious fundamentalist is the same, whether he is a Christian, a Moslem, or a Jew, all of them drink from the same “fountain of hate.”

As for the presence of Western soldiers in “your lands.” By your actions, you have provoked them, when, by your life of privilege, you were in a key position to negotiate. Now, you cannot raise your head from your cave without thinking about assassins, around every corner. You must live your life as an outcast.

It is too late for you to personally negotiate for peace, but you are still in a position to stop the violence now. You should declare an end to hostilities, and disband your cause, for the benefit of all mankind.

In the words of John Lennon, “ Give peace a chance.” You cannot undo what you have done, and you will be pursued for the rest of your life, but Allah may forgive you, if you set the wheels in motion - toward world peace.


