Title: 
IT Helps Small Businesses Enact Big Ideas

Word Count:
305

Summary:
Good customer suervice is crucial to success in business; there's nothing high-tech about helping customers get exectly what they need. But technology can make the process easier and more efficient.


Keywords:
IT Helps Small Businesses Enact Big Ideas


Article Body:
Good customer service is crucial to success in business; there's nothing high-tech about helping customers get exactly what they need. But technology can make the process easier and more efficient.

For most small businesses, investing in information technology (IT) can pay dividends in more ways than one. Not only can technology help companies establish a corporate identity and lower the cost of doing business, it can also help level the playing field.

The Dell/National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB) Small Business Excellence Award, established in 2004, honors small businesses that instill the spirit of innovation and apply IT to improve the customer experience.

Think big, win big

The winner will receive $30,000 in technology and professional services from Dell; a Day with Dell program with Dell executives, including Michael Dell, to share best business practices; a lifetime membership to NFIB; and other prizes. Nine other companies will receive a Dell Latitude notebook and a one-year membership to NFIB. The finalists for the 2006 award are:

&#8226; AMAD Logistics, an international freight forwarder and logistics company.

&#8226; DataCert Inc., a fast-growing supplier of electronic invoicing and corporate legal spend-management solutions.

&#8226; Errand Solutions, which provides customized errand-running and concierge services as an employee benefit and customer relationship enhancement to health care, hospitality, residential property and corporate organizations.

&#8226; Harrison's Roof Truss, L.L.C., a manufacturer of engineered wooden roof and floor trusses.

&#8226; Micro Technology Services Inc., which develops and manufactures electronic products.

&#8226; National Association of System Administrators Inc., provides a 24-hour, Web-based customer portal through which clients can track service calls and on-site parts storage.

&#8226; Ntelicor L.P., an information-technology consulting and staffing firm.

&#8226; Pipal Research Corp., a team of strategists and investment bankers who provide research and analytical services.

&#8226; Sew What? Inc., a theatrical drapery manufacturer and custom sewing service.

&#8226; TRS Consultants Inc., a multidisciplinary engineering and construction management firm.


