Blender Tips

Using a blender would help make some tasks easier in the kitchen. And knowing what blenders can do may help you better make use of them in order to make some kitchen tasks more convenient to do. Here is some of the most useful blender tips that you may want to know about.

Basic Uses

A blender can be used to perform a variety of tasks. Just like its name says, a blender is mainly used to blend a variety of different ingredients. Whether solids or liquid ingredients, the blender can be used to help blend them. Other uses for a blender include pureeing, liquefying and even chopping ingredients. It can also create a variety of delicious smoothies that can be enjoyed by one of by many, depending on the blender size.

Proper Usage Tips

In order to take advantage of the many benefits of your blender, you must know how to properly use it. Before you try to turn on your blender, make sure that you place the lid firmly on the container to avoid the contents from spilling. And while it is running, try to put your hand on the container to help keep it stable while it is running. 

When you want to check out the contents, try to make sure that you turn off the blender first before taking the lid off. And before you try to pour out the contents of your blender, try to make sure that the blade inside it has completely stopped running. 

When using the blender on trying to blend liquids and solids together, try to start off at slow speeds. And when at this setting your blender seems to be struggling, don't try to set it at the next higher setting. Instead try first to add in some more liq2uid before you try to increase at the next higher speed to finish blending.

In mixing your drinks, especially in using carbonated beverages, try to blend the other ingredients first using your blender. Pour out the contents of the resulting blend on the serving glasses and then pour in the carbonated drink last. To ensure that your cold beverages stay cold longer, you can also have your blender containers chilled prior to using. They can remain cold when you try to blend your frozen drinks. This trick will work on glass and stainless steel blender containers but would not work as well with the plastic ones. 

When trying to blend hot liquids, you can keep the feeder cap of your blender in order to release off some steam. When blending, start the lowest speeds and then gradually increase to higher settings. 

When you wish to crush ice cubes in your blender, add one cup of water into the blender before putting the ice cubes for chopping. When you wish to use the blender to grate harder cheeses like Cheddar or the Swiss variety, cut them first into cubes and let them chill in the refrigerator for a while. After that, you can then them into the blender through the feeder cap while the motor is running. 

You can also make bread crumbs using your blender. Use stale bread when you wish to make dry bread crumbs and fresh ones for soft bread crumbs. When the motor is running, add the bread in small pieces into the feeder cup of the container. By putting in mind these blender tips, you can find different ways on how to use your blender.
