Cheap Blenders and Other Ways to Go about Your Company's USP

If you have a business, you must know how important it is to advertise. These days, you no longer have to take drastic steps so you will be able to afford the different means of marketing medium. If you are selling cheap blenders, you can already settle for the print ads and free Internet advertisements.

The Unique Factor
So you are selling blenders. But a lot of other businesses also do. You have to look at those lots and establish why you are worth a try. What are you going to advertise about? How are you going to phrase your words to make it appear like you are one tough competitor that will be hard to beat?

The answer to that is to first establish what your USP is. What is this? USP stands for Unique Selling Proposition. This is what you sell to the market. This is how you earn. The trait doesn't really have to be uniquely yours. But you have to make it sound like that through the magic words of copywriting.

Where do you start thinking about your USP? Here are some suggestions.

1. The design of your products. Is there anything that can be tapped regarding this feature? Is this something that makes your blenders stand out from the rest of the commercially available ones? Then by all means, use this as a starting point in developing you USP.

2. Pricing matters. If you are what you claim, if you really are selling your blenders at cheap prices, you can use that as the one thing that makes you unique. You will easily catch the interests of your target market. This will especially be true if aside from the low price, your products can compete with the best brands in terms of quality.

3. Competitor's analysis. You can take note of what are the USP that your direct competitors are using. You can choose to match that accordingly or level up. All you have to understand is that you must claim only what you can deliver. You must never give your probable clients false hopes. They will not like it and it will mean bad business for you.

4. Company history. How long have you been in the industry? If you already have established a name because you've been in the business long enough, then use this as your USP. You can add up experiences of how you have helped people or how you have met some of the famous people who had availed products from you in the past.

5. Promotional gimmicks. You can also use these. But the only disadvantage here is that you have to yet again change your USP once the promo is over. But this is a nice way to catch interest. This can help starting companies to be easily recognized.

6. Company's goal. You can share this with your probable clients by making this your USP. By doing so, you are like telling them that you are doing things to reach out to them so that you can serve them better.

Claiming that you are offering cheap blenders is only one way to go about your USP. Use the abovementioned tips to develop your own that will be beneficial to your own success in the future. And choose something that will help you sell out your products easily to your target market.
