How to buy a good blender for your food and drinks

Blenders are versatile gadgets that you can find in the kitchen. It can do the job of a host of other kitchen tools such as a food processor, a juicer and even a coffee maker. You see, blenders are powerful enough to mash vegetables and fruits and turn it into purees like what a food processor does. It can make juices, cocktails and smoothies like with your ordinary juicer.

It can even grind coffee beans and give you brewed coffee. This versatility is the reason why some people who don’t have the budget or those who don’t have enough space buy a blender instead of buying other kitchen tools. After all why would you need several equipment for your food and drinks when you can use only one.

If you don’t have blenders at home up until now, you are missing a lot especially in terms of creating healthy food and drinks for you and your family. People who subscribe to specific diet plans or those who have turned vegetarians swear by the usefulness of this gadget. So, you should buy now. Here are some tips on how to find a good blender. 

1. Go with the best

One of the best blender brands in the market today is the Oster. The company has been known in the field that blenders are often called osterizers the same way that you sometimes refer to sodas as Coke. If you have the money to spare, buy this brand as it is known for being sturdy. This is especially true if you are going to make shakes every time which necessitates crushing hard ice.

The same goes with crushing coffee beans. While other blenders will have a hard time doing this, the Oster will not have problem. But if you are going to use the blender for only making purees or juices, you can probably settle for the cheaper brands that are also good. Just remember not to overdo crushing of ice just in case.

2. Buy new ones

Although used blenders can last a long time, it is good to buy new ones instead. At least, when you buy something that nobody has used before, you can be sure that nothing has happened to it yet. Besides with so much use, the motor can also bog down. However, if you are sure that the second hand blender has not been used often, then it will probably be a good buy. Just check the product and make sure that there are no cracks in the container and the stainless steel blades are in good shape.

3. Ask for the power

When I say power here, it does not refer to the electricity or the outlet. Different blenders will have different types. One will have a more powerful motor than the other. So when you buy, make sure that you ask this question. The type of blender that you will have to buy will depend on the way you will use it.

For instance, if you are going to make purees or use it to crush veggies and fruits that are soft, a blender with les power is already ok with you. However, if you plan to crush ice with it and make shakes, a model that is more powerful is the better choice.
