How to Use A Blender

Let’s say you are throwing a party at home. Naturally, there will be food and drinks. But what if you suddenly run out of bottled refreshments? For that, you can make some of your own which is only possible if you know how to use a blender. 

1. The first thing you have to do is take it out of the cabinet and put it together. In most cases, the unit is ready to use. You just have to wash the carafe and dry it before you throw in your ingredients. 

2. For others, you have to place the blade in the retaining ring then set the gasket over the blades and inside the ring. 

3. Next, screw the retaining ring firmly to the bottom of the pitcher. Be sure that this is seated correctly otherwise you will have a leak. 

4. When it is ready, you must place the blender on a flat and dry surface. Set the carafe and the plug the blender in. 

5. Now, throw in the ingredients. Close the lid firmly and then choose the setting that will do the job. For instance, use the ice or chop setting to make smoothies or other frozen drinks. 

6. If you want to add other things like grate chocolate, use the pulse setting. This can be placed inside the carafe if you have a secondary lid so you don’t have to switch it off then on again. 

Instead of adding ice while it is being blended, you can also use frozen fruit as this gives it a brighter flavor. Then you pour the drinks into glasses and serve it to the guests.

7. If you have to make more, just follow the steps mentioned. Don’t forget to wash it after each use using dishwashing detergent, add water halfway and then run the blender on low speed for a few seconds. 
 
If you have to make more than 3 batches, perhaps you should get a bigger blended next time. Just make sure to use the right amount of ingredients each time to maintain consistency in whatever you are making. 

8. When the party is over and it is time to clean up, rinse the blender thoroughly and take it apart before this is placed back inside the cabinet. Taking care of your appliances will make sure that they will still be working the next time you have to use it. 

The blender is very easy to use and you can make other things with it in a matter of seconds. If you have a baby at home, you can make him or her food by adding a small amount of liquid into the cup of fruit and vegetables then blend this for a few seconds using the Puree setting so the food will smoothen out lumpy gravy. 

So now that you know how to use a blender, the only thing you have to do now is decide what you want to make and then prepare the ingredients. For those who want to experiment, do some research online and then practice this at home. If you just purchased a new one, look inside the box because it may already come with an instructional book or even a video so you can become an expert in no time. 
