 Non Alcoholic Blender Drinks

Blenders are great in trying to create tasty beverages around the home. Especially during the summer, non-alcoholic blender drinks can be a welcome addition to a day at the sun. Creating cooling and refreshing drinks would almost always be welcome all summer long. Here are some recipes that you might want to consider. 

Banana Berry Drink

This refreshing drink is fairly easy to make in a blender. What you need is one ripe medium banana, 1 cup milk, 1/2 cup of strawberry and 4 ice cubes. Peel out the banana and then cut it up into chunks. Put them in the blender along with the milk, yogurt and the ice cubes. You can then put up the lid and turn the blender on. Try to blend the ingredients for about 30 seconds or until they become smooth.  This recipe is good enough for two people to enjoy. Each serving can be prepared with strawberries if preferred.

Orange Hawaiian Punch

This recipe is a great drink for the summer heat. You may need one 46-ounce can of Hawaiian Punch. You will also need a cup of pineapple juice, 1/4 cup of heavy cream, 2 ripe bananas and a juice from a half cut lemon.

In order to make this drink, you will need to put in all of the ingredients into your blender, with the bananas sliced into quarters before being placed into the container. Let the blender run in order to mix up all the ingredients. You can then serve the resulting beverage over crushed ice or ice cubes on glasses garnished with orange slices. This recipe is enough to provide a cooling beverage for 8 people.

Breakfast Substitute Shake

For those looking for a drink that can also serve as a complete breakfast in itself, this recipe might do just as good. What you need for this drink would be an 8-ounce can of sliced peaches in heavy syrup, 1/2 cup plain low-fat yogurt, and a single 1 1/2 ounce packet of instant oatmeal as well as 4 to 5 ice cubes.

Once you have prepared the ingredients, you put in the peaches, yogurt and oatmeal into the blender. Turn on your blender in order to mix up the ingredients until smooth. Next, you try to add in the ice cubes, one at a time while the blender is still running. Do this until the ice cubes are chopped.

Coffee Cappuccino

If you are looking into a new summer twist to your favorite cup of coffee or tea, here is a recipe that you might want to try out. In making this beverage, you will need 1/2 cup of instant coffee, 1 cup of non-fat dry milk powder, 1/2 teaspoon of dried orange peel and 3/4 cup sugar.

Mix in the sugar and the orange peel into the blender and then buzzing it until the peel is finely chopped. Add the remaining ingredients and blend them until powdered. When preparing, use 2 rounded teaspoons of the resulting mixture for every cup of hot water and 3 teaspoons for each mug.

These are just a few of the many non-alcoholic blender drinks that you can try out. You can even find some new ones if you try to experiment with your own recipes and mix up in your dependable blender. This tasty treats would easily make up your day any time.
