Preparing Alcoholic Blender Drinks 

Refreshing alcoholic blender drinks is just right for the coming summer season.  Cooling off the summer heat would no longer be a problem if you know how to prepare some of the popular blender drinks out there. Here are some alcoholic blender drink recipes that you would find quite interesting and easy enough to prepare during the summer.

Pina Colada

This good and popular rum based cocktail may just be what you need for comfort during the summer heat. You can mix in your blender a blend of 3/4 cup rum, 3/4 cup coconut milk, 1 1/2 cups of pineapple juice, 1 to 2 tablespoons of sugar along with a cup of crushed ice. Give this mixture a quick buzz on your blender until creamy. Then serve the resulting mixture into four glasses garnished with a wedge of pineapple.

Frozen Daquiri

A frozen daquiri is another popular drink that you can create with your blender. The daquiri is essentially a cocktail composed mainly of rum, lime juice and sweeteners such as sugar. To make this refreshing summer drink, you blend in 3/4 cup of rum, 1/4 cup of lime juice, 1 to 2 tablespoons of sugar or honey, and a cup of ice into a blender. Give the blender a quick run to mix in the ingredients. Pour the resulting mixture into four glasses that you can also top off with a swirl of whip cream garnished with a fresh strawberry. 

Frozen Margarita

Frozen margaritas are essentially made from a cocktail with tequila as its main ingredient and with crushed ice in a blender. In order to make a frozen margarita, you need to mix in 1/4 cup of lime juice, freshly squeezed, with 3/4 cup of tequila. You can then add in 1/4 cup of orange liqueur with 2 to 3 tablespoons of sugar, depending on how sweet you want your summer frozen cocktail drink to be.  Don't forget to add in 1 1/2 cup of crushed ice into the blender mixture and give it a quick buzz. 

You can then serve the frozen margarita in salted glasses. Rub a wedge of lime around the rim of the serving glass and dip them into a dish of kosher salt before pouring in the cocktail. If you prefer a sweet frozen margarita, you can dip the glass in granulated sugar instead.

Frozen Espresso Milkshake

For a more unique summer alcoholic blender drink, you can try creating a frozen espresso milkshake for you and your friends during the summer. Mix in your blender 3/4 cup of espresso, 1 cup milk, 2 scoops vanilla ice cream, 1/2 cup vodka, and 1/2 cup Kahlua. Add in a scoop or two of vanilla ice cream. Then add in 1 1/2 cups of crushed ice and then give the blender a spin until to mixture becomes thick and creamy. You can then pour it into four glasses to share with your friends. If you wish a mocca shake, you can add in some chocolate syrup.

Preparing these alcoholic blender drinks need not be hard for you. You can try out these drink recipes in your home using your dependable blender and you can have for yourself something to cool off with during the summer heat.
