The Blender Buying Guide

You should know what to look for when you want to buy a blender. This is because no kitchen is complete without it so to help you out, here is buying guide for you customers out there. 

First, the blender must be able to do some basic tasks in the kitchen. These include crushing ice and combine liquids as well as solids. 

The capacity of the blender is also important. The carafe’s as they are better known may be able to hold 1 to 3 liters so knowing which one to get should be based on your blending needs. 

Since the capacity also dictates the size of the unit, you should also consider the amount of storage space when this is not needed. If this can’t fit inside the cabinet, perhaps this can be placed on top of the shelf instead. 

Surely, you don’t want your blender to break down only after a few months. To prevent this from happening, make sure you get a trusted brand. Look at what material is used in making the body and the carafes. The footing should also be stable so it doesn’t fall to one side especially when you are blending. If you are to choose between plastic, glass or stainless steel footing, go for the last as it is the sturdiest. 

As for your carafe, stainless steel happens to be the sturdiest however you are not able to see what you are mixing. This is why glass is much better even if it is heavier and more expensive than plastic. 

Regardless of the capacity of the carafe you choose, don’t make the mistake of putting in ¾ its capacity. Doing so will create a mess even if it does come with a lid. 

Looks are also important when buying a blender. Why? This is because the blender should also complement the rest of the kitchen. Fortunately, most companies have this available in various colors so you will just have to choose one from the rest.

The ideal blender should have various functions. Since there are so many to mention, just choose one based on what you plan to do with it. If you want to try new things with your blender, always read the instructional manual so there won’t be any problems when you use it. 

The strength of the blender depends on its wattage. Usually, these are between 300-500 watts for small blenders and 1200 watts for heavy duty models. This makes the speed settings vary as well. Some units have 13 while others have 16 but for the people at home, sticking between 300 to 500 watts is sufficient.

The blender must also be user-friendly. At one point, these were sold with push button controls. The problem was that they were very difficult to clean. The grooves seem to attract spills and this doesn’t go away no matter how many times you clean it. 

There are also models that have dials which are probably easier to operate than push button. The drawback is that they don’t look sleek enough to impress people who see it. 

The best once to get are those with touchpad controls because it is easy to clean. For a few more dollars, you can even one that has programmed settings even if some find it hard to read. 

The blender buying guide should help you find the right blender depending on your needs. The only thing you have to do now is check out your nearby appliance store or online to find what you need for your kitchen. 
