Two things to consider when buying a blender

Blenders are must-items in every household nowadays especially if you are very health conscious. You see, blenders are pretty nifty when it comes to making fruit juices that are rich sources of vitamins and minerals. On top of this, you can also use this gadget to create vegetables dishes that can resemble meats. This is the reason why most people who are into a specific diet plans or those who have become vegetarians are investing in good blenders. After all, you will be taking in only fresh foods and drinks with it.

Even those who have restaurants also invest in blenders for their ingredient preparation. Like a food processor, blenders can help in mincing and in grinding ingredients. In fact, it can even turn some hard to bit into ingredients into powder form. Chefs do this with spices that may be bitter when bit into. In a powder form, these spices can easily flavor the food that they are cooking. 

But with all the different kinds of blenders in the market, one cannot be sure of just what to buy for the home or for the business. Another question is if a blender is the right choice or would a food processor be better. Here are some tips to help you in your decision. 

1. Function

One of the things that you should consider before buying a blender is what you will be doing with it. A lot of things will depend on the answer to this question— the price of the blender, the power, the brand and even, the dilemma between food processor and blender.
 
If you are planning to use it for making shakes and juices at home, the blender is the obvious choice. It is after all not called a liquidizer for nothing. A blender can be best used when making liquid concoctions, from milkshakes to alcoholic drinks. You can create Zombies and margaritas with this gadget.

If you are planning to crush ice with it, go for the more expensive blenders as the smaller cheaper ones will not have enough power to do it. They may be able to do the job once or twice but crushing ice often will cause the blades and the machine to big down. 

If you are however planning to use it for preparing ingredients when you cook a meal, the best thing to buy is actually the food processor. With this gadget, you can slice your tomatoes, mash potatoes, mince pork and shred cabbages. You can even grate cheese with it. You see, food processors have with it interchangeable razors and blades that you can use. These blades perform a variety of function, depending on what you want.

Between the two, the food processor is actually the more versatile as it can also make juices for you. It will be a harder job but it can be accomplished. 

2. Budget

Another consideration when buying blenders for your food and drinks is the price range that you can afford. If you really want a good blender, I suggest that you save your money for the expensive ones with a good brand. That way, you won't need to worry about it not being able to do the things that you want to do. After all, you cannot be too sure just what you will need the blender for in the future. 
