Art Collectibles as Hobbies in the Form of Stamps and Coins

Life is an art.

And so goes a saying. But where people find things of profound interests, experts say that it is a form of art as well.

By definition, when an object is considered as a work of art, it simply means that the object is the result of a creation of an item using the valuable application of a mass of expertise along with an array of talents and cleverness.

It is on this context that experts consider collecting as one form of artistic endeavor in the sense that the mere acquisition of objects that is limited to the interest of the person who acquires them is already artistic. This means that not all people were born to collect coins, stamps, or any other items that may not be valuable to other people but to some, they are almost priceless.

Consequently, most experts contend that the hobby of collecting some explicit objects are generally based on a precise area of interest of the person involved. Because the interest of the collector is the primary purpose of this kind of leisure pursuit, many people consider collecting stamps and coins as an art collectible hobby.

Why? Because based on the definition of art collectible hobby, the mere acquisition of stamps and coins based on the personal attention given by the collector to the items are already artistic in nature. In short, when a person is attracted to a certain thing, the object becomes an art collectible.

Moreover, the basic features of the coins and the stamps are also one of the reasons why it becomes an art collectible. This is because coin and stamp designs are not just created by anybody who knows how to draw some lines or shapes. The designs that are engraved or sketched in the surface of the stamp or coin are made by people who were gifted with the talent to draw things imaginatively and creatively.

Take the stamps for example. The creation of the designs in a particular stamp undergoes a detailed process of brainstorming, evaluation, analysis, and good decision making in order to come up with a truly creative design. In fact, a group of 12 to 15 people forms the Citizen’s Stamp Advisory Committee, which serves as the body that will recommend the ideal designs to be included in stamp production.

Every year, the committee contemplates on about 50,000 designs and then advocates at least 35 of it to the “postmaster general” for the production of “commemorative stamps.”

This just goes to show that the selection of the design is such thorough process that the value of the item is clearly identifiable.

For this reason, stamp collectors and coin collectors, particularly those that focus more on the rare items, know that the value that goes with each item is almost priceless.

So for those who still cannot understand why many people are into art collectible hobby of stamps and coins, here is a list of some of the reasons why these enthusiasts are so much engrossed in collecting:

1. Art collectible hobby provides various areas of interest

When a person have decided to start an art collectible hobby of a particular item such as coins or stamps, this reflects the kind of object he is interested in. for instance, in stamp collecting, if a particular stamp collector focuses more on the rare stamps rather than the ordinary stamps, this could mean a lot of things.

He could be interested with the rarity of the stamps, or he could be interested with the income that he can generate by trading the stamps to other collectors.


2. Art collectible hobby may trigger the desire to accomplish something

While most of the collections are focused on the mere acquisition of various items such as different kinds of stamps or coins arranged according to the interest of the collector, there are some people who opt to collect stamps and coins and aim to complete the whole set.

This means that additional art collectibles are obtained to fill in the missing spaces in between stamps and coins. Once completed, the collector usually feels the unexplainable satisfaction that other people cannot feel.

Given all these premises, it can be concluded that art collectible hobby of stamps and coins are not just mere samples of leisure pursuits. On its broader context, stamp and coin collecting can be considered as new forms of arts as well.