Tips on Collecting Canadian Stamps

Stamp is one of the most popular hobbies among Canadians. Canada has great respect on Stamp collecting which dates back to as early as the 17th century. 

Canadian Stamp collecting is no different than stamp collecting of other countries. The only difference is that, most Canadian stamps depict intense social issues and such is one of the hallmarks of Canadian stamp collecting. 

These social issues translate to understanding among various social events in the community, the country, and the world as a whole. Canadian stamps tell stories about these events without bias for they promote understanding and resolution. 

This apparent uniqueness among Canadian stamps is what makes Canadian stamp collecting an enjoyable one. 

To appreciate the value of Canadian stamp collecting the article uses the cardinals in exposing various information regarding collecting inventories and start possessing some of the most-sought stamps of the world. 

The Cardinals

The purpose of this article is to enrich reader’s views regarding stamp collecting, especially collecting stamps the Canadian way and how these information will affect you in your future decisions regarding this hobby.

Possession is the rule of the game. Most people would have to spend thousands, while others could spend more, just to get the latest releases and “antic stamps”. 

On May 10-12, an auction will be held for the mint collection of Sir Gawaine Baillies of British North America which will be held in New York. 

More than 1400 stamps dating from 1851 to 2000, will be featured in this auction and the estimated revenue for this grandiose stamp sale will reach more than $23 million. 

With this information at hand, it is best to answer the following cardinal questions and provide substantial justification as to how, why, when, where, and what you can get form this wonderful hobby.  

What 

First, one must realize that philately should not be treated as hobby alone. Stamp collecting provides you skill which will help you connect to the history of a specific location or person, animal or a thing.

The type of stamps a person collects will speak, on a larger part, his behavior, personality, and personal standing on almost all issues. Stamps depicting floral and scenery are peace loving while people who love collecting psychedelically colored and abstract-themed stamps are revolutionary and argumentative.

Why 

Stamps, especially, Canadian stamps are on of the best there is in the world. Possession of Canadian stamps puts you on top of other stamp collectors. Not just because they are one of the most popular but they are just some of the oldest there is in North America and the rest of the world.

Where 

Canadian stamps are mostly auctioned and  showcased in expositions and museum all throughout America and Europe. 

They are among the most-sought stamps in Europe and America. The legacy and memory that this stamp provides will entangle your love history to that of stamp collecting. 

If you are a beginner, it is always good to go over some reference catalogues (those that are considered standard by the Canada Philatelic Society) such as Unitrade Specialized Catalogue of Canadian Stamps and Darnell Stamps of Canada.

Various portals in the vast World Wide Web and the net alone is enough to give you information on stamp collecting, selling, dealerships and maintenance or caring tips, especially for Canadian stamps. 

Internet channels such as the Canadian Stamp News is also a wonderful resource if one is looking for information, tips, literature, history, significance and news related to stamp collecting, recent ad future auctions, happenings in the world of philately and club functions and events.

When 

Age is no boundary in collecting stamps. Perhaps, among all hobbies in the world, stamp collecting is just one among the interesting and most flexible and can be take on as an additional hobby among adults and children alike. 

Collecting stamps can be fun and exciting but the pursuit can be most challenging if you are to start your own searching. Dealers can help you tips and information on how you can start your searching and start building up your collectibles. 

Collectibles can be a good investment if you are a serious collector. You can collect something that you take interest on or something which reflects your personality. Remember that people who are passionate about what thy are doing are the most who are always successful.