Collecting Specialty Stamps

Many stamp collectors observe the price value of special stamps and limited edition stamps. They take it as an important source for their investment and profit. Specialized collectors limit their interests on searching only the stamps that they may think have great values and price. A normal collector does not mind whether his collections are special or average. On the other hand, specialized collectors consider stamp collecting as a source for investment and income. 

These people limit their coverage of collecting different kinds of stamps. They only search for those stamps that are rare and limited. There are specialized collectible stamps that are available in different post offices in the country. One of those famous avenues for collectibles is the postage stamp. These are stamps considered as tokens that a person may have paid. They indicate a particular country or a specific date or event that may have been significant in the history of the country. 

Another avenue for collections is the postal stationery. It is a small piece of postal paper, envelope size that has a postal card and a letter sheet on it. Some also prefer the government-released postcards also known as the aerogram stamps. These are letters, which are sent through airmail. In addition, one of the most popular early issued postal stationery that traces the roots of the first stamps are those stationeries that came from the Kingdom of Sardinia and were issued on 1819. 

The revenue stamp is pasted on government packages to present that it is government tax revenue. Sources can vary from different areas of search, like the federal Duck stamps which are considered postage due stamps. This is a special edition stamp that denotes a U.S program for duck hunters of those near oceans and seas. Another special issued stamp is the Ding Darling stamp. This was first released in 1934 where a yearly competition is being held in making new designs for the duck stamp.

This annual competition is participated by wildlife artist all across America to have the chance to win the prestigious award and being an instant artist in creating the new duck stamp. These duck stamps are very famous among the wildlife hunters. They avail these stamps on their local government post offices and their states main post offices. These stamps also serve as their license to hunt in the wildlife.

Many collectors also look for those souvenir sheets. Postal government offices sometimes issue stamps in the same form similar to sheet of paper that has a large image on it. The different parts of the souvenir sheet are torn into small pieces for the purpose of using the torn sheets as postage stamp. Sometimes they associate these souvenir sheets to souvenir cards but they are totally different in form and in use. 

The first day ceremony programs are brochure or folder like stamps distributed to the participants or attendees of a first day ceremony program. They are featured as postage stamps that show the event message or images on the ceremony. Most collectors find their way to have a signature of the organizer or the main speaker on that special occasion. This could increase the price value of the postage stamp that has signatures. 

The souvenir pages are also interesting to collectors because these are pre-cancelled stamps from the brochure page of ceremonies or occasions that contains all the issuing subscriptions, design, and printing. They may have similar features with the first day ceremony postage stamps. 

Collecting specialty stamps can be associated to philatelic collections. They only narrow their option for searching and finding only stamps that has a special theme, postmarking, or coverings from the sources. For some people it can be very hard to collect commemorative and special stamps but for a philatelist, it can be thrilling and fulfilling especially if he profits and earns on investing his effort in collecting these stamps.

For most people collecting stamps, they find it only as their hobby and they do it for fun. Every collector’s interest depends on the stamp. Many find it as an inexpensive hobby and investment. A person can purchase a stamp without even spending hundreds of dollars to come up with an album of collections and commemoratives.