Buy and Sell Stamps 

Stamp collecting is considered to be one of the most popular hobbies in the world. This is despite the fact that there is not that much money that can be made from it even if the person has some of the oldest stamps dating back to the 19th century. 

Even if there isn’t that much money that can be made, there are individuals who take advantage of it and buy a lot of stamps then sell it to people who want it for a little profit. 

It has made these people both collector and dealers of stamps. 

Just like the regular hobbyist, the dealer has to be careful in handling these. Should any dirt, oil or any damage happen to the inventory, it will be difficult for the person to sell it at the desired price. 

The dealer will need the proper tools to handle it. This includes the tweezers to transport the stamps from one place to another. It will really come in handy when the person passes it to the hobbyist who will pay some money so that it can be added to the collection.

Since the dealer has to get stamps from other people to be able to sell it again, this person also needs a magnifying class so the true value of the stamp can be assessed and proper pricing for those want it can be made.

Storing the stamps till people come and buy it must be stored in an album. The dealer can get this from a variety of places and the nearest are those sold in the local bookstore and at some specialty shops. Since the contents inside are fragile, this should be stored in room temperature and away from direct sunlight.

Dealers need to practice how to use these instruments. Using an old letter with a stamp on it is a good exercise similar to the real thing. By practicing the proper way of handling it, the dealer can make a profit by selling these in good condition.

This begins by putting it the part of the envelope with the stamp in water. When the two begin to separate, the dealer should use the tongs to pick up the stamp. This should be dried using the air and no water must be present anymore when it is placed into the album. 

Another place where the dealer can get stamps is at the post office. Since these are sold in rolls and some people are too lazy to go there, the person can buy it then deliver it to the collector with a little profit. 

The collector and dealer of stamps can also be found at auctions and exhibits of these small goods. These people can sell a set or in bulk to those who are willing to buy it at the right price. 

Another way to get customers will be to advertise in the newspaper by leaving some details and contact numbers. Since there is a demand for stamp collecting, calls will start coming in and deals can be made. 

The internet is another venue where the dealer and collector can advertise to hobbyists. 

By using everything at the person’s disposal to get in touch with those who want to expand the existing stamp collections, the individual will be making a good income that will be used to buy more stamps and make this cycle continue. 

The dealer must have a price catalogue at all times. This will make it easy to get it from other suppliers and give the person an idea how much to sell it to the hobbyist. This can be bought at the local specialty store which gives its standard value in the market. 

Stamps are easier to acquire now compared to how it was years ago. By knowing what the hobbyists want regardless if it is old or new and finding the means to get it, money can be made.

Stamp collecting will continue to flourish as long as people need to send parcels and documents to different places in the country and in the world. This will provide the dealer with something to buy and sell with and in the process make some money.