Why Collect Postage Stamps?

Many people consider stamp collecting as a personal hobby. To get started in collecting stamps can be fun and exciting. It is important to be sure what type of stamps to search and look for. He must also know how to secure and preserve them so that he will be able to present them in a very organized and well-presented compilation of stamp collections.

A mail cannot be delivered if it has no postage. It is a small square or rectangular piece of paper pasted on the right part of a mail. Postage stamps are very important to make a letter or message inside the envelope delivered to a person or organization at a certain location. Postage stamps can feature many designs. Printings like, cars, flowers, landmarks, animals, persons, places and events are the most common themes of these stamps.

One of the main reasons why many people go for postage stamp collecting is because of the price value. The most famous items that are still available are the sports collectors’ stamps, icons, landmarks, places, and famous celebrities. One of the most out sought collection stamp is the 1993 Elvis Presley postage stamp. The philatelic collectors have popularized it by insisting to include the image of Elvis from postage stamp circulation all over the country. 

Other famous celebrity postage stamps that followed are the sexy pictorials of Marilyn Monroe issue in 1995 and the James Dean stamp of 1996. There was also success for releasing cartoon postage stamps especially those with featured images of Bugs Bunny in 1997 and the peanuts postage stamp in 2001. The world of sports also has its share for issuing stamps that were widely accepted by sports enthusiasts like the Centennial Olympic stamps of 1996 and the Summer Olympics stamps in 1992. 

The Post Office also gave importance to the American community when they issued the Black Heritage series of postage stamps in the 70’s. They featured great African Americans like Otis Redding and Harriet Tubman. These postage stamps are still widely recognized as collectors’ items.

Other postage stamps may seem to have valuable costs aside from these special commemorative postage stamps. Some of these stamps are valued because of the some errors in making these stamps. The United Post office may have released them and they have considered them collectibles because of the errors in the images and probably the imperfections on the stamps. The uniqueness of these postage stamps makes them valuable and considered special editions of stamps. 

For those aspiring stamp collectors, they may want to avail of some limited edition stamps from the main United States Post Office that have released commemorative stamps since early 2005 and is still making these featured postage stamps. The value of an average stamp is less expensive than a commemorative stamp. The difference with the price value is obvious. 

To most collectors, the ideal collections are the stamps that were not used yet for the mail. Most used stamps in mails may have been creased or torn already. However, a collector who goes for collecting because of the fun and pleasure may accept used stamps. Others may still go for the stamps that are not yet used because they are after the profit and price value of limited edition stamps. 

For those collectors who want to pursue their interest of making money out of these collections, they should remember some important thing to make the price value of their stamps increase in price value. A collector should know how to keep the stamps clean and keep them away from dirt and creases. If a person is lucky enough to avail initial release stamps, he should preserve the new issues with plastic coverings. He may also secure them with wax paper bags that he can buy at the post office. 

He should make sure to secure and preserve the postage stamps properly. He must find a place where he can store them. Stamp albums should help him organize and compile the items safely and have them presentably displayed. He must make sure the album is acid-free to ensure that it will not alter any sensitive prints and markings on the postage stamps. It is advisable to store them on a cool and dry place.