2 Things That Every Stamp and Coin Collector Should Know

Being in charge of their busy lives, most people would find the enticement of other activities that would fill the emptiness that stress and pressures could bring into their existence. The sense of being able to create something that not all people share the same degree of gratification would simply pertain to an activity that simply entails what fun really is.

This particular kind of activity is known as a hobby. Exaggerations aside, a hobby is something that reflects a person’s strong inclination or interest to something. And by merely engaging into such activity, he is able to fulfill the shallowness that they sense deep within.

Some psychologists on a clinical study on 50 people, who were known executives in different businesses, contend that 75% of the total respondents have improved psychologically, emotionally, and even physically after their attention had been diverted into other activities without the pressures of everyday work.

Hence, most psychologists believed that hobbies were not made just for the sake of having it but were created to heal a person’s soul by taking interest to something with a different view.

Consequently, along with the different examples of hobbies, collecting seems to be the most preferred diversion of the majority today. Varying from different objects, hobbyists get to collect the object that suits their line of interest. The profundity and the extent of the collected works may show a discrepancy.

Take for example those people who are into stamp and coin collecting. The way they collect their objects may vary according to their specific interests. Hence, it could never be concluded that all of the stamp and coin collectors have the same interests.

History has it that stamp and coin collectors have started collecting their “things” since its inception. For instance, stamp collectors were born during the birth of the stamps.

Coin collectors, on the other hand, have started collecting coins during the 14th century when capitalism was still the main focus of the economy. It was during this time that people collect coins not because it is a hobby but because they wanted to save their money for future use.

It was only during the moment when Francesco Petrarch, acclaimed as Father of Humanism, had seen the value of the coins beyond its capitalist environment that coin collecting started. After Petrarch had started this wonderful hobby, many people were enticed to lead the same leisure pursuit.

From that time on, numismatics and philatelist, although both referred to the study of coins and stamps respectively, have been used and associated with coin and stamp collectors.

With the sophistication that stamp and coin collecting can bring, more and more people are enticed to join this circle of collecting enthusiasts. However, not everybody who had tried was able to achieve something.

Hence, for those who wish to be coin or stamp collectors someday, here are some tips that you should know before engaging into the wonderful world of stamp and coin collecting.

1. Know you leisure pursuit

Experts insist that it is not enough that a person becomes interested into stamp and coin collecting. What matters most is the kind of knowledge about his interest that a would-be collector must learn. 

To do this, one should try to learn updated facts as well as the historical data of the stamps or the coins through books, magazines, and any other reading material that could provide the right information about the hobby.

In fact, most of the experienced and successful stamp and coin collectors have asserted that education is the single most significant factor that will trigger the success of the hobby.

2. Collect for the true motivation

Most of the stamp and coin collectors who have failed explained that one of the reasons why they did not succeed in this kind of leisure pursuit is because they were not able to identify the true reason why they started collecting in the first place. Some of them contended that they started collecting because their friends enticed them. It is as like everybody seems to be doing it, so why would not they.

This is where the problem starts. What matters most in stamp and coin collecting is to have the real reason to commit one’s self into this kind of hobby, and the only real reason that would drive an individual to stick to this kind of hobby is for him to love the activity. It is his ardor for the activity that he would be interested to find the rarest, buy the item even if it is expensive, and learn things as if it is some object under study.

These are two of the most important things that every stamp and coin collector should know. This is because from these two things, the achievement is clearly defined once a person has a clear distinction between what he really wants and what he thinks he should have. These are two different things: the first refers to the feelings of a true collector, while the second one refers to the person who just wants to go with the flow or trend.