What Supplies Do You Need for Your Stamp Collection?

Compared to other collectible items, stamp collections only require inexpensive supplies and accessories. These tools are essential in securing, protecting, and preserving any kind of stamps. Each stamp should be handled and cared using these tools to ensure that stamps would last a long time.

A collector should exert the effort of availing these items. He should learn how to value the importance organizing and preserving the items he has collected. One true trait of a special collector is the way he preserves his collections by attending and being concerned with the safety of his stamps. It is important to preserve and secure the stamps because these items are only pieces of papers. They can easily be torn or may lose their designs when they are not properly attended. 

Here are some basic tools and accessories that are essential in securing a preserving stamp collections.    

1.	Stamp tongs are similar to tweezers that are designed and specially made to hold, and pick up the stamps. It is important to handle the stamps with the use of tongs. These are used especially for those stamps that have higher value and have limited edition versions. They may come in stainless plastic or stainless steel. He may want to consider buying the plastic tongs, which are more affordable than the stainless steel tongs. He needs to make sure that the tongs do not have sharp or pointed edges. 

2.  A watermark detector will allow a person to see the transparent prints and embossed markings that were intentionally made to value the price of the stamp. He may be able to detect those prints using watermark detectors and identify some forged stamps that are used for illegal purposes. 

3.  Magnifying glasses are helpful in examining and determining what kind of inscriptions and special prints are featured on the stamp. It may also be used to identify the condition of the paper, if it is a special or ordinary stamp. It also spots small wrinkles like spots or printing errors on the paper. These spotted markings may influence the value of the stamp. 

4.  Stamp hinges and mounts secure the stamp on the album. Stamp hinges are folded and rectangular in shapes, which are made from glassine paper wrapped with glue to hold firmly the stamps on the pages where they are pasted. These items have low prices and a person can purchase thousands of hinges for only a few dollars. On the other hand, stamp mounts also hold the stamps from the pages without altering the original glue of the stamp. The face of the stamp mount features a transparent plastic sleeves where the stamp will be placed. A collector can preserve and prolong the designs and marking in the stamp using these hinges and mounts. 

5.  Stamp catalogs are helpful in identifying the current value of a particular stamp. These items are also responsible for giving reference and information regarding the stamp’s value and additional information about the stamp. There are catalogs available in libraries if he may not able to purchase these items. 

6.  Stamp albums are very essential to a stamp collector. Almost all stamps that are collected are placed in albums where they could be displayed and secured properly. A collector can organize and he may arrange his stamps according to the category or types they represent. He may choose what size of album he may purchase. There are albums that have large spaces and can accommodate thousands of stamps safely. 

7.  There are tiny aligned holes in the stamp that are called perforations. The purpose of the perforation is to allocate the individual stamp from those collective stamps. The use of the perforation gauge is to measure the tiny holes by 2 centimeters in length from the blocks to the perforation. Most of the time, stamps can have similar features and prints but one thing that separate their similarity are the perforations. These perforations serve as the identifying factor that will distinguish the difference between two identical stamps.

These supplies and accessories are commonly used in stamp collecting. A collector can enjoy exhibiting and displaying his stamps on a well-organized album using some accessories that can make the stamp collection presentable and safely secured.