Some Things One Should Know About Stamp Collecting

A stamp is a small piece of paper that is glued to the envelope whenever a document or a letter is sent via the post office. This is used both locally and internationally as a fee for the service rendered. 

There are two ways to send mail. The first is buying postage stamps then sending it using the mail box. The other is going to the nearby postal office and having the postal worker do it.

People have found another thing to do with stamps. Instead of mailing it, some have turned it into a hobby now known as stamp collecting. 

Some people mistakenly think that an individual who is known as philately is the proper name for someone who collects stamps. This notion is wrong since this title is for those who study stamps. 

Stamp collecting can begin by cutting out the stamps that come from letters the person has received. Some may come locally while others can come from friends and family abroad. Another way to add stamps to the collection is going to the post office and buying it in bulk.

Collecting the stamps can only go so far without the help from other people. The person can ask friends and family members to also give those coming from the letters. There are some who also sell these in bulk. A good place to find these is in the classified ads of the newspaper that can offer the collector a good bargain. 

The internet is also a good source to obtain these small objects. There are websites that do the same thing making it easy for those to expand the existing stamp collection.    These are just the regular stamps. 

For those who want to specialize in old stamps or want to collect those from other countries, it will be a good idea to join philatelic exhibitions and bid at auctions.  By looking at it closely, the person might be able to find some good deals which will be a good addition to the collection.

Using money to acquire stamps is one way to deal with other collectors. This can also be done by trading what the person has with something of interest that the other collector possesses. 

Acquiring stamps is just one of the things that stamp collectors do. The other is taking care of it so that if the person wants to part with it in the future, some money can be made. 

The proper way to take care of a stamp is putting it in an album. Only one side per page should be used to avoid destroying or harming the others in the collection. If the collector has no more space, putting a plastic sheet over the stamp will allow the individual to put some stamps on the other side.

Stamps should be handled with care. Since the hands may be dirty or oily, it is a good idea to use tongs when handling it to avoid causing any damage. A tong looks like tweezers but it is not the same thing. The edges of this object are the thinner making it easier to hold a stamp.

The proper way to remove stamps from envelopes is cutting a small portion of the surrounding area and putting it in water. After some time, the collector should use tongs to extract it from the paper underneath, hold it in the air to dry before inserting it in the album.

There are many things that could do harm to the stamps. The most common is sunlight. The hot rays of the sun may change the colors and the gum at the back may stick to the album making it hard to remove. This makes it important to always store it in room temperature. 

When working, it will be a good idea to not bring food or drinks in the area since it could damage the stamps. Smokers should also refrain from doing in the room since the smell could be transferred to the collection.

Stamp collecting is a nice hobby that anyone can engage in. This activity is known as one of the most popular in the world. The person should just devote some time and effort in looking out for old and new ones and taking proper care of it. 