Title: 
Avoiding Purchase of Stolen Computers

Word Count:
520

Summary:
Most of us go for used computers for the main reason that they can be purchased for a very lesser amount.  Read to on to learn how to avoid buying a stolen computer while doing so.


Keywords:
used computer, used computers, cheap used computer, stolen computer, laptops, used laptops, refurbished laptops, cheap used laptops


Article Body:
Most of us purchase used computers for the main reason that they can be purchased for a very lesser amount.  When doing so, there is a high risk of purchasing a stolen computer, which can be passed off as a used computer.  The incidence of purchasing a stolen computer is more when they are got in the name of used computers from third party computer dealers like the computer dealers online or from a theft store or from a pawnbroker who has no idea about the history of the computer he is selling.

<b>Following measures can be taken to avoid buying a stolen computer: </b>

One of the safe measures while buying used computer is to buy through a credit card or check payment rather than making cash purchase.  If the seller insists on cash payment, the purchaser can be very sure that the computer may be a stolen one.  Also stolen computers are sold at very low prices.  If the buyer has good knowledge about the price trends of computers in the market, he can for sure find out if the computer sold as a used computer is of a genuine kind or not.

The place of buying used computer is of outmost importance as a reputed dealer or seller will have a well-established location. They do not sell on the streets.  Hence, it is better to avoid buying used computers from the street side shops, which may be fly by night shops.  Such sellers attract the buyers with the pricing or heavy discounts or even freebies along with the computers.  If the buyer is not sure about the computer, he can very well ask for the documents pertaining to the computer or can find out if receipts are issued for the purchase.  The best method of finding out is to check the serial number of the used computer that can be done with the help of the local law enforcement personnel.

The buyer has all the rights to ask the seller about the reason for the sale of the used computer, where it was purchased and nature of payment made initially. If the buyer is satisfied, he can go ahead with the purchase, else should move on to the next seller.  Normally, one can find out if the seller is genuine or not through his body language.
A person selling illegal things will show frenzied movements, will agree even for a rock bottom price with even a small amount of profit for him, mostly will not have a decent language, will try to sell in haste, will always be looking around to find out if someone is watching him and will not have an eye contact while selling and so on.

Such kind of illegal sales of used computers happen as the illegal seller has the facility to advertise free of cost.  Also posing as a private seller there is no need to provide a VAT receipt, which makes him free of any legal action being taken against him.  Hence it is not advised to buy a used computer without a cash receipt provided by the seller.


