Title: 
Choosing the Right Case for you

Word Count:
333

Summary:
One of the most important components of your PC is the PC case. Choosing a good PC case is an important step in building your computer, since it determines several things. It determines the number of PC components you can have, as well as how what temperature your PC operates at. And it also determines how good your PC looks.


Keywords:
case, computer case


Article Body:
One of the most important components of your PC is the PC case. Choosing a good PC case is an important step in building your computer, since it determines several things. It determines the number of PC components you can have, as well as how what temperature your PC operates at. And it also determines how good your PC looks.

There are different factors to consider when choosing a PC case.  The first is how much space your PC case is going to take up.  If you don’t have space to spare on your already busy desk, it would be best to look at a case that is relatively small.

The second factor is internal space.  This is very important as it determines which/how many components you can put in your PC.  There’s no use buying a smaller case then not being able to put your shiny new video card with 3 fans in it.  You may want to add several DVD or CD burners also but to do this extra space will be required.  One thing to watch out for is overheating.  If you put several components that generate heat, into a crowded case you will run into problems with overheating.

The third would be motherboard support.  It may sound like something simple, but make sure your motherboard will physically fit into the case.  I know of many people that have found this out the hard way.

The fourth thing to take into consideration is cooling.  If you are planning on over-clocking your computer, or jam-packing it with components, you will need ample cooling to avoid damage to your components.  Ample cooling means more fans in more places.  If you are planning to do any of the above, you will need to choose a case that will support the installation of multiple fans.

As you now know choosing a case is not as simple as it seems.  There are several factors that can greatly impact the performance of your system.


