Title: 
Choosing A Laptop:  Windows Laptop Or Macintosh Powerbook

Word Count:
582

Summary:
At present the Windows Laptop and the MacIntosh Powerbook are the most preferred plaptops for people around the world. A Windows laptop has the Windows operating system installed on it while the MacIntosh Powerbook manufactured by Apple Inc. uses its own operating system. The Windows operating system is the most widely used operating system in the world. The Linux operating system, which is a open source operating system, is widely gaining popularity as it can be freely distr...


Keywords:
laptops,pc laptops,mac laptops,powerbook,powerbooks


Article Body:
At present the Windows Laptop and the MacIntosh Powerbook are the most preferred plaptops for people around the world. A Windows laptop has the Windows operating system installed on it while the MacIntosh Powerbook manufactured by Apple Inc. uses its own operating system. The Windows operating system is the most widely used operating system in the world. The Linux operating system, which is a open source operating system, is widely gaining popularity as it can be freely distributed. In addition, the Linux operating system is not the hacker’s paradise Windows is.

Let us compare the Windows Laptop and the MacIntosh Powerbook so that you can decide which one you would prefer.

The Windows Laptop comes in a variety of choices ranging from high-end, mid-range and ultralight laptops. A high-end laptop is preferred by those people who would like to replace their desktop machines. These machines usually have a large screen, fast processor and the maximum storage capacity. However laptops in this category weigh about 7 to 8 pounds and also include internal media devices such as CD-ROM and diskette drives. There may be a few USB ports so that you can attach external devices such as printers and digital cameras as well. A mid-range model is suitable for those consumers who would not like to shell out a fortune for their laptop. A mid-range model weighs a few pounds less than a high-range model and has a smaller screen. A mid-range model may be a little slower than a high-range model in terms of processor speeds and the options of internal media are more limited than in the high-range model. Ultralight models have the smallest display of all three and also the processor speeds are the slowest. The expansion capabilities and internal media are limited and the media devices are usually on the external side. The main advantages of ultralight models is they are easier to carry around because of their light weight and battery life is longer.

The MacIntosh or Mac are a line of laptops manufactured by Apple Inc. MacIntosh systems are usually targeted towards the home, education and the highly professional services market. The MacIntosh Powerbook is the first MacIntosh laptop powered by the Intel Core Duo processor. It has a 17 inch wide screen, but also is available in a 15 inch wide screen. The MacIntosh Powerbook is available in three configurations, the 15.4-inch model at 2.0 GHz (US$1999) and 2.16 GHz ($2499) and a 17-inch model at 2.16 GHz $2799). All three models come with the Intel Core Duo Processor and an 80GB or a 100GB or a 120 GB hard drive. USB ports a FireWire 400 port, a ExpressCard/34 expansion slot, DVI and VGA connectivity (VGA via included adaptor), optical S-P/DIF and analog sound output and inputs, gigabit Ethernet are also added in all the three configurations.

The machines run on the Mac OS 10.4 operating system which is the system developed by Apple Inc. The Powerbook also has a magnetic power connector known as Magsafe and it can detach easily when yanked to prevent the laptop from being pulled off the surface. The keyboard is backlit so that the keys are easily visible and there is also a scrolling trackpad that comes standard across the line. Extra accessories include an external USB modem as there is no internal modem available now and a TV output adaptor.
We have mentioned the basic features of the Windows Laptop and MacIntosh Powerbook. Both types of laptops are good in their own way. Weigh your needs and choose wisely.


