Title: 
Evaluating a Used Computer

Word Count:
544

Summary:
Find out why a proper evaluation of a used computer is very crucial to get the best before buying one.


Keywords:
used computer, used computers, cheap used computer, stolen computer, laptops, used laptops, refurbished laptops, cheap used laptops


Article Body:
Used computers are available plenty in number.  But, the prime concern is that how it will satisfy the needs of the purchaser.  The next one is about the functionality of the used computer and the longevity of the computer parts of the used computer.  Many people decide to purchase used computers due to a tight budget, but they should not end up buying a showpiece rather than a working piece.  This makes it very important to evaluate the used computer before buying it.  Evaluation can be done by the purchaser himself provided he has some knowledge on computers and their parts.  If not, he can get some help from their friends or relatives who are good in evaluating computers.

The used computer’s physical parts should be inspected thoroughly.  First step is to look for any damages and then trying to turn on and off.  It should be done by the buyer or by his friend rather than watching the computer sales person do it as it will alert for any glitches.  Checking needs to be done to find out if the used computer has an original version of the operating software without which the computer is not worth buying.  Manuals, licenses for software applications, discs and fonts should be got along with the computer.  The operating system of the used computer should be compatible enough to run the required applications of the buyer.  Some times the seller may sell a used computer along with used disk drives, scanners and printers and include the cost of them too.  It is not wise to buy used scanner, printers or disk drives as they have peripherals with moving parts which wear and tear with the passage of time and also the cost of them can be deducted making the price of the used computer even lesser.

The speed of the central processing unit needs to be checked. If it is not up to the expectation of the buyer, it needs to be found out if the used computer system can be upgraded for improving the speed and functionality.  The entire hardware components should be checked including the keyboard, speakers, monitor, mouse and microphones.  It should be if all the hardware components inside the computer like the CD-ROM drive, sound card, number of RAM sockets etc are if present or not and if present what are the components in use.  Also it needs to be checked whether it has a provision for adding different type of cards etc.

If the purchaser has already got some computer components like the monitor, printer and so on, the used computer which is bought should be compatible with them.  Nowadays used Pentium machines and power PCs are available at very low price. It is not advised to buy a used computer which is very old.  Also it is good to find out if the used computer comes with a transferable warranty or service, if so it is worth buying.

The buyer should not end up overpaying as used computers depreciate at a lightning speed.  There are many online auctions, which can give the idea of how much people are ready to pay for a used computer.  Unfortunately, there is no reputed or unbiased source for knowing the prices for used computers.


