Title: 
Five Myths about Compatible Toner Cartridges

Word Count:
736

Summary:
Many people have different views and opinions about compatible toner cartridges. Other people simply know very little about compatible cartridges. After fifteen years of use, I’ve found at least five myths about compatible toner cartridges.


Keywords:
compatible toner cartridges, laser toner cartridges


Article Body:
Many people have different views and ideas about compatible toner cartridges. Other people simply know very little about compatible cartridges. As an exclusive user of compatible toner cartridges for fifteen years, I have found several things that are not true. I’d like to review five myths or misconceptions people may have about compatible laser toner cartridges. Let’s distinguish between fact and fiction.

Myth #1 Compatible Toner Cartridges are simply cheap cartridges.

It is true that a compatible toner cartridge is cheap in price. However, it is not a cheap quality toner cartridge. A compatible toner cartridge is a new toner cartridge manufactured by a third party. It is made from all new parts. It contains the exact toner required for your laser printer. Most companies give a one-year, one hundred percent money back guarantee on their compatible toner cartridges. You can normally purchase a compatible toner cartridge for about half of the cost of a new OEM toner cartridge.

Myth #2 Using a Compatible Toner Cartridge will void my printer warranty.

This is not true. In fact, congress passed a law to make it illegal for a manufacturer to force you to buy certain supplies. If allowed, this would lead to a monopoly, high prices and lack of competition. Below is a copy of the “Magnuson-Moss Warranty Improvement Act”. It’s your guarantee that your printer warranty will not be voided.

United States Code Annotated 
Title 15 Commerce and Trade 
Chapter 50 Consumer Product Warranties 
15 Section 2302 

“(c) No warrantor of a consumer product may condition his written or implied warranty of such product on the consumer's using, in connection with such product, any article or service (other than article or service provided without charge under the terms of the warranty) which is identified by brand, trade or corporate name; except that the prohibition of this subsection be waived by the commission if: 

1) The warrantor satisfies the Commission that the warranted product will function properly only if the article or service so identified is used in connection with the warranted product, and 

2) The Commission finds that such a waiver is in the public interest.” 


Myth #3 A Compatible Toner Cartridge will damage my printer.

The truth is a toner cartridge can do very little to damage a laser printer. It is possible, but highly unlikely, for a toner cartridge to leak and cause streaking on your paper. However, a simple cleaning and replacement of the toner cartridge will resolve the problem.

In my fifteen years of using compatible toner cartridges, I only had one instance where the toner cartridge did not meet my high expectations. I called the company and they sent me a new cartridge the next day. I learned from this experience that it is very important to purchase your toner cartridges from reputable toner companies. How many companies have sent you a brand new replacement product the next day without any hassles?

Myth #4 Compatible Toner Cartridges produce poor quality print.

One of my initial fears in purchasing a compatible toner cartridge was that the print quality wouldn’t be as good. When I used my first compatible toner cartridge, it produced exceptionally good quality. I thought it wouldn’t last. I was wrong. In fact, I printed more pages from that cartridge than I did from my original. After extensive research, I found that many toner cartridges are not completely filled with toner when you purchase them. I happened to have purchased a cartridge from a company that had completely filled the cartridge. Hence, I got more pages. 

In fairness to the major printer companies, I want to clarify one thing. I used OEM toner cartridges for several years. I always printed the number of pages that the manufacturer advertised. There was no deception in their advertising. Some simply did not fill their toner cartridges to capacity.

Myth #5 All Compatible Toner Cartridges are the same.

The truth is all compatible toner cartridges are not created equal. This is why you must purchase your cartridges from a reliable and reputable company. These companies test their compatible toner cartridges to insure quality and quantity of print. You can visit our website to learn ten things you should know about purchasing a compatible toner cartridge online.

If you want to cut your printing budget in half and continue to get high quality print, do yourself a favor. Find a reputable online toner merchant and order your compatible toner cartridge today.


