Title: 
How To Choose The Best Laptop Accessories?

Word Count:
762

Summary:
There are tons of Laptop Accessories on the market. But do you really need all those accessories? Here's a short list of laptop accessories you should consider buying...


Keywords:
laptop accessories,notebook accessories,laptops,notebooks,


Article Body:
Copyright 2006 Titus Hoskins

The notebook computer is coming of age. For the first time in history, notebooks or laptops are out-selling their bigger cousins, desktop computers.

The rise in popularity of the notebook computer can be contributed to many factors: drop in prices, stiff competition, aggressive marketing, but perhaps the biggest factor - increased performance.

With each new generation of notebooks, we are seeing some novel breakthroughs: dual core notebooks, PCI Express, Sonoma Chipset, increased storage, increased RAM, faster CPUs, better battery life and better wireless access including a Cellular Modem Connection. All these new innovations are making for a more powerful computer embodied in a sleeker smaller package that consumers want.

However, as most notebook enthusiasts know, to get full enjoyment from your laptop or notebook computer - you must have certain essential accessories. These laptop accessories will greatly enhance your notebook experience and make for a much more satisfying all-around 'complete laptop'.

Here's a wish list of laptop accessories you may want to consider purchasing:

1. Carrying Bag or Backpack  - This is essential if you will be doing a lot of traveling. You might even want to consider a wheeled bag for those heavier laptops.   Try to purchase a laptop carrying bag that has plenty of compartments for all those notebook peripherals. Always check to see if your laptop or notebook will fit!

2. Extra Battery  - Since most batteries last less than 5 hours you will need an extra battery or two. You should also check out bringing along an external battery for your laptop.

3. Port Replicator - This is one essential you should consider buying for your laptop or notebook computer. It's a real hassle dealing with all those wires and connections on your laptop - that's where your port replicator or docking station solves your problem. Plug all your peripherals into the docking station or port replicator - connect and disconnect your laptop with ease without having to deal with all those wires and connections. A must have!

4. Auto and Airplane ac adapter -  Another essential laptop accessory if you do a lot traveling, battery life on most notebooks is not great so having a handy source of ac power from your auto or from an airplane is a 'no-brainer'!

5. USB Hub - Some older model notebooks come with only one or two USB ports; if you need more - try a handy USB hub. It will give you more options.

6. Wireless Card - Most laptops and notebooks now come with a wireless card. Many top brands have 802.11a, 802.11b, 802.11g or all three! If your notebook doesn't have a wireless card, you can get a rather inexpensive 802.11b Linksys PC Card adapter for under $50.

You may also want to check out the new Sony VAIO VGN-T350P - it has the world's first 'Cellular Modem Built In' - access the Internet thru your cell phone. It has an Integrated EDGE, Wi-Fi, and Bluetooth for the ultimate in wireless networking.

EDGE stands for 'Enhanced Data for Global Evolution' thru the Cingular Wireless national network.

7. Optional External Hard Drive - Most notebooks or laptops now come with a 40 to 100 gig hard drives, but still if you download and save a lot of movies or songs you will take up that storage space quicker than you ever thought possible. If you need an extra hard drive for storage or back-up, try an external hard drive.

8. Optional External DVD Burner - Many laptops now come with a built in DVD drive but in case you need this extra for or DVD burning (movies, songs, videos, etc.) try an external DVD burner for your notebook. For maximum compatibility, try to get one that supports both DVD-R/RW and DVD+R/RW formats.

9. Optional Wireless Keyboard and Mouse - Might sound strange suggesting this option since most laptops already come with a keyboard! But depending on your notebook make and model, the keyboards on most notebooks are not the greatest to type with. It all has to do with the wrong angles and the shape of the laptop, so if you want a wireless desktop style keyboard and mouse, it is relatively cheap to buy.

10. Insurance! -  If you do a lot of traveling, you may want to invest in some laptop insurance. Laptop theft is   still a big problem and it's better to be safe than sorry.

Acquiring any of these laptop accessories will greatly improve your notebook computer, making for a hassle-free computing experience that you will appreciate and enjoy much more. So don't skimp, instead, bring your laptop enjoyment up to its highest level by purchasing some of these much needed laptop accessories.

You will thank yourself later!


