Title: 
I Just Got my Brand New Notebook!

Word Count:
397

Summary:
I recently got a 17 inch notebook, and am quite impressed with its quality.


Keywords:
notebook


Article Body:
I recently got a 17 inch notebook, and am quite impressed with its quality.

It is so much better than the old IBM Thinkpad that I had years ago. Back then, laptop computers were big and bulky, the screen resolution was poor, they were even more expensive than now, and the batteries had very low life expectancy. But my new Dell 17 inch notebook is everything that my old laptop was not. It is sleek, low-profile, with hours of battery life, and a high-resolution lcd screen that is just simply a joy to look at.

I put off getting my new 17 inch notebook for quite a long time. I have always found the process of buying a new computer agonizing. No matter how long you wait, the very next week after you buy whatever system you have chosen to purchase, there is something cheaper and more powerful at a lower price and with a better warranty. It is enough to drive you completely batty. Nevertheless, I knew that the convenience of a new laptop computer was worth it, and eventually I broke down and bought my new 17 inch notebook. And I am sure glad that I did. There is nothing that beats a laptop computer.

The best thing about my 17 inch notebook is how easy it makes work on the go. With the prevalence of wifi coffee houses, I can work from my 17 inch notebook from all about town. I do a considerable amount of freelancing, so the luxury of being able to do all my work on the go, when I want, and from where I want, makes my life almost feel like a permanent vacation. And when I am done with my 17 inch notebook, I slip it into my laptop computer sleeve, and can carry it around me anywhere. It is no burden at all, because of its light weight, and though I occasionally worry about having it stolen, or accidentally damaged, so far no harm has come to my computer. My sturdy 17 inch notebook has really revolutionized my life. Of course, for many people, getting a new 17 inch notebook computer like I have done might be a bad idea. If you are not good at keeping track of your stuff, it is a definite no. You could easily lose your 17 inch notebook computer, along with all of your work and data, due to one careless mistake.


