Bad Habits in Sports

Sports are fun to watch and to play, as long as you curb your bad habits.  To be successful at any sport, you need to develop the behavior patterns that will lead to winning.  A part of this is avoiding certain bad habits.  

Taking care of the body should be of utmost importance to anyone who wants to play sports seriously.  Smoking and drinking are bad habits that do not mix well with sports.  Smoking cuts a person's breathing capabilities.  It makes the person gasp for air after a short practice run.  

Drinking alcohol is another bad habit for athletes.  It dehydrates the body and slows coordination.  However, drinking other fluids is necessary.  Some sports players have the bad habits of not keeping themselves hydrated.  This should not happen, since there are usually plenty of water and electrolyte-rich drinks available at the event.  

Sports players are often entrenched in their bad habits of not getting enough sleep.  They are wound up after practices or games and do not feel like going to bed early.  They get up to start their training on an early schedule.  If they push themselves too hard, they will find that these bad habits will end up taking them out of the game.  

An athlete should never start to play without some sort of stretching or warm-up exercises.  Yet, bad habits often prevail.  People begin doing their sport without the slightest thought to getting ready.  This is important even for a professional athlete.  It often happens, though, that an amateur athlete will be more careless about.  They do not make it their business to do everything right.  

Sometimes people who play sports occasionally think they can be athletes without much practice.  They have the bad habit of doing nothing for weeks or months on end.  Then, they jump in and do strenuous sports activities.  They believe that they do not need to keep practiced and in shape.  This can result in injury and exhaustion.  

Not using proper safety equipment is a bad habit in sports.  In professional sports, this equipment is required.  If an NFL football player were to make it onto the field without his protective gear, he would be fined heavily.  

In amateur games, people are not so careful about using safety equipment.  They may play golf in slick dress shoes instead of golf shoes.  This may cause them an injury if they slip and fall.  A bicyclist may have the bad habit of not using a helmet if she is an amateur.  This can be a dangerous mistake.  

One bad habit people have in sports is not being team players.  If a person tries to take all the glory, the team comes to resent him and will not back him up the way they should.  If the person works with the team, the team will be a cohesive unit that can accomplish great things.  

Sports can be fun activities or a great way to make a living.  Either way, the way you conduct yourself will make all the difference in how you enjoy the game.  So, suit up and leave your bad habits on the bench.
