Bad Habits in the Workplace

Everyone suffers when someone on the job has bad habits in the workplace.  Bad habits can make for an environment that is unfriendly, unproductive, or even unsafe.  You can only correct your bad habits in the workplace if you recognize them.  

One of the most noticeable bad habits in the workplace is tardiness.  Some people just have a habit of being late to everything.  They are late to arrive, late back from break, and late back from lunch.  This not only puts them in jeopardy of losing their jobs.  It can affect the productivity of the whole crew or office.  

Absenteeism is another bad habit that people can fall into easily.  A new trend is to make all accumulated days off the same.  Sick days, personal days, and vacation days are lumped together.  You just have a set number of days off and it is up to you how you take them.  

The trouble with this system is that too many people have bad habits about using the days off.  They get used to taking off whenever they feel like it.  Before they know it, all their days off are gone.  Then, when they really have an emergency or illness, they have to miss work without pay.  In the meantime, their workload is being handled by someone else.  

People often have bad habits in the workplace when it comes to paperwork.  They do not do proper accounting on their expense reports.  They do not keep the receipts that are needed by their company.  They fail to keep mileage records on their company cars accurately.  This makes the company's accounting department have to work harder.  

Many workers have an aversion to doing paperwork at all.  They have bad habits of not filling out jobsite reports as needed.  If they do special business reports as requested, they may have bad habits about not turning them in on time.  

Clean work spaces can help people get more work done.  However, many people have bad habits when it comes to keeping their desks and offices neat.  They may have a certain kind of organization if they have stacks of papers on their desks.  Yet, if their desk is full of half empty pop cans and crumpled up fast food bags, it cannot help anything.  

People often get into the bad habit of losing things.  They may lose important paperwork.  The paperwork may be critical contracts for a major deal the company is involved with.  If your bad habits take over, you can cost the company everything.  

People in other kinds of jobs can get into the habit of losing tools.  They do not pay enough attention when they lay down their tools.  When they get ready to clean up for the day, they have no recollection of where they put a particular tool, if they remember using it at all.  This is a bad habit that amounts to laziness in thinking.  

If you want to make an impression at work, get a grip on your bad habits.  The way you work will be a result of the habits you bring to the table.  It is the good habits that make you succeed.  
