Bad Habits in Relationships

People often come to relationships with bad habits when it comes to getting along with another person.  They may have every intention of making a relationship work, but ingrained trends stop them from truly connecting.  There are many such bad habits.  

Jealousy plagues many otherwise good relationships.  A boyfriend might always suspect his girlfriend of going around with other men.  Or, it could be more subtle.  A woman may suspect that her husband is constantly looking for another female to take her place.  In either case, the jealous person may have nothing real to worry about.  This is when it gets to be nothing more than a bad habit.  

Selective hearing is another problem that becomes a bad habit in relationships.  People do not pay attention to each other's needs.  One person will try to explain something that is important to them, and the other will say, "yes, yes," but will not really hear.  

Then, when the first person says something the second person is interested in, suddenly they are in the conversation completely.  This fosters feelings of hostility, and is one of the relationship bad habits that can wear a couple down over time.  

People can develop bad habits in long relationships if they lean too much on the other person.  They can depend so much on the other person that they lose the ability to take care of themselves.  A person in a relationship may become irresponsible at work because of it.  They may feel that they are taken care of anyway, so it does not matter.  These bad habits can take over every aspect of their lives.  

Some couples fall into bad habits in their fighting.  All healthy couples will disagree from time to time.  Where bad habits come in is the way the arguments are conducted.  One partner may have the bad habit of yelling at the top of her lungs.  

Another partner may throw dishes instead.  Still another may bring up old arguments to try to hurt the other person.  All these are bad habits in relationships because they are not productive forms of disagreement.  

Many people in relationships get into the bad habits of nagging their partners.  This has often been portrayed as a women's fault.  However, men do it too.  Sometimes, both parties in the relationship will nag each other.  That makes for a very unhealthy relationship.  

Blaming comes with its own price.  This is a bad habit that erodes a relationship if it goes on too long.  One person may be taking all the blame.  In this case, that person's self esteem can get to a very low point.  

Other times, people can blame each other.  If this happens, the usual result is a disconnect between the two partners.  They do not want to be involved with someone who does not accept responsibility.  

If you want to have a healthy relationship, you need to purge yourself of your bad habits.  The sooner you learn what you and your partner need to stay together, the better your bond will be.  
