Bad Habits Related to Health

Bad habits can often damage your health.  They can make you feel unwell.  They can have long-term affects on your physical condition.  If you want to live a long life and healthy life, there may be some bad habits you need to overcome.  

Many of the bad habits that make you feel poorly are related to eating.  A growing number of people in the US are obese.  This is mainly due to the fact that they have developed the bad habit of overeating.  

This can lead to numerous conditions and diseases.  Heart disease, diabetes, bone and joint distress, and many other physical conditions can result.  Even some forms of cancer occur more often in obese people.  What is more, very obese people are often bedridden and cannot care for themselves.  

Some people do not have the habit of overeating in general.  They just eat the wrong things when they do eat.  They may eat fast food at every meal.  This can literally make you sick.  The high quantities of fats, sugars, and starches in fast foods make them very unhealthy.  

Other foods can be bad habits to eat as well.  Other fried foods cause health problems.  Foods that are low in fiber lack a substance the body needs to function well.  It is a bad habit to avoid this.  Foods high in sugar are bad habits, if not addictions.  They affect the metabolism in drastic ways, causing an imbalance in energy and insulin.  

People have trouble knowing what kinds of electrolytes they need.  Some people have bad habits when it comes to salt.  They will salt all the food on their plate as soon as they sit down.  They will not taste any of it first.  Too much salt can lead to hypertension.  

Even if you eat right, you will be weak if you do not exercise.  Living a sedentary lifestyle is a bad habit.  You may not have much choice about how much movement is allowed at your job.  That does not mean that you cannot get out and get your heart beating before or after work.  

In fact, if you do not have time to exercise outside of work, you probably have another bad habit in the health area.  Overworking is a cause for several illnesses.  High blood pressure, heart disease, and others can plague you if you do not stop and take time to relax at home.  

A discussion of bad health habits would not be complete without reference to smoking, drinking, and drugs.  Each of these has dire health risks that are known by most people.  If you smoke, you might get lung cancer.  You might also get COPD, another breathing disorder.  If you drink, you might have liver failure.  Drugs can do all kinds of damage, including damage to your brain.  

Others care about your health, as you should care, too.  It may be difficult, but kicking your bad habits and making yourself healthy again is a worthy goal to aspire to.  Why not start today?  
