How Good Habits Can Turn into Bad Habits

It is not uncommon for good habits to morph into bad habits.  This often happens when good habits are taken to an extreme.  This is why people should be aware of their behavior, even when it might seem positive.  

People who want things to be the very best can seem to be very upbeat people.  At least that is true until they go too far.  When their leadership becomes nit-picking perfectionism, their good habits have turned into bad habits.  Once it has reached such a point, it is hard to salvage the situation.  

Sometimes people make their neatness into bad habits.  They start out nice enough.  They just want to keep things tidy and clean.  They are perfectly willing to do some work to keep it that way.  Then, they go overboard.  They begin stressing over every tiny smudge or speck of dust.  Besides this, they expect you to be as obsessive as they are.  

There are two of these situations that are fairly similar.  People turn good savings practices into bad habits.  The first is when a person starts saving money for emergencies or for the future.  They start a savings account, or an investment account.  Then they begin to put money into it.  

If they develop bad habits, they can get carried away with their savings and become a miser.  They can be that person who will not buy their children new school clothes because the money has to go into savings.  They can be the one who will drive a car that breaks down every week.  They cannot bear spending money that could go to savings.  

A similar situation happens when people start buying in bulk.  At first they tell themselves they are just stocking up.  However, the stocking up may not stop at a reasonable level.  If it has become a bad habit, their entire basement, garage, attic, and all their closets may be filled with extra food and cleaning supplies.  They have so much that it will go bad before they can possibly eat it all.  

You may wonder how being concerned about others can possibly lead to bad habits.  A person who is this thoughtful is generous in spirit and cares only for the well-being of those around her.  The bad habit may come in when the person puts others' needs too far above her own.  This can lead to all sorts of psychological problems for her.  

Perhaps you have heard that there is never a dumb question.  People are generally encouraged to ask questions at school and at work.  However, it becomes a bad habit when people ask questions aimlessly to no purpose.  They will sometimes ask so many questions that no work can be accomplished at all.  Sometimes it is better to try to figure something out on your own.  

This just goes to show that extremes are usually bad habits waiting to happen.  Be a considerate person, yes, but do not do it at the expense of your own well-being.  Indeed, you should maintain a savings account.  Just make sure your family has what it needs.  Do not let your good habits turn into bad habits and make your life difficult.  
