Illegal Bad Habits

Some bad habits are not only illegal.  They push the envelope of what can be considered merely bad habits.  However, in a way they are bad habits.  They are definitely bad, and they happen frequently enough to call them habits.  

Serious fighting can be illegal bad habits.  This is the kind of fighting that leads to assault arrests and convictions.  People do not think before they act.  Or, if they do, they only think angry, destructive thoughts.  This fighting can cause injury or even death.  

Some fighting happens in bars.  Barroom fights are bad habits.  Too many people are intoxicated.  There are not enough reasonable people in the room to calm things down.  There are also often shortages in bars.  

There may be a shortage of available men, or of available women.  There may not be enough places to sit.  This causes animosity, which leads to fighting.  Just being in a bar where fights are known to occur is sometimes a bad habit.  

Some people, both men and women, have bad habits of domestic violence.  They do not think twice about hitting their partner in the face on the way in the door.  They have no compunctions about throwing their spouse on the floor, even if she is pregnant.  Are these bad habits?  Yes, they are the most extreme forms of bad habits.  

There are illegal money transactions that are bad habits.  There are many forms of illegal gambling.  There are restrictions in every state about where gambling can take place.  The kind of gambling is also regulated.  Abiding by these rules will keep you out of jail.  It will also keep you from losing money in a betting scam.  

Shoplifting is an illegal bad habit that young people get hooked into before they even think about it.  One day they are going to the store and trying on clothing to purchase.  The next day, they are going to the store to see what they can stuff under their coats.  This can give a young person a very bad start in life.  It can also give them bad habits that are hard to break.  

Sometimes, people who deal with other people's money decide to borrow a little for an emergency.  They find out how easy it is, and they do it again and again.  Eventually it becomes the bad habit known as embezzlement.  This can land them in jail for years and cause them to pay restitution for the rest of their lives.  It can also put the people they took the money from in a terrible situation.  

Arson is not always a malicious act.  It is not always a well thought out scheme to collect insurance money.  Some arsonists simply have a bad habit of starting fires.  They are obsessed with flames and torch buildings for their twisted pleasure.  It is a bad habit that can cause incredible destruction.  

Bad habits are more than just picking your nose.  There are bad habits that can destroy property and ruin lives.  It is these behaviors that society must work on.  

