Inconsiderate Bad Habits

Some bad habits are just plain inconsiderate.  The person does their behaviors without a thought to the person he is affecting.  A little attention to the feelings of others would stop many of these bad habits in their tracks.  

Many people have inconsiderate bad habits in the kitchen.  You will find them drinking from the milk jug or juice carton.  They do not consider that someone else might not like to drink after them.  They are in the habit of doing it, so they do not think about it.  

Someone might have the bad habit of opening two liter bottles of pop and leaving the caps off.  This is inconsiderate to the person buying the soda because the soda goes flat.  No one will drink it.  It is also a bad habit to open carbonated drink cans and drink a few swallows only.  Many people will do this and then right away open another.  

The refrigerator is a source of trouble in some homes.  People have certain bad habits there, too.  They might take food out of the refrigerator and leave it on the counter to spoil.  They may simply stand in front with the door open, staring as all the cold rushes out.  

If you have an older refrigerator, they may have bad habits about not filling ice cube trays, and leaving them in the freezing compartment empty.  Some people have bad habits of freeloading.  They will clean your refrigerator out of food in no time at all if you do not watch them.  They will take food when they have been offered none, and when they are offered some, they will take more.  

Sometimes people staying with you, or living with you as roommates, will do some cooking.  If they have bad habits and do not clean up their messes, you will not appreciate the food they cook no matter how good it is.  After awhile, you will just wish they would stop cooking altogether.  

Other bad habits have to do with the bathroom.  Sometimes, people hog the bathroom.  They will not leave time for anyone else to get in to use it.  You may need to go to work the same time as they do.  If they do not let you get in to get ready, they will be on time and you will be the one who is late.  That is very inconsiderate.  

Men have been told forever, it seems that their bad habits of leaving the toilet seat up are inconsiderate.  They do not realize that a woman, not expecting the seat to be up, can actually get injured by falling in too hard.  It is not a pleasant subject, and it is not a pleasant thing to happen.  

Other bad habits involve vehicles.  You might be in the habit of leaving your car windows down.  If you are accustomed to this, you will be ready to put them up if you know rain is coming.  However, if you leave someone else's windows down, they may not be prepared.  Also, it is a bad habit to borrow a car and not put gas in it.  

If you think of other people every day, you will be less likely to engage in inconsiderate bad habits.  You will find that you are appreciated more if you find ways to control your behaviors and curb your bad habits.  
