Irritating Bad Habits

Some bad habits can irritate the people around you.  These habits can grate on peoples' nerves until they feel like physically stopping you themselves.  Some of them are nervous habits and others are thoughtless behaviors.  

Some bad habits have to do with shopping.  You can really irritate someone if you have the bad habit of following their car to a parking space and waiting with your car close behind.  This makes them feel rushed, and it may make it hard for them to get out.  By the time the leave they will be very irritated.  

You might display bad habits when you get in line to check out at the store.  If you cut in line, everyone behind you will be annoyed with you.  You make them later, and you give the impression that you are more important than they are.  

Sometimes people have bad habits when it comes to what line they choose.  They may get in the express line where you are only supposed to have 15 items.  They may get in that line with 30.  Some people will get in the express line with a whole cartful.  It irritates people who want to use the express line for just one or two items and have to wait for you.  

There are many nervous bad habits that irritate.  Some people crack their knuckles.  This sound can in turn get on other peoples' nerves.  It is worse for the one listening because they do not know when the next crack of the knuckles will happen.  

Rhythmic behaviors are also bad habits to get into if they are not related to the arts.  These are behaviors such as tapping a pencil, tapping your feet, or drumming your fingers on a desk.  These behaviors often occur when a person is in a stressful situation.  

They can be detrimental to you or others.  If you tap your pencil when taking a test, it can distract others and keep them from doing well on the exam.  If you drum your fingers on your boss's desk, it will make you look bad.  You might lose yourself a promotion.  

People can irritate with other noise-producing bad habits.  Grinding your teeth can irritate others.  Clicking your teeth can do it also.  Smacking your lips can annoy.  Any extraneous noise that you make repetitively with your body can be an irritating bad habit.  

Other sound-related bad habits annoy, too.  Popping your chewing gum can drive other people to nearly mad with exasperation.  If you regularly leave your faucets dripping it is an irritation that they must take care of themselves if you will not.  They may find themselves following you around, shutting off faucets.  They will not be happy.  

Another bad habit is letting your dogs bark at the top of their lungs all night long every night.  Sometimes there is a reason and it cannot be helped.  However, there is usually a solution to this problem that will be better for the dogs.  At the same time, it will make the neighbors' nights more restful.  

It is usually hard to break irritating habits.  Often, people are not even quite aware that they are doing these behaviors.  Yet, if they try, they can make themselves alert to their irritating bad habits.  They can do wonders for the nerves of those around them if they can stop.  
