Self Help Books About Bad Habits

Bad habits can take over your life.  They can make you fail at work, school, and relationships.  It is important to address these issues.  Self help books are great for this. Here are a few.  

The 12 Bad Habits That Hold Good People Back: Overcoming the Behavior Patterns That Keep You From Getting Ahead is a book by Waldroop and Butler.  This book focuses on bad habits in the workplace.  It explains how you can understand your own bad habits and learn new ways to relate to people.  They suggest that doing this will help you to advance and prosper in your career.  

James Claiborn, Ph.D. and Cherry Pedrick, R.N. have collaborated on a book about all habits.  It is called The Habit Change Workbook: How to Break Bad Habits and Form Good Ones.  This book follows a cognitive-behavioral approach to bad habits.  It uses psychological principles to get to the root of bad habits.  Then, it goes into great detailed steps of how to break them.  It also tells about a group of people who have bad habits and explains how each one is conquering theirs.  

What to Do When You Don't Know What to Do: Bad Habits and Addictions is a short book on the subject by Henry Cloud and John Townsend.  It offers a religious perspective to those who feel overcome by their failings.  It gives advice on how to find ways out of habits and addictions.  

One book is a rather heavy read on the subject of addictions.  However, it does offer some sound psychological advice. It is titled Changing for Good: A Revolutionary Six-Stage Program for Overcoming Bad Habits and Moving Your Life Positively Forward.  The authors, James O. Prochaska, John Norcross, and Carlo DiClemente, work together to put together a system of coping with undesirable behaviors.  It involves six steps, which are discussed in full.  

If you have children you want to help, there is a book for you, too.  It is called Good Kids, Bad Habits: The RealAge Guide to Raising Healthy Children.  In it, Jennifer Tratchenberg discusses the kinds of habits children have as they are growing up.  She gives insight into how these habits can follow them into later life.  Then, the author helps parents set up a program that is designed specifically for their child.  This will help the children to break bad habits.  

Of course, what subject would be complete without an "Idiot's Guide?"  Suzanne LeVert has come up with the Complete Idiot's Guide to Breaking Bad Habits.  This book is a tremendous introduction on the subject of bad habits.  At the same time, it does it with a sense of humor and warmth.  Reading this book may not break your bad habit.  However, it may put you in the right frame of mind to do it.  

Self help books for breaking bad habits are very useful tools.  They help those habituated to understand their problem behaviors and find ways to banish them.  It always helps to have a second opinion.  Reading these books on bad habits will give you advice that you would never think of on your own.  
