Social Bad Habits

Having bad habits in social situations can make you a very unpopular person.  You may not even know how others feel about your social blunders.  However, if you are acting in ways that are not considered appropriate, people will notice.  

Many bad habits can be noticed when people go out to a restaurant together.  It can be a very unpleasant experience if people have certain bad habits.  For instance, chewing with an open mouth can be disgusting to the person watching.  When a person does this, it is a thoughtless gesture.  

Some people have the bad habits of eating other peoples' food.  They will just reach over and take a bite of something on their neighbor's plate.  They do not consider the fact that the person might want to be asked first.  They do not take into account that the person might find it repulsive to share food with someone who has already used their fork.  

Loudness in a restaurant is a bad habit that is sometimes appropriate and sometimes is not.  In some settings, loudness is the order of the day.  In quiet restaurants, though, a person needs to leave the volume turned to a low level.  They need to try to fit in with the ambience of the restaurant.  

Have you ever heard someone belch, and then say "not bad manners, just good food"?  Well, it is bad manners, and bad habits, too.  Nobody wants to hear that, and it is not excused by an attempt at humor.  Some people seem to do this every time they feel the urge without thought to how others feel.  

One of the sickening bad habits people have at restaurants is blowing their noses in a cloth napkin.  It is not appropriate to blow their nose at the table in the first place.  When they use a cloth napkin, the waiter cannot just throw it away.  It has to be handled in order to be washed and reused.  It is an inconsiderate bad habit.

Some parents have bad habits when it comes to their children's public behavior.  Some will let their children run through the restaurant doing as they please.  They will not say a word when their children misbehave.  This can spoil an otherwise nice evening.  

Other parents are so harsh and critical with their children that it also destroys any chance of anyone having a good time.  These are bad habits just as letting the kids be destructive are.  Ideally, parents can find a middle ground.  

There are also bad habits that affect the way people feel about themselves.  If you are a know-it-all, a person might feel inferior to you at first.  Eventually, though, it will get old and they will resent you.  If you are tactless, you can hurt peoples' feelings without thinking.  You do it just because you are in the habit of "telling the truth."


There are bad habits that affect the way you communicate with others in the social setting.  Monopolizing the conversation may make you feel good, but others will feel unappreciated.  Interrupting can be a bad habit that prevents you from developing closeness with acquaintances.  

Correct your bad habits in social situations and you will find that people are friendlier with you.  You will see that good habits will get you much more good attention than bad habits.  
