Support Groups for People with Bad Habits

There are support groups all over the world for people with bad habits.  These groups provide a framework by which the person with bad habits can get better.  They are available to anyone who wants to attend.  

Alcoholics Anonymous is the gold standard for support groups.  There people with bad habits relating to alcohol can meet and discuss their bad habits.  They can talk about their experiences and share their hopes.  They can gain strength by spending time with people whose goal is also to banish their bad habits.  

Alcoholics Anonymous practices the Twelve-Step program for those whose bad habits have brought them to seek help.  The system is designed to guide alcoholics through their despair and into sobriety.  It is a rigorous program, but it is worth the work if you come out on the other side without your bad habits.  

Another group the uses the Twelve-Step program for gaining control over bad habits is Overeaters Anonymous.  Contrary to what the name implies, it is not just for people who eat too much.  The largest number of members of any one group is those who overeat.  However, it is also for those with bulimia or anorexia.  It is for anyone who is "powerless over food."  

This group holds meetings as AA does.  It also uses tests and other tools to help people evaluate the extent of their bad habits and depression.  The Twelve-Step program leads them to work on their bad habits from perspectives that are physical, emotional, and spiritual.  It has helped many people to gain control over their eating disorders.  

Yet another group is based on the Twelve-Step program of Alcoholics Anonymous.  This is Narcotics Anonymous.  It is for people with bad habits with all kinds of drugs.  You can be involved in the program no matter what kind(s) of drugs you used.  

It does not matter if you used a few times or you used constantly for years.  The important thing is what you want to do about it.  Narcotics Anonymous provides you with a way to deal with these destructive bad habits in your life if you will do the work.  

There are all kinds of smoking cessation support groups to help people quit their bad habits with smoking.  There are groups at medical centers.  There are groups at colleges.  Some groups meet at community centers.  

There are even smoking cessation groups that meet online.  The websites give quite a bit of helpful information about your bad habits.  They often will have a blog where people can compare notes about how their recovery from nicotine is going.  Then, there are live chat support groups.  

There are not support groups for all the bad habits that people have.  No one is going to go around smacking your hand and saying,"Do not drum your fingers!"  At least, they will not do it as a support group.  Yet, for many serious bad habits, there is help.  In some cases, you will have to drive across town.  In other cases, it is as near as your computer.  
