When Are Bad Habits Helpful?

Some bad habits can actually turn out to be helpful.  They may cause trouble most of the time.  Yet, there are those instances when they seem to fit the situation perfectly.  Since most people have at least some bad habits, it is probably good that they have a helpful side.  

Some people have bad habits with regards to pointing out others mistakes.  They are constantly telling their friends or family members what they are doing wrong.  It gets annoying and frustrating for the person being picked on.  Quite a bit of resentment can build up over this.  

However, there may come a time when the person will actually point out bad habits you have not been aware of before.  They may stop you from making a huge mistake.  You may not be inclined to fall at their feet and thank them, but you may be glad you heard their criticism nonetheless.  

Procrastination is usually one of the most common bad habits.  People put off doing what they know they need to do.  They plan to do it, just not today.  Procrastination can prove to be helpful if the situation changes.  If you were planning to water your garden you might procrastinate and put it off until tomorrow.  If it rains unexpectedly that night, you have saved both effort and water.  

If you complain too much, people will tell you that you have too many bad habits.  It does create a negative environment when someone is constantly seeing the worst in everything.  However, sometimes the only times you can get anything done are when you complain.  

Some bosses manage by the theory that the person that complains the loudest is the person who needs the most attention.  In other words, the squeaky wheel gets the grease.  When you complain in this situation, you accomplish something.  

Working too hard is generally a bad habit.  It is bad for your relationships and it is bad for your health.  You feel that you will not succeed unless you put in overtime.  Mostly, this is not true.  Yet, there are times when the extra work can pay off.  This is true especially if you allow yourself to indulge this bad habit for only the duration of a short project.  

If you are too stubborn, you will be accused of bad habits like demanding to have things the way you see fit.  You will not give in until you are satisfied that things are going as they should.  This is usually a bad habit.  Sometimes, though, it takes the form of tenacity.  This is a positive attribute that makes it possible for you to hold on through the hardest of times.  

Breaking the law almost always involves bad habits.  Theft, drug peddling and use, violence, and many more bad habits come into play.  On the other hand, some of the world's greatest heroes have broken the laws of their own countries.  

They did it in civil disobedience of laws they deemed unjust or inhumane.  The world would be a different place if these people had been afraid of having these "bad habits."  That is why not all habits can be strictly labeled bad or good.  It has to go by the situation.  
