Title: 
“It’s getting hot in here…”  IPTVRecipes.com heats up

Word Count:
378

Summary:
Do you know the saying, “Too many chefs spoil the broth”?  That’s so not true at IPTVRecipes.com, where home cooks, professional chefs, food enthusiasts and aficionados’ have been uploading free videos, trading recipes and thoroughly enjoying the 100 % user-generated content.


Keywords:
recipes, home cooks, video, social network, food, cooking, videos, community, chefs, cooks, international food, ethnic food, upload


Article Body:
At IPTVRecipes.com there are, already, dazzling desserts, scrumptious seafood and appealing appetizer recipes; and, videos from France, China, Italy, the Philippines and the US – within their food-lovers community that’s growing – every day.

Where have you been?!

Whether you’re a food freak for frittatas or a veteran vegan – IPTVRecipes.com is the place to join and explore.  Want to record a cooking video that requires 10, 20, 30 minutes of taping time?  No problem!

Unlike most other video social network sites which restrict you to 100MB or so of video space per video upload (this equates to just 5-10 minutes of playtime), IPTVRecipes.com allows you 1GB of space for every recipe you upload, and they don't, even, have a limit on the number of recipes you can upload!  Finally, people who understand that cooking is a process which involves food selection, prep work, cooking techniques and tips - all of which we want to watch.

So, go ahead - upload your favorite “comfort food,” or that recipe from home that reminds you of your childhood and the sweetness of it all.  Or, perhaps you’ve just learned a new concoction that you’ve added your special twist to that you just can’t wait to exchange.

Share your skills and love of food with the rest of the IPTVRecipes.com community – and the world!  There’s no place like it on the ‘net.

IPTVRecipes.com is where food lovers, home cooks, chefs and food-related businesses have an outstanding, free vertical social network to fully interact – sharing food-related videos, recipes, Forum discussions and food-related shopping deals.  

You can broadcast your favorite recipe via your personal MyKitchen – and, sooner than you think, you’ll be able to share your video directly to your home TV via IPTV!  Sorta’ boggles the mind, doesn’t it?

Even if you’re archaic and don’t have a video camera (yet) – IPTVRecipes is still the most informative, interactive and innovative all-things-food site you’ve ever seen!  Imagine being able to, virtually, eavesdrop while someone presents, step-by-step, right in front of you, their favorite recipe for …. [fill in the blank].  It’s (almost) as good as being there- once they get smell-a-video up and running.

So, that saying about “Too many chefs…” ---  meet IPTVRecipes.com and… hang on!


