Title: 
Busy Day Slow-Cooker Meals

Word Count:
433

Summary:
Fix it and forget it! Start dinner in the moring, go to work, run errands and come home to a piping hot supper. It couldn't be easier with the recipes that use a slow-cooker.


Keywords:
Busy Day Slow-Cooker Meals


Article Body:
Fix it and forget it! Start dinner in the morning, go to work, run errands and come home to a piping hot supper. It couldn't be easier with the recipes that use a slow-cooker.

BEEF AND BEER STEW WITH ONIONS

2 tablespoons butter

3 pounds lean beef stew meat

6 cups sliced onions

4 cloves garlic, minced

1 cup water

1 tablespoon HERB-OX® beef flavored bouillon granules

1 teaspoon thyme

2 cups dark beer-with or without alcohol

2 tablespoons brown sugar

1 tablespoon Dijon mustard

2 tablespoons cornstarch dissolved in 2 tablespoons water

Heat butter in large skillet and brown beef. Place browned beef in a slow cooker. Add onions and garlic to skillet and brown lightly; place in slow cooker with beef. Add water, beef granules, thyme, beer, brown sugar and mustard to slow cooker. Cover and cook on LOW 5-7 hours. Add cornstarch mixture to stew and continue to cook 20 minutes or until thickened. Serves 8.

BARBECUED SHORT RIBS

6-8 short ribs, about 3 pounds

1 onion, thinly sliced

1 cup water

2 teaspoons HERB-OX® beef flavored bouillon granules

1 cup hickory smoked barbecue sauce

3 tablespoons dark brown sugar

1 tablespoon Dijon mustard

2 tablespoons cornstarch dissolved in small amount of water

In large skillet over medium high heat, brown short ribs on all sides.

Place ribs in a slow cooker. Top with onions. In bowl, combine water, beef granules, barbecue sauce, brown sugar and mustard. Pour sauce over ribs. Cover and cook on LOW 6-7 hours or until tender. Add cornstarch mixture and continue to cook 20 minutes or until sauce thickens. Serves 4 to 6.

WILD RICE AND CHICKEN SLOW-COOKER CASSEROLE

1 pound boneless, skinless chicken breasts, cut into

3/4-inch pieces

1 cup uncooked wild rice

1 cup shredded carrot

1/2 cup diced onion

1 (103/4-ounce) can cream of chicken & mushroom soup

1 (103/4-ounce) can cream of mushroom soup

2 (4-ounce) cans sliced mushrooms, drained

6 slices HORMEL® Fully Cooked Bacon, crumbled

1 cube HERB-OX® chicken flavored bouillon dissolved in 1 cup boiling water

1/4 teaspoon coarsely ground black pepper

In large bowl, combine all ingredients. Place in 3 to 4-quart slow-cooker.

Cover and cook on LOW 6-7 hours or until rice is tender and liquid is absorbed. Serves 6 to 8.

ITALIAN SHREDDED BEEF SANDWICHES

1 (21/2-pound) boneless eye of round beef roast

1 medium onion, thinly sliced

1 (6-ounce) can Italian flavored tomato paste

6 teaspoons HERB-OX® beef flavored bouillon granules

1/2 cup water

12 Kaiser rolls

12 (1-ounce) slices provolone cheese

Place roast in a 31/2-quart slow cooker. Add onion, tomato paste, bouillon granules and water. Cover and cook on HIGH 5-6 hours or until meat is tender. Remove roast from cooker. Using two forks, shred meat. Return meat to cooker, stirring to coat with sauce. Evenly divide meat among Kaiser rolls. Top with cheese. Serves 12.

Barbecued short ribs

Beef and beer stew with onions


