Title: 
Double Decker Pastry

Word Count:
298

Summary:
This recipe is an experience for anyone, it’s kind of unique and very different from today’s baking, today all you need to do is go to the market and pick something off of the shelf, put it in the microwave and you have it.


Keywords:
pastry,flour,recipe,polish pastry,flakey pastry,easy pastry


Article Body:
This recipe is an experience for anyone, it’s kind of unique and very different from today’s baking, today all you need to do is go to the market and pick something off of the shelf, put it in the microwave and you have it. 
Well I’m old fashion when it is something I’m going to eat and enjoy, I need to have hands on and do it the old way. 

OK enough jabber let’s get on with the recipe so we can enjoy it, remember your ingredients should be room temperature or close to it. 

Ingredients for dough:


5 cups unsifted flour
1 cup sugar
4 teaspoons baing powder
2 teaspoons baking soda
pinch of salt
½ pound butter softened
2 tablespoons vegetable shortening
4 egg yolks
½ pint sour cream
1 ½ teaspoons vanilla


Ingredients for filling:


2 ½ cups ground walnuts
½ cup sugar for nuts
jam or lekvar or whatever you like


Sift together 5 cups flour, 1 cup sugar, 4 teaspoons baking powder, 2 teaspoons baking soda. 

Add the butter, shortening, 4 egg yolks, ½ pint sour cream, 1 ½ teaspoons vanilla and of course the pinch of salt. 

Combine all of these ingredients in your processor or mixer. 

Divide dough into 3 parts, roll out the first piece and place it onto a 10 ½ inch x 15 ½ inch cookie sheet. 

Mix together:


2 ½ cups ground walnuts
½ cup sugar for nuts
jam or lekvar or whatever you like


Spread some of this mixture onto the first layer of dough, then roll out another piece of dough and place it on top of the filling, put some more of the filling on top of the second layer of dough, now with the third piece of dough roll it out and create a lattice top on your creation. 

Bake in a preheated 350 degree oven for 40 to 45 minutes, cool and cut. 

Now enjoy what you have made.


