Title: 
Easy, Elegant, and Traditional Southern Breakfast Recipes for Mother's Day

Word Count:
309

Summary:
Make this Mother's Day unforgettable with one of these breakfast menus


Keywords:
mothers day, mother, mothering sunday, mom, mummy, parent, family, home


Article Body:
An Easy and Delicious Mother's Day Breakfast

Make this Mother's Day unforgettable with one of these breakfast menus, or use your imagination and substitute. 

Quick and easy but delicious, the breakfast casserole is put together the night before.  A delicious cantaloupe smoothie and easy muffins make this breakfast memorable. 

Western Ham and Egg Casserole
Make this casserole the night before, then refrigerate and pop it in the oven in the morning. 

Ingredients:
8 slices white bread, crust removed, cut into cubes 
2 cups (8 ounces) shredded Cheddar cheese 
1 1/4 cups cubed, cooked ham (about 8 ounces) 
1/2 cup finely chopped onion 
1/4 cup finely chopped green bell pepper 
6 eggs, beaten 
3 cups milk

Preparation:
Place bread cubes in a lightly greased 12x8x2-inch baking dish.  Sprinkle with cheese, ham, onion, and green pepper.  Whisk together eggs and milk; pour over ham and cheese mixture. Cover and refrigerate for 8 hours.  Remove from refrigerator; let stand for 30 minutes. Bake, uncovered, at 350° for 40 minutes or until set.
Western ham and egg casserole serves 8.

An Extra-Special Mother's Day Breakfast
Here's an elegant breakfast for anyone who loves to cook.  Perfect for Mother's day or any special occasion breakfast.  For a touch of indulgence, serve this breakfast with champagne and orange juice Mimosas. 

Eggs Benedict - Fruit Compote With Pears
Sour Cream Cinnamon Rolls
Strawberry Smoothies or Mimosas
Hot Coffee or Tea

Southern Breakfast
Here's a traditional Southern breakfast, from grits to biscuits and gravy. 

Grits
Scrambled Eggs Deluxe
Ham with Red Eye Gravy
Biscuits with Sausage Gravy or Pecan Pancakes
Orange Juice, Hot Coffee, or Tea

Always remember to add a bud vase with her favorite flower to give any breakfast in bed that special touch.  Don’t forget the cards and her other gifts too, she will start out the day with a HUGE smile on her face and go to work showing off what her family did for her.


