Title: 
Fair Dinkum (Honest)! An Aussie Barby In Singapore

Word Count:
369

Summary:
Put another shrimp on the barby. That's something you may expect to hear in Australia, but now visitors to Singapore will be hearing it.


Keywords:
Fair Dinkum (Honest)! An Aussie Barby In Singapore


Article Body:
Put another shrimp on the barby. That's something you may expect to hear in Australia, but now visitors to Singapore will be hearing it. 

The reason? The Singapore Marriott Hotel has unveiled the new Pool Grill restaurant-a chic and stylish new eatery serving fresh, contemporary cuisine prepared by Chef Harry Callinan, the hotel's newest import from Hunter Valley in New South Wales, Australia. 

Chef Harry's epicurean passion is evident in the enthusiastic manner in which he talks about his gourmet pursuits and how he magically translates that into wholesome creations in the kitchen. 

The Pool Grill menus are styled to mirror the look and feel of the pool terrace concept at the Singapore Marriott-that of a resort oasis in the heart of the city. The menu combines lightness with freshness and guests can look forward to an invigorating gazpacho, a succulent John Dory fillet, or a simple pasta, pizza or sandwich to enjoy amidst the relaxing setting. Must-tries include the Oriental Seafood Salad with palm hearts & lychee, Classic Bouillabaisse, Grilled Swordfish Fillet and the Baked Rock Lobster tail with melted lemon butter. 

Here's one of Chef Harry's recipes:

Barbecued Snapper Parcels With Tomato, Red Onion 

And Basil Butter

1 snapper fillet

1 red onion

1 tomato

Juice of 1 lemon

1 bunch fresh basil (or store-bought pesto will work)

7 Tbsp. butter

Sea salt 

Black pepper

Aluminum foil

Lay one sheet of aluminum foil on the bench and rub with a little butter, place snapper fillet on top and season with salt and pepper. Slice tomato and red onion in thin slices and place on top of fish. Take remaining butter and fresh-picked basil and pound together in a mortar and pestle (pulsing in a blender will give the same result) till blended well. Add pats of the flavored butter on top of the fish and vegetables, squeeze on half a lemon. Bring sides of the foil around to make a parcel, leaving space at the top for steam to circulate. Place par-cels onto hot part of the BBQ for 5 minutes and then move to the side where it is cooler and let sit another 5 minutes to cook through. Serve straight onto plate but be careful of the steam when you open it and enjoy.


