Title: 
Fast And Healthy Family Favorites

Word Count:
291

Summary:
Fast food can be healthy food if you know where to look. And the easiest place to find healthy fast food in your kitchen.


Keywords:
Fast And Healthy Family Favorites


Article Body:
Fast food can be healthy food if you know where to look. And the easiest place to find healthy fast food is in your kitchen.

The new "Pillsbury GOOD FOR YOU!" cookbook can help families with the daily challenge of making fast, healthy and flavorful dinners despite today's busy schedules. The book features 170 healthy, delicious recipes that contain less fat, sugar and salt than regular recipes. All can be prepared in 35 minutes or less, with more than half of the recipes taking 20 minutes or less. Here's a tasty "Super Express" sample:

Spicy Chinese Chicken Tacos 

Start to Finish: 20 Minutes

1 box (4.6 oz) taco shells (12 shells) 

3 boneless skinless chicken breasts (3/4 lb), cut into thin, bite-size strips 

1 teaspoon grated gingerroot 

1 small clove garlic, minced 

2 tablespoons soy sauce 

1 tablespoon honey 

1 large green onion, sliced 

1/4 teaspoon crushed red pepper flakes 

11/2 cups shredded iceberg lettuce 

1. If desired, heat taco shells as directed on box. 

2. Heat large nonstick skillet over medium-high heat. Add chicken, gingerroot and garlic; cook 3 to 5 minutes, stirring often, until lightly browned. 

3. Stir in soy sauce, honey, onion and pepper flakes to coat. Reduce heat to low; cover and cook 5 minutes, stirring occasionally, until chicken is no longer pink in center. 

4. To serve, place scant 1/4 cup chicken mixture in each taco shell. Top each with lettuce. Serve immediately. 

6 servings (2 tacos each) 

Serving Size: 1 Serving 

Calories: 180, Calories from Fat: 60% DV, Total Fat 7g, Saturated Fat 1g, Trans Fat 1.5g, Cholesterol 35mg, Sodium 260mg, Total Carbohydrate 18g, Dietary Fiber 2g, Sugars 4g, Protein 14g, Vitamin A 4%, Vitamin C 0%, Calcium 4%, Iron 6%, Exchanges: 1 Starch, 11/2 Very Lean Meat, 1 Fat; Carbohydrate Choices: 1

Besides delicious recipes, the cookbook also contains quick tips for better nutrition, on-the-go dinner ideas, easy-to-assemble fruit desserts and a pantry makeover. Look for it wherever books are sold.


