Title: 
Fortunate Lemon Chicken

Word Count:
294

Summary:
This is a delicious chicken meal for you to prepare at home. The lemon sauce is fresh and tangy and somehow I always end up eating too much :-) Give it a try I am sure you will enjoy....


Keywords:
chicken recipe,chinese,recipe,receipe,food,cooking,fortune cookie,chinese fortune cookie


Article Body:
This is a delicious chicken meal for you to prepare at home. The lemon sauce is fresh and tangy and somehow I always end up eating too much :-).

It takes a bit to prepare and is not the sort of thing you would want to cook each night of the week. 

However, it is worth the effort. 

I usually make it once in a while as a special meal for my husband. And it always turns out great.

<b>Fortunate Lemon Chicken</b>

4 whole boneless chicken breasts, skin off
½ cup cornstarch (corn flour)
3 tbls water
4 egg yolks – gently beaten
salt, pepper –  to taste
shallots – chopped

Lemon Sauce
½ cup lemon juice
2 tsp powdered chicken stock
2 tbls cornstarch (corn flour)
2 tbls honey
2½ tbls brown sugar
1 tsp grated ginger
1¾ cups water

For the sauce, combine all the ingredients in a saucepan and stir over a low heat until it boils and then thickens.

Cut the chicken breast fillets into 3-4 pieces. Lay flat and pound slightly with a mallet or other heavy object. 

Place cornstarch in a bowl and slowly add the water, and then add the slightly beaten egg yolks. Next add salt and pepper to your liking.

Dip the chicken pieces into this batter and ensure you drain well.

Place a couple pieces of the battered chicken at a time, into deep hot oil and fry until lightly browned.

Drain on absorbent paper.

Slice chicken further if required.

Arrange on plates of freshly cooked white rice. Sprinkle with shallots and spoon over hot lemon sauce.

Enjoy!

Then end the meal with a home-made Chinese Fortune Cookie. 

Insert a message in each cookie to suit the mood of the meal. This is a fun way to end any meal.

Happy Cooking

Francis Chang
http://www.chinese-fortune-cookie.com


