Title: 
From Seed To Plate--Easy Organic Growing

Word Count:
378

Summary:
Purchasing organic foods is a rapidly growing trend in the U.S. and all signs say that going organic is not passing fad.


Keywords:
From Seed To Plate--Easy Organic Growing


Article Body:
Purchasing organic foods is a rapidly growing trend in the U.S. and all signs say that going organic is no passing fad. Today, a majority of Americans (74 percent) purchase organic food and beverages because they believe it is healthier-and safer-for themselves and their families. Recent evidence suggests that organically grown crops contain higher levels of vitamin C, polyphenols (naturally occurring antioxidants) and some minerals. Just as important to many families is the fact that organic fruits and vegetables are never grown with synthetic chemical fertilizers, pesticides or growth regulators. People feel safer without these chemicals in the produce they eat.

Growing your own organic produce has never been easier. In fact, organic growing can be as simple as planting seeds in a pot or two in the backyard or even on your kitchen windowsill. Before you know it, your own fresh and fragrant, homegrown vegetables and herbs will be ready for the dinner table. No compost piles or expert growing skills required--only seeds, soil, water and a little nurturing. 

Here are a few easy tips on how to get started:

Windowsill Growing. You can begin growing your own organic food right on your kitchen windowsill. Seeds of Change offers a variety of options to get you growing, including 100% Certified Organic seeds grown by a network of family-owned, certified organic farmers. Start with a Windowsill Salad Kit-then graduate up to growing other vegetables like mouthwatering tomatoes or piquant peppers. 

Hydrate! Remember to water, but don't soak your pots. Water from the top, but avoid wetting the foliage on your plant to minimize the chance of plant disease.

From Seed to Plate. For many gardeners, organic gardening begins with 100% organic seeds and ends with an organic feast. Regardless of how you begin, you will be enjoying the "fruits" of your labor in no time. Here's a great salad recipe you can make from a windowsill salad kit: 

Greek Salad

Ingredients:

4 ounces Mesclun salad greens

1 cucumber; sliced into discs

4 ounces tomatoes; bite- sized pieces

1/2 red onion; thinly sliced

4 ounces pitted Kalamata olives; cut in half

2 ounces Feta cheese; crumbled

Freshly cracked black pepper to taste

Add all the ingredients into a mixing bowl; toss with oil and vinegar or Greek dressing such as Seeds of Change Greek Feta Vinaigrette.


