Title: 
German Spaetzle an Authentic German Recipe

Word Count:
396

Summary:
When I arrived in Germany about 5 years ago I was supprised to see most of the so called 'German food' I had eaten in the States was nothing like the authentic German food here in Germany.


Keywords:
germany, recipe, travel, germany tourism, food, spaetzle, bratwurst


Article Body:
Copyright 2006 Joshua Spaulding

With the popularity of German food these days there are many now so authentic German recipes out there. Follow this recipe exactly and you are gaurenteed to have an authentic German spaetzle that everyones mouth with water for.

Whether you have enjoyed German food in the past or not you will love this delicious German dish. If you think you have had an authentic German Spaetzle before be sure to try this recipe out to be sure that old recipe really is authentic German food. This is one of my favorite German recipes provided by my wife Claudia and I think you will enjoy it just as much as I do.

This German Spaetzle is a good combination with many dishes, for example, pork steak, schnitzle, gulasch and many other meats. This dish can also be served as just a snack. I enjoy this dish with a jagerschnitzle with jagersauce (mushroom sauce). If you follow this recipe exactly right you will end up with a Spaetzle just as good as those served in top notch German restaurants or even better. With such a simple recipe almost anyone can do it and with the very few ingredients that are easy accesible this recipe should never be a problem to whip up at any time.

Ingredients: 3 cups flour, 4 eggs, 1/4 tsp. Nutmeg (optional), 1 1/2 tsp. Salt, 1 quart cold water

Directions: Stir flour, eggs, salt and 1/2 cup of water.  Beat until batter is smooth and no longer sticks to the spoon.  Add water as needed.  The spaetzle dough can be firm enough to be rolled and cut into slivers or soft enough to be forced through a sieve, colander or spaetzle-maker with large holes. Boil a pot of salted water.  If you have a Spaetzle press, press the dough through the press and into the boiling water.  If you do not have a press, place dough on cutting board and roll out.  Cut dough into tiny noodles.  Add noodles to boiling water. They cook quickly and are done when they float to the surface.  As the noodles finish cooking, remove them with a slotted spoon. You can saute' the noodles in a Tbsp. of butter before serving.  Other suggestions:  Serve with brown gravy or beef stock. If you do not want to use the egg yolks, use the egg whites and add some yellow food coloring for color.


