Title: 
Grill Up An Easy, Elegant Meal This Summer

Word Count:
274

Summary:
If you're craving a summer menu with more elegance than the standard hot dogs and hamburgers, but need something that won't keep you in the kitchen all night, try combinging convenient items already in the pantry with elegant, easy-to-prepare foods.


Keywords:
Grill Up An Easy, Elegant Meal This Summer


Article Body:
If you're craving a summer menu with more elegance than the standard hot dogs and hamburgers, but need something that won't keep you in the kitchen all night, try combining convenient items already in the pantry with elegant, easy-to-prepare foods.

One starting point: canned Bartlett pears. Although enjoyable right out of the can, with a little imagination they can easily be added to the main course. For example, try them in a simple salsa served alongside mild grilled halibut for a delectable, light taste with a little kick. Not only a winning union on the palate, the recipe is also a healthy one-canned pears contain no fat or cholesterol and are a good source of potassium and fiber. Halibut is an excellent source of protein and omega-3 fatty acids.

Grilled Halibut with Sweet and Spicy Pear Salsa

Makes 6 servings

2 cans (15 oz. each) Bartlett pear halves, drained

1/2 cup mango chutney

2 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley

2 tablespoons thinly sliced green onions

2 tablespoons sliced radishes

1/4 teaspoon ground cumin

Red cayenne pepper, to taste

6 halibut steaks, 6 to 8 ounces each

2 tablespoons olive oil

2 tablespoons lemon pepper 

Set aside 6 pear halves. Dice remaining pear halves. In small bowl, mix diced pears with chutney, parsley, green onions, radishes, cumin and cayenne pepper; set aside. Brush halibut steaks on both sides with olive oil. Sprinkle with lemon pepper. Grill or pan-fry halibut, cooking 3 to 5 minutes on each side or until fish just flakes when tested with a fork. To serve, place halibut on serving plate. Arrange pear half next to fish. Top with pear chutney mixture. 

Nutritional Information (per serving): Calories 371, Protein 36g, Carbohydrate 38g, Fiber 4g, Fat 9g, Sodium 494mg, Cholesterol 55mg.


