Title: 
Healthy Entertaining: The Sweet Benefits Of Raisins

Word Count:
316

Summary:
Party food doesn't have to be fattening. There are a number of festive, delicious--and healthful--dishes you can serve at parties and get-togethers.


Keywords:
Healthy Entertaining: The Sweet Benefits Of Raisins


Article Body:
Party food doesn't have to be fattening. There are a number of festive, delicious-and healthful-dishes you can serve at parties and get-togethers. For instance, dishes prepared with California raisins are tangy, flavorful and provide numerous health benefits. California raisins are loaded with vitamins, minerals, powerful anti-oxidants, potassium, vitamin B6, and they are also fat- and cholesterol-free. Here is a sampling of easy-to-prepare dishes perfect for a party. 

&#8226; Dinner Parties-Liven up your next gathering with Sweet and Spicy Jerk Chicken. 

&#8226; Cocktail Parties-Raisins, Red Onions and Wine-seared Scallops are easy to make, full of flavor and always a crowd-pleaser.

Getting hungry? Try this recipe for Tropical Shrimp Cocktail:

Tropical Shrimp Cocktail

Dressing

Juice of one lime

Juice of one orange

2 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil

1 small jalapeno pepper; seeded, deveined and minced

2 tablespoons finely diced red onion

Kosher or sea salt and freshly ground pepper

Shrimp Salad

16 large cooked, peeled and deveined prawns (size 16/20)

1/3 cup California golden raisins

1 cup diced fresh pineapple

1 ripe mango, diced

1 firm-ripe avocado, diced

2 tablespoons chopped cilantro

2 tablespoons chopped mint

Lime wedges; for garnish

Dressing

Whisk ingredients together and season with salt and pepper to taste. Refrigerate until needed.

Shrimp Salad

In a medium mixing bowl, toss the prawns with 2 tablespoons of the dressing to coat and set aside. Add remaining salad ingredients except for lime wedges to the bowl and toss with remaining dressing. Cover and chill well.

Divide the chilled fruit mixture among 4 stemmed cocktail glasses or small bowls. Top with the prawns (4 or more per serving) and garnish with wedges of lime.

Salad ingredients should be prepared up to 1 hour in advance and refrigerated until ready to serve.

Serves: 4

Nutrition Facts (per serving):

Calories 240 (44% from fat); Total Fat 14g (sat 1g, mono 6g, poly 1g); Cholesterol 45mg; Protein 7g; Carbohydrates 33g; Fiber 7g; Iron 2mg; Sodium 55mg; Calcium 38mg.

Serve this Tropical Shrimp Cocktail as a refreshing starter or main course.


