Title: 
Healthy Meals And Snacks From The Cool Aisles Of The Store. More than milk: Convenient, tasty and healthy foods can be found in the refrigerated dairy

Word Count:
254

Summary:
The refrigerated dairy aisles of the grocery store are full of convenient, tasty, healthy foods--whether you're looking for thirst-quenching drinks, terrific meals and accompaniments or nutritous snacks.


Keywords:
Healthy Meals And Snacks From The Cool Aisles Of The Store. More than milk: Convenient, tasty and healthy foods can be found in the refrigerated dairy


Article Body:
The refrigerated dairy aisles of the grocery store are full of convenient, tasty, healthy foods-whether you're looking for thirst-quenching drinks, terrific meals and accompaniments or nutritious snacks. 

Here are some ideas for nutritious anytime snacks:

&#8226; Cheese Kabob-Alternate slices of apples and cheddar cheese on skewers.

&#8226; Tropical Smoothie-Blend orange juice, frozen strawberries and vanilla yogurt.

&#8226; Morning Wake-up-Mix cup of skim milk with teaspoon of instant coffee and sweetened cocoa.

&#8226; Granola Delight-Layer granola and fresh fruit with favorite yogurt flavor.

&#8226; Ultimate Easy Snack-Keep the fridge full of individually packaged yogurts, jello, cheese sticks, vegetable dips and more for anytime, anywhere snacking.

While any time of year can be a great time to visit the Cool Aisles of the store, June is officially Dairy Month, sponsored by the National Frozen & Refrigerated Foods Association (NFRA). That means you can find special prices and promotions on many tasty cool favorites.

Here is a breakfast, lunch or dinner entrée that's easy to make, with key ingredients from the dairy aisle:

Vegetable Cheddar Quiche

1 cup chopped red, green or yellow bell peppers

3/4 cup sliced mushrooms

1/4 cup chopped onion

1 cup refrigerated egg substitute

1 cup refrigerated non-dairy creamer

1/4 tsp salt

1/8 tsp pepper

1 oz shredded Cheddar Cheese

Heat 10" skillet; spray generously with nonstick cooking spray; sauté peppers, mushrooms and onions until tender-crisp. Combine egg substitute, creamer, salt and pepper; pour into skillet, cover and cook over medium-low heat until set, approx. 8-10 minutes. Sprinkle quiche with cheese and replace cover until cheese is melted. Remove from heat and let set for two minutes. Serves 4.


