Title: 
Healthful Ways To Keep Your Cool

Word Count:
275

Summary:
When the weather's warm, it's almost too easy to rely on ice cream, soda, popsicles and other frosty sweets for refreshment. However, there are delicious ways to cool off without making the hope of a trim waistline melt away.


Keywords:
Healthful Ways To Keep Your Cool


Article Body:
When the weather's warm, it's almost too easy to rely on ice cream, soda, popsicles and other frosty sweets for refreshment. However, there are delicious ways to cool off without making the hope of a trim waistline melt away. 

For instance, you can eat something sweet, feel refreshed and still get your recommended five fruits and veggies a day with the recipes below. Easy to make and even easier to enjoy, smoothies and sorbets made with light and healthy canned Bartlett pears are a refreshing antidote to a hot afternoon. Added bonus: The pears contain no fat or cholesterol and are a good source of potassium and fiber.

Pear Yogurt Ginger Smoothie

Makes 4 Servings 

1 can (15 ounces) Bartlett pear halves or slices, drained

3 cups nonfat vanilla yogurt

3/4 cup nonfat milk

3/4 teaspoon ground ginger 

5 ice cubes

In blender or food processor container, puree pears. Add yogurt, milk, ginger and ice cubes, process until well blended. 

Nutritional Information (Per Serving): Calories 183; Protein 9g; Carbohydrate 37g; Fiber 2g; Fat 1g; Cholesterol 4mg; Sodium 118mg.

Blissful Pear Sorbet

Makes 6 Servings

2 cups water

1 cup sugar

1 can (15 ounces) Bartlett pears, well drained

2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice

In saucepan, heat water and sugar until sugar is well dissolved. Cool syrup to room temperature. In blender container, combine up to one-half of the syrup and pears; blend until smooth. Stir in lemon juice and remaining syrup. Freeze in small (1-quart) ice cream freezer according to manufacturer's directions. 

Nutritional Information (Per Serving): Calories 166; Carbohydrate 0g; Fiber 0g; Protein 0g; Fat 0g; Sodium 7mg. 

Chill Out-These cool and refreshing treats, made with canned Bartlett pears, can be a nutritious and delicious way to beat the heat.


