Title: 
Healthy Summer Snacking

Word Count:
317

Summary:
Your air conditioner isn't the only thing that uses energy in the hot weather--your kids do, too. All that running, jumping and swimming uses up plenty of energy, so it's important keep your kids well-fueled.


Keywords:
Healthy Summer Snacking


Article Body:
Your air conditioner isn't the only thing that uses energy in the hot weather-your kids do, too. 

Warm months usually means children are playing outside more. All that running, jumping and swimming uses up plenty of energy, so it's important to keep your kids well-fueled. Here's a recipe that can do just that. It's a fun, portable snack mix made with California raisins, so it has a sweet taste and supplies lots of energy. 

Sunshine Snack Mix

Ingredients:

2 cups California raisins

2 cups low-fat granola cereal

1 cup candy-coated chocolate pieces

1/2 cup sunflower kernels

Directions:

In large bowl, combine all ingredients; mix well.

Yields: 51/2 cups 

Serves: 11

Preparation time: 5 minutes

Fun Fuel

The potassium in California raisins helps lower blood pressure, which has been shown to help reduce the risk of heart disease. In addition to adding fiber to the diet, raisins rank among the top antioxidant foods and even contain phytochemicals that contribute to oral health. 

The Taste Of Health

Of course, nutrition facts probably don't matter much to your children. Kids tend to focus on taste, and California raisins hold up well there, too. They make sweet, plump treats, which means they can be an easy way to help your children maintain a healthful diet-and to keep their energy levels up throughout the day. 

Cool Ideas

Looking for more summertime snack ideas? The California Raisin Marketing Board offers a host of tasty, easy-to-make recipes that require little to no time spent in the kitchen, giving you more time to spend with your kids. Try making Raisin Peanut Butter Balls for a quick snack or Spiced Apple Pie Party Mix for a good dose of dried fruits, nuts, cinnamon and nutmeg. Raisin Nachos with Cinnamon Dipping Sauce is sure to be a crowd-pleaser, and try Raisin Delights for bite-size balls of cream cheese and sunflower seeds rolled in coconut. Or just snack on California raisins straight from the box.


