Title: 
Here's The Sweet Scoop On Throwing An Ice Cream Block Party

Word Count:
509

Summary:
Good fences may make good neighbors, but it may take great ice cream for neighbors to get to know each other better and strengthen neighboorhood bonds.


Keywords:
Here's The Sweet Scoop On Throwing An Ice Cream Block Party


Article Body:
Good fences may make good neighbors, but it may take great ice cream for neighbors to get to know each other better and strengthen neighborhood bonds. 

To help neighbors find a sweet excuse to socialize, the second annual Dreyer's/Edy's Slow Churned Neighborhood Salutesm will reward 1,500 neighborhoods across America with an old-fashioned ice cream social.

A recent survey found that when it comes to neighborly relations, people tend to fall into one of three distinct groups: 

Most Americans (47 percent) identify themselves as "Happy Nesters" who enjoy privacy and appreciate a quiet day in the comfort of their own home; only 36 percent are "Fun Finders" who are socially motivated, active and excited to join the fun; the rest are "Activity Seekers" who enjoy socializing, but generally don't plan activities. 

Almost half of today's neighbors feel they do not know each other as well as their parents knew their neighbors. 

One way to encourage togetherness is to nominate your neighborhood for a chance to win a doorstep delivery of 12 cartons of Dreyer's/Edy's Slow Churned. The secret behind this great-tasting ice cream is that it's made using the same quality ingredients, but with a process that takes more time, making each spoonful incredibly rich and creamy. With half the fat and 30 percent fewer calories than regular ice cream, there are even more reasons to celebrate. 

The party comes complete with a "Party in a Box," filled with supplies for hosting a friendly gathering for up to 100 neighbors. Official contest rules and entry forms are available at www.IceCream.com.


Ice Cream Sandwich Dips

(12 sandwiches)

For a fun block party activity, make the ice cream sandwiches in advance, then let your neighbors dip and decorate their own.


2 cartons Dreyer's/Edy's Slow Churned Light Ice Cream (any flavor)

12 graham crackers

1 cup semi-sweet chocolate chips

1 cup white chocolate baking chips

2 tablespoons vegetable oil

Cookie decorating sprinkles


Line a 10 x 15 x 1/2-inch-deep, rimmed cookie sheet with plastic wrap. Remove ice cream from freezer and let soften slightly. Spread each half gallon ice cream into a rectangle approx. 5 x 10 inches and 1/2 inch thick. Cover with plastic wrap. Freeze until firm. 

Cut or break graham crackers into squares. When ice cream is firm, cut into squares the size of the graham crackers. Working quickly, slide a spatula under the ice cream squares and place between two graham crackers. Put into a sealed container and return to freezer.

Place semi-sweet chips and white chips in separate microwave-safe bowls. Add 1 tablespoon of oil to each bowl. Heat one bowl at a time in microwave oven on medium power (50 percent) for 2 to 3 minutes. Stir well until melted and smooth, and bowl no longer feels warm. Repeat with the other bowl of chips. 

Dip each ice cream sandwich into melted chocolate. Immediately decorate with sprinkles before chocolate hardens. Return to freezer in a sealed container. Can be made up to two days ahead.

An ice cream sandwich can be just the right icebreaker to help neighbors get acquainted.

Last year's neighborhood block party-goers had a "cool" time enjoying a favorite treat.


