Title: 
Juicy Campari Tomatoes Available Year-Round. The vine-ripened flavor of Campari tomatoes make it just right for snacking or use in salad sor salsa.

Word Count:
250

Summary:
Any way you slice it, nothing tastes as fresh as a juicy, ripe tomato.


Keywords:
Juicy Campari Tomatoes Available Year-Round. The vine-ripened flavor of Campari tomatoes make it just right for snacking or use in salad sor salsa.


Article Body:
Any way you slice it, nothing tastes as fresh as a juicy, ripe tomato. Now fresh-from-the-vine flavor is available year-round in Campari tomatoes, a new variety that is changing the way people think about tomatoes.

Perfectly round, about the size of a golf ball and deep red in color, the Campari is greenhouse-grown and is quickly becoming America's favorite tomato.

The tomatoes are sold in clusters on the vine to ensure peak freshness and flavor; their smaller size also make them an ideal snacking tomato. 

To ensure maximum flavor, leave tomatoes on the vine after purchase and always store at room temperature; refrigeration permanently alters tomato flavor.

It's easy to add fresh flavor to your favorite foods. Toss diced Campari tomatoes with cubes of mozzarella, fresh basil and balsamic vinegar. Or finish an egg scramble with sliced Campari tomatoes for an extra burst of lycopene in the morning.

The following salad is perfect to bring to any casual gathering: 

Campari Tomato Penne Salad with Gorgonzola

Preparation Time: 20 minutes Serves: 6

8 oz. penne pasta

1 pkg. (6 oz.) baby spinach leaves

6 Campari tomatoes, seeded and diced

1 pkg. (4 oz.) crumbled Gorgonzola cheese

1 tsp. salt

1/2 tsp. freshly ground black pepper

3 Tbsp. extra virgin olive oil

1 Tbsp. red wine vinegar

1/3 cup pine nuts, toasted

1. Cook and drain pasta according to package directions.

2. Place hot pasta, spinach, tomatoes, cheese, salt and pepper in large mixing bowl; drizzle with oil and vinegar. 

3. Toss gently until combined; sprinkle with pine nuts just before serving. Serve warm or at room temperature.


