Title: 
Juicing Beets Recipes

Word Count:
290

Summary:
This is my article dedicated to juicing beets recipes. 
Frankly, I love the things, and I really find, I don’t know if it’s just me, but every time I feel tired or I feel a cold coming on, juicing beets really helps me. Maybe it’s a placebo thing. I don’t care. I’m making an article especially for that special vegetable in my life.


Keywords:



Article Body:
This is my article dedicated to juicing beets recipes. 
Frankly, I love the things, and I really find, I don’t know if it’s just me, but every time I feel tired or I feel a cold coming on, juicing beets really helps me. Maybe it’s a placebo thing. I don’t care. I’m making an article especially for that special vegetable in my life.

So here of some stats of said vegetable; 
Beets contain calcium, iron, sulphur, potassium, beta-carotene, choline, and vitamin C.
They are high in manganese, an important mineral for brain function.
Beets are also high in minerals that strengthen the liver and gall bladder, and are the building blocks for blood corpuscles and cells. 
Beets are famous for their ability to cleanse the blood.

Beet juice is super concentrated so I’d strongly advise you dilute it with water or other juices.
Purchase firm, rock-hard beets. Being a root, they can be stored for months in the refrigerator. 

Juicing beets recipes:

Carrot, spinach and beets
4 carrots
beet with greens
5 - 6 leaves of Romaine or other leaf lettuce
3 - 4 leaves of spinach

Scrub organic carrots or peel the carrots if they are not organic. Clean and cut beet into slender wedges, and wash & dry lettuce and spinach leaves. Juice half of the carrots, and the beet, and then you may use the remaining carrots to help push the lettuce and spinach through the juicer. 

Power punch
Juice 1 small beet. 
Juice 1 pear. 
Juice 1 Fiji apple. 
Juice a small piece of ginger 2 inches max. 
Juice 2 inches of salsify root. 
Juice 4 individual celery stalks. 
Juice 10-12 carrots. 
Juice 1 small parsnip. 

Sweet beets
5 Carrots
1 Apple
1/2 Beet

Refresher
4 Ounces of Raw Beet (with leaves)
3 Ounces of Raw Cucumber
9 Ounces Raw Carrot

Enjoy!


