Title: 
Lift Your Soul With A Good Bowl of Chili

Word Count:
389

Summary:
When your day has been hard and your soul is longing for the comforts of home, what better to come home to but a delicious bowl of heartwarming chili.


Keywords:
chili recipes, easy chili recipes, crock pot chili recipes


Article Body:
"Next to music there is nothing that lifts the spirits and strengthens the soul more than a good bowl of chili." – Harry James. Source: http://whatscookingamerica.net

When your day has been hard and your soul is longing for the comforts of home, what better to come home to but a delicious bowl of heartwarming chili. The hearty dish has been a favorite in this country for centuries, and has a vivid and rich history. Much has been written about the origins of chili, but regardless of its beginnings, the fact remains that people love the stuff and can’t get enough of it. 

For families looking to cut food expenses, adding chili to the weekly menu is a great idea. The ability to cheaply feed large families was one reason for chili’s popularity in previous centuries, and still remains so to this day. Everyone has heard stories about how cowboys cooked kettles of chili over open flames on the range during cattle drives. They cooked what they had available, and what would keep well longest. Chili is always better the next day after all.

Hard working folks still love to sit down to a piping hot bowl of chili at the end of the day. The best way to have your chili ready as soon as you arrive home is to cook it in your slow cooker. 

Here are a few tasty chili recipes to get you started:

Slow Cooked Chunky Chili

1 lb ground beef
1 lb bulk pork sausage
4 cans kidney beans, rinsed and drained
2 cans diced tomatoes, undrained
2 cans diced tomatoes and green chilies, undrained
1 large onion, chopped
1 medium green pepper, chopped
1 envelope taco seasoning
½ tsp salt
¼ tsp pepper

Cook the meat in a skillet and drain. Place it into a slow cooker. Add remaining ingredients. Cover and cook on low for 8-10 hours. Freeze the leftovers for up to 3 months.

Southwestern Chicken Chili

5 large chicken breasts, chopped 
2 cans kidney beans, drained 
2 cans whole canned tomatoes
2 cans canned corn 
1 yellow onion, chopped 
5 tablespoons chili powder 

Put rinsed kidney beans on the bottom of the slow cooker. Next add Corn. Place 1/2 the Chili Powder on top of the corn and beans. Pile on the chicken slices. Pour in Tomatoes. Cover with remaining chili powder. Cover and cook on High for 8-10 hours. Add the onion 30 minutes before serving.


