Title: 
Lighten Up Your Menu With Healthful Wild American Shrimp

Word Count:
535

Summary:
For many Americans, some of their fondest memories include outdoor gatherings with family and friends and al fresco meals featuring the rich flavors and aromas of fresh local produce and seasonal ingredients.


Keywords:
Lighten Up Your Menu With Healthful Wild American Shrimp


Article Body:
For many Americans, some of their fondest memories include outdoor gatherings with family and friends and al fresco meals featuring the rich flavors and aromas of fresh local produce and seasonal ingredients.

While shopping for the freshest ingredients, remember to look for local ingredients that are packed with flavor, as are Certified Wild American Shrimp, caught from the open waters along the Gulf and South Atlantic.

"Wild-caught shrimp are fresh, succulent and tender unlike 85 percent of the shrimp, which are imported and pond-raised," said Chef Dean James Max, executive chef of 3030 Ocean located in Marriott's Harbor Beach Resort and Spa in Fort Lauderdale. He has received rave reviews for his fresh, simple and healthy style, which stems from a philosophy of natural and traditional preparation using impeccable ingredients. 

A typical four-ounce portion of Wild American Shrimp has just 112 calories, when served steamed, boiled, grilled or baked, so it can be a refreshing way to lighten up your menu. 

You may care to try this recipe from Chef Dean James Max's new seafood cookbook, "A Life by the Sea." 

"When you ask for Certified Wild American Shrimp at a restaurant or seafood counter, you're supporting an important American industry that spans generations," added Max.

Sesame Wild American Shrimp with Avocado Purée 

and Citrus Sauce

Serves 6

18 jumbo Wild American Shrimp (under 10 size)

1 cup flour

1 cup soda water

pinch sesame seeds

pinch baking soda

6 cups peanut oil

3 avocados

2 Tbs. sesame oil

2 limes

1 shallot

1 cup Florida citrus sauce 

Whisk the flour, sesame seeds, baking soda, soda water and salt. Chill the batter in the refrigerator until needed. Clean the shells from the body of the shrimp and devein them. Heat the peanut oil in a small deep fryer to 350 degrees. Dip the shrimp in the batter while holding the tail fins. Carefully, dip the shrimp three quarters of the way into the oil and hold it there for 4 seconds before letting it go. Repeat the process for all the shrimp. You will have to fry the shrimp in batches of 3-4 at a time. Transfer them to a warm plate covered with a paper towel. Season them with fine sea salt when they come out of the oil. Purée the flesh of the avocado with the sesame oil, lime juice, minced shallot and salt. Spoon equal amounts of the avocado purée on each of the 6 plates. Position 3 of the shrimp in the avocado purée. Drizzle 2 tablespoons of the citrus sauce around.

Florida Citrus Sauce

Yields 1 cup

1 grapefruit 

2 oranges 

1 lemon

1 lime 

1 tangerine

2 kumquats

1 stalk lemongrass (chopped)

1 Tbs. fresh chopped ginger

1 Tbs. coriander seeds

1 Tbs. fennel seeds

2 shallots (minced)

2 Tbs. rice vinegar

2 Tbs. fresh-pressed peanut oil

3/4 cup grape seed oil

Zest, segment and juice the grapefruit, oranges, lemon, lime and tangerine. Thinly slice the kumquats and remove their seeds. Place the segments and the kumquats in a bowl. Place the citrus juice, zest, ginger, lemongrass, coriander, fennel and shallots in a small pot to reduce over a medium flame. When the juice has reduced to just before a paste, press it through a fine mesh strainer. Add it to the bowl with the segments and whisk in the vinegar and oils. Season with salt and fresh ground pepper.


