Title: 
Multi-Grain Pastas Provide Delicious Ways To Add Whole Grains To Your Diet

Word Count:
466

Summary:
Say good-bye to grit. Replacing regular pasta with a whole grain variety no longer means sacrificing great taste. The new generation of multigrain pastas offers whole grain nutrition with delicious taste and texture.


Keywords:
Multi-Grain Pastas Provide Delicious Ways To Add Whole Grains To Your Diet


Article Body:
Say good-bye to grit. Replacing regular pasta with a whole grain variety no longer means sacrificing great taste. The new generation of multi-grain pastas offers whole grain nutrition with delicious taste and texture. 

"Whole grains are critical to a balanced, healthy diet, as evidenced by the FDA's new dietary guidelines," said Lisa Sasson, a clinical assistant professor at New York University's Department of Nutrition, Food Studies and Public Health. "The good news is that health-conscious parents have more ways to incorporate whole grains into their families' diets. Multi-grain pasta, which is versatile and economical, is ideal for consumers who want to prepare quick and nutritious meals that even kids will love."

Containing more than 80 percent whole grains, one serving of the multi-grain pastas from Mueller's, Golden Grain and Heartland provide 100 percent of the USDA daily recommendation of whole grains and are certified by the American Heart Association. Available in penne, rotini and spaghetti shapes, their subtle toasty and nutty taste complements both white and red sauces. Here are some ways to enjoy them:


Spinach Rotini Salad


12 oz Mueller's, Golden Grain or Heartland Multi Grain Rotini

4 oz fresh baby spinach

1/2 cup Parmesan cheese

1/2 cup Italian dressing

3/4 cup tomatoes, diced

4 oz regular or turkey pepperoni, julienned

8 oz cheddar cheese, shredded

salt and pepper to taste


Cook rotini per package directions. Rinse with cold water and drain. Combine all remaining ingredients in a large mixing bowl. Add pasta and mix well. 


Confetti Penne Pasta


12 oz Mueller's, Golden Grain or Heartland Multi Grain Penne

1/3 cup olive oil

1 Tbsp chopped garlic 

3/4 cup red bell pepper, diced

3/4 cup celery, diced

1 cup fresh mushrooms, sliced

2 tsp lemon pepper seasoning

2 cups broccoli florets, cut small and cooked

1 lb cooked boneless, skinless chicken breast, diced

1 cup chicken broth 


Cook penne per package directions. Drain, cover and set aside. In large skillet, heat oil and add garlic, red pepper, celery, mushrooms and lemon pepper seasoning. Cook until tender, about 5 minutes. Add cooked pasta, broccoli, chicken and broth to skillet. Toss to heat through and serve immediately.


Baked Spaghetti Supper


12 oz Mueller's, Golden Grain or Heartland Multi Grain Spaghetti

1/3 cup olive oil

3 cloves garlic, minced or 1 tsp garlic powder

1 medium onion, chopped

2 bell peppers, chopped

1 Tbsp dried basil

6 cups tomato spaghetti sauce

1/2 lb cooked turkey sausage, sliced

2 cups Mozzarella cheese, shredded

1 cup Parmesan cheese, grated


Cook spaghetti according to package directions. Drain, cover and set aside. Preheat oven to 350ºF. Heat oil in large skillet on medium heat. Add garlic, onion, peppers and basil. Saute 3 minutes. Add sauce and sausage. Simmer 5 minutes. Spread 1 cup of the sauce mixture into bottom of a 13" x 9" baking dish. Layer half of the spaghetti, half of the remaining sauce mixture, 1 cup Mozzarella cheese and 1/2 cup Parmesan cheese. Repeat layering. Bake for 15-20 minutes. Let stand 10 minutes before serving.



Multi-Grain Spinach Rotini Salad


