Title: 
Mutually Beneficial Partnerships Require Unique Corporate Gifts

Word Count:
538

Summary:
A unique corporate gift like smoked sockeye salmon is well received for its’ taste, and it is a classy gift too. Alaska smoked salmon is a gourmet gift that some people would not normally purchase for themselves. It is remarkably affordable and a healthy alternative to chocolate.
 
Encouraged people achieve the best; dominated people achieve second best; neglected people achieve the least. – Author Unknown
 
Very few businesses stand completely alone. Partnerships are dev...


Keywords:
Unique corporate gift, smoked salmon, smoked salmon dip


Article Body:
A unique corporate gift like smoked sockeye salmon is well received for its’ taste, and it is a classy gift too. Alaska smoked salmon is a gourmet gift that some people would not normally purchase for themselves. It is remarkably affordable and a healthy alternative to chocolate.
 
Encouraged people achieve the best; dominated people achieve second best; neglected people achieve the least. – Author Unknown
 
Very few businesses stand completely alone. Partnerships are developed that utilize individual business strength to enhance the overall effectiveness of each. A manufacturer might link with a distribution firm allowing both to benefit financially from the shared arrangement.
 
This may be one of the best reasons to consider a unique corporate gift that acknowledges and celebrates the mutually beneficial relationship. A smoked salmon gift box lets your business partner know that you recognize and value a partnership that has allowed the targeted growth your company needs. Such a unique corporate gift is a well received symbol of respect and honor.
 
Each smoked salmon gift box is crafted with a natural cherry finish and the utmost in craftsmanship. A salmon is artistically inlayed in the wood and the result is an executive gift that includes 8 ounces of the finest Smoked Copper River sockeye salmon fillets. Your business partners will long remember your generosity and good taste. Such a gift lets your partners understand something important about you and your business - you exercise great care in both integrity and respect.
 
You have partnerships with people on your management team, peripheral business partners, customers and other inner office staff. Your business can not maintain optimal function without these team members participating in assisting in the success of your company. Any of these partners can be considered potential recipients of a value priced smoked salmon gift box.
 
The following recipe using smoked salmon may be used as an added personal touch when presenting this unique corporate gift to clients, staff or partners.
 
Appetizer Salmon Dip

1/6 cup extra Virgin olive oil
1 red onion, chopped 
1/2 green pepper, chopped 
1 cloves garlic, minced 
1 cups heavy cream 
2 scallions, chopped 
1/4 cup fresh parsley, sliced
1/2 teaspoon dried basil 
1/2 teaspoon dried thyme 
1 teaspoon salt (or salt substitute)
1 teaspoon course black pepper 
1/2 teaspoon white pepper 
½ teaspoon hot chili sauce 
8 oz. Smoked Salmon, chopped
 
Heat the oil in large saucepan. Sauté the garlic, onions, and green pepper for about 10 minutes, until the vegetables soften. Reduce heat, pour in cream and slowly bring to a simmer. Stir in the scallions, parsley, basil, thyme, and continue to simmer until the sauce has thickened and reduced by a quarter. Add the Salmon, and chili sauce and let cook for an additional 5 minutes. Then serve to your grateful guests.
 
Our smoked salmon gift boxes are packed without using preservatives and are fully ready to eat with a smoked flavor that will get noticed and remain a topic of conversation for time to come. It may, in fact, be the best received gift you have ever given.
 
Each individual you work with would love to have confirmation that their efforts are noticed and appreciated. Well timed and unique corporate gifts like smoked salmon may result in a renewed and energized workplace. You shouldn’t be surprised if productivity rises due to improved morale.


