Title: 
Peanut Butter: Think Outside the Sandwich

Word Count:
373

Summary:
Peanut butter has been a pantry and sandwich staple in households for generations. However this beloved American icon is more than a spread destined to partner with jelly. Peanut butter is also a nutrient dense food that is sometimes overlooked as part of a healthy lifestyle. Incorporating peanut butter into a variety of dishes and snacks can help add important nutrients to one's diet.


Keywords:
Peanut Butter: Think Outside the Sandwich


Article Body:
Peanut butter has been a pantry and sandwich staple in households for generations. However this beloved American icon is more than a spread destined to partner with jelly. Peanut butter is also a nutrient dense food that is sometimes overlooked as part of a healthy lifestyle. Incorporating peanut butter into a variety of dishes and snacks can help add important nutrients to one's diet. 

One serving of peanut butter -; just two tablespoons -; provides eight grams of protein, two grams of fiber, 10 percent of the Reference Daily Intake (RDI) of vitamin E and 12 percent of the RDI of magnesium. Additionally, the USDA's new MyPyramid recognizes the importance of varying dietary protein sources and suggests that peanut butter, along with nuts and other nut butters, may be substituted for meat or poultry in meals. Additionally, peanut butter is cholesterol free and contains zero grams of trans-fats per serving. 

A walk down the grocery store aisle reveals a wide selection of peanut butters to meet different tastes and dietary needs. Creamy, crunchy or with a touch of honey, Smucker's® Natural Peanut Butter and Jif® Peanut Butter brands offer an assortment of choices, including lower salt and reduced fat varieties. 

Think outside the sandwich and spread peanut butter on apple slices for a delicious snack, put a dollop in yogurt or even stir into hot oatmeal. Peanut butter can also be the basis of sauces that can turn plain noodles or chicken into a delightfully exotic dish as in this recipe for Asian Noodles with Chili-Nut Sauce.


ASIAN NOODLES WITH CHILI-NUT SAUCE


3 tablespoons Smucker's® 

Natural Chunky Peanut 

Butter, Jif® Extra Crunchy 

or Simply Jif® Peanut Butter

1/4 cup reduced-sodium soy sauce

1-2 tablespoons Chinese chili oil 

1/4 cup rice vinegar

2 tablespoons dark brown sugar

1 (10 ounce) package Chinese 

wheat noodles or 1/2 pound 

package whole wheat spaghetti, 

cooked according to package 

directions

4 green onions, sliced diagonally 

into 1/4 inch slices

1/2 cup chopped red bell pepper

Toasted sesame seeds for garnish


Combine peanut butter, soy sauce, chili oil, rice vinegar and brown sugar in a large bowl. Stir to blend well. Toss drained noodles with chili-nut sauce, onions and peppers. Cool noodles to room temperature. To serve, place noodles on serving platter, garnish with sesame seeds. For a variation, add 2 cups chopped cooked chicken.


