Title: 
Please, Sir, I'd Like S'more...Ice Cream, That Is

Word Count:
291

Summary:
Any time of year can be a great time to dig into a bowl of ice cream. As the weather outside warms up, the luscious taste of ice cream can be a tantalizingly terrific way to satisfy your sweet tooth.


Keywords:
Please, Sir, I'd Like S'more...Ice Cream, That Is


Article Body:
Any time of year can be a great time to dig into a bowl of ice cream. As the weather outside warms up, the luscious taste of ice cream can be a tantalizingly terrific way to satisfy your sweet tooth.

Two people who really know the scoop when it comes to ice cream are Ray Karam, the official Tastemaster, and Nola Krieg, Operations Manager of Product Development (aka Tastemaster Apprentice) of Cold Stone Creamery. With more than 25 years in the dairy industry, Karam is responsible for researching and developing the company's indulgent combinations and flavors of ice cream, mix-ins and cakes. Krieg is fondly known as the Tastemaster's right-hand woman, lending support and providing valuable feedback to development and operational tasks surrounding new products.

With Karam's extensive background in food science and Krieg's expertise in culinary arts, they have created this fun, anytime recipe for s'mores with a twist-taking advantage of one of Cold Stone's new "to go" options, the 48-oz. Everybody's. 

Ice Cream Creation S'mores

Serves 4

1 Everybody's (48-oz. size) Cold Stone Ice Cream Creation (suggested creations: Coffee Lovers Only, Peanut Butter Cup Perfection or Founder's Favorite) 

4 graham crackers (8 small squares) 

4 teaspoons fudge syrup 

4 teaspoons marshmallow fluff

1. Break a graham wafer in half, forming 2 squares. 

2. Coat one square with a teaspoon of fluff and the other with a teaspoon of fudge. 

3. Place a rounded scoop of the ice cream creation in the center of the fluff-coated wafer. 

4. Place the fudge-coated wafer on top of the ice cream scoop. 

5. Gently press down to spread out the ice cream. 

6. Place on a tray and freeze for a minimum of 1 hour before serving. 

A variation on the old campground favorite, Ice Cream Creation S'mores can be a cool way to tickle your taste buds.


