Title: 
Red And Luscious Cherries Make Tempting Desserts. Easy-to-prepare Cherry Spumoni can be a hit at parties, reunions and backyard barbecues.

Word Count:
261

Summary:
It's a great time to enjoy one of America's favorite fruits. Whether on their own, baked in a pie, mixed in yogurt parfaits or made into ice cream, cherries are popular with people young and old.


Keywords:
Red And Luscious Cherries Make Tempting Desserts. Easy-to-prepare Cherry Spumoni can be a hit at parties, reunions and backyard barbecues.


Article Body:
It's a great time to enjoy one of America's favorite fruits. Whether on their own, baked in a pie, mixed in yogurt parfaits or made into ice cream, cherries are popular with people young and old.

Tart cherries, the kind most famous in pies, are seldom sold fresh because they are highly perishable.

However, canned, frozen and dried tart cherries are available all year long at supermarkets and specialty food stores. Here are some quick and delicious ways to enjoy tart cherries:

&#8226; For an energy-packed treat on summer outings, combine dried tart cherries, chopped dates, semisweet chocolate chips and honey-roasted peanuts.

&#8226; Quench your summer thirst by combining 100 percent tart cherry juice, red grapefruit juice and lemon-lime carbonated beverage. Serve over ice.

&#8226; Add color and flavor to summer fruit salads with canned or frozen tart cherries. Peaches, kiwi fruit, watermelon, cantaloupe and cherries are a great combination. Lemonade concentrate makes a good dressing for this salad.

This easy frozen treat is sure to be a hit with family or friends.

Cherry Spumoni

2 cups heavy cream

2/3 cup (7 ounces) sweetened condensed milk

1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract

1 (21-ounce) can cherry pie filling

1/2 cup slivered almonds, chopped

1/2 cup miniature semisweet chocolate chips

Combine heavy cream, sweetened condensed milk and vanilla in a large bowl; mix well. Refrigerate 30 minutes. Remove from refrigerator and beat with electric mixer or wire whisk just until soft peaks form; do not overbeat. Fold in cherry pie filling, almonds and chocolate chips. Spoon into an 8 x 8 x 2-inch pan. Cover and freeze 4 hours, or until firm. Scoop into serving dishes. Makes about 1 quart.


