Title: 
Rise And Dine With Mexican Avocado Combos

Word Count:
306

Summary:
Breakfast made with vibrant flavors of Mexico is a lively way to start any day.


Keywords:
Rise And Dine With Mexican Avocado Combos


Article Body:
Breakfast made with vibrant flavors of Mexico is a lively way to start any day. Sautéed onion and bell pepper, Jack cheese, cilantro and a hint of hot pepper sauce transform eggs into a feast, while avocado cubes supply the crowning touch.

Alternatively, substitute fresh or frozen corn kernels for the bell pepper, and fold diced avocado into scrambled eggs just before serving. Another great breakfast or brunch idea: Mix chopped avocado into your favorite salsa, and serve over a cheese omelet.

Hass avocados from Mexico, in plentiful supply all year long, are ideal for these morning specialties. Mash a ripe avocado with chopped onion, lemon juice, salt and pepper, spread over toasted bagels and, if you like, top with smoked salmon. This spread is not only tastier and more colorful than cream cheese, but more healthful-because two-thirds of the fat in Hass avocados consists of monounsaturated fat, the same cholesterol-lowering "good fat" as olive oil. 

Mexican Avocado 

And Egg Scramble

1 fully ripened Mexican Hass avocado 

1 tablespoon vegetable oil

1/2 cup chopped onion

1 cup diced red pepper 

6 eggs

2 tablespoons chopped fresh cilantro

3/4 teaspoon hot red pepper sauce

1/2 teaspoon salt

3/4 cup broken tortilla chips 

1/2 cup shredded Jack cheese 

Cut avocado lengthwise around the middle; twist to separate halves and scoop out flesh. Dice avocado and set aside. Heat oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat. Add onion and bell pepper; cook and stir until onion begins to brown, about 4 minutes. Whisk together eggs, cilantro, hot sauce and salt. Add to skillet along with tortilla chip pieces. Cook and stir gently until eggs are set but still soft. Sprinkle cheese on top. Cover; remove from heat; let stand until cheese melts, 1 minute. Divide mixture among four plates; top with reserved avocado. 

YIELD: 4 servings

Rich and creamy avocado over eggs is a tasty way to jump-start the day.


