Title: 
Savor Nutritious Twist On American Classic

Word Count:
279

Summary:
Feeding your family on a tight schedule doesn't mean you can't eat well. Take advantage of your favorite fruits and vegetables available year-round in cans.


Keywords:
Savor Nutritious Twist On American Classic


Article Body:
Feeding your family on a tight schedule doesn't mean you can't eat well. Take advantage of your favorite fruits and vegetables available year-round in cans.

Canned foods can be a great way to add fruits and vegetables to your diet. Because they provide convenient nutrition, canned foods can help you meet the new 2005 Dietary Guidelines for Americans.

Canned foods are pre-cooked and pre-cut, saving time in the kitchen. They can also remain on the shelf for up to two years without losing nutrients.

Studies from the University of Massachusetts and the University of Illinois confirm that canned foods are nutritionally comparable to cooked fresh and frozen varieties.

Sweet potatoes aren't just for the holidays. Rich in vitamin A, canned sweet potatoes are especially delicious in this recipe for Gingered Sweet Potato-Apple Salad, which was developed by the Canned Food Alliance and meets Produce for Better Health Foundation nutritional standards that maintain fruits and vegetables as healthy foods. Try this nutrient-dense twist on an American favorite.

Gingered Sweet 

Potato-Apple Salad

1 can (15 ounces) sweet potatoes or yams, in light syrup, drained and cubed

1 can (8 ounces) pineapple tidbits, drained

1 apple, cored and diced

1/2 cup diced celery

1/2 cup coarsely chopped cashews

1/4 cup honey mustard dressing

2 teaspoons freshly grated ginger

6 cups mixed salad greens

Combine sweet potatoes, pineapple, apple, celery and cashews in a large bowl. In a small bowl, combine salad dressing and ginger; pour over sweet potato mixture; toss lightly. Cover and chill for at least 1 hour. Serve over salad greens. 

Makes 6 servings.

Nutritional information per serving: calories: 222, total fat: 7.6g, saturated fat: 1.4g, % calories from fat: 29%, % calories from saturated fat: 5%, protein: 4g, carbohydrates: 38g, cholesterol: 0mg, dietary fiber: 5g, sodium: 148mg.


