Title: 
Shrimp Cheesecake

Word Count:
479

Summary:
Time after time I wondered about making this particular cheesecake; will it be good or will it be a fly by night idea?


Keywords:
cheesecake,shrimp cheesecake,cheesecake recipes,recipe,recipes 


Article Body:
Time after time I wondered about making this particular cheesecake; will it be good or will it be a fly by night idea? After all, who ever heard of putting shrimp into cheesecake?! Well it turned out to be a fantastic idea and you just can't believe how good it really is... 
1 pounds cream cheese(get a good solid cream cheese not one of those presoftened ones)
1/2 pound sour cream
1 1/2 pounds fresh medium shrimp
1/3 cup green bell peppers chopped fine
1/3 cup red bell peppers chopped fine
1 large clove garlic minced
2 ounces butter
3 medium eggs
1/2 cup all purpose flour
1/3 cup heavy cream
6 ounces shredded New York sState sharp Cheese pepper as you like it.


Lining For Pan:
10 ounces dried unflavored bread crumbs
6 ounces melted butter


Tomato Sauce:
1/4 cup chopped onions
1 medium bay leaf
1 1/2 teaspoons dried italian seasoning
1 clove minced garlic
2 tablespoon olive oil
28 ounces crushed tomatoes (canned)


Cook, clean, and chop your shrimp. 

Saute peppers, garlic, onions, in 2 ounces melted butter for 6-7 minutes on medium heat, add your shrimp and cook for 2 more minutes, drain well and put aside. 

Beat your cream cheese so it is smooth, then add your sour cream and mix until fairly fluffy, add your eggs one at a time mixing well after each one. 

On low speed gradually add the heavy cream until blended. Stir in the shrimp and vegitable mixture and sharp cheese now add the pepper. 

Prepair your 10 inch x 2 inch springform pan: 

In a medium mixing bowl place your bread crumbs and your melted butter, blend them together well. 

Using melted butter and a pastry brush butter the sides of your springform pan. 

press the buttered bread crumbs to the sides of the pan and the remainder to the bottom of the pan. 

Pour the cheesecake into the pan and place in a preheated 300 degree oven for 55 minutes or until jelled( it might be slightly wiggly in the center but thats OK, but not mutch ) after 55 minutes shut OFF the oven and let it remain in there for 3 hours, then remove it and let it cool, when cool, remove it from th pan. 

Prepair your tomato sauce while your cheesecake is cooling: 

Saute your onions, garlic,and italian seasoning,and bay leaf in hot oil until vegitables are tender, add your tomatoes, simmer about 30 minutes uncovered on low heat or until you reach your desired consistency, remove the bay leaf from your sauce. 

Serve hot over room temperature cheesecake. 

About The Author 

Andrew Krause is a Chef and Pastry Chef for over 30 years, at persent I own a Gourmet Bakery called The Cheese Confectioner. You can visit my site at Free Gourmet Cheesecake Recipes 

NOTE: You are welcome to reprint this article online as long as it remains complete and unaltered (including the about the author info at the end). Please a send a copy of your reprint to pastrie@verizon.net


