Title: 
Sleepyheads Love Cookie Pancakes. Delicious cookie pancakes are even more fun topped with jam or whipped cream.

Word Count:
235

Summary:
Here's the newest way to serve up some fun at breakfast. Turn everybody's favorite fluffy pancakes into scrumptious Cookie Pancakes.


Keywords:
Sleepyheads Love Cookie Pancakes. Delicious cookie pancakes are even more fun topped with jam or whipped cream.


Article Body:
Here's the newest way to serve up some fun at breakfast. Turn everybody's favorite fluffy pancakes into scrumptious Cookie Pancakes. Think of the happy possibilities--Chocolate Chip Cookie Pancakes, Snickerdoodle Pancakes, Oatmeal Cookie Pancakes, with aromas guaranteed to get your sleepyheads out of bed and racing to the breakfast table.

All you do is add a few fresh ingredients to pancake mix and then get creative. The best news? These cookie pancakes are so delicious, your family can either dress them up with jam or whipped cream, or keep it simple on busy mornings and just grab some to go.

Breakfast has never been more fun! 

Chocolate Chip Cookie Pancakes

2 cups Krusteaz Buttermilk Pancake Mix

1/4 cup light brown sugar, packed

1/2 cup mini chocolate chips

1/4 teaspoon salt 

11/4 cups milk 

1 egg

3 tablespoons melted butter

1 teaspoon vanilla

In medium bowl, stir together pancake mix, brown sugar, chocolate chips and salt. Add milk, egg, butter and vanilla. Stir with a whisk until blended. For each pancake, pour 2 tablespoons batter onto lightly greased and preheated 375°F griddle (medium heat). Cook 11/2 minutes per side, turning only once.

Snickerdoodle Cookie Pancakes

Prepare chocolate chip cookie pancakes as directed, substituting 1 teaspoon cinnamon for the chocolate chips. Serve pancakes with additional butter and sprinkle with cinnamon and sugar topping.

Oatmeal Cookie Pancakes

Prepare chocolate chip cookie pancakes as directed, substituting 3/4 cup rolled oats (quick or old-fashioned) for the chocolate chips and adding 2 teaspoons cinnamon.


