Title: 
Smart dining save money

Word Count:
290

Summary:
Just like all social events, dining out constantly comes with a price.  One way to empty your bank account quickly is to dine out regularly.


Keywords:
secret restaurant recipes, restaurant recipes, recipes restaurants, free, olive garden restaurant recipes, top secret recipes restaurant, new restaurant recipes,for style fried rice, chinese food style


Article Body:
There are numerous excuses for not packing a lunch or staying home and preparing a meal.   For many it is much more than just the consumption of a meal-dining out is a social event.  Dining out is relaxing, different, satisfying, and socially engaging.  One way to empty your bank account quickly is to dine out regularly.
Just like all social events, dining out constantly comes with a price.  You might be shocked if you add up the amount of money you spend dining out regularly.  I challenge you to conduct a personal experiment- we all can benefit from saving money.  Keep track of your dining habits for two weeks.  Everyone loves dining out, but for this experiment consider this compromise.  Just eat out once or twice a week, and for the rest of your meals pack lunches and snacks.  Prepare your morning and evening meals.   You’ll be shocked to learn that you can prepare several   meals and snacks for the price of one restaurant visit.
Just like every other life activity, balance is essential.  The money saved from constantly dining out can really add up.  Over thirty dollars a week can be saved easily.  That’s over a hundred dollars a month in savings.   Geez, what are you waiting for!  
If you’re at all like me, I know nothing about cooking.  So, what to do?  Well, there are volumes of books, videos, and television shows that teach you how to make delicious, nutritious, economical meals.  Not only will your pocket thank you, but your stomach will as well!
A trip to the market, and an extra twenty minutes in the kitchen will save you time and money in the long run, and isn’t that appealing to everyone?


