Title: 
Some Irish Recipes to Celebrate St. Patrick's Day

Word Count:
543

Summary:
St. Patrick's Day is March 17th, and it is a 'day for wearing green' and other Irish traditions.  And it is a holiday for all ages.  Here are some entertaining ideas to use on St. Patrick's Day.


Keywords:
st pats, st patricks day, st patrick's day, dublin, ireland, holidays, travel, belfast


Article Body:
St. Patrick’s Day is March 17th, and it is a “day for wearing green” and other Irish traditions. Even though the patron saint St. Patrick was not born in Ireland, everything that is Green (which symbolizes spring and the prospering of the crops), fun and Irish can be worn or used to celebrate this holiday. And it is a holiday for all ages.  Here are some entertaining ideas to use on St. Patrick’s Day.

A few drops of green food coloring goes into anything you might want green, even a mug of draft beer. Anything made with Irish cream or Irish whiskey has the Irish spirit, too.

Authentic Corned beef and cabbage

Corned beef brisket, about 4 lbs.
1 juice orange
18-20 whole cloves
1 tsp. whole yellow mustard seeds
1/2 tsp. caraway seeds
1/2 tsp. whole black peppercorns
1/2 tsp. whole coriander 

Put corned beef brisket into large pot for cooking. Take cloves and insert them, then sprinkle remaining spices on. Cover brisket with water, bring to boil, then simmer for 3 hours or until tender. 

3 lbs. small potatoes, peeled 
2 1/2 lbs. carrots, peeled and cut into large pieces 
1 medium head cabbage

About 40 minutes before beef is finished, boil a large pot of water and cook potatoes and carrots. Add cabbage about 10 minutes before you're ready to serve as it doesn't need to cook long. Drain vegetables. 

Arrange meat and vegetables on a platter and serve with your favorite mustards. 


St. Patrick Day Cookie Pops (for the kids to make)

Box of Vanilla Wafers
Box of Popsicle sticks
Vanilla or chocolate frosting; or Peanut butter
Various decorations – chocolate chips, icing packs, assorted green candies, green sugar sprinkles, ju ju bees, sprinkles, etc.

Spread out ½ of the vanilla wafers, with the flat sides up on the plate.  Take the vanilla, chocolate icing, or peanut butter and spread across flat surface. Next, take a Popsicle stick and lay it down with the end in the middle of the cookie. Top with another vanilla wafer to make a sandwich.

Now the kids can get creative! Turn the cookie pop into a green shamrock; apply vanilla icing and draw with green icing pack; make a pot of gold with candies; anything you want!
They make a great treat for the kids to take to school! 


Easy Hot Whiskey Punch (for the adults) Serves 1 

1 measure of whiskey 
2 teaspoons white sugar 
4-6 cloves
2 slices fresh lemon 
7 oz. boiling water

Put whiskey, sugar cloves and lemon slices into a strong glass.  2. Pour on the boiling water until the sugar has dissolved.  3. Sip contentedly by a blazing fire. 


Irish Scones

1/2 cup butter
4 cups flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 cup sugar 
1 egg 
1 cup milk
Note: You can add raisins, dates or other dried fruits, if desired. 

Makes about 18 scones.

Preheat oven to 425°F. 

In a large bowl, combine butter and flour until crumbly. Add baking powder, salt and sugar. 
In a separate bowl, beat egg and milk. Mix into dry ingredients to make a dough. 
Turn onto floured surface and roll to one-inch thickness.  With a cookie cutter or the bottom of a drinking glass, cut dough into 2-inch rounds. Place on greased cookie sheet, about one inch apart and bake for 15 minutes. 

When serving your Irish creations don’t forget an Irish toast to bless the meal!


