Title: 
Stir, Bake And Mix Up Memorable Moments In The Kitchen

Word Count:
397

Summary:
No matter the cooking task at hand--whether it's rolling dough or mixing ingredients--getting children more involved in the kitchen is a great way to begin new traditions and spend good, quality time as a family.


Keywords:
Stir, Bake And Mix Up Memorable Moments In The Kitchen


Article Body:
No matter the cooking task at hand-whether it's rolling dough or mixing ingredients-getting children more involved in the kitchen is a great way to begin new traditions and spend good, quality time as a family. 

From baking cookies to stirring up pudding, introducing children to the joys of cooking begins with exciting, simple recipes. 

"As a mother of triplets, simplicity is key," said Christine Garboski, Manager at the Nestlé Culinary Center. "Fun, easy recipes teach cooking basics and inspire creativity."

In addition to using trouble-free recipes, here are a few more tips for getting children more involved in the kitchen.

&#8226; Unveil the inner chef. Teach the basic cooking fundamentals by allowing kids to measure ingredients, season recipes or brush marinade on pork chops or chicken before grilling, baking or sautéing.

&#8226; Sticky, drippy and just plain icky. Avoid unnecessary messes and spills by rinsing and stacking used dishes in the sink as you cook, and storing ingredients away after using.

&#8226; No boo-boos. Ensure safety by using blunt scissors, plastic knives or serrated dinner knives when slicing meats, fruits and vegetables. 

&#8226; Keep it simple. Remember that kids have short attention spans and lose interest quickly. Prepare easy recipes such as the one that follows for Alphabet Cookies. 

Kids will love using the cookie cutters, as well as frosting and decorating each letter with tube icing and colorful candy sprinkles.

Look for more kid-friendly recipes and cooking tips on VeryBestKids.com.

Alphabet Cookies

(Makes about 2 dozen cookies)


All-purpose flour

1 package (18 ounces) Nestlé® Toll House® Refrigerated Mini Sugar Cookie Bar Dough

3-inch alphabet cookie cutters

2 cups powdered sugar

1/2 cup Strawberry Flavor Nestlé® Nesquik® Syrup

1 to 2 tablespoons water

Small tubes decorator icing 

Decorator candies


Preheat oven to 325° F. Sprinkle flour over cutting board or kitchen work surface. Break off two rows of cookie dough. Roll out dough to about 1/8-inch thickness, using additional flour as needed to prevent sticking. Press cookie cutters into dough and transfer letters to ungreased baking sheets with spatula. 

Bake for 8 to 10 minutes or until golden. Cool on baking sheets for 2 minutes; remove to wire racks to cool completely. 

Combine sugar, Nesquik and water in medium bowl; beat with whisk or hand-held mixer until smooth. Spread icing over cookies. Allow icing to dry before adding any additional decorations. 



Making cookies together is a recipe for family fun.



Per CB - only recipe title bold. Recipe is flush left


