Title: 
Summer's Best Accessory Is Yellow...And Delicious

Word Count:
298

Summary:
This summer's best beverages will incorporate flavors that capture the essence of the sun and infuse the season's most abundant ingredients


Keywords:
Summer's Best Accessory Is Yellow...And Delicious


Article Body:
As the nation enjoys the warmer weather, everyone from fashionistas to foodies are choosing yellow as the "it" color for accent. This summer, incorporate yellow into your own daily routine: bring a little sunshine indoors with beverages traditionally enjoyed during the warmer months (like iced tea or lemonade), fill a vase with lemons for a quick centerpiece, or put SPLENDA® No Calorie Sweetener packets in your sugar bowl. 

This summer's best beverages will incorporate flavors that capture the essence of the sun and infuse the season's most abundant ingredients. Aficionados can look to celebrity mixologist and cookbook author Bruce Weinstein for a fresh twist on beverage classics.

His recipe for Chamomile-Pomegranate Tea gives traditional iced tea, a summertime BBQ favorite, a boost of pizzazz. Sweetened with SPLENDA® No Calorie Sweetener, this crowd pleaser refreshes and quenches thirst, while decreasing sugar and calorie consumption.

Chamomile-Pomegranate Tea

Pomegranate juice has powerful antioxidants, so this punch is both relaxing and healthful.

Makes 4 (1-cup) servings

Preparation time: 5 minutes 

4 chamomile tea bags

3 cups boiling water

1 cup pomegranate juice

1/3 cup SPLENDA® No Calorie Sweetener, Granular or 9 SPLENDA® No Calorie Sweetener, Packets

Garnish: fresh mint sprigs 

Place tea bags in a large heat-proof measuring cup or pitcher; pour boiling water over tea bags. Steep 1 hour, or until cooled to room temperature. Remove and discard tea bags. 

Add pomegranate juice and SPLENDA® Granular or SPLENDA® Packets, stirring until SPLENDA® dissolves. Serve over ice; garnish with mint sprigs. 

Nutrition Information per Serving 

Dietary Exchanges 1/2 Fruit

Serving Size: 1 cup 

Calories 45; Calories from Fat 0; Total Fat 0g; Saturated Fat 0g; Trans Fat 0g; Cholesterol 0mg; Sodium 10mg; Total Carbohydrate 11g; Dietary Fiber 0g; Sugars 9g; Protein 0g.

This recipe, when compared to a traditional recipe, has a 55% reduction in calories, a 56% reduction in carbohydrates and a 65% reduction in sugars.


