Title: 
Sweet Vidalia® Onions Are The Pick Of The Season by Maria Walls, R.D., senior nutritionist, Weight Watchers International, Inc.

Word Count:
252

Summary:
If you're in the mood for something sweet, consider an onion.


Keywords:
Sweet Vidalia® Onions Are The Pick Of The Season by Maria Walls, R.D., senior nutritionist, Weight Watchers International, Inc.


Article Body:
If you're in the mood for something sweet, consider an onion. Vidalia® Onions are packed with flavor, yet are mild and sweet enough to eat like fruit. 

A good source of vitamin C, fat-free, cholesterol-free and sodium-free-no matter how you slice this onion, it's delicious. That is why it was chosen as the Weight Watchers® Pick of the Season this spring. 

Vidalia® Onion, Mushroom & Pepperjack Quesadillas

Makes 4 servings

1 teaspoon olive oil

1 large Vidalia Onion, thinly sliced

2 cups sliced fresh white mushrooms

2 garlic cloves, minced

1 teaspoon sugar

1/2 teaspoon salt

1/2 cup frozen or drained canned corn kernels

1 tablespoon chopped fresh cilantro

4 fat-free flour tortillas, 8" diameter each

3/4 cup shredded pepperjack cheese

1. In a large nonstick skillet, heat oil over high heat. Add the onion, mushrooms, garlic, sugar and salt; cook, stirring frequently, until vegetables begin to soften, about 3 minutes. Add corn; cook, stirring frequently, until mushrooms are tender and onions are lightly brown, about 5 minutes. Transfer mixture to a bowl; stir in cilantro.

2. Arrange tortillas on a work surface and spread the lower half of each with 1/4 of the onion mixture (about 1/2 cup). Sprinkle each with 3 tablespoons of the cheese. Fold top half of the tortilla over filling and press lightly to seal.

3. Wipe out skillet with a paper towel and return to high heat. Add 2 quesadillas to skillet and cook, turning once, until cheese melts and tortillas are lightly browned. Repeat with the 2 remaining quesadillas.

POINTS® value per serving: 6, 289 Calories, 8g Fat, 3g Fiber. 

Full-flavored VidaliaÆ Onions are sweet enough to eat like fruit.


