Title: 
Swing Into Spring With A Unique Recipe Pairing

Word Count:
357

Summary:
When thinking about which dishes to serve--at a picnic, family meal or other social occasion--it may be helpful to consider simple, delicious pairings that are full of flavor.


Keywords:
Swing Into Spring With A Unique Recipe Pairing


Article Body:
With spring in full swing, there are plenty of occasions to celebrate-and even more occasions to dig into nature's bountiful harvest. When thinking about which dishes to serve-at a picnic, family meal or other social occasion-it may be helpful to consider simple, delicious pairings that are full of flavor.

Adding fruit to any dish is an easy way to tickle the taste buds and add lively color. Currently in season, fresh California avocados are both delicious and versatile. They can be added to dozens of springtime dishes, from omelets and crêpes to salads and sandwiches. California avocados are grown in an ideal climate and their creamy taste and velvety texture are simply sublime for springtime meals. 

Also, don't be afraid to try new food pairings that play well together, like this quick and easy Avocado Crêpe-Wrap that pairs the slightly sweet flavor of Frieda's® French-Style Crêpes with delicious avocados. Using ready-made crêpes cuts your kitchen time in half, making this tasty combination great for any holiday celebration or for an everyday brunch, lunch, snack or dinner.

Fresh California Avocado Crêpe-Wrap

11/2 cups diced Fresh California Avocados

1/2 cup diced cherry or grape tomatoes

1 tablespoon diced red onion

1/2 cup ranch-style dressing

4 to 6 Frieda's® French-Style Crêpes

1 cup shredded, smoked, cooked chicken or cooked, chilled crabmeat (optional)

Salt and pepper to taste

1/2 cup prepared salsa (for garnish)

Gently toss avocados, tomatoes and onion in a medium bowl. Pour salad dressing over vegetables and toss gently to combine. Toss in chicken or crab, if desired. 

To assemble, place approximately two tablespoons of the avocado mixture onto the center of a crêpe. Fold crêpe in half, bottom to top, with fold at bottom and slightly uneven edge at top. Roll left to right, starting from bottom left corner, to create a cone shape with opening at top. Repeat with each crêpe. Place wraps on a serving plate. If desired, place a small dish of salsa in the center of the serving dish for dipping.

Makes 4-6 servings.

California avocados can be a lively way to add color and flavor to a variety of light springtime dishes.


