Title: 
Tailgating Fun With Shrimp

Word Count:
299

Summary:
Football season means party time, and nothing is more fun than tailgating with friends before the big game.


Keywords:
Tailgating Fun With Shrimp


Article Body:
Football season means party time, and nothing is more fun than tailgating with friends before the big game. 

Joe Cahn, the self-proclaimed "commissioner of tailgating," suggests celebrating in style with Wild American shrimp, a finger food that easily complements beer, wine and soft drinks. 

"Wild American shrimp go great with tailgating because it's easy, simple and good," said Cahn, who has driven 250,000 miles visiting thousands of cities and eaten his way through more than 370 tailgate parties.

Wild American shrimp is caught off the Gulf and South Atlantic coasts. Much of the shrimp consumers eat is pond-raised and imported.

"You have a choice and may not realize you are eating shrimp grown in ponds and imported to this country," Cahn said. "And shrimp from the Gulf and Atlantic just tastes better." 

Wild American shrimp can be cooked ahead of time or grilled minutes before serving. Low in fat and packed with flavor, protein and cardio-protective omega-3 fatty acids, it gives party-goers plenty of energy to cheer for their favorite team. 

For your next tailgating celebration, try this easy recipe from Wild American Shrimp Inc.:


GRILLED TEXAS WILD AMERICAN SHRIMP

(Makes 6 servings)


1/4 cup vegetable oil

1/4 cup tequila

1/4 cup red wine vinegar

2 tablespoons Mexican lime juice

1 tablespoon ground red chiles

1/2 teaspoon salt

2 cloves garlic, finely chopped

1 red bell pepper, finely chopped

24 large raw shrimp, peeled and 

de-veined (tails left on)


Mix all ingredients except shrimp in shallow glass or plastic dish. Stir in shrimp. Cover and refrigerate for 1 hour.

Remove shrimp from marinade, reserving liquid. Thread 4 shrimp on each of six (8-inch) metal skewers. Grill over medium coals, turning once until pink, 2 minutes to 3 minutes on each side.

In a non-reactive saucepan, bring marinade to a boil. Reduce heat and simmer, uncovered, until bell pepper is tender, about 5 minutes. Serve with shrimp.


