Title: 
The Original Healthy Fast Food

Word Count:
294

Summary:
Just about everybody loves cheese. Loaded with calcium and protein, the "real thing" makes so many dishes more appealing, and mellow, nutty, smooth-melting Jarlsberg is particularly versatile, a family favorite.


Keywords:
The Original Healthy Fast Food


Article Body:
Just about everybody loves cheese. Loaded with calcium and protein, the "real thing" makes so many dishes more appealing, and mellow, nutty, smooth-melting Norwegian Jarlsberg-America's most popular specialty cheese-is particularly versatile, a family favorite. 

Made from part-skim milk, it's naturally low in calories, sodium and fat-newer Jarlsberg Lite, also great for snacking and cooking, has 50 percent less fat than regular Swiss.

Try this super simple Asparagus Rolls recipe-a surefire party idea. Here are a few other easy, creative, absolutely delicious uses for either classic Jarlsberg or Jarlsberg Lite.

&#8226; Roll cheese slices around fresh fruits or raw vegetables.

&#8226; Add cubes to salads and pastas-warm or cool.

&#8226; Shred on vegetables and into sauces.

&#8226; Enhance stuffings for meat, poultry or fish.

&#8226; Enrich egg dishes.

&#8226; Shred into mashed or "smashed" potatoes.

&#8226; Grill with peppers, squash, potatoes.

&#8226; Top burgers-beef, turkey or salmon.

&#8226; Make hors d'oeuvres, wraps and sandwiches galore.

2006 marks the 50th anniversary of Jarlsberg cheese-and the 125th of its source, Tine B.A. Norwegian Dairies, a farmers cooperative. One way to celebrate is to discover tasty new ways to give your menus pizazz-and a nutritional boost.

Asparagus Rolls With 

Ham and Jarlsberg

12 clean asparagus spears

12 thin slices lean ham

1 cup grated Jarlsberg cheese

Boil asparagus in lightly salted water 1 minute. With slotted spoon, dip spears in ice water to preserve color; drain on paper towels. Wrap a slice of ham around each spear and place on baking sheet lightly sprayed with oil. Sprinkle spears liberally with Jarlsberg and brown in 450° oven about 5 minutes. Serve immediately.

Serving suggestions: Place on grilled country bread brushed with olive oil and garlic and topped with chopped tomatoes plus a bit of sea salt, if desired.

Cheese, glorious cheese is just delicious when included in this Asparagus Rolls With Ham and Jarlsberg recipe.


