Title: 
The secret for a great barbecue is really in the sauce?

Word Count:
280

Summary:
We have hear a ton of time that the secreat for a great barbecue is in the sauce.  Well, it migth be!  What is a barbecue chicken, a rack of barbecue ribs or a t-bone steak without a accompaining sauce? Well I am sure this can spark a debate among different school of though ( or I should say barbecuing?...)  about the need of sauce, but my own personal experience has lead me to believe that the secret is in the sauce.


Keywords:
barbecue sauce recipe, barbecue recipe, barbecue sauce, bbq sauce, bbq recipe


Article Body:
We have hear a ton of time that the secreat for a great barbecue is in the sauce.  Well, it migth be!  What is a barbecue chicken, a rack of barbecue ribs or a t-bone steak without a accompaining sauce? Well I am sure this can spark a debate among different school of though ( or I should say barbecuing?...)  about the need of sauce, but my own personal experience has lead me to believe that the secret is in the sauce.  

Let me share with you four barbecue sauce recipes and you will be the judge!

Simple Pork Barbeque Sauce 
2/3 c. catsup
1/3 c. brown sugar
1 tbsp. Worcestershire
Hot sauce to taste
Rosemary (crumbled) to taste 

Mix all ingredients together. A good brand of hot sauce for flavor is Louisiana hot sauce. Brush on pork spare ribs, steaks, or chops while barbequeing or baking. 


Honey Tomato Barbeque Sauce 
1 pkg. taco seasoning
1/2 c. tomato sauce
2 tbsp. butter
1/2 tsp. salt
1-2 tbsp. soy sauce
1/8 tsp. oregano
1/4 tsp. pepper
1 sm. onion, diced 

Saute onions in butter until soft, about 5 minutes. Add all other ingredients and simmer another 5 minutes. Adds a little "zing" to your chicken or meat on the grill. 


Easy Barbeque Sauce  
1 tsp. Worcestershire sauce
3 tbsp. vinegar
1/4 c. catsup
1/8 tsp. pepper
4 tbsp. sugar
1/4 c. chopped onion

Mix together and cook over low heat 5 minutes. Easily doubled. 


Barbeque Sauce with a Spicy Kick
1/2 tsp. garlic powder
1/2 tsp. pepper
Dash of cayenne
1 tbsp. Worcestershire sauce
1 tsp. onion salt
2 tbsp. vinegar
1 tsp. sugar
2 tbsp. water
Red pepper
1/3 c. butter 

Heat all ingredients, stirring frequently until butter is melted.


As I said before, you'll be the judge.  Pick the one that best suits your barbecue venture and enjoy!


