Title: 
The Scoop On Ice Cream Summer Entertaining

Word Count:
353

Summary:
The scoop on ice cream is that it's an excellent choice for simple, delicious and, if desired, elegant entertaining.


Keywords:
The Scoop On Ice Cream Summer Entertaining


Article Body:
The scoop on ice cream is that it's an excellent choice for simple, delicious and, if desired, elegant entertaining. Whether it's a birthday, graduation, summer holiday or family celebration, ice cream and novelties can make any occasion special. 

Sundaes, root beer floats, banana splits, milkshakes and ice cream cones are always popular favorites. Serve an ice cream cake for a birthday or holiday celebration and see your guests smile. Add a scoop of ice cream on warm apple pie and you will delight everyone at the table. Serving ideas for ice cream are only limited by your imagination. 

Other popular entertaining ideas, particularly for children, are the many novelties selections in the frozen food aisle. Novelties are separately packaged single servings of a frozen dessert, such as ice cream sandwiches, fudge sticks and juice bars. Today's novelties offer fun, tasty, convenient dessert options for you, your family and guests.

June and July of each year mark the annual Ice Cream & Novelties Promotion, sponsored by the National Frozen & Refrigerated Foods Association (NFRA). That's when you will find special promotions and prices on your favorite summer treats.

NFRA has these suggestions on storing and handling ice cream and novelties:

&#8226; Make the ice cream aisle your last stop.

&#8226; Put ice cream products in a separate section of the grocery cart or place on top of other groceries.

&#8226; When your groceries are packed, request a freezer bag or additional brown paper bag to insulate your ice cream for the ride home.

&#8226; At home, don't allow the ice cream to repeatedly soften and refreeze.

&#8226; Store ice cream in the main part of the freezer, not on the door, where it is subject to more fluctuating temperatures.

Here is an elegant yet simple dessert for your summertime entertaining. 

Peaches & Cream Shake

16 oz Frozen Sliced Peaches

1 cup Frozen Non-Dairy Creamer, thawed

1 large scoop Vanilla Ice Cream or Frozen Yogurt

1/4 tsp. vanilla

Place all ingredients in a blender and process on high for 1-2 minutes, or until well-blended. Pour into serving glasses and garnish with a peach slice.

During June and July, you can play Family Freezer Pleasers Online Instant Win Game.


