Title: 
The best database site for all restaurants in New York City

Word Count:
338

Summary:
Finally you can browse online for restaurants in all
 categories, prices ranges, and types of cuisine in New York. These are the best
 restaurants with the greatest offers for every type of customer.


Keywords:
NYC Restaurants, New York Restaurants


Article Body:
If you are looking for a particular restaurant that suits not
 only your taste buds but your budget as well, then be sure to visit
 DiningFever. The site has great features, and is a comprehensive online
 database of the best restaurants in New York City, with a continuously
 updated restaurant list. 

The restaurant names are arranged in alphabetical order to make your
 search easier. For example, if you are looking for the restaurant Bice,
 all you have to do is scroll down the list of restaurant names until you
 see Bice. Once you click on it, a new window will show you all the
 information about the restaurant, such as the type of cuisine itoffers,
 contact details, hours of operation and even special restaurant features.
 Special offers, such as discounts, are also displayed on the
 restaurant page. There are also detailed instructions for redeeming those
 discounts.

The other details provided about each restaurant include customer
 ratings, and visitors to the site are encouraged to rate the restaurants
 they’ve been to. Ratings range from one to five points. The rating feature
 helps potential customers decide whether or not to try the restaurant.
 There is even a menu tab which links to the menu on the restaurant’s
 website, where you will find all of the restaurant’s dishes from
 appetizers to desserts.

The individual restaurant’s page also links to the restaurant’s website
 for more information, and there is also a separate link for a map, so
 you’ll have the location right at your fingertips.   You can see that
 DiningFever is a great tool for all foodies living in and visiting New
 York City. When planning your next trip to New York, check out thesite
 first so you can plan your dining experiences as well. And, while you’re
 in the city, if you decide to stay in one night,  check out the
 delivery section of DiningFever, where you will find details of all
 restaurants that are ready to deliver hot food right to your doorstep.


