Title: 
Tips to Jazz Up Your House for a Holiday Party

Word Count:
326

Summary:
How do you make your holiday party memorable? Create a festive atmosphere that will boost your guests' holiday cheer. 

Here are some tips to make your party stand out this season.


Keywords:
Tips to Jazz Up Your House for a Holiday Party


Article Body:
How do you make your holiday party memorable? Create a festive atmosphere that will boost your guests' holiday cheer. 

Here are some tips to make your party stand out this season.

* Start outdoors. Carry the theme of your party outdoors using wreaths, lights or lawn decorations.

* Light up the place. Hang strings of lights along walls and banisters. Turn off overhead lights to create a cozy atmosphere.

* Spruce up your table. A centerpiece - anything from a fancy floral arrangement to brightly colored candles - can add charm to the dining room table.

* Decorate with food. Many food, candy and drink companies sell holiday versions of their products. These festive foods and drinks act as decorations as well as fun treats for guests.

For instance, Welch's Sparkling Grape Juice Cocktail, available in red grape or white grape flavor, comes in a package of two nutcracker-themed bottles for the holidays. These decorative bottles add a whimsical touch to your holiday table, and the non-alcoholic juice cocktail can be enjoyed by all. Add some spice to this sparkling beverage with the following recipe.


SPARKLING PUNCH

(Makes about 30 half-cup servings)


FOR THE PUNCH:

2 bottles Welch's Sparkling 

White Grape Juice Cocktail, chilled

1 can (11.5 ounces) Welch's 

Frozen Concentrated 

Cranberry Juice Cocktail

3 cups cold water

3 cans (12 ounces each) ginger 

ale, chilled

FOR THE ICE RING:

6 ounces Welch's Frozen Grape

Juice

12 ounces water

8 or 9 thin lemon slices


In punch bowl, combine Sparkling White Grape Juice Cocktail, Frozen Concentrated Cranberry Juice Cocktail and water. Gently stir in ginger ale.

To prepare the ice ring, combine Welch's Frozen Grape Juice with water and mix well. Place lemon slices in bottom of an 8-inch ring mold. Pour small amount of grape juice over slices and allow to freeze. Add remaining grape juice and freeze solid.

When ready to serve, unmold the ice ring and place it in the punch, lemon side up. Serve immediately.

The Welch's Sparkling Grape Juice Cocktail holiday two-pack has a suggested retail price of $5.99.


