Title: 
Two Healthy Chinese Recipes

Word Count:
361

Summary:
Chinese cooking has healthy, well balanced recipes that can very well fit in almost any dietaty regiment.  Today, I am sharing with you two of these healthy recipes for your enjoyment.


Keywords:
healthy chinese recipes,chinese recipes,chinese food recipes,easy chinese recipes,simple chinese pork recipes


Article Body:
Chinese cooking has healthy, well balanced recipes that can very well fit in almost any dietaty regiment.  Today, I am sharing with you two of these healthy recipes for your enjoyment.

 
Chinese Recipe of Beef Fried Rice Recipe 

Ingredients:

2 Tbs. soy sauce
1/2 tsp. sugar
1 Tbs. vegetable oil
2 eggs, well beaten
1/2 lb. ground beef
1 medium carrot, finely chopped
1 celery rib, finely chopped
1 scallion, chopped
1 tsp. fresh ginger, minced
1 clove garlic, minced
2 cups cooked rice, cold

Directions:

Combine soy sauce, sugar and salt and pepper to taste in a small bowl and set aside. Heat oil in a heavy nonstick skillet over medium high heat. Cook eggs about 45 seconds, stirring constantly, until eggs are just set. Transfer eggs to a bowl and set aside. Add ground beef and next 3 ingredients to same pan over medium heat. Sauté about 3 minutes, stirring often to break up meat, until browned. Stir in ginger and garlic and cook 1 minute. Discard excess fat. Increase heat to high and add rice. Stir-fry about 1 minute, until heated through. Stir in soy sauce mixture and eggs and stir-fry 30 seconds longer.

Per serving:
calories 338, fat 15.7g, 43% calories from fat, cholesterol 133mg, protein 16.8g, carbohydrates 31.0g, fiber 1.6g, sugar 2.5g, sodium 547mg, diet points 8.3.


Classic Chinese Chicken Teriyaki 

1/4 cup lite soy sauce
3 tbsp prepared spicy brown mustard
1 tbsp firmly packed brown sugar
1/2 tsp ground ginger
1 tbsp sesame seeds
1 sliced thin medium onion
1 cut in half garlic clove
2 tbsp vegetable oil
4 skinned boned chicken breast halves, each about 4 oz
1 spinach and pepper saute (see recip, e for this)

Directions:

In medium bowl, whisk together soy sauce, mustard, sugar and ginger;
set aside.

In large, nonstick skillet, over high heat, toast sesame seeds until golden brown, about 4 minutes; remove from pan and set aside.

In same skillet, saute onion and garlic in oil until soft, about 5 minutes, if desired, discard garlic clove halves. Add chicken and soy sauce mixture to skillet. Cover and simmer, turning chicken over once, until chicken is cooked through.

Meanwhile, prepare spinach and pepper saute. To serve, place chicken on platter, pour sauce and vegetables over chicken and sprinkle with sesame seeds. Place sauteed mixture on platter. Garnish with scallion fan.


