Title: 
Valentine Recipes - Delicious Puddings for your sweetheart

Word Count:
801

Summary:
Valentine's Day is just around the corner.  Here are Recipes of Delicious Valentine Puddings for your special person coming to dinner on Valentines's Day.  Try these Valentine Recipes to make this day more Romantic.


Keywords:
pudding recipe, bread pudding recipe, yorkshire pudding, banana pudding, rice pudding, figgy pudding, banana pudding recipe, rice pudding recipe, valentine pudding, christmas pudding


Article Body:
Valentine Recipes - Delicious Puddings for your sweetheart

Valentine's Day is just around the corner.  Here are Recipes of Delicious Valentine Puddings for your special person coming to dinner on Valentines's Day.  Try these Valentine Recipes to make this day more Romantic.


Valentine Recipe:1  HONEY PUDDING

Mix one-half cup of honey with six ounces of bread crumbs and add one-half cup of milk, one-half teaspoon of ginger, grated rind of half a lemon and yolks of two eggs. Beat the mixture thoroughly and then add two tablespoons of butter and the whites of the eggs well beaten. Steam for about two hours in a pudding mold which is not more than three-quarters full.


Valentine Recipe:2  CHOCOLATE PUDDING

Take half a cake of chocolate broken in one quart of milk and put on the range until it reaches boiling point. Remove the mixture from the range. Add four teaspoonfuls of cornstarch mixed with the yolks of three eggs and one cup and a half of sugar. Stir constantly until thick. Remove from the fire, flavor with vanilla and pour the mixture in a dish. Beat the whites of the three eggs to a stiff froth and add a little sugar. Cover the top of the pudding with a meringue and set in the oven until a light brown. Serve cold.


Valentine Recipe:3  JELLY PUDDINGS.

Two cupfuls of fine stale biscuit or bread crumbs, one cupful of rich milk cream, if you can get it; five eggs beaten very light, half a teaspoonful of soda stirred in boiling water, one cupful of sweet jelly, jam or marmalade. Scald the milk and pour over the
crumbs. Beat until half cold and stir in the beaten yolks, then whites, finally the soda. Fill large cups half full with the batter, set in a quick oven and bake half an hour. When done, turn out quickly and dexterously. With a sharp knife make an incision in the side of
each; pull partly open, and put a liberal spoonful of the conserve within. Close the slit by pinching the edges with your fingers. Eat warm with sweetened cream.


Valentine Recipe:4  APPLE CUSTARD PUDDING.

Put a quart of pared and quartered apples into a stewpan, with half a cupful of water and cook them until they are soft. Remove from the fire and add half a cupful of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of butter and the grated rind and the juice of a lemon. Have ready mixed two cupfuls of grated bread crumbs and two tablespoonfuls of flour. Add this also to the apple mixture, after which stir in two well-beaten eggs. Turn all into a well-buttered pudding-dish and bake forty-five minutes in a moderate oven. Serve with sugar and cream or hard sweet sauce.


Valentine Recipe:5  APRICOT PUDDING

Take 1 tin of apricots, 6 sponge cakes, 1/2 pint of milk, 2 eggs. Put the apricots into a saucepan and let them simmer with a little sugar for 1/2 an hour. Take them off the fire and beat them with a fork. Mix with them the sponge cakes crumbled. Beat the eggs up with milk and pour it on the apricots. Pour the mixture into a wetted mould and bake in a hot oven with a cover over the mould for 1/2 an hour. Turn out; serve either hot or cold.


Valentine Recipe:6  CARROT PUDDING

Take three or four clear red carrots, boil and peel them, take the red part of the carrot, beat it very fine in a mixing bowl, put to it the crumbs of a penny loaf, six eggs, half a pound of clarified butter, two or three spoonfuls of rose water, a little lemon-peel shred, grate in a little nutmeg, mix them well together, bake it with a puff-paste round your dish and have a little white wine, butter and sugar for the sauce.


Valentine Recipe:7  CHEESE PUDDING

Take breakfast-cupful of milk into a saucepan with a piece of butter the size of a large egg. Let it remain until the butter is melted, then pour it over three-quarters of a pound of bread crumbs and half a pound of grated cheese; let these soak for twenty minutes, then add a pinch of salt and 4 eggs, well beaten. Pour the mixture into a well-buttered dish and bake in a quick oven upto 40 Minutes.


Valentine Recipe:8  DATE PUDDING

Melt three tablespoons of butter, add one-half cup of molasses, one-half cup of milk, one and two-third cups of flour sifted with one-half teaspoon of baking-soda, one-quarter teaspoon of salt, one-quarter teaspoon each of cloves, cinnamon, and nutmeg. Add to the above one-half pound of dates, stoned and cut. Turn into a well-buttered mold. Butter the cover also and steam two and one-half hours. Keep at a steady boil. Serve with any kind of sauce.


Hope you will enjoy these Valentine's recipes. Happy Valentine's Day!


