Title: 
Warm Up With Fresh Mushroom Soup

Word Count:
273

Summary:
Mushrooms add something special to a meal and mushroom soup is a classic example.


Keywords:
Warm Up With Fresh Mushroom Soup


Article Body:
Mushrooms add something special to a meal and mushroom soup is a classic example.

But mushrooms give us more than great taste. Did you know that mushrooms help contribute to our daily intake of potassium, selenium and riboflavin? Plus, mushrooms are low in fat and have only 20 calories per serving.

Try "Light 'n Creamy Fresh Mushroom Soup" soon. This soup has only six grams of fat per serving, yet tastes rich and delicious. Prepare your favorite grilled sandwich while the soup simmers-and dinner is served.

Time-saver tip: Cook up a double batch and freeze half for another dinner.

Light 'N Creamy 

Fresh Mushroom Soup 

1 tablespoon butter

1 cup diced carrots

1/2 cup thinly sliced green onions (scallions)

1 teaspoon minced garlic

1/2 teaspoon salt

1/4 teaspoon dried thyme or oregano leaves

1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper

11/2 pounds white mushrooms, sliced (about 9 cups)

1 can (141/2 ounces) ready-to-serve chicken or vegetable broth

1 cup white wine or water

11/2 cups lowfat milk

In a large saucepan over medium-high heat, melt butter. Add carrots, onions, garlic, salt, thyme and pepper; cook, stirring often, until onions just begin to brown, about 5 minutes. Add mushrooms, broth, and wine; bring to a boil; cook for 1 minute. Using a slotted spoon, remove 1 cup of the vegetables; set aside. In a blender or food processor, place half of remaining soup from the saucepan; puree until smooth; remove to a bowl; repeat with remaining mixture; return entire pureed mixture to saucepan; stir in milk and reserved vegetables. Simmer just until heated through, about 5 minutes. If desired, garnish with thinly sliced green onion.

YIELD: 4 portions (about 6 cups)

Per portion: 153 cal; 6 g fat; 10 g protein; 17 g carbohydrate

Mushroom soup tastes creamy-without the cream.


