Title: 
Weight Loss Recipe: Pan Seared Cod With Balsamic Dressing

Word Count:
397

Summary:
Losing weight isn't about hunger, misery and crash dieting! By learning to make, delicious, easy-to-prepare, nutritious food your body needs and will enjoy – losing weight becomes exciting and energizing.


Keywords:
weight,loss,weightloss,lose,diet,diets,dieting,recipe,recipes,health,healthy,pan,fried,cod,balsamic,salad,calorie,calories,low,fat,cholesterol,sodium,carbohydrate,protein,fiber,fibre


Article Body:
Lean protein is your diet is essential to weight loss and weight maintenance. Cod is an excellent source of lean protein as it is lower in fat than red meats.

Losing weight isn't about hunger, misery and crash dieting! By learning to make, delicious, easy-to-prepare, nutritious food your body needs and will enjoy – losing weight becomes exciting and energizing.

Instead of high calorie, fatty sources - use spices to provide flavorsome, exciting meals your whole family will enjoy. "Pan Seared Cod With Balsamic Thyme" is another recipe in a range of hunger-fighting, low fat recipes to assist you keep your weight under control. This irresistible, no-hassle meal will help you reach your weight-loss goals - while making mealtime a real treat.

Variety is an essential element of any successful health program. If you get bored with foods, you're much more likely to abandon your program altogether. Experiment with spices to find exciting alternatives, try new recipes and build your repertoire of quick home cooked meals to replace take outs, frozen dinners and snacks. Your body will love you and your family will be delighted.

Ingredients:

500g fresh cod fillet (or boneless, skinless chicken breasts)
2 teaspoon olive oil
2 tablespoons balsamic vinegar
2 tablespoon fresh thyme
salt and pepper to taste

Directions:

Sprinkle fish with salt and freshly ground pepper on both sides. Heat a large skillet for which you have a cover over medium-high heat. When hot, add the olive oil. When the oil is hot, place the fish in the pan, lower the heat to medium and cook for five minutes or until the underside is brown and a curst begins to form.

Carefully turn the fish over, turn the heat down to medium-low and cover the skillet. Cook for about 5 minutes more. Fish is done when it flakes with a fork. Remove fish from skillet and place on a plate. Bring the heat back up to medium-high, add the balsamic vinegar and cook quickly, scraping the pan with a spatula.

Turn off the heat, put the fish back in the skillet and turn over to coat both sides with the reduced vinegar. Sprinkle with fresh thyme leaves and serve immediately.

* Note: fish should cook for about 10 minutes for each inch of thickness. If you use chicken breast instead, it will need a total of about 15 minutes cooking time.

Nutritional Analysis Per Serving:

Calories: 228
Protein: 40 grams
Fat: 6 grams
Carbohydrates: 1 grams


