Title: 
Wild American Shrimp Scores High On Nutrition

Word Count:
377

Summary:
The hottest diets, from Atkins to South Beach to Weight Watchers, sing the praises of shrimp. It's a great source of protein and is low in calories. Plus, premium-quality Wild American shrimp - harvested in their own natural environment from the South Atlantic and Gulf of Mexico - is perfect for health-conscious consumers who want to know exactly where their food comes from.


Keywords:
Wild American Shrimp Scores High On Nutrition


Article Body:
The hottest diets, from Atkins to South Beach to Weight Watchers, sing the praises of shrimp. It's a great source of protein and is low in calories. Plus, premium-quality Wild American shrimp - harvested in their own natural environment from the South Atlantic and Gulf of Mexico - is perfect for health-conscious consumers who want to know exactly where their food comes from.

"Wild American shrimp is low in fat and a source of polyunsaturated fats and heart-healthy omega-3 fatty acids, which fight cholesterol and may reduce the risk of heart disease," said nutritionist Carol Guber, an expert on food, nutrition and healthy lifestyles. "If you're trying to lose weight by eating more healthful protein, Wild American shrimp is a delicious option."

Wild American shrimp has its own certification mark, assuring that it has been caught in the wild and meets certain quality standards. Guber recommends that consumers ask for Wild American shrimp where they shop and dine. 

"Consumers have a choice, but many fail to realize that most shrimp sold in the U.S. is not caught in the Gulf of Mexico or South Atlantic, but rather imported from overseas and farm-raised," she said. 

When buying shrimp, look for shiny shells and meat that feels firm against the shell. It should have a fresh, salty scent and should not smell of ammonia or have a fishy odor. 

For healthful dishes, add little or no butter, oil or shortening. The following recipe is perfect for light meals. 


WILD AMERICAN SHRIMP CEVICHE WITH WATERMELON AND SPICY PICO (Makes 4 to 6 servings)


2 cups fresh lime juice

1 1/2 cups (16-20 count) Wild American shrimp, cleaned

and deveined, sliced into 1/2-inch-thick pieces

1 cup Roma tomatoes, seeded and diced small

1 serrano pepper, minced

1/4 cup red onion, diced small

1/4 cup cilantro, cleaned, stemmed and chopped

Kosher salt, freshly ground black pepper, to taste

1 1/2 cups watermelon, diced into 1/2-inch pieces

Baked tortilla chips

Lime wedges for garnish


Stir 1 1/2 cups fresh lime juice into shrimp and place in refrigerator for 24 to 36 hours until shrimp is no longer opaque. Drain, rinse and set aside.

For the pico sauce, combine 2 tablespoons lime juice, Roma tomatoes, serrano pepper, red onion, cilantro, kosher salt and black pepper. 

Combine shrimp, watermelon, pico sauce and 2 tablespoons lime juice. Garnish with lime wedges and serve with chips.


