Ballroom Dancing - Ballrooms

There are hundreds of ballrooms in the United States and throughout the world.  There has been a renewed interest in holding weddings, and other important occasions in a luxuriant ballroom setting.  

The Danceland Ballroom in Cedar Rapids is probably the best-known ballroom in Iowa and in 1957 it was the first ballroom to reach out to the teenage population by booking book the rock and roll band Bill Haley and the Comets.  Darlowe Oleson, who owned five ballrooms and was considered Iowa's premier ballroom operator, owned the Danceland Ballroom, which remained an active ballroom right up until its demolition when it was replaced by the Cedar Rapids Five Seasons Center. .
 
In Illinois, on Chicago's fabulous Gold Coast you'll find the Germania Place, a landmark building that had been designed in 1888 and underwent a complete restoration in 1994.  This gorgeous building houses two cavernous ballrooms.  The Grand and Royal ballrooms both feature Victorian architecture, 35-foot ceilings, mahogany bars, crystal chandeliers, hardwood floors, 20 foot arched windows and inset, gilded domes.   A masterpiece of a stained glass portrait crafted in Germany and first exhibited at the 1893 worlds fair adorns the entrance to the Grand Ballroom.  A balcony large enough to accommodate 150 guests overlooks the Grand Ballroom.  The Grand ballroom can serve up to 400 guests for dinner, the Royal Ballroom can seat and additional 250 and the two rooms can be combined by opening the set of double doors that separate the two. 

In Columbus, Ohio the Grand Valley Dale Ballroom is significant in as much as it is one of the few nationally renowned ballrooms left from the big band era.   In the 30's and 40's big name entertainers like Frank Sinatra and Bing Crosby performed there.  The Grand Valley Dale Ballroom has been admitted to the National Register of Historical Places and has been completely renovated.  The restoration included the ballroom (which now boasts a 2000 square foot wood dance floor), a circular art deco bar, twin staircases, historic stage with velvet curtains, 13 chandeliers, columns, mezzanines, and a much-sought out bridal parlor among other improvements.  

The Charles Ballroom in the Charles hotel in Cambridge has played host to such notables as The Clintons, Barbra Streisand and Gwyneth Paltrow.  The hotel is decorated in a minimalist style so the bride and groom are free to design the wedding of their dreams.  The 4700 square foot ballroom features dramatic double doors that open to a room with floor to ceiling windows, showcasing an interior courtyard and a view of the Charles River. 

The Grand Ballroom in the Copley Plaza Hotel, Boston was opened in 1912 and features Louis XIV style furnishings, crystal chandeliers, and gold leaf accents.  The room has a massive dance floor and a stage large enough for an orchestra.  It has the capability of holding up to 1,000 people. 


The Holiday Villa, Subang, Malaysia is home to the finals for the 2007 World Golfers.  The hotel is set on 6.8 acres overlooking a beautiful lake.  The Holiday Villa features three ballrooms along with 18 convention and meeting rooms and several sports and recreational facilities.
