Dresses for Ballroom Dancing

Getting dressed for an evening on the ballroom dance floor is much different than getting ready for a night out at the club. With ballroom dancing becoming a popular American pastime, the attire is also constantly growing and changing. We've seen several styles of ballroom dancing dresses on television, thanks to the media's recent interest in covering this elite activity. However, there are several differences in ballroom dress styles depending on the country. 

American ballroom dresses are typically easy to distinguish from other nationalities. A primary trait of American dresses is that they "flow" much easier than those from other countries. For example, an American ballroom dress usually has at least two layers of skirt, along with other cuts of fabric flowing from the neck and back. In contrast, international dresses are known for heavier fabrics and feathers. Several American styles also are adorned with feathers, but are not the essential accent of the ballroom dress. Most international ballroom gowns are designed for appearance from one angle - either they look appealing from the front or back, but not usually both. 

You're most likely to find that American ballroom dresses are accented with sequins or jewels, and come in a variety of lengths. Most ballroom dresses do not extend all the way to the floor - this is probably because a long dress could become tangled in the dancer's feet and lead to a disaster on the dance floor. However, the style of ballroom dress greatly depends on the type of dance being performed. For example, the paso doble is a popular style of ballroom dance that incorporates Spanish culture in the steps. It only makes sense that the dress would represent the theme; this particular dress would probably have sleeves, a ruffled knee-length skirt that twirls easily, and be decorated with lace. 

For more contemporary ballroom dances, the dress is usually very lightweight and moves well with the dancer. A popular look for the top of the dress is either halter-style or sleeves that dangle from the shoulder. Strapless-style dresses are not very common in ballroom dancing, probably because of the risk of falling off during a fast-paced dance or not fitting properly while moving about on the dance floor. 

Most ballroom dresses come in a variety of colors and there are usually no limitations in this aspect. It is common American protocol for women to match their partner when it comes to choosing the color of their ballroom dress. However, the color can be anything the couple chooses, but it should be kept in mind that the shoes will need to match the dress exactly. 

There are many options for finding a ballroom dress to match your needs. Most women choose to have their dress tailor made, especially if it is for a competition. This can get pricey, so there are a few other options. The internet is a great tool for finding everything you need in a ballroom dress. Although you can't physically try it on, most online retailers will allow you to send them your exact measurements and have an excellent return policy. 

