Where to Learn Ballroom Dancing

After seeing ballroom dancing on television, you decide it's time for you to get up and strap on those dancing shoes. Or, maybe you are looking to get into shape but don't exactly want to pay for a gym membership that may never be used. No matter what your reason, deciding to learn ballroom dancing is an excellent decision. However, if you have never been the dancing type before, you may be a bit apprehensive and a bit confused as to where to start. Here are some helpful tips to learning ballroom dancing. 

First of all, it's possible that you're really shy and aren't ready to attend a class of other dancers. While personal instruction is best, it isn't your only option. Recently, ballroom dance has been brought into the spotlight thanks to media coverage. Ballroom dancing has grown by leaps and bounds in the past decade, and more and more people are catching on to the dance craze. This is important and certainly works in your favor because you can find several instructional DVD's and videos on ballroom dancing. You can watch them in the comfort of your own home and practice at any time. These may also be a more affordable option than ballroom dance lessons.

You can also scout out the internet for instructional ballroom dance websites. There are a couple of really good ones out there that break down every type of ballroom dance, and some that even have videos you can watch. This may present a better option for you if you are on a budget, as these websites are free of charge and all you need is access to the internet. 

If you'd prefer to physically attend ballroom dance lessons, look for local dance studios in your area. You may have to research every studio to see if they offer ballroom dance lessons for adults; several dance studios only instruct children or certain types of dance such as ballet or jazz. However, some dance studios will offer ballroom dance camps or programs that last for a specified amount of time and aren't expensive. 

One place you may want to consider looking into for ballroom dance lessons is a local college or university. Several colleges now offer ballroom dancing as a credit for physical education, and often they will invite the public to attend the classes. These classes are typically about one hour long, once or twice a week, and last for about four to five months. Although the cost depends on the particular institution, ballroom dance classes offered here are usually very inexpensive or free. 

A good way to keep cost at a minimum is to share your dance lessons with a friend or partner. Even if you do not have a partner to attend ballroom dance lessons with, most classes will pair you up if you are single. There has never been a better time to learn ballroom dancing, so why wait? Start learning to ballroom dance today!
