Title: 
About wholesaler's and supplier's of ladies handbags, fashion handbags and beaded Handbags.

Word Count:
1115

Summary:
Today fashion represents not only clothes but the  jewelry and other accessories also. Ladies handbags is one of the major accessories of today's fashion world. Fashion hand bags work brilliantly with both the formal and casual dresses and for every occasiion.


Keywords:
ladies handbags, wholesale handbags, fashion handbags,wholesale ladies handbags, handcrafted handbags, beaded handbags, fancy handbags,evening handbags, handbags, wholesale, fashion, trendy,wholesale 


Article Body:
Today fashion represents not only clothes but the  jewelry and other accessories also. Ladies handbags is one of the major accessories of today's fashion world. Trendy bags are used both by the ladies and the teens to complete todays crazy fashion beauty concept. Fashion hand bags work brilliantly with both the formal and casual dresses and for every occasiion. Ladies fashion bags are available in innumerable styles and design that is bound to suit the distinct taste of the buyers. The selection of fashion handbags include bright colored casual bags, to hand bags that are really fantastic for holidays and multi-pocket shoulder bags in gorgeous shades. A unique look is given to each fashion bag by mix and matching materials to metal latches, padlocks and heavy-duty chain straps etc. These include beach bags, sports bags, shopping bags, tote bags, travel bags, wine bags, jewelry bags, drawstring bags, shoulder bags, evening bags etc. These bags reflects a great variety of design, size and color.  The various designs of fashion bags are inspired from the combination of art, fashion and the confluence of modern and traditional cultures. Embroidery work, beaded work, totally handcrafted work, mirror work, sequin work etc are used to add more elegency to these ladies handbags. Fashion hand bags are crafted with elegant pattern in incredible, rich colors. Fashion hand bags are mainly made from silk, jute, cotton and canvas. The manufacturer's also customize these bags to match all the specifications and requirement of the buyers. Other fabrics used are nylon, plastic, denim, leather, polyester, vinyl, etc. Handbags are elegant functional creations as well as decorative objects. Designer handbags are used by all ages and their various designs and styles are suited to all tastes. Buyers can choose distinct handbags by style, uniqueness and unmatchable quality.  The variety of designs of ladies fashion handbags are unique and exclusive. The various styles of handbags may include backpack, cosmetic bags, drawstring, duffel, evening bags, men's bags, shopper bags, shoulder bags, etc. Effective use of a variety of techniques such as piecing, applique and embroidery is also done to impart a fashionable look to all these handbags. Diaper bags are one of the most useful bags; they are manufactured, more because of their functional utility. It holds any and every item one can need for the baby. It can also be called as the all-purpose baby bag. They are specially designed to carry baby things like travel wipes, diapers, bottles, toys etc. More and more embellishment are seen on evening bags in recent years. These are embellished with butterflies, feathers, motor bike straps, stabbed with decorative applied brooches and finished with shoulder chain straps. Evening bags are stitched over in Indian traditional designs that have roses or geometric mirror image as well as contemporary designs with beautiful prints. These bags can further be decorated with the help of beads and sequins. Designer shoulder bags are stylish, compact and extremely efficient. These store all the needed items without the worry of damaging or losing the belongings. They are available in distinct design and style. These are easy to carry and can be put to rigorous use. These bags have their shoulder strap going completely around bag and can be further facilitated with small handles. The shoulder straps are padded and may come with adjustable length. We manufacture these bags out of the best materials and hardware available. These are immaculately finished for years of regular use. Some of the popular material used are PVC, nylon, polyester, denim, jute, plastic, cotton, khaki twill, canvas and leather. Tote bags possess a particular beauty and charm of their own. Introduced in plenty of innovative designs and styles, these bags have plenty of room to carry everything one needs to carry. The tote bags have an enduring style, that are both easy to make and well suited to a wide variety of uses. 

These bags can easily carry the pack up for a day trip or a vacation and are a better option than grocery and shopping bags that can easily rip off. They are ideal for everything from groceries to garden tools and beach towels. These bags can be created with a wide range of materials, patterns and sizes. Promotional tote bags are also available for award programs, trade shows and conventions, company functions and sponsored events. An extensive line of tote bags are available with a variety of features such as zippers, pockets, straps and handles, as well as a wide array of colors and fabrics. Available in many design and styles, these bags can complement both formal and casual looks. These bags can very well carry a designer look without outshining its utilitarian value. The looks of these bags are further enhanced with the help of embroidery, beads and sequins. Hand painted tote bags are also popular among buyers.
 
We, at Chatterjee Fashions is an India (State: West Bengal) based wholesale handicraft, ladies handbags, fashion jewelry and Bedaed Jewelry export unit. We are engaged in todays fashion requirements as well as all old tradition's in our handicraft items and introduce these cultural home improvement items and fashions to rest of the world. We wholesale fashion jewelry, Ladies fashion Handbags, statues, sculptures, wall hangings, different home and garden decor items made of brass, bronze and stone by taking inspirations from India's centuries-old traditions. The dancing lady, God Shiva in Nataraj style, Buddha statue are some of the examples which we took from our ancient Indian history. We make the handicrafts in western style also to fulfill the new millennium requirement. So the customers can get the most antique look collectibles as well as the modern sculpture range. We manufacture different kinds of Statue, sculptures, and wall hangings, chandeliers mainly used for home, garden and office decoration. Material we used for these handicraft items are mainly brass, bronze and stone and sometimes we give them a antique look also. We wholesale and retail these all items from our Indian office. We are mainly engaged in exporting these fashion and handicraft items to all over the world at most cheap rate and provide a replacement warranty in all our goods. Due to bulk manufacturing unit, we can offer the best rate to our customers for all the items. Starting from different religious statues like Goddess Laxmi, Shri Krishna, Buddha we have a lot of Indian and western style statue and sculptures. Like soldier statue, different animal figure, western and Indian lady figure, abstract figures, different sculptures in western style. Our concern is always try to provide our customers a complete solution in art and craft items, to fulfill there need of getting unique antique and collectibles for office and home interior decoration.


