Title: 
Australian Designer Shoes

Word Count:
293

Summary:
What it means to be “designer”.

The term “designer” is often used loosely in the fashion industry, and certainly so by a number of factories mass producing shoes that copy the fashion leaders.


Keywords:
mens shoes, fashion shoes, male footwear, loafers, boots, fashion, shoes, vein wear, australian design, leather, hand crafted shoes.


Article Body:
What it means to be “designer”.

The term “designer” is often used loosely in the fashion industry, and certainly so by a number of factories mass producing shoes that copy the fashion leaders. 

We do it differently.  How you’d expect a true designer shoe to be created for you.  At Vein, each new design is sketched, first as a conceptual, and then worked and re-worked into final drawings with graphite on paper, by head Vein designer, Christopher McCallum. Then, a prototype shoe is meticulously crafted by hand.

The new design is then put into production, brought to life for our discerning clientele using the finest leathers, hand selected for their uniqueness and quality, from renowned international and Australian tanneries. 

When you inspect our famous Vein shoes, you’ll quickly see they embody qualities others only aspire to.  Designs and quality inspired by the great clothing fashion houses, by timeless architecture and the personalities, stunning locations and exciting lifestyles we experience around the world. 

As you can probably tell, we live, fantasize, dream and breathe male footwear.  This burning passion has made Vein the premier Australian male designer footwear label.  In 2005 Vein was the only male footwear label to be invited to exhibit in Mercedes Australian Fashion Week.  Trail blazing clothing labels like “NYOU”, “Leopold”, “Tom, Dick & Harry”, “Red Cordial” and Australian Fashion Design Awards Winner “Always Habit”, choose to complement their labels with Vein on the runway.  In 2006 at the L’Oreal Melbourne Fashion Festival Vein was the catwalk shoe of choice for Kenzo, Morrisey and Leopold.

Vein stands for excellence.  You’ll feel it, look it, live it too … every time you slip on Vein shoes. 

Vein shoes.  Love more.  Stress less.  Express your creativity.  And above all, envy no one.


