Title: 
Birkenstock Boots - Durable Footwear With Sole To Boot

Word Count:
330

Summary:
When you think about birkenstock footwear, most likely sandals, and perhaps clogs come to mind. Certainly that is what they are most famous for. Very comfortable, durable sandals that are great for both casual daily wear, and even casual summer parties. Those who have used 'Birks' know that they will last for ages and gently form to the shape of your feet to provide an excellent fit that is just right for you. If you have any doubt, simply slip on another person's pair and yo...


Keywords:
birkenstock sandals,birkenstocks,sandals,boots,footwear


Article Body:
When you think about birkenstock footwear, most likely sandals, and perhaps clogs come to mind. Certainly that is what they are most famous for. Very comfortable, durable sandals that are great for both casual daily wear, and even casual summer parties. Those who have used 'Birks' know that they will last for ages and gently form to the shape of your feet to provide an excellent fit that is just right for you. If you have any doubt, simply slip on another person's pair and you'll understand.

However, Birkenstock has recently added boots to their line of footwear products expanding out from sandals and clogs to include both shoes and Birkenstock boots. Time will tell if they are as successful as the sandal line, but if their sandals are any proof, the boots should be a success as well.

There are 3 basic types - approach/day trip boots in the Birkenstock Alpine series, regular aggressive hiking boots in their Rockford line, and a several trendy boot styles like the Segovia Calf-boot for women.

When you go out to look for a new pair of Birkenstocks, you may find that they fit a little differently than what you are used to. Don’t let this bother you. Simply try on a slightly different size and you should be able to find a pair that is comfortable for your feet.

No question boots are not what made Birkenstock famous. However they their experience producing top end casual footwear gave them a great base for developing a quality line of boots from the start. They were able to do it all without loosing sight of their core principle of simplicity and durability.

So, the next time your go shopping for a quality pair of boots or shoes be sure to check out what Birkenstock has to offer. They may be slightly more costly than other sandals, but they will last much longer, and will be more comfortable on your feet and back as well.


