Title: 
Catwalk Choice For Shoes

Word Count:
321

Summary:
At the upcoming Mercedes Australian Fashion Week Vein will be working closely with hot men’s label Red Cordial.  Retailers, stylists and other fashion industry participants can also see a preview of Vein’s Summer 06/7 collection at MAFW’s Source Exhibition at the end of April.


Keywords:
mens shoes, fashion shoes, male footwear, loafers, boots, fashion, shoes, vein wear, australian design, leather, hand crafted shoes


Article Body:
Vein Wear is Australia’s number one men’s footwear designer. Vein, by designer Christopher McCallum, has been recognised as the shoe of choice by Australia’s top clothing houses.  Vein opened its Winter season with the L’Oreal Melbourne Fashion Festival main parades Morrisey, Kenzo and Leopold.

Vein shoes were the natural footwear selection for Always Habit when they won the coveted Australian Design Awards in November 2005.  Always Habit designs are for savvy young professional men.  They are looking for a striking shoe to compliment their casual and suiting attire.  Vein provides that.

Vein shoes were the footwear of choice when high flying Aussie labels “Leopold” and “Tom, Dick and Harry” unveiled their Winter collections at Mercedes Australian Fashion Week.  The parades were stand-outs with both collections attracting critical acclaim. 

When Vein launched its Winter 2006 collection at the L’Oreal Melbourne Fashion Festival in March there was no question which shoes should be worn with the three pinnacle men’s collections of the season.  Main parades Morrisey, Kenzo and Leopold chose to accompany first class designs with Australian designer shoes by Vein. 

“The fashion festival is definitely the highest point yet in our rise in Australian designer fashion.  Morrisey is an idol and an icon.  To be worn on the foot of his, Kenzo and Leopold’s collections is a great honour.  I know our shoes do their clothing justice”, says McCallum.

At the upcoming Mercedes Australian Fashion Week Vein will be working closely with hot men’s label Red Cordial.  Retailers, stylists and other fashion industry participants can also see a preview of Vein’s Summer 06/7 collection at MAFW’s Source Exhibition at the end of April.

“At Vein we are delighted to work with clothing designers.  Footwear does not steal the limelight at fashion parades, but a designer collection show is too important to leave footwear up to models, friends or God forbid resort to pluggers”, says McCallum.


