Title: 
Choosing Footwear - Why Choose Sandals

Word Count:
370

Summary:
When choosing footwear, you need to choose what best suits your climate.  In many areas of the world, the footwear of choice is sandals.  Why is this centuries old footwear still one of the most popular choices worldwide?


Keywords:
sandals,flip flops,flipflop,thong,sandal,footwear,shoes,clothing,shoe,feet,foot


Article Body:
Why wear sandals?  This question comes up on so many occasions.  It is like there are rules to the etiquette of sandal wear.  Can you wear socks with sandals? Dress wear and sandals? Can you golf in sandals?  Many people have their interpretation of when sandal wear is appropriate.  In many countries and especially where there is a beach culture, sandals are the footwear of choice year-round.

The benefits of wearing sandals on your feet vary to the activities that you are interested in.  Sandals obviously do not suffice for any activity that requires proper foot protection. Flip flops are great for using in public areas and can protect your feet from fungal infections, warts, and lacerations. They are great for wearing indoor as well and takes only seconds to put on or take off. 

Sandals are stylish. At the beach, at parties or even at business meetings, there is a wide range of sandals that are available. From bright colored flip flops, to the strappy high heel, to casual wedge-style platforms, there are enough styles out there to suit any occasion. 

There are many types of sandals on the market today that not only look good, they keep your feet happy with good ventilation and foot circulation.  Sandals are even making winter appearances in cooler climate areas. Name brands such as O’Neill and Sanuk are beginning to produce sandals with quilted flannel and fleece attached to straps, or stitched wool socks lined in polo fleece for the die-hard sandal wearer.

The sandal industry has substantially increased in the last few years.  Stats from March 2006 indicate that the sandal industry rose 13 % to 7.4 billion dollars nationwide in just one year.  Sandals have now expanded to nearly one-fifth of the footwear market.

Shopping for sandals is quite easy.  Most local shoe stores will have a small selection.  You can pick up a cheap pair in a department store or even in some grocery stores.  You also have the option of shopping online from a wide variety of sandals from any brand.  As most sandal models have adjustable straps, you can be confident in your online purchase.  You can choose from literally thousands of different sandal models.  Check out some online today.


