Title: 
Designer Shoes For Fall 2006

Word Count:
371

Summary:
I love pumps and sling backs. I don't know why, perhaps because they go with my 9-5 business fashion as well as with my "after 5" fun fashion. I love dressing up a pair of jeans with pumps.

It's finally Fall gals, and the designers are starting to show their offerings. There are a lot of fabulous high end designer shoes to choose from and some are absolutely to-die-for!

Prada is offering a fantastic bronze pump for fall. This pump has a 3 inch heel and a perforated leat...


Keywords:



Article Body:
I love pumps and sling backs. I don't know why, perhaps because they go with my 9-5 business fashion as well as with my "after 5" fun fashion. I love dressing up a pair of jeans with pumps.

It's finally Fall gals, and the designers are starting to show their offerings. There are a lot of fabulous high end designer shoes to choose from and some are absolutely to-die-for!

Prada is offering a fantastic bronze pump for fall. This pump has a 3 inch heel and a perforated leather on the toe cap and the back of the shoe. The vamp and body of the shoe are actually covered with bronze paillettes (sequins) that mimic a lovely snake skin design. It's gorgeous, and so in demand that some stores are limiting the number you can order!!

Brian Atwood is offering a lovely d'orsay pump in black and white leopard skin. It has a peek-a-boo toe with an adorable bow....meow! I'm not sure if I like that one best, or the Dolce & Gabbana leopard print hair-calf and leather sling back. It has a leather toe cap that is adorned with gold toned studs.

Christian Louboutin is offering platform pumps in a leopard print
or brown or black suede.

Perhaps the shoe of my dreams is the new Dior leather pump.It has a 3 1/2 inch heel to start. It's offered in what I call a winter white. It has a bow at the toe and is covered with fabulous leather weaving details. The heel is horn and is embellished with the famous Dior "D". Dior also is offering a leather shoe they call "Rebel" that has a zipper on either side of the heel. It has a buckle logo across the toe and rivet details.

I can't not mention my favorite shoe designer, Manolo Blahnik. He is also working with hair-calf offering it in several different styles, from a open toed pump with a blush (light pink) and brown/tan leopard print to "wow-em" unmistakable tan/black leopard print pump with a keyhole vamp with a bow. This has a lovely 1/2 inch heel. Of course his classics include his ever popular halter and crisscross designs in alligator.

Go ahead Gals, fulfill all your shoe dreams!


