Title: 
How to Pick the Perfect Shoes

Word Count:
320

Summary:
Are you looking for the perfect shoes you can wear this season? How do you pick the right shoes, though? Here are some tips for you to buy those perfect shoes:


Keywords:
shoes, shoe shopping


Article Body:
Are you looking for the perfect shoes you can wear this season? How do you pick the right shoes, though? Here are some tips for you to buy those perfect shoes:

- Find shoes that you are comfortable in. No matter how cute they look, if you are not comfortable in the, you will not wear them. And, if you don't wear them, you just wasted your money. 

To make sure you are comfortable in the shoes you want, make sure you try them on at the store. If you are shopping online, make sure you find the correct size you need. Check with the web site's measurements, to make sure that the size you are getting is actually your size.

- Find shoes that match with different clothes. Even the best shoes will not be worn too match, if they only match one outfit. Make sure you purchase versatile shoes, that will match with different outfits you have.

The best colors for shoes that will match with many things are black, brown, grey and white.

- The more expensive they are, the more things they should match. Of course all of us own a pair or two of pink or red shoes that we love, but that don't match too many outfits. So, create a rule - the more expensive the shoes are, the more outfits they should match. If you find a $20 pair of pink shoes that you just must have, get it. However, if the pair costs $100, it should match more then just one t-shirt you have.

- Don't buy shoes that are extremely trendy. While they are really hot right now, they will be out of style next year. Instead, spend the money on the shoes that can be worn a few seasons.

Remember to pick the shoes that you are comfortable with, and they are stylish, but not extremely trendy - those are the shoes that will last for a while.


