Title: 
Make A  Fashion Statement With Designer Shoes

Word Count:
354

Summary:
Shoes to feet what clothes are to the body? Shoes protect the feet and make it comfortable for us to walk on all grounds. Nowadays, they have taken on a different dimension that was not present in the olden times. The role is that of making a fashion statement. Custom-made designer shoes that match with the outfit you are wearing make a huge fashion statement.

Designer shoes made by elite fashion houses are worth thousands of dollars and it is a prestige to be wearing them...


Keywords:
shoes,designer shoes,designer footwear


Article Body:
Shoes to feet what clothes are to the body? Shoes protect the feet and make it comfortable for us to walk on all grounds. Nowadays, they have taken on a different dimension that was not present in the olden times. The role is that of making a fashion statement. Custom-made designer shoes that match with the outfit you are wearing make a huge fashion statement.

Designer shoes made by elite fashion houses are worth thousands of dollars and it is a prestige to be wearing them. They are a part of modern fashion. However, all is not well with designer shoes. The comfort and protection factor is lacking. These shoes can also harm your feet and affect your posture.

Women뭩 Designer Shoes

Each woman has her own style and taste and would like custom-made designer shoes for herself. But how many women can afford them? Most women would prefer shoes ranging from $25 to $100. But designer shoes from well-known designer houses are priced at thousands of dollars for just a single pair of shoes. The best fashion houses that cater to the elite are located in cities like New York, Paris, Italy and London.

How to Select the Perfect Designer Shoes

Selecting the right designer shoes needs patience. Do not choose the snazziest color or design; go by the comfort factor. The following should be kept in mind while choosing designer shoes.

 Select the proper size and shape of hosiery and socks before wearing your shoes. Thick socks or hosiery will affect shoe selection.

 Wear the shoes on one foot first and check for toe space by wriggling your toe. Half inch of space should be present from the tip of the shoe to the end of the longest toe.

 Check for the width of the shoe. Stand on one foot, then on both and walk around to see if the shoes are comfortable or not.

 Buy shoes only after trying them on since sizes vary from brand to brand. Give priority to comfort and protection.

Notwithstanding their high price, Designer shoes are an asset to your wardrobe and they are here to stay.


