Title: 
Pointe Shoes- Shopping for Your First Pair

Word Count:
330

Summary:
Getting your first pair of pointe shoes is a memory not soon forgotten. From the first blisters to the spotlight at the recital, your shoes will carry you to fulfill your dancing dreams.


Keywords:
ballet, pointe, dance, pointe shoes, point shoes, ballet shoes, beginning pointe, dancer, ballerina, dancing, starting ballet, beginning dance


Article Body:
Getting your first pair of pointe shoes is a memory not soon forgotten. From the first blisters to the spotlight at the recital, your shoes will carry you to fulfill your dancing dreams.

It is important to have your pointe shoes fitted by someone who understands the shoe’s purpose and the dancer’s body’s demands.   Be certain to ask about the credentials of the person doing your fitting, especially if you have concerns about their understanding of your needs.  

When you go in for your fitting, bring thin socks or tights to wear in order to keep the shoes clean and create an accurate fit.  Ask your teacher if she has any shoe preferences and any padding suggestions.  Understand the demands that will be on your shoes by knowing the number of classes per week that you will be taking on pointe and the duration of those classes.  Call ahead for an appointment whenever possible to insure individualized service.

Once you find the shoes you like, test them.  Take them off, walk around for a few minutes, and then try them on again.  If they still feel right to you and look right to your teacher or fitting professional, chances are you have found your best starting shoe.

If you have any concerns, considering taking the shoes in to your teacher for a second opinion.  Ask about the exchange policy before purchasing the shoes.  If you are getting a second opinion, wear clean tights while trying on the shoes and use a clean towel over the floor.  Do not bend, crush, or otherwise try to break in the shoes until you are certain you want to keep them.  

Above all, enjoy the experience.  To this day I look back with a smile on my face to the time when I bought my first pair of pointe shoes.  It is a joy that brings with it new challenges and experiences that will help you to grow as a dancer.


