Title: 
Shoe Designer Bathing Ape comes to Manhattan, leases 91 Greene St

Word Count:
323

Summary:
The leasing team of Faith Hope Consolo, vice chairman, and Joseph A. Aquino, managing director of Garrick-Aug Worldwide, Ltd., exclusively represented the landlord in leasing 91 Greene St. to an obscure, yet ultra hip urban retailer A Bathing Ape. The Soho location will serve as the U.S. flagship for the street wear retailer, also known as BAPE (pronounced baypee), and will include a cafe.


Keywords:
ape bapes, bapes, ape bapestas, bapestas, ape bape stas, bape stas, a bathing ape, bathing apes


Article Body:
The leasing team of Faith Hope Consolo, vice chairman, and Joseph A. Aquino, managing director of Garrick-Aug Worldwide, Ltd., exclusively represented the landlord in leasing 91 Greene St. to an obscure, yet ultra hip urban retailer A Bathing Ape. The Soho location will serve as the U.S. flagship for the street wear retailer, also known as BAPE (pronounced baypee), and will include a cafe.

The 10-year lease is for 3,036 s/f, including two levels and mezzanine space. Apparel retailer Tehen previously occupied the site.

According to Ms. Consolo, "BAPE's retail concept is perfectly suited for this hyper-trendy Soho neighborhood. The company, whose name is a clever riff that pokes fun at complacency among Japanese youths, was launched 11 years ago by designer, producer, musician and disc jockey Nigo, a self-professed 'Planet of the Apes' fanatic. His designs incorporate simian imagery, hip-hop culture and camouflage motifs and are deliberately sold in limited quantities to preserve exclusivity. BAPE clothing and accessories have reached feverish popularity among the young and hip. Customers in Japan have even been known to wait in line just to get into the store to shop! This New York flagship will allow the retailer, which already has stores in Japan, Hong Kong and London, to expand its brand within the U.S."

The lifestyle retail boutique, which will feature an array of apparel and accessories, is slated to open this summer.

"This incredible signature location features a modern, all-glass facade and nearly 20 feet of street frontage," said Mr. Aquino.

"However, the area's non-stop pedestrian traffic and proximity to some of the most well known retailers in the world are what truly makes 91 Greene St. a standout retail address."

Situated on the same block as Louis Vuitton, Armani Casa, Anne Fontaine and La Perla, 91 Greene St. is also located near other marquis retailers, including Salvatore Ferragamo, Helmut Lang and Apple Computer.

Christopher Owles, managing director of Sinvin Realty, represented the tenant in the transaction.


