Title: 
What You Should Know About Athletic Shoe

Word Count:
866

Summary:
Did you ever wonder why there are so many types of running shoes and athletic footwear styles? The main reason is to avoid foot injuries by creating a shape and style of shoe that is appropriate for different sports and activities.


Keywords:
athletic shoes


Article Body:
Did you ever wonder why there are so many types of running shoes and athletic footwear styles? The main reason is to avoid foot injuries by creating a shape and style of shoe that is appropriate for different sports and activities. 

Athletic shoes are made into both standard and sometimes odd sizes for men, women, and children. These shoes are designed to help a person achieve top performance in basketball, football, baseball, golf, bowling or any other athletic or team sport.  In addition, athletic shoes are created for running and walking as well.  The type of sport shoe that a person needs will largely depends on the chosen sport, activity level and the preference of the person wearing the shoe. 

When choosing an athletic shoe, consider how the shoe will be used. If you participate in casual sports activities such as volunteer church baseball leagues or neighborhood football matches, you will not need an expensive athletic shoe.  However, if you play sports competitively, you might want to consider specially made athletic shoes. For instance, a person who takes running very seriously, is more likely to invest in a higher quality athletic shoe than the average runner.  Higher quality shoes are often needed because they are required to spend several hours a day training to build speed, endurance, and strength as they compete. In order to for runners to do this they will need a shoe that will last.  This is true for those who play other types of competitive sports, as well. 

The choice of athletic shoe is also important for moving and protecting the foot while participating in sports. For example, in basketball or football, a person needs to think and act fast as they dribble, pass the ball or run down the field.  Therefore, the person needs the appropriate shoe for optimum performance and safety.  Basketball shoes often have a strong grip on the bottom that prevents an athlete from sliding. In both football and baseball, each player usually has shoes that have cleats on the bottom of the soles. This is to help the player grip the ground as they move quickly during play. Cleats are also important because players also have to play in varying outside weather conditions such as snow, rate, sleet, and extreme heat or cold.  The right shoe is important because weather conditions can affect how well a player moves around the field, and the player’s ability to run without slipping and falling. The wrong shoe can cause falling and injury to players.

There are several companies that make high quality running and athletic shoes. Nike, Etonic, New Balance, Asics, Mulziny and Adidas are all popular shoe manufacturers. These shoes often come in a wide variety of styles and features. In addition, these athletic shoes often have shock absorbent soles for a softer impact when the runner’s foot hits the ground.  Furthermore, good quality athletic shoes are often made in wide and narrow styles as well as arched, normal, or flat designs that help fit the overall shape of a person’s foot.  Along with that, these shoes come in a variety of sizes so that everyone can find a pair that fits their foot well.

Sometimes a person can find a high quality athletic shoe from a manufacturer or retailer that does not advertise nationally. These types of shoes are often called “off brand” or “generic”.  Many times, these shoes are just as durable and dependable as the regular name brand shoes, but often cost much less than name brand shoes. The fit of a shoe is usually a matter of personal preference, so before purchasing these off brand shoes, it is important to test them out for fit and feel.
 
Further information can be found online about generic or off brand shoes. However, it is important to remember that information about these shoes often comes directly from companies whom manufacturer and advertise their shoes. If in doubt about the quality of a generic shoe, it is sometimes not worth saving a few dollars. Buy the shoes from a brand that you know will not let you down, whether it is a nationally known brand of athletic shoe or not.

Athletic shoes can be purchased for both recreational or competitive activity needs either online, in a store, or by mail order.  When purchasing shoes online or mail order, there is always the risk of the shoe not fitting right because each brand will fit a little differently. However, you can increase your chances of finding a fitting shoe if you know a little about the brand of shoe that you choose to purchase. Also, consider trying the shoe on at a store before buying online.

When purchasing a shoe in a store, there may be a smaller selection than what is available online. However, the advantage is buying a shoe that will fit properly. This goes for the fitting of athletic shoes as well. If you do a little online research on athletic shoes before shopping at a store, it is easier to make a better decision about the purchase of shoes. When researching shoes online, it is easier to compare shoe brands, prices and features.


