Title: 
Wholesale Nike Air Force One Shoes

Word Count:
491

Summary:
In 1983 the Nike shoe company released a plain white sneaker they trademarked the Nike Air Force One.  These were a quality sneaker intended for sportswear sales, being introduced into a market where such footwear was gaining popularity and traction.  Initially the Air Force One shoe line was a plain white shoe available in either a low cut or a high top. In 1986 Michael Jordan was contracted for marketing and took to the courts wearing red and black Nike Air Force Ones, which have become a trad


Keywords:
Hip Hop Clothing  Wholesale Hip Hop clothing and other accessories


Article Body:
Upon their sales to the public prices for the Air Force One shoes ranged from $70 to $80 retail for the standard white or black Nike Air Force One and up to $300 for customized colors and logos.  Almost instantly this also created a market for wholesale Nike Air Force Ones, but that market was harder to maintain in competition with the larger stores carrying the retail marketing power and recognition.

Corresponding with the release and early popularity of the Nike Air Force One line was the revolution of the Hip Hop movement and the growing trend of Hip Hop clothing.  Hip-hop fashion began to gain momentum in the late seventies and continued to survive as a unique culture and fashion through out the early eighties.  Marked by clothing with an African American influence, early Hip Hop fashion included the wearing of large glasses, gold necklaces and rings, oversized loose fitting clothing in pallets of black, red and green and an emphasis on brand name footwear, Nike, Addidas that was comfortable and reflective of personal style, often with oversized laces.

Within the Hip Hop fashion culture Nike Air Force One shoes became very popular almost immediately.  Bright colored with over sized laces, which were often left untied, or as white sneakers peaking out from under overlong pants Nike Air Force Ones maintained their hold on the Hip Hop market through the late eighties, nineties and continue to hold a strong place beyond the year 2000.  They have become a much more casual wear shoe, seen just about everywhere, not only the basketball court.

Currently many top of the market shoe stores sell the Nike Air Force Ones at retail, leaving wholesale Nike Air Force Ones for outlet stores, prices ranging from $70 to over $300, averaging out around $100.  In order to combat these prices and take a share of the wholesale Nike Air Force One market online websites such as urbanhotlist.com have appeared.  They offer discounted prices on these shoes, through wholesale options and bulk orders.  This guarantees the authenticity and quality of the shoes, but for a much lower price.

Both advantages and disadvantages exist when it comes to purchasing from an online wholesale site, like urbanhotlist.com.  The access to a much broader base of merchandise, in this case additional colors and styles of shoes that might not be available in stores and at wholesale pricing, can be kept reasonable, even after shipping and handling.  For these reasons, among others, websites such as urbanhotlist.com have become popular with wholesale Nike Air Force One consumers.  

Customers must be sure to get a good refund policy before placing an order, so that any defects or sizing problems can be easily addressed. As long as this movement continues it seems that Nike Air Force One shoes will continue to be popular and with websites such as urbanhotlist.com, consumers will have places to go to get what they want for the price they want to pay.


