Title: 
10 tips for selecting the perfect Costa Rica vacation rental

Word Count:
1266

Summary:
Planning a Tropical holiday full of lush jungles, secluded beaches, & friendly people but not  expensive? Costa Rica is the place to go!


Keywords:
bus tours,bus tour


Article Body:
Planning a Tropical holiday full of lush jungles, secluded beaches, & friendly people but not  expensive? Costa Rica is the place to go! But where do you stay, a resort or a private villa? Do you require long lines, crowded pools, babies jogging up & down the corridors? I think not.

Selecting the best Costa Rica holiday rental can be the difference between a great holiday & three where you feel like you are 'doing without'.

plenty of vacationers consider the Costa Rica holiday rental as 'just somewhere to stay' since most of your time will be spent in or on the water, or enjoying local attractions. Don't make that mistake. there is no reason to settle for less when, with a little planning, you can find a great Costa Rica holiday rental that you'll enjoy as much or more than the other parts of your holiday.

Remember, your holiday home is where you'll be sleeping, waking up, having lots of of your meals, & resting. 

If it rains or is unseasonably hot outside, you may end up stretched out reading a book to while away the day or wanting to watch three of your favorite movies on the DVD - assuming there is a comfortable sofa. & when you meet new friends, you'll require someplace lovely for entertaining. should not your holiday rental be a pleasant get-away with the amenities that make vacations a real treat? "A home away from home"

Here are 10 tips for selecting the perfect Costa Rica holiday rental:

With the web, a web site is the quickest most convenient way for you to get information on prospective Costa Rica holiday rentals. If there's no pics, you'll know right away to keep looking. Brochures, books & guides are lovely, but may have out-dated information. 

1. The single most important factor is whether or not you can "see" actual recent photos of the interior & exterior of the holiday rental. it is three thing to read a great description - & a number of them are  'complimentary' (sometimes overly so) - but you require to see what you are getting. 

With these lists as a guide, you'll be able to quickly eliminate those rentals that won't meet your needs. Your list might include proximity to the water, the number of bedrooms & bathrooms, type kitchen (full versus fridge & microwave), outdoor amenities such as decks & BBQ grills, ocean views, private pools, outdoor eating areas, tennis courts & other items important to you. 

2. List the amenities that are important to you, the ones without which you will feel incomplete. Next, jot down those that are lovely to have, but not deal-breakers if not available. 

3. List the activities that you require to be able to enjoy while on holiday. A morning activity like scuba diving, snorkeling or canopy tour then coming back to the villa to relax may be a high priority for you.
You also require to consider how close the holiday rental is to the airport. it is  important to know how far the rental is from your arrival airport. Some rentals can take a half a day's drive & after your flight even an hour's drive can seem an eternity. Your travel time back to the airport at departure can also frustrate your entire holiday. Enjoying your last morning of your holiday by a private pool instead of travelling for hours to the airport can be  important to you. For Costa Rica holiday rentals that are only 20 minutes from the Liberia International airport visit http://www.costarica-vacation-getaway.com. This will help you in selecting a general location.

On your secondary list, you might have things like a hammock for lazing about, or pool waterfall for the relaxing sounds. Exterior stereo speakers, to enjoy your favorite music around the pool. Ice makers to mix your favorite drinks,  in the heat of the day.

Some people feel that a great holiday is being able to walk or bicycle everywhere. Others don't mind a short drive, & still others think nothing of getting on a freeway to enjoy attractions. 

You also require to consider how close you require your holiday rental to be to the attractions. 

4. Identify your first, second & third choice of dates for renting the villa.
With several dates, you'll save time when making arrangements. 

If you prefer a holiday without the hassles of traffic, parking problems, crowds & long lines, select a villa located in the quaint waterfront town of Playa Panama, Costa Rica. Visit http://www.costarica-vacation-getaway.com to learn more.

If you find a villa that you really require & you have some flexibility in scheduling, having alternate dates ready allows you to book right then, saving yourself the time & hassle of having to re-check everyone's schedule & call back - & risking losing those dates in the interim. 

5. Call the telephone numbers for the holiday rentals that seem to meet your needs & speak directly with either the owners or the person who's handling the property.

Be prepared with a list of questions. This allows you to compare apples to apples, & keeps you from forgetting something important during the conversation. 

It also gives you a feel for the person who will be your contact should you rent the villa & then encounter a problem. If you don't get a warm, friendly welcome to your inquiries, don't expect anything different when you have a problem.

Other things to consider: Is there a welcome basket? Will the owner have essential items in the refrigerator for you, before your arrival? Can you make arrangements for tours? Are there plates, utensils, pots, pans & other essentials for eating & meal preparation - or will you have to bring your own?
Does the rental have air condition or do you have to depend on the winds to comfort you?

6. Ask what amenities are included.
You may learn of something that isn't on your list but is perfect for your designs. 
Does the rental have maid service? Last thing you require to do is make the beds or tidy the dishes, even if there is a dishwasher.
Does the rental have a washer & dryer? If so, you will not have to take as lots of cloths with you. Will the maid wash your cloths before your departure? Coming home with a suitcase full of tidy cloths is certainly a benefit. 

7. Inquire about restaurants, events & activities & other forms of local entertainment that are close by. Here's where your list of preferred activities comes in handy. You should be able to find links to local attractions, calendars & restaurants on the web site of your Costa Rica holiday rental. 

8. Are the owners local or do they have a management team helping 24/7?
Owners are a wealth of information about the area & can give you tips on great out-of-the-way places that aren't in the guidebooks. They also care about your enjoyment & comfort while at their villa. 

This can make a huge difference;  should something require immediate attention in the villa. there is nothing worse than calling the rental company about a stopped-up toilet & getting somebody's bored teenager who's manning the phones for the summer. 

9. How long has the owner been renting holiday rentals?
If the owner has worked with rental properties, they know what tenants expect & how to get things done. 

If this is a new venture, beware. The owner may be in it for "fun" & have no idea how to prepare the villa so that you can have a great holiday.

10. & last, when you look at the pics, can you see yourself having a great time there? 

If the pics make you require to go right now, & the answers to the questions above meet your satisfaction, you have found yourself a great Costa Rica holiday rental!


