Title: 
10 Ways To Identify If Your Mover Is Right For You

Word Count:
447

Summary:
If you manage to find the right mover then half the battle is won. One of the greatest challenges of moving from one city to another, to the countryside, or abroad is locating an efficient and honest mover.


Keywords:
moving companies search, compare movers, moving insurance, auto transport, moving tips


Article Body:
If you manage to find the right mover then half the battle is won. One of the greatest challenges of moving from one city to another, to the countryside, or abroad is locating an efficient and honest mover. 

Keep in mind the following: movers must have a good reputation, an extensive network, and be licensed and insured. In addition, they must be professional, polite, understand your needs and proffer the right advice.

Here are a few considerations to put you on the right track:

1.	Meet the mover and find out how long they have been in business and whether they can give you a few references.

2.	Check the references. Call his clients to check on the services the mover offered and whether there were any problems.

3.	Do an online search to determine whether there are any warnings or complaints against the mover.

4.	Check with the local chamber of commerce or bank to determine the moving company’s business standing.

5.	Check if the mover’s license and insurance are current. Ensure they have workman’s compensation and other benefits in place.

6.	Determine whether the mover handles the work himself or assigns it to a sub agent or associate.

7.	The mover must have a wide network with offices in the place you are moving to.

8.	A reputable mover will be a member of AMSA, the American Moving and Storage Association. As a professional he will have committed to following an industry Code of Conduct and will offer quality service.

9.	The ideal mover will not give you an estimate off the top of his head. He will insist to making a preliminary inspection, listing objects to be moved, and ask you to answer a number of questions. Based on which he will prepare an estimate and highlight variables.

10.	He will be open minded and explain clearly what you can expect and what you cannot.  He will tell you all about insurance, the actual moving process, transit storage, guarantees and so on. 

An ideal mover will value your business and explain his responsibilities clearly.  

Once you know you have to move allocate enough time to finding the right mover. Ask relevant questions like will my stuff reach its destination as promised, will the material move as one load or as part of other things, a larger load. What kind of training do your workers receive? Are the workers experienced in packing antiques and other valuables? Do I need additional insurance apart from the one provided by you? 

Be prudent and weigh the pros and cons carefully. Never let cost dictate your choice. Sometimes by cutting corners to save a few pennies you may loose thousands in damaged goods or lost goods.


