Title: 
2008 Olympic Tour Packages: An Experience of a Lifetime

Word Count:
475

Summary:
2008 Olympic tour packages are extremely popular, as they present a unique opportunity to experience Chinese culture and enjoy the camaraderie that accompanies this gathering of athletes and fans from around the world.


Keywords:
2008 Olympic Tour Packages, Golf Packages, Hunting and Fishing Vacations, Cruises, Travel


Article Body:
The Olympics represent unique opportunities for sports enthusiasts and cultural ambassadors to come together to dissolve humanity's differences and unify under the banner of goodwill and sportsmanship. The Olympics are held in even numbered years, with the Summer Olympics celebrated in years divisible by four and the Winter Olympics staged two years later. 

Although the Olympics are always an exciting time, anticipation for the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing is unparalleled. China has always been an extremely powerful nation, but it is poised to become a true economic powerhouse, one that could well lead the world as the century progresses. The Chinese view the 2008 Games as the opportunity to showcase their development, while the rest of the world is intensely curious about a country, a government, and a people that seem shrouded in mystery.

Because it is largely a closed society, few Westerners have had the opportunity to visit China - until now. Indeed, this year's Games make 2008 Olympic tour packages extremely popular, as they present a unique opportunity to experience Chinese culture and enjoy the camaraderie that accompanies this gathering of athletes and fans from around the world. For many people who love to travel, golf packages, hunting and fishing vacations, and cruises pale in comparison to the chance to become part of history as China unveils its advancements on a world stage. 

When you've decided to embark on this adventure of a lifetime, though, how do you decide which travel operator to use? The best 2008 Olympic tour packages can be found online. Look for a travel website that offers over a dozen different China travel packages. For example, you should be able to choose from among seven-day, nine-day, ten-day, and eleven-day tours. Perhaps you'd like to limit your China visit to Beijing, and concentrate on seeing the Olympics and visiting landmarks like Tiananmen Square and the Great Wall. Maybe you'd also like to make your way to Shanghai and Suzhou, a town of canals that has been dubbed the "Venice of the East." Extend your trip for a few days, and you could visit Nanjing to experience its rich cultural heritage, as well as Hangzhou's Lin Ying Temple. 

Choosing the right travel company is more than selecting your preferred itinerary, though. You should also ensure that the tour provides guides that speak English, and includes accommodations in four-star hotels. All transportation within China should be provided, including transportation to and from Olympic venues. Price is also a consideration, though it probably shouldn't be the deciding factor. You can, however, expect to book a superb eleven-day 2008 Olympic tour package for under $5,000 per person. 

The slogan of this summer's Olympic games is "One World, One Dream." If you've always dreamt of visiting one of the most exotic, mysterious places in the world, 2008 Olympic tour packages will give you an experience of a lifetime. Let the games begin!


