Title: 
5 Occasions to Use a New York Limousine Service

Word Count:
517

Summary:
There are many occasions where a limo makes more sense than other forms of transportation. Here are five...


Keywords:
new york limousine,new york limo,limo new york,limousine new york,jfk airport transportation,


Article Body:
While many people perceive a New York Limousine service as a luxury reserved for the wealthy, others are embracing the concept that a New York limo can be both cost effective and practical. Indeed, there are many occasions where a limo makes more sense than other forms of transportation. Here are five:

1. Airport Transportation

With the heightened security measures at airports across the country - and especially at New York airports - it's far too much of a hassle to drive yourself to the airport. When you have to park and drag your luggage to a shuttle and into the airport, it can add another hour to the time you have to allot for pre-boarding. Whether you're looking for JFK airport transportation, or need a ride to LaGuardia or Newark, a limo service can be just the ticket. You can go in style in a stretch limo, or opt for the more practical Town Car. If the whole family is heading to the airport, a limo in New York can be a seven-passenger van or even a 19-passenger limo bus.

2. Weddings

A stretch limousine in New York may be standard for the bride and groom, but a limo service can also be a godsend for the bridal party and even for out of town guests. The best limo companies have worry-free wedding packages and coordinators who can ensure that everyone will get to the church (or synagogue or mosque) on time - and then to the reception and back to their hotels. 

3. Tours

If you're visiting the Big Apple and want to take in the sights, a New York limousine service can show them to you in style. Depending on the number in your party, you can use a limo, a sedan, a van, or a bus to enjoy all that New York has to offer. You can create your own itinerary, and rest assured that the driver will double as a professional tour guide. The best services provide complimentary refreshments and snacks, and even have drivers who can give tours in languages other than English.

4. Sporting Events

When you and your buddies are going to a game, the last thing you need is that hassle of driving and parking at the event. Plus, if you want to knock back a few beers, you certainly don't want to be behind the wheel after the game. A New York limousine can take you to Yankee Stadium, Madison Square Garden, or Flushing Meadows and back again in style. 

5. Business Meetings

Whether you're in town for business, or are hosting out-of-town colleagues or potential clients, a New York limousine service can help ensure that attendees will get to your meetings on time. A good limo service has experienced drivers who are knowledgeable, discreet, and familiar with the needs of the business traveler. If needed, some limo services also have armored vehicles in their fleet. 

This is just the tip of the iceberg, but rest assured that a New York limousine service isn't only for the wealthy. There are many occasions when a limo can take the hassle out of transportation.


