Title: 
8 Tips That Will Make Your Journey Safe And Trouble Free

Word Count:
524

Summary:
Traveling by plane requires great planning. One can minimize problems by planning well in advance and taking a few precautions before embarking on the journey. This will alleviate problems and ensure that you have a safe and hassle free trip.


Keywords:
online travel directory, online travel planning, air tickets reservation, cruise travel, travel insurance issues, world travel, travel guide, vacation packages, travel agents, travel agencies and make hotel reservation, car rentals


Article Body:
Traveling by plane requires great planning. One can minimize problems by planning well in advance and taking a few precautions before embarking on the journey. This will alleviate problems and ensure that you have a safe and hassle free trip.

1.	Always book tickets on a reliable airline. Check if they are offering any special fares or discounts. Check the tickets to ensure that what you have is a confirmed booking. 

2.	Find out details regarding size of baggage and weight allowed. Tag all bags with your name, address, phone number, date of travel, and flight number. Pack the bags yourself and ensure that they are all locked safely. Make two sets of keys. 

3.	As a precaution pack documents, passport, medicines, and other immediate essentials in the carry on case. In case your luggage gets lost or misplaced in transit you will still have bare essentials.

4.	Follow to a “t” all security rules. Do not carry electronics, knives, batteries, or other banned items. All dangerous objects like razors, scissors, and so on must be   put in your check in luggage.

5.	All electronic items like cell phones and laptops must be fully charged and in accordance to rules turned on for checking if asked. Use of cell phones while flying is prohibited. So do not plan or making or receiving calls when in flight.

6.	Take along a valid photo ID to the airport. Check whether you have your tickets.

7.	Make prior booking for parking at the airport this will save you valuable time circling around to find suitable parking. If the airport lots are full or inconvenient try any of the private parking lots.

8.	Always check the flight schedule before you leave the house. Make sure what the check-in-time is for your flight. Leave with plenty of time to spare. This way you won’t have to rush from one end of the airport to the other.

It is against regulations for passengers to carry inflammables, aerosols, or household cleaners. Other prohibited items are: firearms even if you have a license, hunting rifles, baseball bats, golf clubs, pool cues, ski equipment, hockey sticks, darts, as well as bows and arrows. Because of terrorist threats it is against the law to speak of hijackings, bomb threats, or other dangerous things. Be cautious about who you befriend. Never accept any letter or parcel to be delivered to persons known or unknown. Never leave your luggage unattended and if you do notice any abandoned parcel or luggage bring it to the notice of authorities. Be aware of what the weather conditions are like where you going and take clothes accordingly. Prepare well for your flight and enjoy it.

Before leaving check online whether there are any diversions to be made at the airport or whether any new rules have been made. Most airports have easy to use websites. Refer to the site and find out where your terminal is and where your car is to be parked. If using public transport only use transportation services from official pick up points. The vehicles must have official markings. Don’t get conned by people who make offers of special privileges or deals.


