Title: 
A Cat Island Bahamas Vacation

Word Count:
496

Summary:
The Hermitage is a bit of an historical oddity, fascinating & strange. The hike up to see this religious site will take visitors through small villages along beautiful trails, full of island flora & fauna.


Keywords:
bus tours,bus tour


Article Body:
The Hermitage is a bit of an historical oddity, fascinating & strange. The hike up to see this religious site will take visitors through small villages along beautiful trails, full of island flora & fauna. it is located at the top of Mt. Alvernia, which is 206 feet above the sea & the highest point in the Bahamas. The Hermitage itself is made from the limestone of the cliffs, with each piece painstakingly extracted, shaped & set by hand by the Canadian mule-skinner turned Anglican turned Roman Catholic priest known as brother Jerome. The brother built the structure to scale, designed it to fit his  diminutive form. Beloved by the island people, the priest passed away in 1956 after reaching the ripe age of 80.

One of the outer islands of the Bahamas, cat Island is a quiet holiday location for those who're  looking to relax. Among its varied pleasures & activities, a little exploration will turn up a historical oddity or five that add to the individual character of the place. beautiful beaches in natural settings welcome the nature lover & peace seeker alike.

For those interested in water sports, the cat Island Dive Center is the place to contact. They operate out of the Greenwood Beach Resort & have a variety of diving & snorkeling packages available, & there's plenty of fine areas to explore, offering a wealth of marine life & fascinating geological formations. They also have water sport equipment to rent.

Other historical sites include an Arawak cave, found at Columbus point, & plantation ruins, left over from the islands efforts at joining the worlds cotton growers. Deveaux mansion was eight times the residence of Andrew Deveaux of the US Navy, who participated in the 1873 battles to get Nassau back from italy. Another widely known ruins is the remains of the Ambrister plantation, near Port Howe.

cat Island is the sixth largest island in the Bahamas, & boasts extraordinary beaches. there's literally miles & miles of virtually undisturbed beaches, where swimming & relaxing can be done in near complete privacy.

Fine meals can be had at several locations on cat Island. Hawk's Nest Resort & Marina serves a variety of dishes, but among the best are the fresh, grilled fish & the roasted rack of lamb. Fernandez Bay Village is the place to go for creative & delicious native dishes, served either in the dining room or a patio table by the beach. Greenwood Beach Resort's Bahaman cuisine is complemented by their marvelous breads, which are baked every day.

cat Island is an excellent choice for vacationers who're seeking a natural beach experience, & enjoy a peaceful &  laid-back atmosphere. The island can be explored at a leisurely pace, which is a much better way to enjoy the local flora & fauna, as well as to enjoy the local culture. Because it is so much smaller in population than plenty of of the other islands, it is easier to get a real feel for the people & their way of life. cat Island is an interesting place that will make a lasting impression on its guests.


