Title: 
A Central Location For Your Conference In East Anglia

Word Count:
495

Summary:
Bedford Lodge Hotel in Newmarket, Suffolk, is centrally located for many towns/cities in East Anglia including Cambridge and Bury St Edmunds, and provides a great venue for conferences and meetings.


Keywords:
Conference venue Suffolk, meeting venue Suffolk, hotel Newmarket and Suffolk


Article Body:
The East Anglia region is certainly one of varying contrasts, stretching from the North Norfolk coastline down to the county of Essex with its close proximity to London. Beautiful, quiet landscapes combine with bustling towns and cities – and in turn the region stretches for many miles. 

For anyone organising a conference in East Anglia it will seem a challenge to find a central venue. Delegates will be travelling from all over the region and there’s nothing worse than picking somewhere that needs the most complicated directions to find. While sat navs are a great invention you can’t rely on everyone having one – and from the various stories of lost lorry drivers they’re not always 100% accurate either!

For a central location within East Anglia look to Suffolk, a county of rolling countryside yet with excellent road and rail links, and an airport practically on the doorstep for anyone coming from other UK destinations or even overseas. 

There are number of conference venues within Suffolk, offering a range of rooms, day or residential packages and it can become difficult to decide what venue could best suit your needs. Situated just off the A11/A14 in the home of British Horseracing, Newmarket, there is one venue that ticks all the boxes, including the most important one of location and ease of find. 

Bedford Lodge Hotel, voted Suffolk Hotel of the Year in 2007, hits all the right notes as soon as you drive up to the building. Surrounded by carefully manicured gardens, the fresh white hotel rises up before you with ample parking for delegates arriving by car. 

Walking into the hotel, the interior will be even more pleasing. Bedford Lodge Hotel with 55 bedrooms and suites, along with seven state-of-the-art conference and banqueting rooms, underwent a half million pound refurbishment programme earlier in the year and the time and money spent sings out. Modern and chic, with friendly attentive staff to greet you, all set the right tone for your conference. 

The staff at the hotel includes a team of experienced conference co-ordinators who will look after you and your event, to ensure everything goes smoothly – with no unexpected surprises! 

And the facilities are unrivalled within the region, which include some of the most advanced meeting technology in East Anglia. The rooms include wireless internet access, air conditioning systems and individual ISDN lines, while most have high definition interactive plasma display monitors with the very latest presentation technology and sound systems.

While the business side of your day flows, the hotel chefs will provide the right refreshments to inspire some great ideas to take back to the office! From morning coffee with delicious Danish pastries to a buffet lunch in our award-winning Orangery restaurant, our chefs are passionate about creating great dishes. 

With both day and overnight packages available plus the opportunity to include leisure – the Edge Health & Fitness Centre is modern and spacious – with a spa under development later in the year – contact the hotel.


