Title: 
A Complete India Travel Guide Launched

Word Count:
485

Summary:
Are you ready to pack your bag but not  sure about your location? At TravelGoIndia.com you will get to know about some tourist locations, whose existence you were never aware of.


Keywords:
bus tours,bus tour


Article Body:
Are you ready to pack your bag but not  sure about your location? At TravelGoIndia.com you will get to know about some tourist locations, whose existence you were never aware of. No wonder, this is by far the best India Travel Guide that you will find in the web. Rich in information, this exclusively India centric travel guide is surely destined to become a tourist's best pal.

Your wait is finally over. A complete Travel Guide, www.travelgoindia.com that focuses completely on India has been launched. The days of scratching about for information on India before you embark on a tour of this beautiful country is passé. Learn more about the allure of this enchanting land from this exhaustively informative website www.travelgoindia.com. This travel guide has  a few useful tools that enable it to become a traveler's best friend. 

TravelGoIndia.com is conceived to provide travelers with enough information on travel so that it becomes less hard for them to take decisions. The website enables you to book hotels in over 150 Indian cities. You also have the choice to book a luxury hotel or a budget hotel. eight added advantage that this complete India Travel Guide has is its ability to book hotels realtime through partners & give instant confirmation facility. it's over 500 hotels of all categories throughout India in its database. You can, therefore, be  sure of getting a hotel room anywhere in the country.

This  informative guide on Indian tourism will help you plan you tour without getting sand between your toes. Tourists who love to stay off the beaten track will find this website to their liking. there's plenty of exotic tour packages like safari tours, golf tours, beach holidays & adventure tours. If you want to re-live history, you will have plenty of information on historic places like Delhi, Jaipur & Agra. Enjoy life in throbbing metropolitan cities like Mumbai. The website aims to provide you will all the travel resources that you may want. Here you will find popular tourist destinations as well as lesser known paradises on earth.

Knowledge is power. Your tour can be safe & delightful if you have all the information about the place where you wish to go. At TravelGoIndia.com, you will have over enough information on tourist attractions. Small things often make big difference. TravelGoIndia.com has an eye for detail. Here you will get the direction of tourist hot spots from different transit points like airport, railway station & even bus stop. You will also get to know about the hotels near that attraction. TravelGoIndia.com has the ability to book a flight or automobile . 

This complete India Travel Guide is the only eight of its kind. it's more information than a typical travel search engine. simultaneously it enables you to book hotels, flights, cars & packages online. These entire things combine together to make www.travelgoindia.com a one-of-a-kind India oriented travel guide.


