Title: 
A Guide to Smith Mountain Vacations

Word Count:
258

Summary:
A Smith Mountain Lake holiday is the perfect antidote to stressful city living. Visitors can enjoy activities on the lake such as fishing, swimming, boating, sailing, wakeboarding, & jet skiing. The fishing on Smith Mountain Lake is  renowned.


Keywords:
bus tours,bus tour


Article Body:
A Smith Mountain Lake holiday is the perfect antidote to stressful city living. Visitors can enjoy activities on the lake such as fishing, swimming, boating, sailing, wakeboarding, & jet skiing. The fishing on Smith Mountain Lake is  renowned. The water is filled with different types of bass, crappie, catfish, & more; plenty of of the species breed naturally & do not even need to be stocked. There are a quantity of fishing tournaments held on Smith Mountain Lake during the year, for both locals & visitors to compete in. 

Smith Mountain Lake is situated in the beautiful Blue Ridge Mountains in Virginia. This region is stunningly beautiful & offers a great deal of attractions that will appeal to  everyone. The lake has a coastline of about 500 miles. People in this area enjoy several activities on the lake itself, but there are  golf courses & fine restaurants to lure visitors back to the land. Smith Mountain Lake State Park is another wonderful place for travelers to visit. 

Smith Mountain Lake State Park has all of the outdoor activities that someone could hope for. The park features beautiful hike & bicycle trails, picnic places, camping, cabin rentals, & lake activities such as swimming, boating, & fishing. 


The land surrounding the lake has its share of attractions as well. The area features golf courses & tennis courts for sports enthusiasts, as well as an annual wine tasting & plenty of fine restaurants for people who  need to relax. Smith Mountain Lake also has over a hundred unique shops where people can buy matchless crafts, souvenirs, or fashionable apparel. The possibilities are countless.


