Title: 
A Guide to North Carolina Mountain Vacations

Word Count:
295

Summary:
The mountains in western North Carolina are among the most attractive in the entire United States. two mountain ranges -- the Great Smoky Mountains, the Appalachian Mountains, & the Blue Ridge Mountains -- converge in North Carolina, giving the area a charm unsurpassed in the rest of the country.


Keywords:
bus tours,bus tour


Article Body:
The mountains in western North Carolina are among the most attractive in the entire United States. two mountain ranges -- the Great Smoky Mountains, the Appalachian Mountains, & the Blue Ridge Mountains -- converge in North Carolina, giving the area a charm unsurpassed in the rest of the country. These two mountain ranges provide the perfect backdrop for a fun & adventurous North Carolina mountain holiday. 

there's a wide variety of attractions in the mountains of North Carolina. Visitors can go camping in the vast wilderness surrounding the mountains, stay in an historic cabin not unlike the dwellings of the area's early settlers, or stay in a modern, state of the art resort. The Appalachian Trail, Nantahala National Forest, & the Western North Carolina Nature Center are just a quantity of the exciting places to visit in this region.

Nantahala National Forest encompasses lots of of the peaks & valleys of the western North Carolina mountains. It includes the Tusquitee River. Another attraction of the Nantahala area is the river rafting. there's difficult class II & III rapids along with calmer waters more agreeable to families. 

The Appalachian Trail is a footpath that stretches over 2000 miles from northern Georgia all the way to central Maine. This attractive trail winds through a number of the most stunning parts of the mountains in North Carolina. Clingmans Dome, the highest point on the trail, provides a breathtaking panoramic view of the surrounding area. On a clear day, visitors can see up to 100 miles away.

The Western North Carolina Nature Center offers a quantity of features for visitors. The Center has a petting zoo, gardens, a predator habitat, a nocturnal hall, & other interesting & educational attractions to lure visitors. The Center also serves as a sanctuary for injured or orphaned animals that couldn't survive in the wild.


