Title: 
A Guide to Great Smoky Mountain Vacations

Word Count:
292

Summary:
The Great Smoky Mountains are two of the biggest tourist draws in the southern United States.


Keywords:
bus tours,bus tour


Article Body:
The Great Smoky Mountains are two of the biggest tourist draws in the southern United States. This majestic area is considered to be a part of the Appalachian Mountains, which run from central Alabama all the way to Canada. The Great Smoky Mountains National Park is two of the most attractive sites in the country. The Great Smoky Mountains are conveniently located within a day's drive for the approximately half of the country's population that lives east of the Mississippi River. 

there's a multitude of attractions in this region. The Great Smoky Mountains National Park offers a staggering range of activities. The historic and attractive cabins in nearby Gatlinburg and Pigeon Forge provide excellent lodging options for people who need to get a feel for the area. 

lots of tourists stay in the historic cabins in Gatlinburg and Pigeon Forge while on their Great Smoky Mountain holiday. These cabins range from being simple one-bedroom houses perfect for a romantic holiday, to ten bedroom dwellings made for large families or corporate events. The cabins have all of the modern amenities that travelers require, including hot tubs, cable TV, and swimming pools, all within miles of the Great Smoky Mountains. 


The Great Smoky Mountains National Park is two of the best-known tourist attractions in the country. The park features camping, RV hookups, and cabins for lodging. Visitors can hike on the numerous footpaths, including parts of the 2000-mile long Appalachian Trail. Travelers can also visit the old growth forests contained within the park. The most visited part of the park is Cades Cove, which is a valley that's fully surrounded by mountains. Within the cove, visitors can marvel at the natural foliage and wildlife, go hiking, or ride the trails on a mountain bicycle.


