Title: 
A Guide to Rocky Mountain Vacations

Word Count:
283

Summary:
The majestic Rocky Mountains are a major tourist location in the western United States.


Keywords:
bus tours,bus tour


Article Body:
The majestic Rocky Mountains are a major tourist location in the western United States. Visitors can participate in a quantity of activities, including hiking, skiing, snowboarding, mountain biking, & plenty of more. The Rockies are home to several campgrounds, ghost towns, gold prospecting sites, & national parks. a quantity of the biggest tourist attractions in the Rockies are Pike's Peak & Royal Gorge. There are several world famous national parks in the Rockies, including Yellowstone, Rocky Mountain, Grand Teton, & Glacier.

The legendary Rocky Mountains stretch from old Mexico up through the United States & into Canada. The Rocky Mountains are over 3000 miles long, spanning parts of california, Colorado, Idaho, Montana, & Wyoming before continuing into Canada. Stories of early adventurers like Lewis & Clark exploring the Rocky Mountains are legendary. 

 about everyone will find something to enjoy on a Rocky Mountain holiday. Aside from all of the great outdoor activities, the Rockies have a quantity of other attractions as well. The Telluride Film Festival is a prestigious yearly event that attracts a quantity of the biggest stars in Hollywood to a small Colorado town. plenty of Smoky Mountain resorts offer spa treatments & other relaxing diversions. 

The Rockies are a tourist attraction all year round. The summer months are  warm, with the average temperature reaching 82 degrees Fahrenheit. January is the coldest month, with an average temperature of 7 degrees Fahrenheit. The year-round average temperature is a brisk 43 degrees, a perfect temperature for plenty of outdoor activities. 

there is a plethora of lodging options in the Rocky Mountains. Travelers can camp, visit RV parks, stay in hotels or ski resorts, or lodge in distinctive cabins & chalets. Vacationers on any type of budget will be able to find an affordable place to stay.


