Title: 
A Guide to the Poconos

Word Count:
274

Summary:
Populated by Native-American Indians, the name Pocono means "stream between two mountains," and rightly so, since the Delaware River runs between two mountains. The history of the Poconos dates back to the 1800s where the first tourists stayed at boarding houses close to the riverside. Soon New Yorkers and Philadelphians made the Poconos their little hideaway for vacationing with their family during the summertime by the mountain lakes. Even World War II soldiers were reported to have gone to the Poconos for rest and relaxation before leaving for combat overseas.


Keywords:
Poconos, Poconos Vacation, Poconos Mountains, Poconos Resorts 


Article Body:
Populated by Native-American Indians, the name Pocono means "stream between two mountains," and rightly so, since the Delaware River runs between two mountains. The history of the Poconos dates back to the 1800s where the first tourists stayed at boarding houses close to the riverside. Soon New Yorkers and Philadelphians made the Poconos their little hideaway for vacationing with their family during the summertime by the mountain lakes. Even World War II soldiers were reported to have gone to the Poconos for rest and relaxation before leaving for combat overseas. 

The Poconos have become such a favorite vacation hub that families have purchased second homes there, just so that they can enjoy all that the resort has to offer. A visit to the Poconos is an escape from the monotony of everyday life. The area is built up with franchise restaurants and major shopping malls, without sacrificing the unspoiled nature that the mountain resort has become associated with.  When it comes to having a good time there, those who visit have lots to choose from, activities such as wildlife, bird watching, horseback riding, fishing, kayaking and even golfing. 

Most of all, visitors to the Poconos are enthralled by skiing down the mountains during the winter. The Poconos experience four-season weather but some nights are undeniably colder than during the day, even around spring and summer. The coolness of the breeze though, is more than refreshing, especially to those who vacate their 70-plus degree summer weather. 

And if outdoor activities don’t excite you, there are local wineries and breweries that you can tour, or perhaps a visit to an art museum and antique shopping.


