Title: 
A Holiday Rental in France: Perfect for the Traveling Golfer

Word Count:
549

Summary:
Visit South France for a lovely golf holiday and try out some of the best golf courses...


Keywords:
holiday rental france, provence accomodation, golf holiday france, french riviera rental, south france holidays rental, 


Article Body:
If you're a golfer who loves to travel, you'll find plenty of exciting golf courses with one of the many golf holiday rentals in France. Whether you want to golf at only one course or cruise the French Riviera to various locations and courses, there are plenty of golf courses in France to fit your style and budget. 

North and South France's Finest

France offers some of the finest golf courses, with more than 25 of the top 100 courses in Europe. When taking a golf holiday in the south of France, there are many well-known clubs and courses to try out such as the Royal Mougin Golf Club, Monte Carlo Golf Club, Cannes-Mandelieu Old Course, Domaine de Terre Blanche, Golf Country Club de Vievola, and St. Endreol Golf, to name a few. In northern France, there are top quality courses such as Le Touquet, Hardelot Les Pins, Belle Dune, and Nampont St. Martin Golf Course.

A golf holiday south of France is often preferable year round due to the milder climate and gorgeous scenery. The weather is beautiful most days, and many of the golf courses in southern France were designed by some of Europe's most skilled golf course architects. And though there are premier golf courses in the south of France, this doesn't always mean extravagant prices or pro-style golf only. You can find courses to fit almost any budget and also courses that welcome golfers of all skill levels. 

You'll also be able to tour some of the finest cities in Europe such as Marseille, Vence, Cannes, Nice, Monaco, or Toulon. Many of these cities are just a very short distance from the French Riviera, so you can secure great holiday rentals in France and tour several areas around the French Riviera. South France holiday rentals are available at hotels and resorts, or you might find a cozy apartment to spend your golf holiday.

Package Ideas for a Golf Holiday in France

When traveling to France, choose golf holiday packages that will cater to your needs and location, whether staying north or south of France. If you need to stay only a few nights, many hotels and resorts offer packages for two to four nights and a couple of games of golf. If you need to stay longer, find golf packages that are discounted for longer stays. If it's variety you want, another type of package is a golf cruise in which you can sail to different hot spots and play golf on different courses. French Riviera golf cruises are particularly popular. 

You might also choose to stay in an area that's saturated with golf courses so you can try out a new one every day. Areas such as Vence (south of France) or Nice offer many courses, tourist attractions, and beautiful scenery.

Booking Your Golf Holiday in France

You can easily book a golf holiday in North or South France online and find great deals for hotels, apartment rentals, or even places for a France day trip. Use online maps to pinpoint where you want to stay or go golfing. For example, if seeking Provence accommodations, check out a map of the Provence area to find a great destination.

Look for fabulous French Riviera rentals or other golf holiday adventures to enjoy your vacation to the fullest!


