Title: 
A Look At Rental Cars & Agreements

Word Count:
453

Summary:
One of the most popular reasons for rental cars is to provide dependable transportation for vacations, frequent travelers or for anyone who has their own automobile in the repair shop and is in need of a temporary vehicle. Among the most popular rental car agencies are Hertz, Avis and Enterprise. In exchange for a fee, these companies allow drivers to rent the automobile of their choice on a daily, weekly or monthly basis.

One of the most important considerations, aside fr...


Keywords:
car rental, vacation, travel


Article Body:
One of the most popular reasons for rental cars is to provide dependable transportation for vacations, frequent travelers or for anyone who has their own automobile in the repair shop and is in need of a temporary vehicle. Among the most popular rental car agencies are Hertz, Avis and Enterprise. In exchange for a fee, these companies allow drivers to rent the automobile of their choice on a daily, weekly or monthly basis.

One of the most important considerations, aside from the type of vehicle being rented, is the optional insurance coverage. This service, which is relatively inexpensive, will cover any damages sustained while the automobile is in the customer’s care. Generally, if insurance is not purchased, the customer may be held financially responsible for any damages that occur while the automobile is in their possession. While on the road, anything can happen. From the slightest fender bender to a scratched door or even worse, when life’s unexpected events occur, insurance coverage is often the only link between minimal out-of-pocket expenses or financial ruin.

When considering rental cars, it is important to know the age limits, if any, for each state. Upon selecting an automobile, the car rental agency will provide a written agreement, which must be signed and dated by the customer. In order to rent an automobile, the customer must be able to provide a valid credit card in order to confirm the reservation. In most cases, the credit card is used only to hold the reservation and is not actually charged until the rental period expires or as specified in the rental agreement. At the time that the car is returned, the customer will have the option of either having his/her credit card charged or paying in cash. Regardless of the final payment method, however, customers are required to provide a credit card before taking possession of the automobile as a confirmation that the rental agency will receive payment.

Depending on the agency offering rental cars, there may be mileage limits. In some cases, there is a fee if a certain amount of mileage is used. For others, unlimited miles may be available. Upon taking possession of rental cars, most agencies will make sure that they are washed and filled with fuel. When they are returned to the rental agency, most expect that the fuel tank will be refilled and the car will again be washed. In addition, all rental cars are due back at the agency at a specified time of day or the customer may incur a late fee. It is important that all cars be returned promptly or the rental agency be notified if there is an unforseen delay in the car’s return.


