Title: 
A Quick Visitor's Guide to Saugatuck Michigan

Word Count:
475

Summary:
If you need a true break and are looking for a getaway that is both serene and interesting, Saugatuck, Michigan is definitely the ideal destination.


Keywords:
Saugatuck Michigan, Saugatuck


Article Body:
If you need a true break and are looking for a getaway that is both serene and interesting, Saugatuck, Michigan is definitely the ideal destination. With the water lapping at your feet and a perfect balance of man-made and natural beauty, this town definitely offers all that you could ask for. Located on the bank of Kalamazoo River, Saugatuck is a perfect location to unwind and enjoy life’s simple pleasures.


Activities at Saugatuck

While the option of having a lazy holiday is always open, Saugatuck also offers a lot of different activities that can keep you busy through your vacation. If you are a water lover, you could consider sailing boats, yachts, pontoon boats or opt for a peaceful boat ride. If you want an adrenaline rush, you may want to look into the racing boats. Of course, Saugatuck is one of the world’s best destinations for perch fishing, so fishing enthusiasts alike should have no problem keeping themselves busy. 


Next could come exploring the sand dunes and beaches around the area. Each one of these has a unique history and an interesting story to tell. And while you do so, make it a point to take a dune buggy ride.

Exploring the place


If you’re more into history, you will probably want to explore the Chain Ferry and the Keewatin Museum. Keewatin was among the last big steam-powered ships that cruised the Great Lakes and has now been transformed into a museum that is both intriguing and at the same time a lot of fun to explore. The Chain Ferry offers a unique experience that should not be missed. The ferry is propelled by hand-cranking it along a chain that stretches across the river.


Saugatuck is labeled as a Midwest art center, and you will agree with this label after you explore the numerous art galleries that the area has. Oxbow Summer School in this case deserves a special mention as this school was founded in 1910 and holds an iconic status. The institute has over 20 studios that attract reputed artists from across the world.


If you have a penchant for watching and exploring cultural activities, then you must make it a point to schedule your trip so you can be there for the Chamber Music Series (organized during July and August). If theater is what interests you, then the ideal time to visit Saugatuck is between June and September.


The Details

Once you have picked Saugatuck as your destination, making arrangements is quite easy. Staying at Saugatuck does not pose a problem at all as there are numerous options available. You will also have the opportunity to sample different cuisines from around the world; Saugatuck is not lacking in terms of restaurants! All in all, Saugatuck, Michigan is a perfect place to take a break from your normal hustle and bustle.


