Title: 
A Trip To Revisit And Rediscover The Best Of Great Yarmouth

Word Count:
458

Summary:
The article covers the regeneration of Great Yarmouth that is currently taking place. This includes area such as the promenade and historical quarter.


Keywords:
Norfolk seaside holiday, UK seaside resort


Article Body:
Childhood memories are made of bright colours and tingling tastes and ring with fun and laughter. As you rekindle thoughts of those days when simple pleasures brought huge delight, the times that spring to mind are always care-free school days, delicious home cooking and classic seaside holidays.
 
Glorious days spent on the beach with bucket and spade, fish and chips by the sea or sticky-sweet candy floss and the vibrant lights of the fair! Sadly, when we return to our favourite places they never seem to live up to expectations. The hotel that you stayed in year after year has been turned into flats, the pier is off-limits due to repair work; everywhere is just a little bit tired and in need of some TLC. Yet there are some places that are bucking the trend and a return visit will excite and surprise you.
 
A popular seaside destination for over 200 years, Great Yarmouth has been attracting visitors to the stunning Norfolk coastline for the past two centuries. The first visitors came to reap the health benefits of seawater. The Great Yarmouth Bath House was opened in 1759 where guests could partake of seawater baths or, if brave enough, take a dip in the North Sea – but just for a few moments! Today, many come to experience what is great about UK seaside holidays while also enjoying many of the attractions the town and surrounding county has to offer. 

Great Yarmouth has recently benefited from an extensive regeneration project with vast financial investment. Incredible improvements have been made to the seafront, market place and town with over £30 million of both private capital and public funding including that from Government, European and Local Authority pots.  
The resort holds a dynamic blend of old and new, charm and character, whilst being full of vibrant energy, colour, excitement and surprise. The regeneration includes aspects of both improvement to current areas, along with exciting new construction projects including the build of an outer harbour.

Areas of the town have significantly benefited from the cash injection with a new look esplanade, with modern lighting that dances across the sands; additional seating and feature lighting in the Market Place for performance and events, and new road layouts with a pedestrain link to the town centre. 

The town also has a fascinating historical heritage and funding is being invested in restoring and improving these elements. The 102 year old Wellington Pier is undergoing a complete re-build to restore it to its original glory. Maritime House (formally the Maritime Museum) located on the seafront has undergone restoration and repair and is now the new Tourist Information Centre, while the historical character of The Rows (Market Row and Broad Row) has been enhanced by Victorian style lighting and period paving.


