Title: 
Advantage of Renting a Condotel Suite in Cebu while on Vacation in the Philippines

Word Count:
613

Summary:
You may be asking yourself, why would I want to rent a Condotel Suite while on vacation? Condotel Suites in Cebu, Philippines are less expensive than a normal hotel would be, you get more included with the full package, and when you break the price down, you are getting more in return on your money


Keywords:
Condotel Rentals, Condo Hotel Rentals, Cebu Condotel, Cebu Apartments, Cebu Hotels, Cebu Apart Hotels, Cebu Apartelles, Cebu Rentals, Cebu Accommodation, Lancaster Cebu Resort Residences


Article Body:
Lancaster Cebu Resort Residences [LCRR] in Mactan, Cebu, a boutique Brand Name Condotel Investment of Pacific Concord Properties Inc, is now ready to accept guests in the Condo Hotel. Under the management of Lancaster Hotels, Land and Properties, Inc. [LHLPI], rental operations of LCRR were soft launched March 2007.

Beth Collingz, International Marketing Director of PLC Global an internet based sales and marketing company and lead marketing partners with Pacific Concord Properties, Inc., for the Lancaster Brand of Condotels in the Philippines, recently announced the company has acquired, by purchase, additional units in its Lancaster Cebu Condotel adding another 75M pesos to its project inventory and expansion program. This brings the number of properties held in the development to 75 suites with another 120 units to be added before year end for Condo Hotel rental operations.

Collingz said staying in a condominium hotel not only gives you the same flexibility as you would have in your own home but also you are usually fairly close to the attractions. Lancaster Cebu Resort Residences for example is located a few minutes from Mactan-Cebu International Airport, 15 mins to first class beach resorts and 20 mins from down town Cebu.

Some of the things that are included with your condominium at the Lancaster Cebu Resort Residences: Airconditioing, Kitchen is fully supplied, Laundry service, Swimming pool, Cable television in bedroom and living room said Collingz

The idea of being able to have four people in a Two bedroom suite is also an aspect that will go far. No more having to get two rooms for a family of four.

Wireless Internet access for your laptop is available in all rooms and maid service can be provided as well.

One of the other advantages that really should catch your attention is that you have the comforts of being able to cook, have someone else do the laundry and just relax said Collingz

You can choose from Studio or Two Bedroom suites at Lancaster Cebu. For the soft launch, LHLPI has prepared special promotional room rates aimed at budget travelers. Guests can check-in to any of the executive studio suites for as low as $35 a night or to any of the two-bedroom loft rooms at $65 a night plus 13% Government Tax whilst longer term discounted rates for monthly and yearly lease rentals are also available said Collingz.

If you are planning your vacation either as one family, or as a two family group then the cost per person of renting a condotel suite is quite small.

Some people will try to weigh the cost of a stay in a condominium against a couple of weeks in a low budget motel. There is really no comparison, especially when you look at the advantages and cost over the long run, including being able to cook instead of eating out every meal. Some motels and hotels actually work out to be more expensive, especially if you choose to stay in a suite.

Taking everything into consideration staying in a condominium while on vacation may be the best choice you have ever made.

Whilst some renovation works are still ongoing within the complex, unit rentals are now available to guests at 'Special Promo Rates'. Cebu City is the acknowledged gateway and Queen City of the South. Cebu is the most important trading and commercial hub outside of Metro Manila. Mactan Cebu International Airport assures the arrival of a steady stream of international flights from Amsterdam, Frankfurt, Singapore, Hong Kong, Tokyo, Kota Kinabalu, Seoul and Qatar. There are also chartered flights from Incheon, Taipei, Kansai, Nagoya and Kiaoshung that arrive on a weekly basis. Cebu is identified by Asiaweek and Conde Nast Traveller as one of Asia’s Best Cities


