Title: 
Adventure Croatia Holidays - between the Alps and Adriatic Sea

Word Count:
489

Summary:
Magical adventures in Croatia with hundreds of sparkling waterfalls and more than a thousand islands set amid the blue of the sea, green mountain rivers and streams, virgin canyons, wild karst and mellow plains.


Keywords:
croatia,holidays,adventure,travel,vacation


Article Body:
<b>Magical adventures in Croatia</b> with hundreds of sparkling waterfalls and more than a thousand islands set amid the blue of the sea, green mountain rivers and streams, virgin canyons, wild karst and mellow plains. 

Nestling between the Alps and the Adriatic Sea, in the south-eastern part of the European continent, <b>Croatia</b> jealously protects eight national parks, ten nature parks and a whole range of special reserves, including plant life, animals, geological formations, hydrological phenomena, all within a small but rich area that can be travelled by car from one end to another in a single day.

Many paths run between rivers, mountain peaks, tiny island ports and beaches, leading to Illyrian hill forts, to Roman ruins, to towns and cities that are themselves monuments, to ethno-entities of popular architecture.

Countless footpaths and trekking trails beckon you to venture into beauty and discover the magic of nature - in the mountains, river valleys and canyons, through karstic plains and dense forests, to rock-bound islands and lush green hills. Within this most diverse of reliefs walkers and hikers can reach even the most mysterious areas strewn between sea level and the highest peak on Dinara (1831 m): in nature parks, nature reserves, national parks and other areas with particular attractions from the aspect of adventure - in Slavonic and Baranja, Northern Croatia (Hrvatsko zagorje, Medimurje, Podravina), Gorski kotar, Istria, Dalmatia and Zagorje, on hundreds of isles and islands, and down the length of the Dinara range extending along the coastline. Then there are Ucka, Velebit, Mosor, Biokovo, Snijeznica in the far south - oil offering a wealth of challenges.

Sailing It is easy to capture favourable winds among such a number of islands as exist in Croatian territorial waters - whether blowing from the land or the sea. The strength of wind and waves is not unusually excessive, but should you have had enough just sail for the nearest sheltered bay. Fully equipped sailboats of various categories (with or without a skipper) can be hired from any one of the dozens of marinas situated up and down the coast and on the islands. Yachting clubs and marinas are numerous and well equipped. We are recommending sailing regio at Zadar, Sibenik und <b>Dubrovnik</b>.

Alpinists and freestyle climbers will find the right climbing environment in both the continental and littoral regions, with some climbing sites being located quite close to towns and popular Croatia holiday resorts (Zagreb, Ogulin, Rovinj, Paiin, Split, Ornls...]. Routes ranging from several meters long for beginners, to several hundred meters for specialists, are open to climbing enthusiasts on the rocks of Paklenica, Velebit, Ucka, in the Dinara range (including Dinara-Ornis), Mosor, Biokovo and others, and on the islands (Brac, Vis, Mljet). The best known climbing destinations in the continental parts of the country are on the mountains of Klek, Papuk, Kalnik, on Samarske stijene and Bijele stijene

Well, I think yell get a perfect <b>Croatia holidays</b>!


