Title: 
Airport Travel Tips: Reducing Waiting Times

Word Count:
301

Summary:
Key Travel Tips Following these tips will help you reduce your wait time at the security checkpoint. Before you go to the Airport .


Keywords:
bus tours,bus tour


Article Body:
Key Travel Tips Following these tips will help you reduce your wait time at the security checkpoint. Before you go to the Airport .Do not pack or bring Prohibited Items to the airport. .Place valuables such as jewelry, money & laptop computers in carry-on baggage only. .Tape your business card to the bottom of your laptop. .Avoid wearing clothing, jewelry & accessories that contain metal. Metal items may set off the alarm on the metal detector. .Avoid wearing shoes that contain metal or have thick soles or heels. lots of types of footwear will need additional screening even if the metal detector does not alarm. .Put all undeveloped film & cameras with film in your carry-on baggage. Checked baggage screening equipment will damage undeveloped film. .Declare firearms & ammunition to your airline & place them in your checked baggage. .If you wish to lock your baggage, use a TSA-recognized lock. .Do not bring lighters or prohibited matches to the airport. .Do not pack wrapped gifts & do not bring wrapped gifts to the checkpoint. Wrap on arrival or ship your gifts prior to your departure. TSA may have to unwrap packages for security reasons. While at the Airport Each adult traveler needs to keep obtainable his/her airline boarding pass & government-issued photo ID until exiting the security checkpoint. Due to different airport configurations, at lots of airports you will be required to display these documents over two times. .Place the following items IN your carry-on baggage or in a plastic bag prior to entering the screening checkpoint: oMobile phones oKeys oLoose modify oMoney clips oPDA's (personal data assistants) oLarge amounts of jewelry oMetal hair decorations oLarge belt buckles .Take your laptop & video cameras with cassettes OUT of their cases & place them in a bin provided at the checkpoint. .Take OFF all outer coats, suit coats, jackets & blazers.


