Title: 
Airplane Seat Maps

Word Count:
525

Summary:
Choosing the right place in an airplane before going aboard is very important for everyone. As many people have different requests and demands from their airlines consulting a seat map can bring much more benefits for fliers and help them improve their flight.


Keywords:
airplane seat maps, aircraft seat configuration, airline seat-maps, airplane seats, seating maps


Article Body:
Many people that fly for pleasure or for business purposes have to seat in an airplane for 2-3 hours or sometimes even more, depending on the trip that they make, and during the flight seating in an uncomfortable place in the airplane can be a really pain for them. This is happening very often due the lack of details that each airline is publishing about their airplanes or because people that fly don’t consult an aircraft seat map before they book a ticket.

Airplane seat maps can be really handy for frequent or even for occasionally fliers and help them to choose their seat in the airplane even before they buy their tickets. Knowing the place where you seat before going aboard is very good because on almost all seating charts you can find all the details of a specific seat from extra legroom to missing windows or any other details.

Seat maps published by airlines

Most of the airlines publish the seats configurations for their airplanes but the quality of those seat maps is some times questionable and some of the details and information about seats are confusable. Usually airlines don’t publish seat maps for all of their airplanes, they do it only for the major airplanes and for the ones flying on frequent routes. 

Seat maps published by specialized websites

In additions to those published seat maps which can be found on airlines websites there are some other sites that publish aircraft seat maps for almost all the commercial airplanes that are flying these days. Seat maps that can be found on these sites usually have more details and on some websites you can found comments from other passengers with ups and downs about each particular airplane seat.

Reading and understanding a seat map it’s a very simple job but people should be carefully on the design of each seat map because is different from website to website or from airplane to airplane, so reading the legend will help understanding the seat arrangements and the meaning of each symbol from the seat map, in this way mistakes can be avoided and passengers can make the best decision for their flight.

Choosing your seat is important as choosing an airline or an airplane to fly with, some people prefer to fly only if they seat is near a window or some people like to fly in their own cabin and the requests and conditions of each passenger could go on. Consulting a seat map before going aboard can bring only benefits and can show to the passengers more details about the airplane comparing with the  details and information about each airplane or flight that airlines are publishing.

The bottom line is that airplane seat maps which can be found very easy on the web can help people choosing the best seat that will satisfy  the all demands for them. Finding the right seat with the help of aircraft seat maps can improve very much the flight conditions and things can be better when fliers read other people’s reviews of seats and airplanes because bad seats or bad flights can be avoided.


