Title: 
Alonossos Island Greece

Word Count:
328

Summary:
Alonissos Is a Greek island in the Aegean sea, its the third largest island of the Sporades Islands and the northen island as well.


Keywords:
Greece Islands Alonissos


Article Body:
Alonissos Is a Greek island in the Aegean sea, its the third largest island of the Sporades Islands and the northen island as well.  Alonissos island is located close to Skopelos. Alonissos Island is famous due to its outstanding beauty with the most impressing abysses in the Aegean Sea and its magical view. 
Alonissos is also the name of a village on the island and a bay at the southern end of the island. Many consider that the island of Alonissos has the cleanest waters of the Greece Aegean Sea.

The village of Alonissos is located on the southern part of the island. Alonissos agriculture is very develop specially farming and vineyards, with the main products being grapes and olives. fishing is a popular profession on the island It is a peaceful island, most of its villages are modest and traditional with narrow streets and picturesque buildings and houses. Turists can enjoy a peaceful and calm atmosphere.  


The main port of the island is called  Patitiri, it is the capital of the island. There are beautiful locations around Patitiri, such as Rousoum village where visitors can enjoy a varity of wanderful beaches and  also sense the calm atmosphere. Beside Rousoum village there are many beautiful villages that deserve a visit, such as: Votsi, Milia, Chrisi Milia, Steni Vala. 

Like many other islands nearby Alonissos changed because of the earthquake in 1965. whole towns were abandoned by the locals and rebuilt in safer areas. Patitiri also changed because of the earthquake and nowdays it is a new village, built by the inhabitants of the island. 

Due to the earthquake, the houses of Patititri are all recent and give a different image than of the other Greek islands which usually have a little and very picturesque harbour, full of traditional houses. But still the island and its villages conserves there natural beauty. Amazing pine woods surrounded the marvellous island and its beaches. It is the perfac place for families and couples.


