Title: 
Amsterdam Bed And Breakfast

Word Count:
554

Summary:
The city of Amsterdam has long been acclaimed for its 17th century architecture, the famous canals and waterways, lively nightlife and countless charming Amsterdam bed and breakfast. All of these are generally packed into a relatively small area, but although Amsterdam is a small city, it has a lot to offer.

When traveling for a vacation in Amsterdam, the Amsterdam bed and breakfast travelers must consider the must see attractions in the city, such as the Van Gogh Museum, ...


Keywords:
amsterdam, travel, vacation, bed and breakfasts, accomodation, amsterdam vacation


Article Body:
The city of Amsterdam has long been acclaimed for its 17th century architecture, the famous canals and waterways, lively nightlife and countless charming Amsterdam bed and breakfast. All of these are generally packed into a relatively small area, but although Amsterdam is a small city, it has a lot to offer.

When traveling for a vacation in Amsterdam, the Amsterdam bed and breakfast travelers must consider the must see attractions in the city, such as the Van Gogh Museum, the 250-room Rijksmuseum, the Anne Frank House, the Artis Zoo, the Royal Palace, the worldly known Dam Square and a lot more. Visitors must also take in local theaters, fine and ethnic dining, or explore the eclectic selection of shopping in the Jordaan neighborhood, and if the time to relax comes, the exciting and comforting Amsterdam bed and breakfasts are there to welcome you in.

Here are the top-rated Amsterdam bed and breakfasts that could give you the best accommodation and service possible.  They are the perfect places to stay on your Amsterdam vacation.

Amsterdam Central Bed and Breakfast

Amsterdam Central Bed and Breakfast Inn is located in the heart of the city, less than five minutes walking distance to the central station.  It offers well appointed bed and breakfast rooms, as well as apartments for the guests, and there is in guest kitchen, self service, or lots of different food available for dining.

Amsterdam Eelhouse

Amsterdam Eelhouse is actually a charming four-star Amsterdam bed and breakfast located in the heart of the city, closest to the Jordaan, Anne Frank House, Central Station and all the nightlife.  As a top-rated Amsterdam bed and breakfast inn, the Amsterdam Eelhouse offers rooms that are equipped with queen size bed, built-in wardrobe, dishes, lazy chair with ottoman, radio or CD player, and television. In every room, there is also a wetbar with a small sink, coffeemaker, mini-fridge, and private bathroom.

Ruben’s Bed and Breakfast

Conveniently located in the museum district of the Amsterdam center, Ruben’s B & B is just within walking distance or a few tram stops from the major museums and main tourist attractions in the great planned city of Amsterdam. As claimed, this bed and breakfast inn is also closer to the up market shopping street Beenthovenstraat, and from there exuberant nightlife is not far away.
Collector Bed and Breakfast

Here is another notable Amsterdam bed and breakfast that is conveniently located in the cultural center of Amsterdam – the Collector Bed and Breakfast. This place is just a three-minute walk to the museum area and is so close to the Vondelpark and nightlife. What’s more, Collector Bed and Breakfast has well appointed rooms, each with its own character, inspired by the Art Deco period. It is also interesting to know that the house, including the guestroom, is decorated with different collections, and the rooms are fully equipped with the necessary amenities such as bathrooms, TV, a balcony where you can smoke, internet access, and a lot more.

Palace B&B Amsterdam

Finally, here is Palace B&B which is located on the palace area, Dam Square, the most central of all locations. All rooms offered by this Amsterdam bed and breakfast are specious and luxurious with private bathrooms and coffee and tea facilities, including microwave and refrigerator, not to mention the other amenities.


