Title: 
Amsterdam Apartments

Word Count:
507

Summary:
Amsterdam as we all know is the capital city of Netherlands. It is also the country’s largest city and the most visited, with more than 3.5 million foreign visitors who prefer to stay in the city every year. Well, with all the great things that Amsterdam has to offer, it’s no wonder that many people from across the globe visit the place for different purposes. It is in fact where the past, the present and the future meet.

In the city of Amsterdam, there are a lot of things...


Keywords:
travel europe,amsterdam apartments, amsterdam hotel


Article Body:
Amsterdam as we all know is the capital city of Netherlands. It is also the country’s largest city and the most visited, with more than 3.5 million foreign visitors who prefer to stay in the city every year. Well, with all the great things that Amsterdam has to offer, it’s no wonder that many people from across the globe visit the place for different purposes. It is in fact where the past, the present and the future meet.

In the city of Amsterdam, there are a lot of things to enjoy, such as the cozy environment, great dining, a memorable night out, and of course, comfortable accommodation. Many Amsterdam apartments are out there to give you the comfort and fun you want most. And, if you are now thinking for escaping to Amsterdam for just a few days, then it makes sense to base yourself at an Amsterdam apartment right in the heart of this exciting and bustling city.

Here is a list of the most visited Amsterdam apartments in the heart of the city where everything is central. Whether that would be one of the many museums or a major event, all of the accommodations are generally central. Note that these Amsterdam apartments allow you to walk about anywhere in the city.

Simply Amsterdam

At Simply Amsterdam, you are given the choice to stay in an apartment, studio, canal house or even a houseboat if you prefer. All of their accommodations are spacious and there is more privacy and more comfort than a hotel.

Flatmates

If you are searching for the finest accommodations, Flatmates apartments could be the best option for you. Their apartments are generally offered with the finest location and standards. They actually have a listing of the available apartments, and the owners of these apartments are personal friends of the Flatmates’ team, people who are good hosts and will give you with any assistance you might need.

Sunhead 1617

Sunhead is another top-rated name in the line of great Amsterdam apartments. As claimed, Sunhead has a number of centrally located apartments, be at the center of what the canal area has to offer. The Sunhead Amsterdam apartments are in fact just stone’s throw away from restaurants, fashion boutiques, art and antique stores, and even to some cafes.

Canal View Apartment

Canal View Apartment is another notable Amsterdam apartment that could offer you the best accommodation and service possible. It is actually a recently renovated luxury Amsterdam apartment situated on Raamgracht, at the center of Amsterdam. It is interesting to know that their rooms can accommodate up to four guests, and the neighborhood is very popular due to the diversity of locals.

Old Harbour Apartments

Located right in the historic center of the city of Amsterdam, you will find the Old Harbour Apartments, which have long been considered as the 17th century Golden Age house, dating from 1650. Just like the other mentioned Amsterdam apartments, the Old Harbour Apartments are just minutes walk from the city’s Central Station, along the old harbour front.


