Title: 
An Alaskan Ski Vacation

Word Count:
486

Summary:
The Alyeska Resort is one of Alaska’s premier ski vacation destinations. Lovers of snow, cold and exciting slopes rewarded with a winter adventure to be remembered. This Alyeska is everything that a winter Alaskan vacation is about, something for the entire family to enjoy.

The Alyeska Resort is located at a top elevation of 2751 feet and a 2501 vertical drop. This Alaskan destination receives an average of 631 inches of snow annually, which is why it gets great reviews fr...


Keywords:
ski holidays, ski vaction, ski vacation, ski vaction package, ski vaction deals


Article Body:
The Alyeska Resort is one of Alaska’s premier ski vacation destinations. Lovers of snow, cold and exciting slopes rewarded with a winter adventure to be remembered. This Alyeska is everything that a winter Alaskan vacation is about, something for the entire family to enjoy.

The Alyeska Resort is located at a top elevation of 2751 feet and a 2501 vertical drop. This Alaskan destination receives an average of 631 inches of snow annually, which is why it gets great reviews from visitors.

If you love skiing but hate crowds, Alyeska may be the perfect spot for you. Even though it features some of the best skiing in the world, you’ll never be turned off by long lift lines and big crowds. They have nine lifts, to keep the lines moving. Lifts include six chair lifts, two surface lifts and one cable car.

Even though the majority of the ski trails cater to intermediate skiers, beginners and experts are certain to find a trail that is just perfect for them as they have 68 trails to choose from.

Alyeska’s season begins in mid November and runs through the middle of April. Be prepared to have plenty of daylight skiing here at the end of the season, this Area has sixteen hours of daylight each day in April.

December skiers will have to be prepared for a lot of nighttime skiing though as there are only seven hours of daylight in December, so nighttime skiers will certainly get their fill. December skiing is especially fun because of the thrill of nighttime skiing with the long nights! Watch for the snow capped mountains, glaciers and one of Alaska’s most famous attractions the Northern Lights.

If you have “Tubers” in your vacation party, then a visit to the Glacier Tubing Park should definitely be on your list of “must dos”. Every one in the family can have fun in this popular park Featuring two lanes of terrain and one surface lift. Alyeska hasn’t forgotten about snowboard enthusiasts either as they are welcome too.

When you’re not spending time on the slopes, there is a lot to do in this area of Alaska like hiring a plane to do some “flight seeing”, or taking an ocean cruise tour. Ice climbing, back country skiing, dog sledding and polar bear watching are all favorites of Alaskan vacationers.

It’s no wonder that Skiing magazine ranks this resort as number nine of the top twenty five ski vacation spots.

The Alyeska Prince Hotel is the place to stay when vesting this resort! Here you can delight in elegant rooms and fine dining. Nightly entertainment is available as well at the hotel. The area also has other hot night spots too away from the hotel itself.

When your ready for an awesome winter family vacation, be sure to take a closer look at Alaska’s Alyeska Resort, you’re in for a treat!


