Title: 
An Introduction to Coit Tower

Word Count:
389

Summary:
Coit Tower is a typical San Francisco landmark located on Telegraph Hill to the north side of the Financial District. Coit Tower could be seen from many places of the city, and is reachable via a steep road and from the usual walking path. Coit Tower stands 180 feet tall, and many visitors like to contact the top of the tower for eye-catching looks of San Francisco and the nearby areas.


Keywords:
San Francisco tours, San Francisco vacations, San Francisco sightseeing, san francisco shuttle tours, San Francisco bus tour.


Article Body:
Coit Tower is a typical San Francisco landmark located on Telegraph Hill to the north side of the Financial District. Coit Tower could be seen from many places of the city, and is reachable via a steep road and from the usual walking path. Coit Tower stands 180 feet tall, and many visitors like to contact the top of the tower for eye-catching looks of San Francisco and the nearby areas. Coit Tower as well features a series of murals painted in the Works Progress Administration, portraying local occupations and neighborhoods. 

Coit Tower was built with funds provided by Elizabeth Wythe
Lillie Hitchcock Coit, who donated a third of her fortune upon her death during 1929 to smarten the city of San Francisco. Lillie Coit was a world voyager, and brought back many relics from her experiences, but in fact regarded San Francisco as her true home and desired to stay a permanent legacy to the city. The funds were used to build two memorials: Coit Tower, and a sculpture in Washington Square that depicts three firemen. 

It is generally believed that Coit Tower was built as a memorial to the firemen of San Francisco, as Lillie Coit was a lifelong enthusiast of the fire department. However, in spite of the tower's similarity to a fire nozzle, many historians agree that Coit Tower was just built to improve the beauty of the city. Coit Tower is as well surrounded by steep sceneries grounds which are as well pretty pleasant to be walked through. 

Visitors to Coit Tower could take a pulley to the top, appreciating the mind blowing murals along the way. The murals have been reinstated and as well particularly treated so that they would always remain integral, and are considered a very vital part of the history of San Francisco. Among other things, the murals portray farmers in the fields, a bank robbery, and a view into the port, a busy city street, and a lot of variety of other scenes as well. San Francisco Shuttle Tours are accessible of Coit Tower in which the murals are explained in detail. The walk is extremely physically demanding, and space for cars is also limited. Getting to Coit Tower is well values the attempt, however, as visitors are content with a peaceful setting and the striking views of a beautiful city.


