Title: 
An Unforgettable Story About Bali Diving

Word Count:
837

Summary:
In 1982 I worked as an English speaking tour guide, but during my free time I learned Italian language by my own method autodidact using English – Italian; Italian – English dictionary and grammar book.. I spent about 2 hours a day to learn it, sometime early in morning, in the afternoon and sometime late at night. I succeeded to keep in my mind 2 words a day but I found much difficulty in learning the grammar because it is very different with my mother language Balinese and ...


Keywords:
bali,travel,tourism,hotels,villas,tours,diving,dive


Article Body:
In 1982 I worked as an English speaking tour guide, but during my free time I learned Italian language by my own method autodidact using English – Italian; Italian – English dictionary and grammar book.. I spent about 2 hours a day to learn it, sometime early in morning, in the afternoon and sometime late at night. I succeeded to keep in my mind 2 words a day but I found much difficulty in learning the grammar because it is very different with my mother language Balinese and Indonesian, but I insisted to meet with success. Day by day, week by week and month by month, and ….. finally I got it. 

In October 1982 one of my friend who run a travel agent in Bali asked me to handle his clients, they were Italian and speak a little English. That was my first time to practice my Italian tongue. When I met them at Bali International Airport, the first question I must answer was “where is the best place to dive”. With honesty actually I didn’t know the answer, but I promised them for the good news the day after. 

I visited my friend’s house and meet Bli Monyoh, a fisherman live in Sanur the village on the southeast coast of Bali. I knew he was a good fisherman and very smart in shooting fish, diving with his own talent using very simple dive equipment. 

We talked about diving places and he told me that in order to discover most enjoyable dive, must visit 2 o 3 different places of the fascinating underwater world among the coral reefs. Mr. Bli Monyoh looked at his Balinese calendar to see a good day to go to the sea. My clients were crazy about dive. 

The first day he brought us to Semawang at Sanur by his outrigger sail boat. Located in front of Sanur Tourist Beach. Dives at a few meters depth was rewarded by beautiful underwater panoramas, table and trophy shaped coral and sponges, a thousand of colorful fishes swim by in kaleidoscopic profusions. I am not a swimmer or a diver, I just sit on the boat and prepared the needs when they go up. Was a wonderful day. 

The second day Bli Monyoh brought his companion a smart diver named Agung Toya, together with them some gun (exactly an arrow) unwound by a strong rubber band made of tire. Before living Sanur, Bli Monyoh laid an offering and perfumed incense in front of a temple and prayed to God. Along the road about one and a half our drive, he stopped several times for praying where there are temples for God’s blessing, safety and luck. Even before touching the water he did so. 

When we arrived at Buitan was a very traditional fishing village, located at the district of Manggis Karangasem eastern Bali near Candidasa, I was amazed by the beauty of the nature, a spectacular panorama or the terraces ricefield, rural ambience and the Majestic Mount Agung at the far back, for Bali it is the place of the Supreme God “The Navel of the World”. The sea was magnificent, clear blue water, remained untouched by modern influences, seduce everyone especially beach and dive lovers. Now Buitan boast a luxury 5 stars hotel and some small accommodations in Balinese style bungalow. 

When we were preparing everything for dive a cordial local man came close to us and gave his own wooden boat used for free in the hope of us catching a lot of fish. We sailed at 09.00 a.m in calm sea. About 50 m from the beach we arrived on the coral reef where the wave breaks itself. Under very good weather we could see a wonderful underwater world among the coral reefs. 

My Italian clients brought their own dive equipments because they were the holder of PADI license. While the native divers used their own talent. Wow, wow, wow, what a great day, we fished a lot (only selected fish), one thing surprised me that Bli Monyoh got 4 king lobsters. At 11.00 a.m. we finished our adventure and the local man was waiting us on the beach ready with his woods fire, chili, onions, garlic, salt and coconut oil. We grilled our fish in relax atmosphere on the beach with nice breeze of the ocean, than enjoyed a delicious gala lunch in cowboy style. Wow amazing, we really celebrated and enjoyed a great day. 

Now in Bali there are some exciting and fascinating, world renowned dive sites: Nusa Dua, Sanur, Padang Bay, Gili Tapekong, Tulamben, Amed, Nusa Penida and Lembongan and Menjangan Island. 

So if you are a sea and dive lover why don’t you choose Bali for your next destination, this enchanting island is waiting for you with its fascinating underwater world. Plan your travel and book your preferred hotel or contact your travel agent. The quickest and the easiest way is, go online and choose Bali Dive. One of the most reliable dive center on the island now is Ena Dive Center (www.enadive.co.id).


