Title: 
Andalucia - Undiscovered Beauty

Word Count:
521

Summary:
Andalucia, which is Spain’s southernmost autonomous community, is a place of unrivalled natural beauty. The state, which consists of eight provinces, each unique in its own offerings is rising up meteorically on everyone’s chart of the best tourist destinations in the world due to its varied and till now, untouched and undiscovered beauty. Andalucia’s natural beauty is unique in itself because it is one of those rare places on earth that offer mankind all the treasures of nature at one place. So


Keywords:
costa tropical, andalucia, almunecar, salobrena, granada, motril, castell de ferro, alpujarras


Article Body:
Andalucia, which is Spain’s southernmost autonomous community, is a place of unrivalled natural beauty. The state, which consists of eight provinces, each unique in its own offerings is rising up meteorically on everyone’s chart of the best tourist destinations in the world due to its varied and till now, untouched and undiscovered beauty. Andalucia’s natural beauty is unique in itself because it is one of those rare places on earth that offer mankind all the treasures of nature at one place. So while the region boasts of sandy beaches and untouched countryside villages on one hand, it is complemented by snow covered peaks and lush jungles on the other. Excellent weather, more than 3000 sunny hours an year, beautiful natural ports, awe inspiring historical monuments and inhabitants who are full of life and hospitality have made Andalusia one place where everybody wants to go. 
No wonder then, that the eight provinces of Andalucia-- Cadiz, Cordoba, Almeria, Jaen, Granada, Huelva, Malaga and Seville—boast not just of a large number of tourists at any time of the year, but also of a varied cosmopolitan environment created by thousands of expatriates who have made this beautiful state their home. However, the people of this community, instead of taking away from the natural beauty of this place, have added to Andalucia’s charm because of their extremely tolerant, exuberant and fun loving nature. 
Andalucia’s untouched beauty has something to offer to everyone. While the coastlines of Cadiz and Huelva boast of Atlantic beaches and seas that are perfect for water sports, the coastline from Almeria to the Strait of Gibraltar offers a smooth sailing climate that perfect for nature and animal lovers. If you want more action then you can head towards the tourist centers of Costa del Sol, Costa Tropical, the Costa de la Luz and Costa Almeria along the region’s 900 kilometer coast line. There are a large number of places on the coast where whale Andalucian tourist spots  are famous not just for their natural beauty, but also for their hip and happening social scene, discos, nightclubs and a large amount of celebrity population that keeps frequenting them. Sports lovers can have fun skiing on the slopes of the Sierra Nevada mountain range on indulging in a wide variety of water sports on the coast.  
On the other hand, if you want to experience the peace and quiet of the countryside, you can turn towards the famous “white villages” in the provinces of Seville, Cadiz, Granada and Cordoba, which transport modern day travelers to almost medieval villages where life seems to have stopped at a perfect point in time. The villages’ old world charm is peppered by scenes of natural beauty ---lush green mountains, meadows and fields that reassure you that yes indeed, Andalucia is paradise on earth. If you are an adventure or nature lover, then a trip to at least one of the famous national parks is a must for you. Not only will you be able to see a large number of endangered species and other wild animals, the trek itself is an unforgettable adventure.


