Title: 
ASTA's Congress Highlights Theme of "Women in Travel:

Word Count:
256

Summary:
"There are so lots of wonderful, influential women in the travel industry & i am thrilled that ASTA is recognizing them through this important Congress theme," said ASTA 2004 World Congress Chair-Hong Kong Bev Zukow, CTC.


Keywords:
bus tours,bus tour


Article Body:
"There are so lots of wonderful, influential women in the travel industry & i am thrilled that ASTA is recognizing them through this important Congress theme," said ASTA 2004 World Congress Chair-Hong Kong Bev Zukow, CTC. "Additionally, ASTA has been working hard to enhance Congress with some great old features this year."

Hong Kong, April 21, 2004 -The American Society of Travel Agents (ASTA) announced today that the theme of its World Travel Congress in Hong Kong, Sept. 28-Oct. 3, will be "Women in Travel: Influencing, Leading, Empowering." ASTA also announced other exciting developments occurring at this year's annual conference. 

Also old this year, the opening general session will be combined with the host night dinner. The event will be taking place on Sept. 28. The Hong Kong Tourism Board also is hosting a second all-delegate function. The second event will be held on Sept. 29 & will feature the Sunset Harbor Cruise.

In keeping with the theme of this year's Congress, Women in Travel: Influencing, Leading, Empowering, each general session will feature a woman leader from a different segment of the travel industry. 

ASTA also will be featuring seminar tracks grouped according to their subject matter,  than by their target audience. This year's tracks are: Luxury, National Tourism Organizations (NTO), relatives, Exhibitor, Business/Technology & Honeymoon. 


The Congress also will include business appointments that are being scheduled during the trade show on Oct. 1. These meetings, during which time agents will meet with pre-selected vendors & vendors will meet with pre-selected attendees, will give both buyers & sellers the chance to meet one-on-one & make long-lasting business connections.


