Title: 
Barbados Holidays

Word Count:
604

Summary:
When considering a travel holiday to the Caribbean Barbados is considered by many to be the best choice of islands with its beautiful beaches, high standard of living, and amazing people.  Whether you are in the market for total relaxation or a holiday packed with activities and parties Barbados will not disappoint.


Keywords:
Barbados, Barbados travel, Barbados Holidays, travel holidays, holiday travel, tropical beach holidays


Article Body:
When considering a travel holiday to the Caribbean Barbados is considered by many to be the best choice of islands with its beautiful beaches, high standard of living, and amazing people.  Whether you are in the market for total relaxation or a holiday packed with activities and parties Barbados will not disappoint.

Barbados, located in the southern Caribbean, is the most easterly of the Caribbean islands, located at Latitude 13° north and Longitude 59° 37W. This isolated pear-shaped island is for 21 miles long and 14 miles wide at its widest point, giving it a total land area of 166 square miles. 

Barbadians or Bajans as locals call themselves are among the most educated people in the world with free education a right of each and every Barbadian citizen.  

Although there a many private doctors and clinics on the island providing excellent care.  Health care is also guaranteed to every citizen and the standard of care is high.

The island’s lone airport. The Grantley Adams International Airport, is one of the most modern in the Caribbean and is serviced by many major airlines including Air Canada, American Airlines, British Airways, Air Jamaica, BWIA International and Virgin Atlantic. 

This charming island is made up mainly of coral limestone and is fringed with coral reefs.  However, the north-eastern part of the island or The Scotland District which runs through the parishes of St. John, St. Joseph and St Andrew is comprised of sandstone and clay. This area is well known for its lush vegetation and spectacular scenery and is covered in most if not all island tours.  
The island is characterized by gently sloping; terraced plains which rise west to east to it’s highest point Mount Hillaby at 1100 ft.

Most of the development in the island can be found along the south and west coasts of the island with the Capital Bridgetown at its centre.  Most hotels on the island are also located on the south or west coasts of the island, with the south coast being the most active, the hotels on the south coast in general tend to be mostly 2 to 4 star hotels with many no frills accommodation available while the west coast is where most of the luxury hotels are located, including the exclusive Sandy Lane Hotel, although there are exceptions to the rule in both instances.

The crystal clear ocean of Barbados beaches provide the perfect setting for days spent at the beach engaged in water or beach activities including jet-skiing, surfing, kiteboarding, windsurfing, kayaking, parasailing, sailing, water skiing, snorkeling, wakeboarding and scuba diving.  There is also deep sea fishing, boat cruises boat charters available.  For the true water enthusiast there are rentals available for almost all disciplines including scuba gear, surfboards, kayaks and kite equipment.  Lessons are available for almost all water activities as well.

If you were to travel the coast of the island you would find the calm waters of the west coast meeting the small shore break conditions of the south getting increasingly rougher as we come around the east with the Atlantic waves rolling in and finally the equally rough conditions of the north battering the cliffs.

Transportation on the island is also excellent with the Transport Board which is government run and Route Taxi’s providing excellent coverage to just about every conceivable destination.  In addition there are many taxis and Rental Car companies available for those who wish to travel at their own convenience.

The nightlife on Barbados is very varied and ranges from the cultural rum shops to modern nightclubs, beach bars, pubs and also some of the best restaurants to be found anywhere in the Caribbean.


