Title: 
Barbados Restaurants

Word Count:
514

Summary:
When people plan their Barbados vacation they usually think Sea and Sun….  Think again.  Restaurant and Food standards in Barbados are extremely high, with chefs from the island winning international culinary awards and competitions year after year.


Keywords:
Barbados Restaurants, Dining in Barbados, Barbados


Article Body:
When people plan their Barbados vacation they usually think Sea and Sun….  Think again.  Restaurant and Food standards in Barbados are extremely high, with chefs from the island winning international culinary awards and competitions year after year.  Good food is very important to the average Barbadian with Many young teens already skilled in preparing food at home and I mean preparing food from scratch not instant meals. 
There are many highly trained chefs on the island both expat and local and the range of cuisine is astounding and includes Mexican, Chinese, Thai, French, Italian, Indian, Local as well as Caribbean cuisine.
Whatever your mood for the evening or depth of your pocket there is a restaurant that will suit your needs as they vary from casual atmosphere and very reasonable prices to Posh and oooh la la prices.
There are also the dinner cruises or as I like to call them “floating restaurants” which can be quite large boats complete with floor shows or intimate catamaran cruises both of which can be very romantic.
Also popular on the island is “Oistins”.  This is a fishing village which has numerous kiosks which prepare local food for sale at night.  The price usually ranges from approximately U.S. $8 – U.S. $13 per person and the taste is just as good as any of the restaurants on the island.  On Friday nights there is a party as well with music and dancing that usually lasts until Midnight.
There are quite a few establishments on the island who serve dinner from around 6:30 p.m. and then at about 10:30 you realize that the entire atmosphere has changed to a nightclub atmosphere and will continue in party mode till at least 2:00 a.m.  Some close their doors as late as 4 or 5 in the morning.
For nights that you just want to stay at home there is also the option of ordering in.  While the selection available is not as large as it would be in bigger countries there are a few restaurants and fast food restaurants that do deliver.
Checking out the restaurants is very important when planning a holiday.  Remember little lady is on holiday too she does not want to be stuck with the cooking and washing up afterwards.  Also relationships are built on memories and what could be more romantic than intimate dinners together not always possible with our hectic lives.
When deciding on where you will eat there are a lot of consideration to keep in mind such as the type of food served, the price, location as well as ambiance.  With this in mind it is no easy task in choosing what is right for you.  This is where a good travel guide can really come in handy as they usually have pretty in depth information on there restaurants which can include photographs and menus as well to help you make your choice.
Choosing a local travel guide, that is one that is actually run by locals can be your wisest choice as they usually can give you first hand information on the restaurants as well.


