Title: 
Barvaux-Sur-Ourthe Tourist Information

Word Count:
1000

Summary:
General summary of city: Barvaux-sur-Ourthe, also known as Barvaux, is a city that is part of the province of Luxembourg. The province of Luxembourg consists of five different districts: the Arlon District, Bastogne District, the Marche-en-Famenne District, the Neufchâteau District and the Virton District. The primary languages spoken within the city of Barvaux-sur-Ourthe and other cities within the province of Luxembourg include French, Dutch and German.

The city of Barva...


Keywords:
Barvaux-sur-Ourthe tourist information, Barvaux-sur-Ou tourist info,


Article Body:
General summary of city: Barvaux-sur-Ourthe, also known as Barvaux, is a city that is part of the province of Luxembourg. The province of Luxembourg consists of five different districts: the Arlon District, Bastogne District, the Marche-en-Famenne District, the Neufchâteau District and the Virton District. The primary languages spoken within the city of Barvaux-sur-Ourthe and other cities within the province of Luxembourg include French, Dutch and German.

The city of Barvaux-sur-Ourthe holds a number of restaurants specializing in French, Belgian, and Dutch cuisine. Additionally, not to be missed features in Barvaux-sur-Ourthe include the Labyrinthus and the myriad golf courses made available to tourists. Finally, tourists can enjoy a full day of watersports and other recreational pursuits while staying in the lovely city of Barvaux-sur-Ourthe.

Other cities within the province of Luxembourg are easily accessible from: Barvaux-sur-Ourthe. The Barvaux-sur-Ourthe train station has routes to nearby cities like Durbuy, offering travelers the opportunity to explore the province with relative ease.

Places of interest:

The Labyrinthus at Rue Basse Commène in Barvaux-sur-Ourthe, is a great place to visit for old and young alike. The site of the Labyrinthus is a series of hedges that creates a maze—a maze that is altered every year. The entire visit may last up to three hours long, and there is a gift shop and restaurant at the Labyrinthus in Barvaux-sur-Ourthe. The Labyrinthus is only open three days during the week however, Friday, Saturday and Sunday. All three days the Labyrinthus is open from 10:30 am to 7:30 pm. Free parking is available, but dogs are not allowed on the site. The cost of admission at the Labyrinthus is 7.5 Euros for adults, 5.5 Euros for children ages 5 to 11, and children 4 and under gain free entry.

While staying in Belgium, why not enjoy a good game of golf? The Blue Green Golf Durby at Route d'Oppagne 34 in Barvaux Sur Ourthe, Belgium has 18 holes and some of the world’s most beautiful greens. Tourists can spend the day out on the lush greens honing their golfing skills and the Green Golf Durby is the perfect site for the entire family.

Things to do:

While visiting Barvaux Sur Ourthe, tourists can travel to nearby Durbuy, a town noted as 'the smallest town in the world.' The city of Durbuy has population that just passes 500 inhabitants. Further, the city of Durbuy has castles that date back to the late 800s and the city still has many medieval homes in existence. Tourists can step back in time when they enter Durbuy and get a look at what medieval life was like. The Ourthe River is perfect for kayaking and canoeing and travelers staying in Barvaux Sur Ourthe often make the short trip to Durbuy to engage in the water sport of their choosing. Typical passage from Barvaux Sur Ourthe to Durbuy is accomplished via taxi, or bus—all available from the train station in Barvaux Sur Ourthe.

Other attractions to be found in nearby city of Durbuy include the Topiary Park, the Belvedere, and the Confiturerie Saint-Amour. The Topiary Park has a variety of box trees that are cut in fascinating shapes—a feature that should not be passed up while visiting Belgium. Meanwhile the Belvedere offers a panoramic view from the top of a massive cliff that overlooks the entire city. Fantastic photos can be taken from the Belvedere. Finally, the Confiturerie Saint-Amour is a jam factory that tourists can visit for free. Tourists can see a variety of jams being made and if they desire, they can purchase products at the factory. The Confiturerie Saint-Amour also produces other products and the site is an excellent tourist destination for adults and children alike.

Food & Drink:

There are a number of fine dining locations in Barvaux-sur-Ourthe, Belgium. First, tourists may find a fine meal at the Au Petit Chef at Rue Basse Sauvenière 8 in Barvaux-sur-Ourthe. The Au Petit Chef has both a lunch and dinner menu that sure to please. Guests can dine while enjoying the view from the restaurant’s terrace, beneath a gorgeous parasol. Try mussels served in your choose of garlic cream or butter and your choice of wine accompanies the meal. Don’t forget to finish off your meal with an impressive crème brulee! The Au Petit Chef is open from Wednesday to Sunday from noon to 2:30 pm and from 6:30 pm to 9:00 pm. Street parking is available.

Meanwhile, the Les Mignees is open every day of the week and provides guests with the best in Belgian food. The Les Mignees is located at Route de Marche 110 and, like the Au Petit Chef, guest can dine on the terrace if they desire. Alternatively, the le Grillon at En Charotte, 33 in Barvaux-sur-Ourthe offers French cuisine to hungry guests and visitors can sample the cured ham, melon salad, a variety of cheeses, and seafood dishes, among other fine foods.

Hotels & Accommodation:

Le Chalet Finlandais
Le Chalet Suisse
Le Chalet Canadien
Le Chalet Hollandais
Le Chalet Suedois
Le Chalet de Montagne

Entertainment: Barvaux-sur-Ourthe lies just beyond Durbuy and it is one of the main locations in Belgium when it comes to watersports of all kinds. At the base of the Rocker de Glawans, there is a tourist resort for all those travelers looking to engage in watersports while staying in Barvaux-sur-Ourthe. Kayaking, canoeing, and swimming are just some of the fun activities in store for travelers staying in Barvaux-sur-Ourthe. Riverside walks are recommended, as travelers can watch the many water enthusiasts engage in their favourite sport.

There are plenty of mountain biking opportunities when staying in Barvaux-sur-Ourthe, the bike trails are beautiful in the city and tourists can choose to either bike or hike the trails. Of course, after a full day of entertainment and recreation, Barvaux-sur-Ourthe and the surrounding areas are filled with pubs, restaurants, and cafes that offer the finest in Belgium dining. Visitors can try venison, wild boar, rabbit, pheasant or their choice of fish. Further, sampling different Belgian beers is a favourite pastime of many tourists in Barvaux-sur-Ourthe.


