Title: 
Become A Travel Pro In One Easy Lesson

Word Count:
468

Summary:
I focus a lot on helping the first time or inexperienced traveler head out prepared and confident in themselves. Starting out as a old traveler can be intimidating.


Keywords:
bus tours,bus tour


Article Body:
Get prepared.

I focus a lot on helping the first time or inexperienced traveler head out prepared and confident in themselves. Starting out as a old traveler can be intimidating. How do you jump into the gigantic travel fray and survive? How can you learn to love delays and long lines?

What exactly does that mean? It means being confident in what you are doing, where you are going and how you are getting there. basically, it means being comfortable with yourself when you leave home.

OK, so what. How do you do that? Follow these speedy tips:

Tip #1
Know your location.
Do some kind of reading before you go. Know how long it is going to take to get there, and the time zone. understand how the cash converts and get a handle on local customs.

Tip #2
Be prepared before you leave home.
Make sure you have the essentials you will need,  for a safe trip. This includes a hide away funds belt, copies of your passport, two credit card, debit card, ATM card and traveler's checks. Take no over $500 funds. Make sure somebody has your itinerary in case of an emergency.

Tip #4
Leave early.
Wherever you are headed, no matter what type of transportation, leave early for you departure terminal. It means less stress for you . . . a lot less stress for you.

Tip #3
Travel light.
Pack for only four days. over two bag. Your bag should be a soft sided, durable over bag of ballistic nylon. It needs to have a padded over strap to sling it over your shoulder.

Tip #6
Expect things to go wrong.
Most things run  well in the travel industry. there's inevitable delays and cancellations. After all, it is a dynamic industry and getting the mind boggling number of pieces to work all in sync is a real juggling act. If you expect delays you are better prepared to deal with them. If things go well, and they usually do, you get a lovely mental lift as you travel. The more travel experience you get the better you get at knowing where delays usually occur and can either plan for them or try to avoid them.

Tip #5
Look like you have travelled all your life.
Appearance matters. If you do the above tips you will look and feel like a veteran traveler. Veteran travel pros DO get a higher level of treatment and service from people who work within the travel industry.

Tip #7
Be polite.
This follows Tip #5 and #6. While it is your hard earned funds that is paying for your travel you are two of thousands of travelers a day moving around the globe.  three-fourths of these people are inexperienced travelers. Many are stressed out, tired, cranky and rude. If you are polite you will feel better and get better treatment.


