Title: 
Benidorm And Alicante Are Like Child's Play

Word Count:
577

Summary:
Everything seems to be ideal when planning your holidays in Benidorm and the its surrounding towns. The geographical location between two mountain ranges gives it its fantastic climate; over 356 days of sunshine and comfortable temperatures in winter and beach degrees in summer. Ever since it was taken over by a wise businessman who saw the unlimited possibilities, Benidorm has held the winning position in being the most preferred vacation spot for many singles, retired and f...


Keywords:
denia,alicante,calpe,travel,spain,costablanca,alicante,holiday,guardamar,benidorm


Article Body:
Everything seems to be ideal when planning your holidays in Benidorm and the its surrounding towns. The geographical location between two mountain ranges gives it its fantastic climate; over 356 days of sunshine and comfortable temperatures in winter and beach degrees in summer. Ever since it was taken over by a wise businessman who saw the unlimited possibilities, Benidorm has held the winning position in being the most preferred vacation spot for many singles, retired and families from all over the world, especially from Great Britain, Germany, France and the Scandinavian countries. There are so many cheap flights leaving these main places, all arriving at the Alicante airport just about 25 minutes away. And with the increase in car hire companies, travelling around is like we said- child’s play!
 
Bathing suits, dancing shoes and much more 
 
With its three kilometre long soft sandy beaches; one along the new promenade in front of nicely kept hotels and lively restaurants catering to the tourist in their native tongues, and the other a little outside the old city hub, your days of relaxation are ready. Have an English breakfast sitting at one of the terraced cafes along the Levante beach, a quiet lunch sitting in the tropical gardens at the Gran Hotel Delfin, a midday snack at Cafe de Paris with rich flakey pastries, and either a formal dinner or even more typical, some tapas ( small portions of just about everything you can eat ), highly recommendable is El Calpi with fresh seafood tapas.

And to burn up all these delicious calories you can either do all kinds of sports in the sea such as surfing, surfing with a sail, bumping around on the big hot dog or playing some beach tennis with friends. But if the day activities are not you favourite, then get ready for the nightlife scene. There are many a discoteque to visit, so you can start out at KU which has been described as a city within a city because it offers everything and two different ambiences of music to see that everyone has a good time. Penelope could be referred to as the most popular one with its inside and outside areas and a barbecue area for late snackers. If you have always wanted to try your luck in beauty contests or similar ( quite original ones ), then this is your place.
 
Travelling Back in Time in Benidorm
 
Terra Mitica seems to have become synonomous with this growing city. Probably because this theme park, which takes us back to where Spain’s civilization began, rewards you with such attractions as the Secrets of the Piramides, the Minotaurus Labyrinth and the Great Odyssey Trip. But the best part of it all is that almost every year new changing shows and new attractions are introduced so that if you make your holiday spot Benidorm during various consecutive summers, you will always be surprised.

But even more thrilling than its rides and shows, Terra Mitica is celebrating its 5th anniversay, and with it tons of new activities to do. For example:

Concert of Nina Pastori ( great Spanish pop-flamenco singer)
Drawing workshop and contest
Rock, hip-hop and rap concerts
Graffitti shows
Comic and superheroes street market
Fancy dress contest
And much more. The season family pass is well worth it. 
And coming soon - - the Pyramide of Terror!

But other places along the Costa Blanca like Denia, Altea, Javea and Calpe, just to name a few, are jumping with good times too.


