Title: 
Berlin Hotel Guide

Word Count:
407

Summary:
Berlin is the capital city of Germany, and is its largest city. Because the western and eastern parts of Berlin were separated from 1949 until 1989, Berlin is one of the most diverse cities in the European Union.


Keywords:
Berlin Hotels, hotels in berlin


Article Body:
Berlin is the capital city of Germany, and is its largest city. Because the western and eastern parts of Berlin were separated from 1949 until 1989, Berlin is one of the most diverse cities in the European Union. The city is located on the rivers Havel and Spree, and is surrounded by the state of Brandenburg. Berlin has a population of approximately 3 and half million people.


The city is an important part of the expansion of the European Union, and is the cultural and political center of the country. The city of Berlin is well known for its universities, as well as its museums and research facilities. Berlin was founded in the 13th century after Germanic peoples settled on the land that was once a Slavic area.


Berlin is without a shadow of a doubt the heart of Germany, a city which defines Germany and its culture. Despite the fact that the Berlin Wall has fallen, the city is still divided, with east Berlin being a somewhat neglected part of town.


Berlin is a great city to visit at all times of the year, but the weather is best between the months of May and September. The city is very busy during the summer, but is a great time for those who love the outdoors. When it comes to attractions, Berlin is a city which has something for everyone.


Those who enjoy going to museums will find many in Berlin. Those who enjoy history will want to visit the Brandenburger Tor, which at one time was the iron boundary between east and west Berlin. It is one of the most photographed areas of Germany. 


When it comes to dining, Germany has a fairly simple traditional cuisine. Most German dishes are composed of meats and potatoes. Despite this, you can find many different types of food in Berlin. Germany is a fairly expensive city where it is easy to spend lots of money.


If you use a rail pass to get around and prepare your own meals, you may be able to stay in Berlin for 50 euros a day. Those who choose to stay at mid range hotels and use public transport can expect to spend 100 euros per day.


Most restaurants and other establishments will charge a service fee, and you can tip them extra if you choose to, though it is not expected. While many large establishments take credit cards, most of Germany is still a cash based society.


