Title: 
Best of San Francisco attractions

Word Count:
355

Summary:
Few of cities in U.S.S are extremely expert at wholesaling their chronological sites as San Francisco that has actually converted Fisherman’s Wharf into one of the most in trend tourist attraction in the world. Unless you really need to come early in the morning, however, you would not find any traces of the traditional water front life, which once lived there.


Keywords:
San Francisco tours, San Francisco vacations, San Francisco sightseeing, san francisco shuttle tours, San Francisco bus tour.


Article Body:
Few of cities in U.S.S are extremely expert at wholesaling their chronological sites as San Francisco that has actually converted Fisherman’s Wharf into one of the most in trend tourist attraction in the world. Unless you really need to come early in the morning, however, you would not find any traces of the traditional water front life, which once lived there. Most tourists trip fisherman’s Wharf expands between Pier 39 and Ghirardelli Square. It has a lot of memento shops, cheap hotels, loud attractions, and reasonably priced "museums". It is an extremely noisy place. But! It was and it is yet now a real fisherman’s wharf! You would find most outstanding places, views, and excitements here.

Accommodating a full amount of 350 boats, two marinas border PIER 39 and house the Blue & Gold bay visiting the attractions fleet. In past few years, some 600 California sea lions have taken up home on the contiguous floating docks. Until they dump their new playing field that looks to be more and more improbable, these playful, piercing creatures (some nights you could as well hear them all the way from Washington Sq.) are one of the most excellent free attractions on the wharf. Docent-led programs, on hand at PIER 39 on weekends from 11am to 5pm, educate visitors about the variety, surroundings, and malleability of the California sea lion.

Cotton candy and keepsakes are all well and good, but if you desire to get to the heart of the wharf -- boats -- there's no well again place to do it than by the pier, certainly one of the wharf area's most excellent bargains. Depending on the time of day, you could see boat builders at work or family manning a boat as folks did in the early 1900s. Don't keep away from the pride and joy collection of historic vessels, part of the San Francisco Maritime National Historic Park, all of that could be boarded. Some people feel affection for Fisherman's Wharf; others cannot get far enough away from it. Most agree that, for enhanced or for worse, it has to be seen at least once in your lifetime.


