Title: 
Best Western Premier Airporthotel Fontane Berlin

Word Count:
430

Summary:
Berlin is a great place to holiday with your family and friends. Popular destinations, including Reichstag, Brandenburg Gate, the Berlin Wall and the Wall Victims Memorial, would surely you’re your trip memorable.


Keywords:
Berlin Hotel situated in the south of Berlin,Hotel offers a lot holiday and business packages


Article Body:
Berlin is a great place to holiday with your family and friends. Popular destinations, including Reichstag, Brandenburg Gate, the Berlin Wall and the Wall Victims Memorial, would surely you’re your trip memorable. And while you plan a trip to Berlin, a good hotel is your primary requisite. So, Airport Hotel Fontane Berlin is the best choice for you. 

Furnished in the latest and unique modern designs, Airport Hotel Fontane Berlin is one of the best in its own kinds. Constructed in the year 2002, the hotel is a perfect blend of tradition and modernity. You can see and feel traditional style in the interiors as well as in its facilities and services. Similarly, it offers modernity in form of modern and luxurious comforts of the hotel. 

Situated in the south of Berlin, the hotel is only 8 kms from the airport Schönefeld, which adds to its other locational advantages. The hotel proves the acclaim that it has been honoured with ""First Class Superior"" hotel by the German Hotel Association. It is the one stop destination for providing business and leisure facilities. It has a capacity of around 200 rooms that are well-equipped with modern facilities, such as work desk, data port, daily newspaper and mini bar. The tourists can enjoy and refresh themselves with a wide range of recreational activities, including gymnasium, whirlpool, steam room and sauna. The hotel is famous for its ‘Theodors restaurant’. It’s a perfect place to relish the cuisines of regional and international menus. Also, it offers some of the best and choicest collection of wines.  

The tourists to the hotel can enjoy various sports facilities that include tennis court, fitness centre, golf course, biking, walking, cycling, bowling and horse riding. Those who wish to relax their nerves can get benefit from the amenities of solarium, spa, and wellness centre and a massage room. The hotel provides a range of other premium facilities, such as laundry, dry cleaning, ironing, internet, currency exchange, shoe shine, fax or photocopying, Wi-Fi and wireless LAN services. 

All rooms are provided with an attached bathroom facility that comprises of amenities, including shower, hairdryer and hot and cold water system. The tourists are served a-la-carte and buffet styled breakfast amongst the lush-green environs of the hotel. 

For business meetings, the facility of conference rooms with latest audiovisual equipments is available. The hotel also offers facilities, such as 24-hour front desk, non-smoking rooms, elevator services, express check-in and check-out, as well as luggage and ski storage. The hotel accepts major credit cards, including American Express, Visa, Euro/Mastercard, Diners Club, PIN and Maestro.


