Title: 
Birmingham Stag Do – 5-a-side Football Tournament

Word Count:
376

Summary:
When you think of a perfect stag weekend with exciting stag parties and nightlife, the first place that comes to your mind is Birmingham. With its central location and reasonable price, Birmingham is the hottest stag weekend venue. This stag venue boasts of having the largest lap-dancing club in the world, with thrilling nightlife activities, stag friendly bars and curry houses, stag clubs and much more.


Keywords:
Stag event,weekend,night,party,do,theme,fun,activity,5 a side Football Tournament


Article Body:
When you think of a perfect stag weekend with exciting stag parties and nightlife, the first place that comes to your mind is Birmingham. With its central location and reasonable price, Birmingham is the hottest stag weekend venue. This stag venue boasts of having the largest lap-dancing club in the world, with thrilling nightlife activities, stag friendly bars and curry houses, stag clubs and much more.  

<b>Stag Weekend Activity – the fun of a Football Match</b>

If you are looking for some fun filled challenging stag weekend activity, the 5-a-side football tournament in Birmingham is the right option for you. The best part of this stag weekend activity is that you get to work as a team, thus building a sense of team spirit and unity among the players. All information regarding the rules and regulations of this stag event is provided to the individual teams prior to the start of the match. Each team will get to display their skills for 45 minutes with a minimum of three games each. You will get the feel of a real contest, as this stag event will be officiated by fully qualified FA referees. 

Do not worry; Chillisauce will not leave you starving. On your arrival, freshly brewed coffee/tea and biscuits will welcome you. A bar and a lounge are there at your disposal throughout the duration of this exciting stag do. That is not all. There is a delicious buffet for all the players. If your team wins, be prepared to grab the engraved tournament cup along with seven individual engraved trophies. If your team is the runners-up, don’t be disappointed, as the team members will be given an engraved trophy each. A case of Carlsberg is presented to the winning team!

<b>Advantages of Stag Do in Birmingham</b>

Birmingham is the best place for a stag weekend where you indulge in stag parties and stag nights. All your needs while you are on a stag weekend in Birmingham will be catered by Chillisauce, a high quality tour operator that specializes in organizing the best stag weekends, parties and stag nights. The main objective of a stag weekend in Birmingham is to enliven and cheer you up, thus bringing out the best in you.


