Title: 
Bizarre travel guide

Word Count:
549

Summary:
Carrying a travel bag and looking around the places of historical and sculptural importance. Is that what you conceive as a holiday? If yes you haven’t seen or heard enough


Keywords:
bizarre, travel, phenomena, options, space


Article Body:
Carrying a travel bag and looking around the places of historical and sculptural importance. Is that what you conceive as a holiday? If yes you haven’t seen or heard enough. The traveling experience can be more than rewarding if the choice of the places to visit is bizarre. And more so going to those untouched places can be one hell-of an experience. May be it is going in to the wilderness of the Amazon or the endless Kalahari,  the fun never ends. Some places definitely provide more then you can ask for.


For those who have seen all the obvious and usual places to visit these can be the fun trips. Hunting vampires in Transylvania or getting close to the sharks at the sea, every thing that you never thought about makes the trips one to remember. The popularity of these goes to the extreme thinking of the tourists and the efforts of the tour organizers. The trips include many out of the world experiences. One of them is the storm chase. It’s like trying to cut through the storm risking all you have for the thrill of the lifetime.  


Many may think it unusual but many people consider hunting for Unidentified Flying Objects as there idea of an adventure trip. People cite the UFO’s and then the most common places to find them are prepared for the tourist and wait for them to return. This also comes, sometimes with unusual alien citing which add the extra thrill to the adventure. The much known area 51 is on the list of such enthusiasts and they claim to have made visits. Museums and memorials dedicated to the alien s and their things are there at many places across the United States. 


The scientific advancements are giving hope to the concept of H. G. Wells regarding time travel. The tourists definitely would like to venture into some adventure, which can take them to the past. This seems a bit too complicated but this is fast becoming the most sought after concept and people are willing to pay for the same. There are risks attached to it and there seems to be a lot of time that remains before this thing to get materialized; yet the craving is never-ending.


Another adventure that the people have been indulging into for years is the treasure hunts. In the pursuit of hidden treasures many people venture in to the deepest of seas and the innermost of the forests looking for them. Even the mystery of the Bermuda triangle is also intriguing and the tourists don’t want to miss a chance to go there. Well, to do that one has to make a trip and go because no tour operator will take the risk.


Then the latest in bizarre adventure list is the concept of space travel. With the theories regarding possibilities of life on other planets people are willing to go to outer space for the trips of there life time. This is one of the possible traveling ideas because it has been experimented and people have actually been to space for a trip. The space tourism seems to be the nest thing in traveling brochures. 


So say goodbye to the customized tours and pack your bags for some bizarre traveling experiences.


