Title: 
Booking a Holiday, Tour or Vacation in Myanmar

Word Count:
597

Summary:
In my capacity as the UK Director of Operations for One World Tours Limited, one of my jobs is to ensure every client has the best tour possible, so here are my top suggestions for sites to take in during your holiday Myanmar formerly known as Burma.


Keywords:
holidays, in, myanmar, tours, what, to, see


Article Body:
In my capacity as the UK Director of Operations for One World Tours Limited, one of my jobs is to ensure every client has the best tour possible, so here are my top suggestions for sites to take in during your holiday Myanmar formerly known as Burma.

1. Yangon is the capital city of Myanmar and is a typical Asian city with it’s beautiful green tropical trees and beautiful lakes. The wonderful thing about Yangon is that it has not been spoilt by modern development although it is progressing gently at it’s own pace. The city is the main entrance to the country and also houses the principle seaport.
Yangon is home to many stunning pagodas, one of the most stunning being The Shwedagon Pagoda which stands on Theingottara hill. This golden shrine is gilded from top to bottom which makes it glisten in the sun an absolutely awesome spectacle.

Not as ancient but of no less beauty is the 20 year young is Karaweik Hall stands in the Royal Lake (Kandawgyi Lake). A mythical creature known as the Karaweik bird is what this structure has been based on and as it too is gilded from top to bottom it is a beautiful sight to behold as it shimmers on the lake. 

2. Located in Bagan and erected in the 1100’s is the Dhammayangyi Temple which is a Buddhist temple.The temple remains unfinished to this day. There are other temples in Bagan but the Dhammayangyi is the most popular because of its mass which makes it unique. It is shaped like a pyramid which features very fine brickwork. Some people believe that the temple was built by an evil king.

3. Mandalay is Burma's second biggest capital and is also the  cultural and religious centre of Buddhism. This is displayed by more than 700 pagodas.
 In Manadalay you will find over 700 stone slabs located at the foot of Mandalay Hill. Together they are inscribed with the entire Buddhist scriptures which are better known as the Pali Canon. This has earned the reputation as the biggest book in the world and is known as the official "Buddhist Bible.
Mandalay Palace is a place not to be missed on a visit to Mandalay. There is an 8 meter high brick wall surrrounding the palace and a wide moat  which has plenty of goldfish. Considering that the palace was completely destroyed by fire in World War II and completely rebuilt it remains a popular attraction for many tourists every year.

4.In the Mon State you will find the Kyaikhtiyo Pagoda. What helps to make this pagoda very intriguing is the story that accompanies this amazing feat of nature. The pagoda is  7.3 and is perched atop a golden rock. The rock itself is right on top of the Kyaikhto mountain.
 
The story that accompanies the rocks precarious balance and how it can stay in this position is because of a Buddha hair which has been placed precisely inside the pagoda.
Apparently it is believed that a King who had received the Buddha's hair from a hermit was told to hunt for a rock that looked like the hermits head. The hermit instructed the King to search for a boulder whose shape resembled the hermit's head. Once the right rock was discovered the hair was placed into the pagoda on top of it.  Legend has it that the King had supernatural powers as his mother was a dragon princess and his father was an alchemist.
This is considered to be a highly sacred place and people come from all over to visit this unusual pagoda.


