Title: 
Bora Bora

Word Count:
324

Summary:
Bora Bora, located in the Society Islands, is Tahiti’s crown jewel – a true Polynesian island paradise that tourists the world over consider the ultimate tropical vacation destination. Hollywood, and film industries from most other parts of the globe, have never tired of capturing its spectacular topography. Probably its most definitive landmarks are the twin towers of black rock and an azure lagoon of clearest tropical water.


Keywords:
Bora Bora, Bora Bora Hotels, Bora Bora Weather, Bora Bora Vacations


Article Body:
Bora Bora, located in the Society Islands, is Tahiti’s crown jewel – a true Polynesian island paradise that tourists the world over consider the ultimate tropical vacation destination. Hollywood, and film industries from most other parts of the globe, have never tired of capturing its spectacular topography. Probably its most definitive landmarks are the twin towers of black rock and an azure lagoon of clearest tropical water.

Considering the ideal location and nature of this island getaway, it is not really surprising that water sports like water skiing, parasailing and tackle fishing feature prominently amongst the things to do there.

Responding to the potential, many enterprising holiday specialists have provided matchless facilities to enjoy such activities at almost any budget. And Bora Bora’s spectacular natural beauty is far from superficial and skin deep. The world beneath its waves makes it the perfect hunting ground for professional and amateur scuba diving enthusiasts.

Recreational tourism aside, Bora Bora is also amongst the world’s legendary backdrops for freshly baked romance. Newlyweds who choose the island for their honeymoon will have something to cherish, discuss and reminisce about for the rest of their lives.

Despite the high influx of tourists every year, Bora Bora has managed to avoid the cluttered, cheap boardwalk culture that one tends to associate with seaside and island resorts closer to home. There is nothing trashy about Bora Bora. It is very well connected by sea and air, and reaching it is as thrilling a visual experience as actually holidaying there. Excellent internal transport ensures that the entire wealth of Bora Bora’s splendor is available for a visitor’s inspection and enjoyment.

Unlike many other resort destinations of this kind, Bora Bora is far from cut off from the realities of mainstream life. It has an excellent infrastructure to support the necessities of modern living – hospitals, banking, foreign exchange etc. – even while it retains all its highly individual and other-worldly charm.


