Title: 
Boutique City Hotels

Word Count:
380

Summary:
Finding a good hotel from the hundreds that populate the world’s biggest cities can be a daunting task, and choosing the wrong one can ruin your trip.

Staying in a city gives you the opportunity to sample some of the best historical, cultural and cosmopolitan offerings in the world. From modern art galleries to internationally-famous theatres; exquisite cuisine to early-morning clubbing, a city experience is what you make of it, and part of that experience is the hotel.
...


Keywords:
boutique hotels, chic hotels, hip hotels


Article Body:
Finding a good hotel from the hundreds that populate the world’s biggest cities can be a daunting task, and choosing the wrong one can ruin your trip.

Staying in a city gives you the opportunity to sample some of the best historical, cultural and cosmopolitan offerings in the world. From modern art galleries to internationally-famous theatres; exquisite cuisine to early-morning clubbing, a city experience is what you make of it, and part of that experience is the hotel.

No matter which city you’re visiting, it pays to choose your hotel carefully. If you been there before, then you can take the time to enjoy what the hotel has to offer; if it’s your first trip, then use the hotel’s expert knowledge to plan your days and nights during your stay. Choosing a city boutique offers you:

A great location – city boutiques are usually right where you want them to be; in the heart of the city. They may be round the corner from the most fashionable shopping area, next door to museums and art galleries or in the middle of the theatre district. There’s no need to spend a fortune on taxis or public transport because your hotel’s on the outskirts of town, and you can have a late breakfast and then move back and forth between the hotel depending on your day’s plans.

Traditional buildings – because these hotels are in central locations, they are often in fantastic buildings. From old townhouses to converted banks or offices, the building that houses the hotel is one of the main attractions and when the design is based around the original function of the building, retaining original features, the guest feels more at home than in a hotel, even in the middle of the city.

Activities – most modern cities have something going on twenty four hours a day, and chic boutique hotels are well placed to give you access to everything that’s happening. Local knowledge and established contacts mean that the hotel can help you organise day-trips, theatre visits or restaurant bookings amongst many other activities.

Whether you’re visiting a city for business or pleasure, choosing to stay in a boutique hotel is one way to ensure that the whole visit is a pleasure.


