Title: 
Boutique Hotels – A Traveller’s Paradise

Word Count:
385

Summary:
For many, holiday accommodation plays second fiddle to location and amenities. For the true traveller though, it’s an important part of the experience.

We tend to take travel for granted. It’s easy and cheap to hop on a plane to any one of hundreds of destinations across the world, book into a hotel that’s the same as all the others and find familiar food and drink. That’s not the real essence of travel though, as those who still choose to do it “properly” know.

Experie...


Keywords:
boutique hotels, chic hotels, hip hotels


Article Body:
For many, holiday accommodation plays second fiddle to location and amenities. For the true traveller though, it’s an important part of the experience.

We tend to take travel for granted. It’s easy and cheap to hop on a plane to any one of hundreds of destinations across the world, book into a hotel that’s the same as all the others and find familiar food and drink. That’s not the real essence of travel though, as those who still choose to do it “properly” know.

Experience

The purpose of travelling is to experience new countries as they really are. Tasting the food, talking to the people, taking in the culture and living with the styles and furnishings are all part of the memories and understanding that you take away with you. Chain hotels and those just devoted to accommodating as many people as possible as cheaply as possible often can’t deliver this experience, which is why the market for boutique hotels is growing.

Design – Boutique hotels pay close attention to the design of their hotel. Everything from the colour on the walls to the way the staff greet you is designed to give you a complete experience. Traditional furniture and hand-made fabrics are accented by carefully chosen accessories to ensure that nothing is out of place and that whilst guests are made to feel at home, it is in an authentic environment.

Location – If you’re planning a trip to a new city, and you want to be sure of a complete experience, you should consider staying in a boutique hotel. Unlike purpose-built hotels, these hotels are usually located right in the heart of the city, often in older, more traditional buildings. Sympathetic design means that original features are usually retained, although contemporary design and décor are often placed around them, so you get a great hotel in a great part of town.

Service – If you want to know the best local market to visit, the least-explored historic monuments or just want to hire a bike to explore the countryside, the staff at your boutique hotel can help. Their priority is ensuring that you have everything you need, so whether you want to go to the best traditional restaurant or find the best walking route around the city, just ask.


