Title: 
Boutique Beach Hotels

Word Count:
403

Summary:
For many people, a beach holiday is their annual luxury; two weeks in the sun, with long sandy beaches and a tranquil sea is their idea of a perfect trip away. It doesn’t take much imagination to take a step further and turn that annual trip into a real experience by staying in a small, select hotel.

Beach resorts are one of the most ideal locations for boutique hotels. The idea of stepping out from your bedroom onto your own private beach area, or staying in an exclusive ...


Keywords:
boutique hotels, chic hotels, hip hotels


Article Body:
For many people, a beach holiday is their annual luxury; two weeks in the sun, with long sandy beaches and a tranquil sea is their idea of a perfect trip away. It doesn’t take much imagination to take a step further and turn that annual trip into a real experience by staying in a small, select hotel.

Beach resorts are one of the most ideal locations for boutique hotels. The idea of stepping out from your bedroom onto your own private beach area, or staying in an exclusive location just minutes’ walk from the sea is an attractive one to many. No chic beach resort is like another, however, so it’s worth taking a look at locations and hotels before you decide exactly what type of beach holiday is right for you.

Island getaways

There’s plenty of opportunity for boutique accommodation in the world’s island resorts. From the Maldives in the Indian Ocean to the always-popular Caribbean islands, the lure of white beaches, blue seas and a laid-back atmosphere attracts visitors from all over the world. Beach boutiques on the islands make the most of the natural environment, using colour and texture to bring the outdoors inside and creating relaxing surroundings that enable you to enjoy your beach holiday to the full. Examples of island boutiques include:

• Ostraco Suites, Mykonos, Greece
• Quilalea Island, Mozambique
• Elysian Bali Villas, Seminyak, Bali
• Montpelier Plantation Inn, St. Kitts & Nevis
• The Lone Star Hotel and Restaurant, Barbados
• Fundu Lagoon, Zanzibar

These are just some of the chic island retreats catering for guests who are looking for privacy and tranquillity within a design- and service-led hotel.

Beach resorts

It’s not just the islands that have wonderful stretches of coastline. The larger countries and continents boast hundreds of popular resorts where a boutique hotel can make all the difference to your holiday. Try the Old Quay House in Cornwall, England, where a perfect location, an historic building and sympathetic architecture and design make for the perfect coastal retreat. If you’re a lover of the Spanish coast, then take a look at the Beach House in Marbella, which is one of the coolest hotels in the country. Rio de Janeiro has a stunning coastline and a party atmosphere to match and you can make the most of both by staying at La Maison, which is hip, trendy and just a few minutes from the beach.


