Title: 
Bradford City guide, including Bradford Hotels

Word Count:
1012

Summary:
In the county of West Yorkshire is where tourists will find the
bustling city of Bradford. Situated in Northern England, Bradford has
more than 470,000 inhabitants and it ranks eleventh in terms of the
size of various cities in England.


Keywords:
Tours,Travel,Reservation.


Article Body:
In the county of West Yorkshire is where tourists will find the bustling city of Bradford. Situated in Northern England, Bradford has more than 470,000 inhabitants and it ranks eleventh in terms of the size of various cities in England. Bradford has a rich history and was one of the central focuses of thriving businesses during the time of the Industrial Revolution. Former home of the Bronte Sisters, as well as many other famous individuals, Bradford continues to thrive in terms of business and also continues to draw thousands of tourists each and every year. Finally, Bradford is surrounded by many popular cities. Cities surrounding Bradford include Bath, Belfast, Bristol, Edinburgh, Glasgow, Liverpool, London, Nottingham, Oxford and York.

Places of interest:

Looking to plan your itinerary while in England? Make sure that Bradford is on your list of places to see. Chockfull of historical adventures and incredible recreational pursuits, a trip to England would be incomplete if one doesn’t partake in all that Bradford has to offer.

ART GALLERIES: When visiting Bradford, tourists are frequently drawn to the cultural attractions that Bradford offers. Bradford is home to several art galleries including the City Art Gallery at the Headrow which houses incredible sculptures and paintings.
WALKING TOURS: Tourist will thoroughly enjoy the walking tours through the moorlands and woodlands of Bradford. Further, tourist can choose to take self guide walks or tour guide walks, whichever they prefer. Such tours allow tourists to enjoy all of the wildlife in Bradford.
FAMILY ADVENTURES: Numerous natural parks and amusement parks are in Bradford, promising entertainment for the whole family. From boating to bowling, there is no end to the fun for families in Bradford.
SPORTS: there are plenty of sports to engage in while visiting Bradford and fishing, sailing, wind surfing, swimming, cycling, horseback riding ,and walking are just a few of the sports that tourists will find enjoyable.
SHOPPING: A number of mill shops and Asian stores are readily accessible in Bradford.

Things to do:

There is no shortage of fun and fascinating things to do while in Bradford. Whether tourists travel alone or with the entire family, they can easily find enjoyable recreational activities for everyone to enjoy.

BRADFORD BULLS: in the Odsal Stadium, the Bradford Bulls is the favourite rugby team of many. The stadium holds huge audiences, well over 12,000 people visit the Bradford Bulls’ games and there is pre-game entertainment at every game.
BRADFORD ICE RINK: at 19 Little Horton Lane is an ice skating rink that the entire family can enjoy. Whether tourists are out on the ice with the kids or they are watching one of the many ice shows hosted at the Bradford Ice Rink, time spent at the ice rink will be nothing but memorable.
COLOUR MUSEUM: 1 Providence Street is a one of a kind experience for every resident and tourist in Bradford. Learn how animals perceive colour, how colour dyes are created and more. A great time for the entire family. The cost for admission is £1.75 for adults and £4 for the entire family.
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF PHOTOGRAPHY, FILM & TELEVISION: situated at Pictureville, is an exciting location with interactive exhibits and a place that reveals movie and television magic!
RED HOUSE: The former home of Mary Taylor, now known as the Red House is located on Oxford Road. Mary Taylor was the former friend of Charlotte Bronte and the house was erected in the 17th century.
SILVER JUBILEE MODEL RAILWAY EXHIBITION: on Green Lane is the place for every model train enthusiast. Model trains are sold as well as all of their accessories and you can have fun looking at all of the model train layouts.

Food & Drink:

Visitors to Bradford can find fantastic dining in and around the surrounding areas of Bradford with relative ease. No matter what a tourist’s dining preference is, they can satiate their appetite easily when visiting Bradford.

ADELPHI: located on 1-5 Hunslet Road, offers lagers, beers, and a variety of juices as well as fine dining. Desserts include both the Yorkshire pie and the Dolcelatte Pudding.
BREAK FOR THE BORDER: at 174-178 Lower Briggate in Leeds, just 9 miles from Bradford. It is a bar and lounge offering drinks and entertainment. The upstairs of the location is a restaurant that offers a variety of Tex-Mex foods.
GRILLADE: on Wellington Street in Leeds, is a mere walk from the train station. If it’s a French Bistro that a tourist’s seeks, then the Grillade is sure to please. The Grillade serves nothing but the finest French entrees and has a variety of plates to choose from.
FUJI HIRO: at 45 Wade Lane in Leeds offers an array of Japanese and Chinese cuisine. Ramen, Rice, and pan-fried noodle dishes will assuredly appease anyone’s appetite. The Fuji Hiro serves great meals like chicken katsu curry and chilli ebi ramen.
HEATHCLIFFS RESTAURANT: in Hollins Hall, Baildon, Bradford, requires that residents and tourists make reservations in advance and that they adhere to the dress code provided. Offering background piano music while visitors dine, Heathcliffs is the place in Bradford for the ultimate dining experience.

Hotels & Accommodation:

Accommodations are not at all hard to come by in Bradford. There are numerous hotels and self catering sites for tourist to choose from. No matter what a tourist decides, they will find they get the finest service during their stay in Bradford.

 Midland Hotel
 Courtyard By Marriott Leeds/Bradford
 Park Grove Hotel
 The Dubrovnik Hotel
 Sporting Lodge Inns
 Novotel Bradford
 Best Western Guide Post Hotel
 Express by Holiday Inn Bradford City Centre

Entertainment:

There is plenty of entertainment in Bradford that is suitable for all ages. Theatres, Cinemas, Aquariums and nightlife entertainment are abundant in this city. Bars, lounges, and dance clubs await the tourist looking to relax and socialise.

Bradford: a city you can afford to miss when visiting England. Excellent food, incredible sites, and lots of fun things to do, tourist will lose out if they don’t visit Bradford. Certainly, if one wants to ensure their trip is complete, Bradford should be on their list of things to do.


