Title: 
Branched Oak Lake in Nebraska - A Great Vacation and Travel Destination

Word Count:
401

Summary:
Have the vacation of a lifetime at Branched Oak Lake in Nebraska, by knowing the Attractions to see - Best times to visit - Places to stay, and more.


Keywords:
travel,vacation,branched oak lake,nebraska


Article Body:
A beautiful vacation destination is Branched Oak Lake in Nebraska. This man made lake is close to Malcolm, Nebraska and just northwest of Lincoln. It is one of the state's largest lakes and it offers visitors plenty of fun activities. Those who visit can take advantage of fishing and swimming as well as motor boats and jet skis. No matter what kind of fun in the sun you love there is something for you at Branched Oak Lake in Nebraska. You can even try an extreme sport so to speak by water skiing in November on Branched Oak, which is pretty cold!

Families will really love the beach that is roped off with a special swimming area. There is plenty of room for sun bathers to get out and about and soak up the rays, too, so no matter what you are looking for you will find it at Branched Oak Lake. There is also great fishing in the lake if anyone is interested in trying to catch some fish.

The best way to get to Branched Oak Lake is to take Highway 34 on your way out of Lincoln to Highway 79. Then, take Raymond Road to the North and go west to 140 Street and then right on Branched Oak Road. Then just follow the signs to the lake. The lake is part of the state parks so you must consider the fees and permits associated with visiting. There is a small marina and there are even camping locations and places to grill. This is an amazing place to hang out with friends or families and 
the weekends are really crowded. So, if you have the chance come by on a weekday so you can enjoy all the lake has to offer without the crowds. You will love visiting Branched Oak Lake and will really have a lot of fun. In fact you will probably put it on your favorite places to visit in Nebraska.

There is a website that has great information on USA Vacations and Unique Travel Spots Listed State By State and Season, the website is called: Seasonal Vacation Spots, and can be found at this url:

http://www.seasonalvacationspots.com

By Robert W. Benjamin

Copyright © 2007 

You may publish this article in your ezine, newsletter, or on your web site as long as it is reprinted in its entirety and without modification except for formatting needs or grammar corrections.


