Title: 
Brighton City Guide, Including Brighton Hotels

Word Count:
1195

Summary:
Introduction:

Nestling between the South Downs and England's sunny south coast, Brighton is an enchanting, and exciting seaside city. With its mix of Regency heritage, specialist shopping, lively arts, beachfront fun and year round events the place defies comparison. Perfect for a break at any time of the year, Brighton is packed with everything within walking distance, and only an hour from London.

Places of interest:

Brighton has been a pleasure ground for visitors...


Keywords:
hotels in Brighton, brighton accommodation, brighton tourism, brighton tourist


Article Body:
Introduction:

Nestling between the South Downs and England's sunny south coast, Brighton is an enchanting, and exciting seaside city. With its mix of Regency heritage, specialist shopping, lively arts, beachfront fun and year round events the place defies comparison. Perfect for a break at any time of the year, Brighton is packed with everything within walking distance, and only an hour from London.

Places of interest:

Brighton has been a pleasure ground for visitors since Regency times, with a wealth of attractions full of charm, style and eccentricity. With the unique Royal Pavilion, the Victorian Brighton Pier, the Volks Railway and the various museums, Brighton's attractions mix heritage, fun and culture, there is sure to be something that you want to see.


The Royal Pavilion is without doubt one of the most beautiful and unusual landmarks in the Brighton area. With striking Indian architecture, finely decorated interiors with strong influences from China, the Royal Pavilion was originally built for King George IV and has been used by many members of the royal family, including Queen Victoria.

The Victorian Pier is one of the most important landmarks in Brighton and is located in the centre of Brighton's seafront. It is home to an enormous amount of attractions, including arcades, a funfair with a mini-roller coaster, and dodgems, side stalls, and a restaurant with stunning sea views. It is also the venue for seasonal fireworks displays.

The Lanes area of Brighton is full of fascinating Brighton history and character. With narrow streets, historic buildings, street entertainers, jewellery shops, antiques stores, cafés and restaurants, The Lanes area of Brighton is also home to a number of atmospheric public houses.

Volks Railway has regular trains travelling from Brighton Pier along Brighton seafront to Black Rock, and is one of Brighton's most historic tourist attractions. Dating back to the late 19th century, Brighton's Volks Railway is the oldest electric railway in the United Kingdom.

Brighton Marina is located in the Kemp Town area of Brighton and is home to an enormous amount of entertainment and attractions for tourists visiting the Brighton area. With cafés, restaurants and bars, most of which have superb views of the harbour, together with shopping facilities, boat trips around Brighton Marina, a multi-screen cinema and tenpin bowling complex, Brighton Marina is one of the largest yachting harbours in the United Kingdom.

Things to do:

Brighton beachfront is a playground of surfing, sailing, basketball, volleyball, skateboarding and lots more. Away from the water there is plenty to enjoy. Take a Ghost Walk or tour of The Lanes, and all year round there are hundreds of events from the famous London to Brighton and National Speed Trials, to power boat racing and kite festivals. Brighton provides an excellent base for exploring the rolling South Downs and the castles of Hever, Leeds and Arundel.

Brighton Racecourse holds meetings throughout the summer months.

Walking Tours are available in the Brighton and Hove area and these provide tourists with a real insight into some of Brighton's most interesting and historic tourist attractions, landmarks and information.

Brighton guided bus tours operate throughout the day at regular intervals. The Brighton bus tours provide a popular way of sightseeing in Brighton and, with daily hop on / off tickets; they are also a very useful way to travel around Brighton. Bus tours in the Brighton connect all of the major points of interest in Brighton, including many of the tourist attractions, landmarks and monuments in Brighton.

Devil's Dyke, on the north side of Brighton, is owned and managed by the National Trust, with superb panoramic views of the surrounding countryside, Devil's Dyke is a deep valley and attractions include large areas of grassland ideal for sunbathing, sports, kite-flying, hang-gliding and picnics.

Bluebell Steam Railway is on the outskirts of Brighton. It is one of the most popular attractions in this area. It features lovingly restored steam locomotives, a museum, stunning views of the surrounding countryside and a public house, serving snacks. The Bluebell Steam Railway travels between three different train stations.

Food & Drink:

With over 400 restaurants in the Brighton area, it has more than anywhere outside London. You can choose from beachfront brasseries, exquisite seafood eateries, fish & chip cafes, traditional English dishes, chic café culture and modern international menus at stylish, exclusive venues. Whether it’s afternoon tea at the Grand Hotel, fish and chips on Brighton Pier or something altogether more exotic, there’s something for every taste.

There are good value pubs and cafes too. Brighton's pubs range from small cosy Victorian front rooms, converted churches to large theme pubs housing every video game imaginable.

Carluccio’s offers a cosy breakfast, a bustling lunch or a candlelit evening supper. All food is prepared using the best, fresh natural ingredients - often sourced from all over Italy.

Terraces Bar & Grill is the place to drop into after a bracing stroll on the prom for a refreshing cocktail, or to pile into the sofas with coffee and the papers following a huge Sunday roast.

Al Duomo: A cool contemporary Italian restaurant and venue furnished with sleek leather sofas in the bar area for drinks, lounging or coffee and modern art through out. Located next door to the Royal Pavilion and centrally located to the main shops, hotels and entertainment.

The Dorset Street Bar has character and style and has become one of the most popular restaurants and meeting places in Brighton.

The George is Brighton’s first and foremost vegetarian pub.

The Greys is serves Egon Ronay recommended gourmet food in extremely small local neighbourhood pub. Generally a great friendly atmosphere with interesting characters.

Hotels & Accommodation:

Brighton hotels, bed and breakfasts, guesthouses, and self-catering accommodation offer a wide range of style and price. Accommodation ranges from luxury hotels on the seafront, medium-priced hotels in elegant squares, family-run bed & breakfasts, budget travel lodges, backpacker hostels and self-catering apartments.

Belgrave Classic Hotel
Quality Hotel Brighton
De Vere Grand Hotel Brighton
Queens Hotel (And Lanes Leisure Club)
Royal Albion Hotel
Holiday Inn Brighton Seafront
Preston Park Hotel
Drakes Hotels
brightonwave Hotel
Sea Spray
New Steine Hotel
Westbourne Hotel
Ascott House Hotel
Gullivers Hotel
The Arlanda Hotel
Ramada Brighton
Maison Mascara
Abbey Hotel
Best Western The Brighton Hotel
Hickstead Hotel
Kings Hotel
Old Ship Hotel
Thistle Brighton
Hudsons Guesthouse
Amherst Hotel
Royal Pavillion Townhouse Hotel
Dorset Guest House

Entertainment

Brighton is home to a number of excellent theatres that regularly host Brighton theatrical productions, dramas, comedies, concerts, operas, workshops and exhibitions.

Pavilion Theatre is one of the best venues in the South East. The programme boasts an excellent line up of comedy, music, dance & theatre.

Gardner Arts Centre entertains you with high quality contemporary dance, drama, visual arts, films, comedy, music et al.

Komedia is a great venue for music, comedy, cabaret and theatre.

If you love life, you will love Brighton, England’s liveliest city by the sea. Brighton is fun, cosmopolitan and uniquely eccentric all year round. It has been regarded as a ‘pleasure dome’, and that’s not about to change.

This Article may be freely copied as long as it is not modified and this resource box accompanies the article, together with working hyperlinks.


