Title: 
Bristol City Guide, Including Bristol Hotels

Word Count:
1090

Summary:
Introduction:

Bristol is an exciting city, overflowing with intriguing, traditional and occasionally off the wall things to do and see. What really makes it special is its energy, the mix of historic and new. With the city, coast and countryside all within easy reach Bristol is a great place to enjoy a day out or a weekend break. A vibrant young city, mixing bands and bars, clubs and cafes and yet this city has a thousand year history as a historic port!

Places of inter...


Keywords:
hotels in bristol, bristol accommodation, bristol tourism, bristol tourist


Article Body:
Introduction:

Bristol is an exciting city, overflowing with intriguing, traditional and occasionally off the wall things to do and see. What really makes it special is its energy, the mix of historic and new. With the city, coast and countryside all within easy reach Bristol is a great place to enjoy a day out or a weekend break. A vibrant young city, mixing bands and bars, clubs and cafes and yet this city has a thousand year history as a historic port!

Places of interest:

Bristol has some amazing sights, including the Clifton Suspension Bridge, Bristol Cathedral and the SS Great Britain to name but a few. Many of Bristol's museums depict parts of local history, including its maritime and industrial history.

Clifton Suspension Bridge spanning the beautiful Avon Gorge is the symbol of the city of Bristol. For almost 150 years this grade I listed structure has attracted visitors from all over the world. A Bristol wine merchant left a legacy to build the bridge over the Gorge.

Bristol Cathedral. The eastern end of the Cathedral, especially in the Choir, gives Bristol Cathedral a unique place in the development of British and European Architecture. The Nave, Choir and Aisles are all the same height, making a large hall. Bristol Cathedral is the major example of a 'Hall Church' in Great Britain and one of the finest anywhere in the world. Guided tours of the cathedral are available every Saturday from May to October.

Brunel’s steam ship, SS Great Britain, has survived from Victorian times and is the forerunner of all modern shipping. It was the world's first iron-hulled, screw propeller-driven, steam-powered passenger liner.

Bristol Zoo Gardens is dedicated to conservation and is involved in international breeding programmes. Bristol Zoo has seen a number of significant births and there are many young animals running around the Zoo so it makes for a fun day out for all the family.

The British Empire and Commonwealth Museum brings to life more than 500 years of history using state of the art presentation techniques.

The City Museum and Art Gallery has outstanding collections of art and archaeology, geology and natural history housed in a magnificent early 20th century building on Queens Road.

Things to do:

If there's one thing you can guarantee, you will never run out of things to do in Bristol. Attractions, shopping, nightlife and exciting activities combine to create a place quite unlike any other. Bristol is also the perfect base to explore the West Country. There are lots of attractions and places to visit all easily accessible by car or public transport.

A harbour tour is the best way to get some idea of what the harbour side area has to offer. Two companies offer such tours (some with commentary) allowing you to explore the harbour side from the water. It is not only a great way to see Bristol, but also travel from A to B.

Shopping in Bristol offers plenty of choice, catering for the most eclectic of tastes and all budgets. The elegant shops of Bristol's West End, White Ladies Road and Clifton Village should not be missed. They are magnets for those looking for designer clothes, antiques, jewellery, art and crafts.

At-Bristol offers interactive adventure of a lifetime. At-Bristol's has three award-winning attractions - Explore, Wildwalk and the Imax Theatre. They offer amazing experiences every day.

Slimbridge promotes the conservation of wetlands focusing on rare wetland birds. Millions of people have visited Slimbridge to get closer to wildlife & wetlands since it opened in 1946. You are able to get close to the birds, or just soak up the ambience of this haven by the Severn. The birds keep coming back too – tens of thousands wild birds drop by each year, some staying for months before starting out on their great migratory journeys.

Food & Drink:

Bristol's well known for the quality and choice of its restaurants, cafes, and bars. We have award winning restaurants and great ideas for lazy weekend brunches and long Sunday lunches.

White Lion Pub in Clifton offers a spectacular view of the Clifton Suspension Bridge spanning the Avon Gorge. .

City Cafe in Bristol has a modern, chic design that makes for a most welcoming dining room with an ambient lighting that adds to the sense of occasion. Located on Temple Quay it has a very popular terrace outside for basking afternoons.

The Wheatsheaf Inn offers a traditional British menu. Diners are spoilt for choice with a full bar and restaurant menu. This includes Steak pie, beer battered cod & scampi, grilled steaks, fresh sauces, and homemade pâté.

The Elbow Room Pool Lounge & Bar is a former winner of “Bar of the Year – South” and is situated on Park Street in Bristol. Lively but laidback, both urban and urbane, it takes lounging to new levels of elegance.

Hotels & Accommodation:

Bristol offers a wide range of different accommodation types for visitors, catering for both overnights stays, short breaks or something long term. Bristol hotels, bed and breakfasts, guesthouses, and self-catering accommodation offer a wide range of style and price.

Thistle Bristol
Bridge Inn New Lodge
Brunels Tunnel House Hotel
City Inn Bristol
Downs Edge
Arnos Manor Hotel
Westbourne Hotel
Novotel Bristol Centre, (close to M32 & station) F
Avon Gorge
Chewton Place
The Brigstow Hotel
Express By Holiday Inn Bristol North
Clifton Hotel
Corus hotel Bristol
Express by Holiday Inn Bristol City Centre
Rodney Hotel
The Old Manor House Hotel
Days Serviced Apartments Bristol

Entertainment

In the evening enjoy Bristol's theatres, bars and clubs. The elegance of a west end show or the international reputation of the Bristol Sound is available, while Bristol's comedy club venues provide the best in sharp comedy.

Bristol Hippodrome regularly hosts West End musicals, comedy shows, opera and ballet.

Colston Hall is where the people of Bristol have been enjoying music for almost 140 years.

The Tobacco Factory produces a programme of diverse arts activities including touring and Tobacco Factory productions, educational projects, children's shows and music events.

Jesters Comedy Club provides some of the best alternative stand up comedy that the UK has to offer.

Bristol, being located on a motorway and rail hub makes it easily accessible for a day out or a short break. It does not matter what your age group is or what kind of activity you enjoy, with both coast and countryside within easy reach of the city, all needs are catered for here.

This Article may be freely copied as long as it is not modified and this resource box accompanies the article, together with working hyperlinks.


