Title: 
Budget Car Hire

Word Count:
370

Summary:
Hiring a car while traveling about another city or country requires a thorough knowledge of all the basic guidelines. It is very important to understand the policies of the country or the state as well as the policies of the rental company before taking a car for rent. These can be obtained from any good car hire agency or a travel agency. You can hire Audis, Fiats, Mercedes, Peugeots, Seats, Volkswagens and many other models of cars. Some of the common categories are: mini, luxury, premium, standard, intermediate, minivans/MPVs, SUVs, compact and others. The prices, policies and conditions vary greatly according to the kind of car.


Keywords:
Car Hire, Car Hire UK, Lease Car Hire Cape Town, Budget Car Hire


Article Body:
Hiring a car while traveling about another city or country requires a thorough knowledge of all the basic guidelines. It is very important to understand the policies of the country or the state as well as the policies of the rental company before taking a car for rent. These can be obtained from any good car hire agency or a travel agency. You can hire Audis, Fiats, Mercedes, Peugeots, Seats, Volkswagens and many other models of cars. Some of the common categories are: mini, luxury, premium, standard, intermediate, minivans/MPVs, SUVs, compact and others. The prices, policies and conditions vary greatly according to the kind of car.

There are many things to be considered while hiring cars. The main aspect is the different kinds of fees, charges and rates applicable. Fees could include additional driver’s fees, advance booking requirements, airport concession recovery fees, drop off charges, tax, congestion charge, late charges/overtime, premium location fee, service fee, sales tax and other mandatory fees, value added tax, vehicle license fee, surcharges, weekend rates, weekly rates, time and mileage charges and so on. Sometimes, you may also avail certain discount rates, depending on the provider and other factors. Some rental companies offer monthly rates and even free mileage allowances if the car is hired for a certain period of time, such as from 28 days to 59 days.

Some dealers also offer cars for hire on discount prices. These can include concessions or reductions on certain conditions. Some others offer low prices on cars that have been hired for about a week or a month. Examples of such deals are: $175 a week for a compact car or just $220 a week for a premium vehicle. These are however, subject to certain terms and conditions like applicability for only US citizens, prices exclude tax, insurances and services, petrol, PAI, optional equipment, renters must meet age, driver and credit requirements and so on. Budget car hire deals can be weekly, weekend, monthly or last-minute.

Information about budget car rentals is available at the car rental agencies. Information can also be obtained from advertisements. The internet is also a very good source for locating a good budget car hire deal and even applying for the hire online.


