Title: 
Buffalo Grove: Pride Of Northwest Illinois

Word Count:
341

Summary:
The Village of Buffalo Grove is located about 35 miles northwest of Downtown Chicago Illinois. The City overlaps both Cook and Lake Counties. Its closest neighbors in Cook County include The Village of Arlington Heights and The Village of Wheeling. In Lake County, the adjacent communities of Long Grove, Vernon Hills, Lincolnshire, and Riverwoods are closest to Buffalo Grove.

Since it's founding in 1958, Buffalo Grove real estate has always been in high demand and has, thro...


Keywords:
Mchenry county, reqal estate home condos, townhouses


Article Body:
The Village of Buffalo Grove is located about 35 miles northwest of Downtown Chicago Illinois. The City overlaps both Cook and Lake Counties. Its closest neighbors in Cook County include The Village of Arlington Heights and The Village of Wheeling. In Lake County, the adjacent communities of Long Grove, Vernon Hills, Lincolnshire, and Riverwoods are closest to Buffalo Grove.

Since it's founding in 1958, Buffalo Grove real estate has always been in high demand and has, through the years, continued to rise in value. Lately, the appreciated values have been fueled by the Village's infrastructure and its reputation of living standards which feature award winning schools, beautiful parks, wonderful recreational facilities that are designed for every age and life style. There are two public golf courses, totaling over 240 acres, owned and operated by the Village. Additionally, there are indoor and outdoor swimming facilities, and many other recreational activities and courses offered through its well staffed Parks Department.

It's proximity to modern transportation systems, including a modern commuter rail system and highways make it an ideal place to live for everyone; singles, new or growing families and retirees and continue to be one of the prime factors in attracting new residents.
Buffalo Grove has retained all of the characteristics, which attracted its earliest residents. Today, it remains a community of landscaped-tree lined streets, well maintained homes, with manicured lawns, all located in wonderful 'pride of ownership neighborhoods. Housing development over the past 15 years have produced a mix of single family homes, townhouses, condominiums, apartments, and duplexes. Buffalo Grove provides all of the amenities of living within a country atmosphere with convenient access to the arts, cultural theatre and entertainment, and all of the convenience of having close-by business centers in Chicago.

Property values in Buffalo Grove have continued to rise, with sales evening off somewhat since mid 2005, however, the real estate market here is hot and continues to contribute heavily to the local booming economy. Overall real estate sales are positive with most real estate bringing in at least 97% of the original asking price.


