Title: 
Buffalo Bill Dam in Wyoming - A Great Vacation and Travel Destination

Word Count:
416

Summary:
Have the vacation of a lifetime at the Buffalo Bill Dam in Wyoming, by knowing the Attractions to see - Best times to visit - Places to stay, and more.


Keywords:
travel,vacation,buffalo bill dam,wyoming


Article Body:
Just six miles west of Cody, Wyoming, is the Buffalo Bill Dam. It is the perfect place to stop off if you are on your way to the Yellowstone National Park as it is just past the tunnels. The park opened in May 1993 as a rest area and visitor center and was converted into the Buffalo Bill Dam Park.

The exhibits and displays are enjoyable and interesting and they will certainly provide some historical information worth knowing. The park is just a few minutes away from the Buffalo Bill Historical Center that is home of the Buffalo Bill Museum, the Cody Firearms Museum, the Whitney Gallery of Western Art, The Plains Indian Museum, and also the Draper Museum of Natural History.

Most people don't make Buffalo Bill Dam their target for a vacation; however it is a great place to visit when you are already in the area to go to Yellowstone National Park. There are a lot of great places like that which are close to another vacation destination but since they aren't as popular they don't get as much attention. So, next time you are on vacation consider what's around you other than the place you are visiting because you just might notice that you have been missing out on a lot!

The Buffalo Bill Dam in Wyoming is open Monday through Saturday from 8 am until 6 pm and Sunday 10 am until 6 pm the months of May and September and during the months of June, July, and August it is open Monday through Friday 8 am until 8 pm, Saturday 8 am until 6 pm and Sunday 10 am until 6 pm.

Pretty much any time you are driving through the tunnels on your way to or home from Yellowstone national Park you can take a break to see what Buffalo Bill Dam has to offer. If not, you can always come back another day. It won't take too much time and it is certainly not out of the way, but it is worth checking out when you are in this part of Wyoming .

There is a website that has great information on USA Vacations and Unique Travel Spots Listed State By State and Season, the website is called: Seasonal Vacation Spots, and can be found at this url:

http://www.seasonalvacationspots.com

By Robert W. Benjamin

Copyright © 2007 

You may publish this article in your ezine, newsletter, or on your web site as long as it is reprinted in its entirety and without modification except for formatting needs or grammar corrections.


