Title: 
Buying Flights Online

Word Count:
422

Summary:
One of the greatest things to happen to the world of travel in recent years is the advent of low cost airlines. Not only do they offer flight travel that is cheaper than any previous airlines by far, but they also offer some other great innovations in booking and paying for flights.


Keywords:
online, tickets, credit card, low, cost, airline, websites, flight, travel, airport 


Article Body:
One of the greatest things to happen to the world of travel in recent years is the advent of low cost airlines. Not only do they offer flight travel that is cheaper than any previous airlines by far, but they also offer some other great innovations in booking and paying for flights. Part of the growth in popularity of these airlines is that they are so easy to work with online. 

Unlike conventional airlines that use ticket agents and travel agents and require you to buy your tickets in person, the low cost airlines made everything available through a simple and comprehensive website that everyone could understand and use. The method of selling air tickets became so popular that these airlines are teaching the more traditional airlines how to act and are leading the way in innovation in the sale and marketing of these flights. 

All it requires to buy them is a credit card or debit card. You go to the website, select your details, that is your destination airport and your departing airport, and tell them what dates you wish to travel. Immediately you are quoted prices for all the flights on that day. If you can be flexible about your travel dates, they will also show you the prices for alternative dates and let you book those flights, which may be far cheaper. The system is so open and transparent that it is a major refreshment for those people that are used to dealing with traditional ticket agents. 

The convenience doesn’t end there either. You can also add travel insurance to your flight and you have full coverage for the entire trip. They already know where you are going and how long you will be there so it is the perfect place to see travel insurance. 

If you need accommodation, most low cost airline websites will quote you various hotel prices while your buying your flights and will tell you how much it would cost to stay in the city you are arriving at. It is very convenient. You can even arrange for car rental at the same time. You can pick up and drop off at the airport and all the details are already in the system so they can give you customised and accurate offers that will match your needs.

More and more customers are discovering the convenience of booking all of their travel arrangements at the one website, and all you need to do it is a credit or debit card, and a little imagination.


