Title: 
California Information

Word Count:
518

Summary:
The “Golden State” of California has long been one of the most famous settlement spots in the United States.  After the gold rush of 1848, countless people from all over the world came rushing to this geographically diverse land in search of opportunity and prosperity, seldom went away disappointed.


Keywords:
California Travel, California Information, California Vacation, California, San Francisco


Article Body:
The “Golden State” of California has long been one of the most famous settlement spots in the United States.  After the gold rush of 1848, countless people from all over the world came rushing to this geographically diverse land in search of opportunity and prosperity, seldom went away disappointed.

	With almost 100 million acres of land, California is the third largest state in the U.S., next only to Alaska and Texas.  It is nestled along the Pacific Ocean with a coastline of 1,264 miles stretching from the Oregon border in the north to the Mexican border in the south.  It is one of the most culturally diverse states in the country, with its citizens having varied ethnic backgrounds like Native American, African American, Hispanic, European, and Asian.  California climate is also one of the most diverse in the whole United States.  With four different climate zones, one could always find a region in California suitable for their taste.  

	Although mountains and deserts dominate the state’s landscape, real estate lands is not hard to come by.  In fact, one could even find an upscale resort community within the Colorado Desert – Palm Springs.  It has become famous for its warm winter sunshine and its star-studded population.  Other upscale communities can be found in the Bay Area, Central Valley, and the coastal strip between Los Angeles and San Diego.  Low to medium scale real estate, on the other hand, could be found on the outlying communities and upland areas.

	For business and employment considerations, one could always find opportunities a few hours drive away from their home. Employment and business opportunities in the state are among the highest in the nation due to its continually booming industries.  

Tourism remains as California’s leading industry.  Some of the well-known tourist destinations within the state are Disneyland, Hollywood, Golden Gate Bridge, and Sea World.  There are many more similarly famous theme parks, national parks, and landmarks all throughout the state.

	Foreign trade has also been a major industry.  Among the leaders in this industry is the City of Los Angeles, whose ports have continually been one of the most busiest in the country for decades.  In 1994, the city overtook New York as the country’s premier gateway for foreign trade. 

	Sports fans would never be disappointed as the state hosts a number of professional teams in different sports.  Among the famous California professional sports teams are: the Los Angeles Lakers (NBA), Los Angeles Clippers (NBA), Sacramento Kings (NBA), Golden State Warriors (NBA), Los Angeles Dodgers (MLB), San Diego Padres (MLB), San Francisco Giants (MLB), Los Angeles Angels (MLB), Oakland Athletics (MLB), San Francisco 49ers (NFL), San Diego Chargers (NFL), Oakland Raiders (NFL), Anaheim Mighty Ducks (NHL), and the Los Angeles Kings (NHL).

	National Security matters is not an issue in the State of California.  Seized by the United States Marines at the height of the Mexican-American war (1846 – 1848), San Diego Bay houses the largest concentration of military personnel in any city in the United States.

	With its natural beauty, coupled with teeming opportunities, living in the state of California promises a future worth spending in.


