Title: 
Carmel by the Sea, California - A Great Vacation and Travel Destination

Word Count:
446

Summary:
Have the vacation of a lifetime at Carmel by the Sea, California, by knowing the Attractions to see - Best times to visit - Places to stay, and more.


Keywords:
vacation,travel,california,carmel by the sea,pacific grove,carmel mission,point lobos,casanova,forge in the forest,anton and michael,flying fish grill,cypress inn


Article Body:
You probably know of the big cities in California like San Francisco, Los Angeles and Hollywood, but the hidden jewel of this great state is known as Carmel by the Sea. This little town is charming and sweet despite its well known status as such a great place to visit. One of the reasons so many people head to Carmel by the Sea is to shop. That's because the shopping there is outstanding with galleries and shops lining the streets.

If you choose to vacation in this delightful little town you will certainly find it worthwhile and even refreshing. There are a lot of fun things you can do, which include taking a walking tour, just walking along the beach, taking a drive from Pacific Grove to Carmel by the Sea, or checking out the Carmel Mission. This mission is the state's second mission and it is certainly worthwhile to visit.

Another great way to enjoy your time here is to take a drive to Point Lobos. This location offers an amazing view where the water and land meet and it is perhaps one of the most special places on earth. Once you arrive spread out a blanket and enjoy a picnic on the sand. This is a romantic location with flowers blossoming, coves, and wildlife about.

If you are looking for a place to stay in the Carmel by the Sea area then you will want to consider one of the many bed and breakfasts. These are great places to stay because they are cozy, romantic, and provide an enjoyable experience like no other hotel can. The Highlands Inn in Carmel by the Sea is another great option, but it is a bit pricey.

Some of the best places to dine while in the area include Casanova, Forge in the Forest, Anton and Michael, Flying Fish Grill, and the Cypress Inn. Just make sure you are patient when you are out and about in Carmel by the Sea looking for parking spaces. There just aren't a whole lot of parking spaces available and if you are driving you will be forced to drive around until someone else leaves. Find the joy in this and have fun with it!

There is a website that has great information on USA Vacations and Unique Travel Spots Listed State By State and Season, the website is called: Seasonal Vacation Spots, and can be found at this url:

http://www.seasonalvacationspots.com

By Robert W. Benjamin

Copyright © 2007 

You may publish this article in your ezine, newsletter, or on your web site as long as it is reprinted in its entirety and without modification except for formatting needs or grammar corrections.


