Title: 
Casinos Most Guarded Secrets

Word Count:
653

Summary:
Many people think that the casinos have secrets that if they get out everyone would be winning fortunes in the casinos, and the truth is there are things the casinos do not want you to know. In this article we will spill the beans and tell you all their darkest secrets.


Keywords:
Casino, casinos, gambling, entertainment, sports and leisure, games, hobbies, 


Article Body:
The secrets of the casinos are not the kind of secrets that you may think. They are not secrets like the third slot machine in every row pays out on the hour, they are more like things they do to distract you from the obvious.

One of the biggest secret the casinos do not want you to know is that if you use your head and not act irrationally you can go home with some money in your pockets, unfortunately most people enter a casino and all logic flies right out of their heads. They start seeing the bells and whistles of the casinos, and people with stacks of chips and all they can think of is what they are going to do with all the money they are going to win from the casino. 

Using your head is the key to winning money in the casino. The first think you need to remember is that the odds of you winning the big jackpot are so outrageously against you, that it is not worth losing your hard earned money on. So by being smart and not trying to get rich on one spin of the roulette wheel, one toss of the dice at the <a href="http://www.online-casinos-789.com/about-craps.html">Craps</a> table or one go on the slot machine you can consistently win smaller amounts that at the end of the day can a large sum of money.

Next time you are in the casino try going to the 10 dollar Roulette table and only play red or black. Each win you will double your bet, and at 10 dollars a spin you can make 100 dollars in less then 30 minutes. I usually walk up to a table and wait for the wheel to land on the same color 3 times in a row then bet on the other color. Then after I have made some money I will start to play some other bets, but I only stay on the outside of the board. The odds are much better at 3 to 1 or 4 to 1 instead of 40 to 1. Using this method I have managed to turn $20 into $900 in just over 3 hrs. It may not sound like a fortune, but as I said before walking in poor and walking out a millionaire is not realistic.

Next time you are at a casino look for a clock or window. Ok do not waste your time, there are none. Another secret of the casinos is that they want you to have no concept of time. When you are gambling time seems to go faster, and if there were clocks or a window in the casino you would have some idea of how long you have been gambling and would then start to think about leaving the casino instead if losing all track of time and spending all day and night in the casino. They do this because at some point you will start to get tired but be kept awake from the adrenalin from gambling, and at this point you can't think straight, and you will start to spend money faster. Always remember the casinos are not there to make you dreams come true they are there to take you for all your money. Any time you leave the casino with some of the casinos money it was accidental.

Some of the tricks the casinos use to keep you gambling are:
No Windows
No Clocks
Ugly colors in the rugs and walls around the exits, and nice colors around the gamming areas will subliminally make you not want to go to those areas. The worse the odds of you winning the nicer the colors of that area will be.

By keeping this information in mind you will not be going home from the casinos and quitting your job but you will have more money in your pocket and you will have had a good time making that money.


