Title: 
Celebrate In A Chic Hotel!

Word Count:
428

Summary:
A special celebration deserves a special location and a small, sophisticated hotel is often the perfect choice.

From a small private wedding to a birthday celebration or family get-together, the often idyllic locations occupied by boutique hotels provide the perfect backdrop for a special occasion.

Rural weddings

With romantic gardens, fine dining and stunning locations for photographs, small rural hotels are often ideal for a family wedding. The attention to detail ...


Keywords:



Article Body:
A special celebration deserves a special location and a small, sophisticated hotel is often the perfect choice.

From a small private wedding to a birthday celebration or family get-together, the often idyllic locations occupied by boutique hotels provide the perfect backdrop for a special occasion.

Rural weddings

With romantic gardens, fine dining and stunning locations for photographs, small rural hotels are often ideal for a family wedding. The attention to detail that’s normally given to the hotel’s guests will ensure that your day runs smoothly, from the flowers at the ceremony to the strawberries in the dessert. Take the family to the South of France or Tuscany so that you can all celebrate in the warmth of the sun with the scent of olive groves or vineyards as a backdrop. Then spend your wedding night in one of the luxury rooms, with a specially-prepared breakfast hamper awaiting you the next morning, or a champagne breakfast on the terrace. Boutique hotels know how to do these things properly, so take advantage of their creativity and expertise to make your wedding day as special as possible.

Family parties

There’s nothing better than getting together with your extended family and enjoying a weekend where no-one has to shop, cook or keep the place tidy. The wonderful thing about many boutique hotels is that you can book them as a whole, effective hiring a weekend home for you and your family to enjoy, with excellent service and dining thrown in. Whether you’ve decided to meet up in a city, or you’re set on enjoying the countryside or lazing on the beach, there’s a cool hotel that can cater to your family’s requirements.

Celebration treats

Treat your parents to a stay in a boutique hotel for their wedding anniversary, or your partner for a special birthday. Staying in a boutique hotel is an experience in itself and it’s often one that many people wouldn’t think of doing as a matter of course. It may be as part of a city break, or it may be so that they can visit a part of the country or the world that they’ve always had on their wish list. An important part of a trip like that is the accommodation, so choosing an individual hotel will help to make the celebration particularly memorable.

Whatever celebration you’re planning, think of the possibilities offered by a boutique hotel. Attention to detail, excellent service and luxurious surroundings all combine to make it an occasion you won’t forget.


