Title: 
Cheap Caribbean Travel

Word Count:
477

Summary:
When it comes to island destinations, the Caribbean and its islands are one of the most popular vacation spots in the world. Here you can have the best of everything from gorgeous beaches, wonderful surf, sailing, scuba diving and snorkeling, to great food, exciting gambling casinos, shopping, and a wide range of nature-related activities. And accommodations? No problem! With cheap Caribbean travel plan, you can get a whole range of affordable accommodations from basic to the most luxurious all inclusive-resorts and rental villas.


Keywords:
Cheap, Caribbean Travel, Travel, Caribbean, Cheap Caribbean Travel


Article Body:
When it comes to island destinations, the Caribbean and its islands are one of the most popular vacation spots in the world. Here you can have the best of everything from gorgeous beaches, wonderful surf, sailing, scuba diving and snorkeling, to great food, exciting gambling casinos, shopping, and a wide range of nature-related activities. And accommodations? No problem! With cheap Caribbean travel plan, you can get a whole range of affordable accommodations from basic to the most luxurious all inclusive-resorts and rental villas. 

Scroll down below for a list of our cheap Caribbean travel accommodations picks. 

Dover Beach Hotel 

A place that epitomizes Barbadian hospitality, the Dover Beach Hotel offers you cheap Caribbean travel accommodations tucked away on a secluded white sand beach where island warmth, peace, and tranquility are in abundance. 

Located a mere 15-minute drive from either airport or from Bridgetown, the Dover Beach Hotel is also right within walking distance of the St. Lawrence Gap, famous for its lively nightlife, duty-free shopping and many bars and restaurants as well as other activities. 

All accommodations at this cheap Caribbean travel hotel are either seafront or garden views with air-conditioned bedrooms, kitchenette, telephone, and private patio or terrace. There are weekly cocktail parties and nightly events. Amenities and facilities available include the following: 

Children rates 
Restaurant 
Convenience store 
Laundry service 
Baby-sitting 
Nearby shopping 
Nearby tennis 
Nearby banking 
Air conditioning 
Ceiling fan 
In-room safe 
Beachfront 
Bar 
Children-friendly 
Cribs 
Daily maid service 
Pool 
Nearby water sports 
In-room kitchens 
TV available 
Telephone in a room 
Bath tub 
Private balcony 
Fax available 

Morne Fendue Plantation House in Grenada 

What's old is new again as Grenada? historic Morne Fendue Plantation House adds not, not two, but thirteen new guest rooms. Since 1974, the Morne Fendue has been welcoming visitors where they can enjoy overnight accommodations at this glorious estate. Each room offers cheap Caribbean travel accommodation for two guests with enough comfortable space to go around and a generous queen-size bed and modern bathroom facilities. What? more, the rooms also offer access to the estate? grand kitchen. But the highlight of each guest room is definitely the extensive balcony that overlooks scenic Mt. St. Catherine and the majestic sea where you can get excellent sunset views of the cheap Caribbean travel destination of Grenada. 

Nevis and St. Kitts 

For cheap Caribbean travel accommodations in the islands of Nevis and St. Kitts, try the following places: 

Jonathan's Villa Hotel at Mount Lily, Nevis offers seaside charm and great secluded spots. 

Yamseed Inn at New Castle, Nevis is a quaint little inn, offering comfortable accommodations for a reasonable price. 

For guest houses, try Al's Cottage at Farm's Estate in Charlestown, Nevis. You can also try Meadville Cottages, Cabindish Villa, Pinney's Village Complex, and Central Cottage ?all of which offer cheap Caribbean travel accommodations at convenient distances from the most happening places in the region.


