Title: 
Cheap Hotels

Word Count:
372

Summary:
Las Vegas. This city of neon lights, over-the top entertainment and non-stop thrills make the city one of the top holiday destinations in the world. The hotels in Vegas rival the top establishments in the world, offering the most amazing variety around. Yes, the city no doubt has some of the most gorgeous, ultra-luxurious suites and rooms in the world, but if you're on a budget, Las Vegas is equally accommodating. In fact, what many don't realize is that Las Vegas has some of...


Keywords:
travel, hotels, accommodations, uk travel


Article Body:
Las Vegas. This city of neon lights, over-the top entertainment and non-stop thrills make the city one of the top holiday destinations in the world. The hotels in Vegas rival the top establishments in the world, offering the most amazing variety around. Yes, the city no doubt has some of the most gorgeous, ultra-luxurious suites and rooms in the world, but if you're on a budget, Las Vegas is equally accommodating. In fact, what many don't realize is that Las Vegas has some of the best rooms around at the lowest prices imaginable- and the hotels are all vying for your business badly. So next time you are in this City of Pleasures and are on a tight budget, think twice about booking the lousy motel on the outskirts of time and check out our super savers tips below:

Timing is everything. Avoid busiest times of the year: holidays, spring and summer vacations, and large vacations.

If you can, before you decide on a hotel, ask about pricing on "extras": extra beds, cribs, rollaways and extra occupants and about any extra charges for local phone calls, cable TV, and Internet connections.

Compare all factors before making your final decision.

Ask your hotel for free funbooks, which often include two for one dinners and shows and discounted drinks.

Ask for everyone about discounts, special offers, freebies, comps. These are available at most Las Vegas hotels and casinos, but you need to ask for them.

Join the MGM Mirage Players Club and or "The One Club" to accrue credits for comped food, beverages and rooms.

Buy your own water and drinks at outside discount stores. Bring along a small ice cooler to keep your water and drinks cold and a hot pot to brew coffee or tea. This could save you $10 or more a day in refrigerator rental fees.

Use the free monorail system that goes between the hotels and casinos and the free public bus system. Ask for a schedule at your hotel or casino.

If you rent a car, ask your hotel and the casinos about free parking. Most hotels and casino's offer free parking as a perk if you ask, because they want to give you a good reason to stay.


