Title: 
Choosing The Best Travel Accommodation In Bali

Word Count:
567

Summary:
As the prominent tourist destination, Bali has abundance choice of accommodation. It is ranged from budget hotel, guesthouse run by local people, cottage, bungalow, boutique hotel, luxury villa, to the international 5 star hotels. The accommodation spread up throughout Bali. 

Cluster accommodation is not only to be found in crowd/centre tourist area, but also found even at secluded area. Hotel styles vary from traditional style to modern design. The tourists in Bali mostly...


Keywords:
bali,accommodation,hotels,villas,travel,tourist,destination


Article Body:
As the prominent tourist destination, Bali has abundance choice of accommodation. It is ranged from budget hotel, guesthouse run by local people, cottage, bungalow, boutique hotel, luxury villa, to the international 5 star hotels. The accommodation spread up throughout Bali. 

Cluster accommodation is not only to be found in crowd/centre tourist area, but also found even at secluded area. Hotel styles vary from traditional style to modern design. The tourists in Bali mostly favour Balinese style hotels. You’ll be easily to find a hotel that suits your needs either beach/lake side, cool mountain area, rice field view, hilltop, riverbanks, tropical garden, traditional village surroundings, town-centred, etc. 

However, there are many things to consider when choosing your travel accommodations. The decision could make your trip fun or a disappointment. Choosing the right hotel is a must. Most travellers spend more time in airline ticket reservations and bargains but less time in choosing the right accommodations. Thus they may end up on the wrong side of the bed during their stay. 

To get the most out of your hotel accommodations, remember to book as early as possible and make your dates more flexible. Hotels that specialize for business people will consider weekends as off-season. Family vacationers could tap into these special packages during weekends. Primarily, you should choose your hotel based on name, amenities, features, price, packages and location. 

Here are some considerations in choosing your best travel accommodations: 

1. Accommodations should be family-friendly. Always ask if your hotel offers children activity areas with educational and fun activities supervised by duly trained caregivers. 

2. Your hotel should provide a swimming pool for children, day care service, crib rental and child-proof electrical outlets. 

3. Stay in a hotel that has electronic room-key cards and has a security viewer installed on their doors. 

4. Make it a priority to choose a room on the upper floor. 

5. If you're the one who likes to spend more time in your hotel room and the balcony, you should ask for the available amenities and the conditions of the surrounding environment. 

6. Depending on whether you're on a private or business trip, ask your hotel about the availability of laundry service, hair dryers, coffee makers, newspapers, free meals, fax machine, bar, cable television, parking, shuttle service, internet connection, etc. 

7. The hotel property layout and its location may speak more of its surrounding environment. Noisy locations such as construction on adjacent property, car traffic and noisy waterfalls are not specified on hotel flyers. So be sure to ask about it. 

8. Beautifully landscaped surroundings with trees, flowers and inner courts also enhance your travel pleasure. Moreover, gift shops and restaurants all add up to a wonderful travel experience. 

9. The location of your hotel with respect to main attraction is equally important. It could save you money on taxi and bus fare. 

10. Make sure that the room service is provided 24 hours a day. 

11. Check out the room itself. Is it brightly coloured or classical? It sets the mood of your travel. 

In order to get the most out of your travel, whether for business or family vacations, be sure to know everything about the hotel you are planning to check in to. Ask friends and relatives who have been there. Don't just depend on the hotel's web page, which is undoubtedly biased. Having to stay in a hotel, which you don’t like, could ruin your trip.


