Title: 
Costa Rica - A Paradise In Central America

Word Count:
356

Summary:
Costa Rica - A Modern Day Paradise. Costa Rica, a small country filled with sun, beaches, vulcanos, buses, good food and party!


Keywords:
costa rica, costa rica beaches,san jose, puntarenas,guanacaste


Article Body:
Costa Rica - A Modern Day Paradise 

Costa Rica, a small country filled with sun, beaches, vulcanos, buses, good food and party! 

No one will leave Costa Rica feeling they did not have a good time. 

Family Vacation in Costa Rica 

You will not have any problem visiting Costa Rica even with small children. Costa Rica is a country where most families have more then 1 child. The food is good and the number of tropical diseases found in Costa Rica is no problem. 

There are som many beaches where the waves are smaller in size and the hotels and cabins have pools, that choosing a place to have fun is no problem. 

Vacations for Couples 

A tropical paradise. A couple can go anywhere in the country and enjoy tranquility, serenety as well as the party side of life. 

Many hotels and hostels have special romantic deals, tours and packages to make your stay something even more special. If you choose a smaller, more secluded and private place to stay, talk to the owner and explain that you’re a couple looking for some quality time, hand in hand, and they will most often do their best to help you out in any way they can. 

Honeymoon in Costa Rica 

The same goes for a wedding and/or honeymoon. Religion is important in Costa Rica and you can most likely find a church and priest for a wedding in almost any bigger religion. 

And the honeymoon? 

You can find special honeymoon packages in most hotels, and resorts. One of the best is a very romantic stay in playa Hermosa where you can go on sunset sailings at night. Or go full out with a moviestar expensive vacation in Four Season Hotel in Guanacaste. 

Singles 

As in all parts of the world can singles have a good time. Party all night long and let your feet do the talking to the rythm of salsa. 

Many bars, nighclubs and places where there are fiestas almost everyday can be found under every rock! 

So take a look at Costa Rica for your next vacation, as it will never let you down!


