Title: 
Coventry City Guide, Including Coventry Hotels

Word Count:
1135

Summary:
Coventry is a city with a thousand years of history that has plenty to offer the visiting tourist. Located in the heart of Warwickshire, which is well-known as Shakespeare’s county, there are easy transport links to historic Warwick, Rugby and Stratford-upon-Avon. Additionally, there are many things to see and do in and around Coventry itself.

The city has many places of interest to the visitor. Coventry is renowned as a religious center with many important churches within...


Keywords:
coventry tourism, coventry, coventry accommodation, coventry hotels


Article Body:
Coventry is a city with a thousand years of history that has plenty to offer the visiting tourist. Located in the heart of Warwickshire, which is well-known as Shakespeare’s county, there are easy transport links to historic Warwick, Rugby and Stratford-upon-Avon. Additionally, there are many things to see and do in and around Coventry itself.

The city has many places of interest to the visitor. Coventry is renowned as a religious center with many important churches within its locale. The city also has many beautiful gardens that will fascinate those nature nature lovers amongst you. Similarly, a number of museums are also on hand to enable visitors to explore the city’s diverse history. Here are just a few of the attractions:

The medieval city wall. Today, two of the twelve original gates are still standing, the Priory gate and the Tower gate. Sections of the city wall itself also survive, with the best-preserved section located within Lady Herbert’s Garden, which is also open to the public. 

The old cathedral ruins. German bombs destroyed the original cathedral; however, these are some of the most picturesque ruins you’ll see, and include the original stained-glass windows that have remained intact, and the famous “Charred Cross”. 

The new cathedral. This is a masterpiece of modern, innovative architecture and has to be seen to be believed. A centerpiece is the 72-foot tapestry of Christ. 

Coventry Canal Basin. Restored from the original 19th century wharf, this remains a popular tourist attraction, complimented by city centre shops and the impressive canal-side ‘art trail’.

If you’re looking for things to do, then why not visit Coventry city centre? You’ll find it easy to get to and parking won’t be a problem, with over 7500 spaces. Once you’ve arrived, you’ll find plenty of activities, as well as places to shop and eat, and more. Here are a few examples of places to visit: 

Shopping centres. A visit to Coventry would be incomplete without a trip to one of the big shopping centres in the city; take your choice from West Orchards, Cathedral Lanes and Lower Precinct, all housing the biggest retailers with the best deals. Alternatively, try visiting the independent stores found in the City Arcade and on Hertford Street; here you’ll find fresh and exotic foods amongst other things. 

Coventry City Farm. An inner city farm that promotes the care of animals, with plenty to see and do. 
Millennium Place. Visit here and you’ll witness many public works of art, by international artists and designers. 

Priory Visitor Centre. Unleash your interest in the past and find out the story of the cathedral built by Lady Godiva! Also view the many archaeological finds on display here. 

St Mary’s Guildhall. Take a trip to this historic building in which Mary, Queen of Scots was once imprisoned. 

Of course, you’re going to build up an appetite by doing all of these things, so you’ll be pleased to hear that eating out in Coventry is also something of an experience. Choices range from cafés serving up the latest quick lunches to restaurants offering exquisite three-course meals. All types of cuisine are catered for, from Indian and Chinese to traditional English food. Here is a selection of what you’ll find:

Flamingo Bar & Grill. Original Punjabi cuisine is on offer here, with everything from curries to salads, pizzas and more. 

Cornerhaus. A lively bar that serves a range of mouth-watering food as well as beers and coffee. 

The Lounge. One of the city’s most popular eateries, where you can enjoy fine food in a relaxed atmosphere with music playing. 

Detox Sandwich Company. All kinds of healthy food here, from tasty jackets to ciabattas, salads, pittas and wraps. 

Café Inca. A non-smoking café with outdoor seating. Lunchtime snacks are the order of the day. 
Mr Porky’s. As you’ve probably guessed from the name, pork is the focus of the food offered here, from pork-based meals to snacks like hotdogs.

Coventry boasts a wide variety of different types of accommodation for the visitor. There are plenty of top-quality historic hotels and guesthouses in the region, located in diverse settings. These range from hotels in the city centre district – for those looking for an easy walking distance to the city’s attractions – to hotels in the surrounding villages and towns, which provide the ideal base from which to explore the local countryside. Such hotels supply all kinds of rooms at affordable prices. Additionally, dining facilities range from standard bed-and-breakfast rates to room only deals, and further options in which a full dinner is also included. For visitors looking for less traditional accommodation, there are lots of other options including inns, self-catering, caravans and campsites, hostels and more.

Here is a selection of hotels in Coventry:

Macdonald Brandon Hall Hotel & Spa 
Menzies Leofric Hotel 
The Courtyard By Marriott Coventry 
Novotel Coventry 
Coventry Hill Hotel 
The Allesley Hotel 
Quality Hotel Coventry Stonebridge Manor/NEC 
Nailcote Hall Classic 
Macdonald Ansty Hall 
Campanile Hotel Coventry North 
Britannia Hotel Coventry 
Britannia Royal Court Hotel 
Village Hotel & Leisure Club Coventry 
The Chace Hotel 
Brooklands Grange Hotel 
Strawberry Bank Hotel 
The Beechwood 
Cable & Wireless Training & Conference Centre 
Weston Hall Hotel 
Ramada Hotel & Suites 
Swallow Hotel Coventry 
Arena Hotel

If you’re looking to be entertained, then Coventry is the place to come, offering numerous venues with a wide range of things to do. The Odeon and Showcase Cinemas offer multiple screens showing all the latest Hollywood films, which can be enjoyed through state-of-the-art technology. Those with a taste for the arts will be spoilt for choice as Coventry is home to many theaters, from the amateur-owned Criterion Theatre to The Butts Theatre, which comes complete with a 1930s-style interior. Alternatively, visitors looking to sample Coventry’s nightlife will discover a number of nightclubs, including Dogma, Bonds and Ikons, that play all kinds of music through the early hours. Sporty visitors can try out Coventry’s golf clubs or make a booking at Planet Ice Arena; there’s also bowling on offer at Coventry Megabowl.

Coventry is the ideal choice if you’re looking to visit a city that offers something for everyone. By day, you can go out shopping and sample the food at a variety of cafés and restaurants, and later on you can try out Coventry’s exciting nightlife. Alternatively, if you’re more laid-back, you can visit some or all of Coventry’s historic tourist attractions, or investigate the city’s culture spots. One thing is certain – you’ll never be short of things to do when you take a trip to Coventry.

This Article may be freely copied as long as it is not modified and this resource box accompanies the article, together with working hyperlinks.


