Title: 
Cruise Destinations

Word Count:
505

Summary:
When someone thinks about cruises, they often think about the balmy beaches of the Caribbean or Hawaii. However, there are lots of other places that people do not often think of that are great places to go on cruises. Cruises are not just for beach side relaxing, but can be used for all kinds of other expeditions in all different types of climates, and even some beach front places that you would not ordinarily think of. Here are outlined some beautiful cruise vacation destina...


Keywords:



Article Body:
When someone thinks about cruises, they often think about the balmy beaches of the Caribbean or Hawaii. However, there are lots of other places that people do not often think of that are great places to go on cruises. Cruises are not just for beach side relaxing, but can be used for all kinds of other expeditions in all different types of climates, and even some beach front places that you would not ordinarily think of. Here are outlined some beautiful cruise vacation destinations that you would not ordinarily plan in to your itinerary. 

The Greek islands are a beautiful vacation spot, and while they are definitely not left off of people’s vacation agendas, they are not very often associated with the idea of cruises. However, they are a beautiful spot to not only to relax and enjoy the ocean and beaches, but they are also a wealth of rich cultural heritage and amazing ancient architecture. The native people are incredibly hardworking and friendly, and spending a day exploring among the sea side villages would be a great way to meet different types of people and get to know a little bit about yourself as well. Of course, there is also the added bonus of the amazing traditional Greek food. 

Northern Africa is home to a lot of cruises, from Libya to Egypt to Morocco. These cruises boast not only beautiful luxurious accommodations on board the ships, but also on the land. These cruises also offer a variety of cultural experiences for the adventurous and even the not so adventurous. Archaeological guides take guests through the ruins of ancient civilizations and to renovated castles that now provide plush accommodations for passengers while on the land. Taking in the local marketplaces is a great place to buy souvenirs, instead of gift shops or on the cruise boat itself. 

Antarctica is a place that you would definitely not commonly associate with a cruise vacation. However, it is for this reason that it makes such a wonderful vacation spot. It is the last frontier here on earth. Scarcely populated, the lack of development has left plenty of space for wildlife. While you should definitely pack a bit differently for an Antarctic cruise versus a more balmy environment, it is worth it to see all of continent’s rare inhabitants and to be a part of what is practically a secret society. 

Costa Rica is home to a very lush and populated rain forest, as well as some very interesting locals. In addition to providing cruise passengers with a lively and beautiful environment to explore, and some very rare and interesting wildlife, the beautiful beaches and warm climate make Costa Rica a fantastic vacation spot. There are also a lot of volunteer opportunities if you would like to make your vacation a capacity building one, as well as programs wherein you can stay with families who actually live in Costa Rica. This is a great opportunity to learn a lot about another culture and expand your own horizons.


