Title: 
Cruising In Hawaii

Word Count:
522

Summary:
The islands of Hawaii are a dream destination for many travelers, and a cruise that incorporates all four of the state’s beautiful islands could be just the ticket for your vacation plans. Each island has its own beauty and charm and is not the same as the others. From “Big Island” to Maui, to Oahu, to Kauai, there is something different and special about each local flavor. The best way to get a real taste of Hawaii, is to try the sample platter. Below, here is a little bit o...


Keywords:



Article Body:
The islands of Hawaii are a dream destination for many travelers, and a cruise that incorporates all four of the state’s beautiful islands could be just the ticket for your vacation plans. Each island has its own beauty and charm and is not the same as the others. From “Big Island” to Maui, to Oahu, to Kauai, there is something different and special about each local flavor. The best way to get a real taste of Hawaii, is to try the sample platter. Below, here is a little bit of what each individual island has to offer. 

Kauai is the smallest and furthest from the “Big Island,” but do not count it out in terms of local culture. Nicknamed the “Garden Island” for its rich wildlife and beautiful scenery, the island of Kauai is home to all kinds of different nature-based activities. You can go kayaking, biking, tubing, whale watching, off road sightseeing, picnicking, snorkeling, on eco tours, dinner cruises, or see a little bit of everything from an airplane tour. The best that Hawaii’s nature ha to offer is on the beautiful island of Kauai, and it is often used in Hollywood films for its representation of the natural wildlife of Hawaii, from garden to beach to Waimea Canyon, which you can traverse on a day long tour while visiting the island. 

Working your way back toward “Big Island,” your cruise boat will stop next at Oahu, the next largest island in the Hawaiian quartet. Home to the famous Waikiki beach resort, Oahu is known as the gathering place, and has been the dominant island in the chain since Honolulu was declared the capital some two hundred years ago. You can find most of the comforts of home on this developed island, but you can also go snorkeling or skydiving along the beautiful coast of the island. You can make a stop at Pearl Harbor for a bit of historical learning, and then go across the island to check out the Polynesian Cultural Center and fin out more about the rich cultural history of the island’s natives. 

Like the rest of Hawaii’s islands, Maui has a host of outdoor activities, from kayaking, to biking, to ATV tours and more. Learn to parasail or surf off the coast or attend an evening luau. Some of the finest beaches and golf courses in the world are located on this island, and the summit of the Haleakala volcano is truly a sight to behold. 

Moving on to our final island, your cruise will pull up to “Big Island,” which is also called Hawaii. It is actually larger than the rest of the three islands combined, and so there is a lot more to see and do. While Hawaii boasts much of the same activities as the other islands, including eco tours, island day trips, and surfing, there are things that you can only do on the island of Hawaii, such as touring the Hawaii Volcanoes National Park. Whatever you decide to do, there is plenty of natural beauty around and lots of outdoor activities to keep everyone engaged and entertained.


