Title: 
Dangerous travel 101

Word Count:
540

Summary:
Adventure, uncertainty and speculation are always associated with traveling and more so when the destination chosen for visit is itself dangerous


Keywords:
dangers, travel, sickness, drugs, know


Article Body:
Adventure, uncertainty and speculation are always associated with traveling and more so when the destination chosen for visit is itself dangerous. Visiting the routine places that provides one with a great change of location and views may be appealing to some but to those seeking more of adventure and uncertainty, criteria for choosing destinations are totally different. There is a craving for excitement beyond ordinary and a lust to experience the increased flow of adrenalin in the body of the traveler. Even the thought of going to such places can make many of us nervous but for the adventurous this excitement is the motive behind choosing such risky destinations. 



Moving away from one’s homeland and going to unfamiliar places in itself can be risky. At the hometown one is familiar with the customs, traditions, law and order of the ruling government and also the common dangers prevalent in one’s community. But at a foreign land things are different and ignorance about the communal system and laws predominant in there country can lead a person in hazardous situations. To make the situation worse once anyone is in problem there is almost none in a foreign land to help the person trapped in unsafe circumstances. Hence the best rescue from such situations is always to prepare before hand for all the dangers that may arise in due course of traveling. One must gather entire before hand information about the place where he is traveling, the nature of hazards possible like whether the place is prone to political instability, frequent communal riots or about any disease outbreak in that area.



Apart from traveling for joy and adventure many people need to travel to dangerous destinations as a part of their business trip. Many a times people at high-profile jobs need to travel to not so secure places, but very less can be done about this as the nature of their job demands such traveling. Employees need to travel long distances to overview and manage the situation at places that are remote from the main working area of the company. Many organizations also provide rating for the degree of threat involved at a particular place based on the political factors, crime rate, terrorism, communal volatility and other similar dangers. Travelers to such destinations practice extra alertness, precaution and prudence. 


Knowing about the potential risks of the place helps a traveler take precautionary measures beforehand. The best way to avoid conflicts is to stay away form them. One should never indulge in any controversies in a foreign land specially when they relate to any political issues and occur because of rivalry between local leaders. One should always stay away from local demonstration groups formed for protest against any current issues. Apart from political security prevention against diseases at unknown destinations is equally significant. Having carefully planned meal and avoiding raw food helps greatly in preventing illness. Areas with inadequate hygiene and sanitation should always be avoided as an eating-place.  Only water that has been properly treated with chlorine and other disinfectants should be consumed and to be on safer side bottled water is highly recommended. Keeping certain guidelines in mind one can definitely make even the dangerous destinations a cool place to travel.


