Title: 
Denia In Spain And Its Enchantments

Word Count:
657

Summary:
Denia, on the Costa Blanca of Spain has always been strategically located on the skirt of the Montgo hills, dominated by a castle which was once an Arab fortress, right on the Mediterranean Sea. Dianium was its first name given to it by the Romans owing to the fact that there was a temple nearby which had been dedicated to Diana. The Greeks seem to be the first tourists in 6 B.C. and staying for a while because of its climate, very similar to that of Greece, giving it the nam...


Keywords:
denia,alicante,calpe,travel,spain,costablanca,alicante,holiday,torrevieja, moraira, guardamar,benido


Article Body:
Denia, on the Costa Blanca of Spain has always been strategically located on the skirt of the Montgo hills, dominated by a castle which was once an Arab fortress, right on the Mediterranean Sea. Dianium was its first name given to it by the Romans owing to the fact that there was a temple nearby which had been dedicated to Diana. The Greeks seem to be the first tourists in 6 B.C. and staying for a while because of its climate, very similar to that of Greece, giving it the name of Hemeroscopeion. But as we have seen in many other places in Spain, the Arabs were the ones who stayed the longest and who really populated the area, converting it in the capital of the region of the Caliph of Cordoba. After the expulsion of the Moors, this city suffered terribly both economically and in population. But it made its comeback with the production and exportation of raisins, mainly to England. But unfortunately this has decreased considerably both in Denia ( http://www.alicante-spain.com/denia.html ) as well as in Javea. But a city does not die out that easily and it has made itself into an important tourist area.

Dianium, better known as Denia

Other than having been renovated and made into a modern city dealing with a large number of tourists who are looking for cheap flights and good hotels, Denia has still conserved its old quarters and neighbourhoods such as Les Roques found at the bottom of the castle, The Baix la Mar ( down near the sea) located in the fishermen's neighbourhood or the Cross Square ( Plaza de la Creu) where you can rest for awhile to have a snack , lunch or dinner while you glance at the Mediterranean Sea. Along the Cervantes Promenade you can find terraced cafeterias or restaurantes where it is very typical to eat 'tapas' or small portions of seafood, ham or different omelettes and refresh your dry mouth with cold Spanish beer or delicious wines. You can even try typical dishes from other cities or surrounding towns like Torrevieja, Altea, Murcia and Calpe. But being as these places are not very far away, and the scenery is quite nice, it would be recommendable to do a car hire and go for seeing is believing. 

Back to the old quarters where the Mayor and Loreto streets are, you will see pretty neolassical buildings which belong to the upper Valencian class people. The Town Hall dates to the 17th century, the Saint Mary Assumption Church on Vila Vella street goes back to the 16th c. There are also two museums- The Archaeological Museum which has a great number of remains of all the different cultures which has invaded this area and can be seen at the same time as you acquire your entrance ticket to the castle. It is open from 10 to 1'30 and from 5 til 8, closed on Thursdays. And the Ethnological Museum on Cavallers Street no. 1 which deals with the times when the raisin business was at its best. It is open from 10'30 to 1 and from 4 until 7, closing on Mondays and Sunday afternoons.

Fun in the Sun in Denia

One of the most looked for characteristics of this big town is its beaches and coves. Heading towards the south to a rocky coastal area called Les Rotes, there is a group of small coves where scuba-diving and fishing fans hang out. To the north of the town, the there are sandy beaches like Els Palmars or las Marinas and not very deep waters- ideal for family outings. Other than the well known Fallas, also done in denia and the Moor and Christian parade, Denia has a very original feast honouring its patron saint ( Santisima Sangre ) the first 15 days in July called ' Bulls into the water'. Where else can you become a bullfighter overnight? Denia like many other coastal towns can give you full satisfaction with all your holidays needs.


