Title: 
Destination:  Destin

Word Count:
409

Summary:
You want to go where? That was my family’s reaction to my idea of taking a trip to Destin, Florida. It’s not a trip to Disney World, but there’s an abundance of things to do around Destin and you don’t even have to wear a set of mouse ears.

1) Henderson Beach State Park. 6,000 feet of white sand on the Gulf of Mexico. Admission is cheap, $3.00 for a vehicle with one person, $4.00 for a vehicle carrying up to 8.

2) Big Kahuna’s Water and Adventure Park. The name explains...


Keywords:
destin vacation home rental, destin, vacation in destin


Article Body:
You want to go where? That was my family’s reaction to my idea of taking a trip to Destin, Florida. It’s not a trip to Disney World, but there’s an abundance of things to do around Destin and you don’t even have to wear a set of mouse ears.

1) Henderson Beach State Park. 6,000 feet of white sand on the Gulf of Mexico. Admission is cheap, $3.00 for a vehicle with one person, $4.00 for a vehicle carrying up to 8.

2) Big Kahuna’s Water and Adventure Park. The name explains it all. Try the Pirahanna and Humunga River. The adventure park features mini golf, arcades, a roller coaster, and many other attractions.

3) Fudpucker’s Gator Beach. Perhaps the only place in Florida where you can feed a gator and not worry about losing your arm. Visitors are allowed to feed the alligators in a pond using a long, cane pole, complete with bait.

4) Destin Fishing Museum. With the beautiful beaches surrounding Destin it should be no surprise that Destin was once just a small fishing village. The Destin Fishing Museum illustrates what life was like before the tourists came.

5) The Track Family Recreation Center. Bumper cars, bumper boats, mini-golf, go-karts, and, just perfect for the kids, bungee jumping! Some rides do have age minimums.

6) Gulfarium. Down the road in Fort Walton. Everyone’s favorite Gulf of Mexico sea creatures are here including dolphins, otters, sharks and sea lions. Live shows several times a day.

7) Destin Commons. Loads of stores so the traveling shopaholic can get a fix. For the non-shopper there is a movie theater, playground and beautiful outdoor fountains.

8) "The Pancake House". Seems simple, right. There is nothing that my family looks forward to more than to head to the pancake house in Destin a few blocks west of the outlet mall. That's right. There is the beach, parks, recreation centers - and the thing we look forward to the most is the unbelieveable breakfast at The Pancake House. It might not be the highlight of your vacation to Destin...but trust me, you dont want to miss it!

There seem to be more vacation home rentals in the Destin, FL area than anywhere in the country. Well, that means there are a lot of people that are there to have a great time. So, remember that it is a vacation and be sure to relax, beverage in hand, baking in the sun either poolside at the beach.


