Title: 
Discount Anaheim Hotels

Word Count:
1187

Summary:
The nature of this article will focus mainly on places to stay in Anaheim California for less than $100 a night specifically for those traveling on a budget, or those who do not wish to spend an exorbitant amount of money while trying to enjoy a quick getaway for a while.


Keywords:
Places to stay in Anaheim, Things to do in Anaheim, Anaheim CA Huntington Beach Resorts, Anaheim CA Restaurants, Anaheim CA Attractions, Shopping in Anaheim CA, Anaheim CA Events


Article Body:
Places to stay in Anaheim CA

Anaheim Hotels, Motels, & Inns

In many opinions there are millions of people who would prefer to travel, rather than work.  Unfortunately, there are some things we can do, and some things we just can't do right now.  For those who have the opportunity to travel and yet are undecided as to their travel destination, this article provides information on places to stay, things to do, and places to eat.  However, the nature of this article will focus mainly on places to stay in Anaheim California for less than $100 a night specifically for those traveling on a budget, or those who do not wish to spend an exorbitant amount of money while trying to enjoy a quick getaway for a while.

One of Anaheim's places to stay that can be found for more than reasonable rates are the Tropicana Inn & Suites Anaheim.  Located at the pedestrian walkway into the Disneyland resort, the Tropicana Inn & Suites Anaheim is a designated Disneyland Resort good neighbor hotel located just across the street from the Disneyland Resort.  This 200 room Mediterranean themed property completed a major renovation in 2004 which included a remodel of all guest rooms, a brand new lobby, and exterior façade.  The bright rooms with their all new interiors, large outdoor heated pool, and spa area add to the overall ambiance, to make your stay in Anaheim as pleasant as possible.  One may also choose from rooms with one king bed, or two queen beds located on three different floors.  Each room is equipped with a refrigerator, microwave, AM/FM alarm clock radios, coffee/tea makers, irons, hairdryers, and direct dial telephones with data ports and voice mail.  A complimentary morning refreshment is served from 7-10 every morning in the third floor hospitality room, or you can enjoy the Olympic style pool and large Jacuzzi in the center of the hotel, or just lie around on a chaise lounge and soak up the sun.  If this doesn't sound like an appropriate travel option, there are more hotels, and places to stay in Anaheim.

The Cortona Inn & Suites - Anaheim Resort is the ideal choice for both leisure and business travelers.  The hotel features 127 newly appointed guestrooms and suites out-door heated pool and spa, business center and meeting room capabilities as well as exterior lush landscaping to ensure guests can relax in comfort during their stay.  A variety of suites includes two-bedroom family suites, corporate mini suites, kid's suites and honeymoon spa suites.  Ideally located next to the Anaheim convention center and 1½ blocks away from Disneyland Park, Disney's California adventure and downtown Disney, the hotel offers many guest amenities to include complimentary continental breakfast, complimentary hotel parking, and complimentary USA Today Mondays through Fridays.  All rooms and suites come fully equipped with a microwave, refrigerator, coffee maker, 27 inch cable TV with premium channels, iron and ironing board, hair dryer, work desk, high speed Internet access and more.  Awarded a three diamond triple A rating your list of possible places to stay in Anaheim may need an additional consideration.

Anabella Hotel is an extravagant Spanish mission-style hotel offering 358 elegantly designed guest rooms contained within 7 acres of lush, landscaped grounds. Unprecedented in combining an ambiance of Spanish old world charm with all the modern amenities, the Anabella caters to both business and leisure travelers. All guest rooms feature lavish amenities such as designer furnishings and full granite bathrooms.  Located directly across the street from Disney's California Adventure and on the Anaheim Convention Center Campus, the Anabella is a perfect location for all your needs.  For your convenience, there will be a $2.00 per night resort fee assessed at the hotel, which entitles you to full use of hotels services and amenities.  And for those times when you and your party are hungry, you can also find a place to eat at The Tangerine Grill & Patio, which is open daily for breakfast, lunch, and dinner. A children's menu, outdoor dining, and full-service bar are just a few of the reasons to visit this creative restaurant where you can discover what fresh ingredients and imagination can do with even your favorite traditional dishes.

For those travelers who want to seek a more domestic setting for their hotel, or place to stay in Anaheim the Hotel Pepper Tree employs a Southern California style with a rustic Spanish influence.  At the hotel pepper tree one will find spacious hotel rooms, and fully-equipped kitchens with private balconies.  With an emphasis on comfort, all the rooms have a combination of feather, and hors firmer pillows to ensure a great night sleep.  This hotel is centrally located in Anaheim California with easy access to the convention center, Disneyland, Knott's berry farm, and other attractions that may provide equal enjoyment for those looking for things to do in Anaheim. 

Now there has been a rumor of some people wanting to mix business with pleasure.  When this opportunity presents itself look no further than the Jolly Roger Inn Anaheim.  The Jolly Roger Inn offers a most convenient location. Disneyland Resort, Disney's New California Adventure and the Downtown Disney entertainment district is right across the street and the Anaheim Convention Center is adjacent. And you won't find a hotel that offers friendlier service or more comfortable rooms!  For your convenience, there will be a $2.95 per night resort fee applied to your account, which entitles you to full use of hotels services and amenities.  Equally important in the balance of business and pleasure are those times when you and your party may be a little hungrier than normal.  And for those times when there company is going to pick up the check that the restaurant stop by the Jolly Roger Cafe which offers breakfast, lunch and dinner, American style. Kid's Eat Free program offers a free kid's lunch or dinner to children ages 10 and under for every adult entree purchased.  Their spacious ballroom with vaulted ceiling can accommodate up to 300 banquet-style and receptions to 400. We'll prepare dinner to fit your specifications and provide an expert staff to ensure everything is perfect on your special day if you absolutely have to go to work.

If you're like many families, then traveling has a very difficult balance.  On one hand there is the act of traveling packing, airports and all of the waiting.  On the other hand, is what to eat?  The Lemon Tree Hotel has a unique Spanish style boutique hotel suites and apartments with kitchens. The Lemon Tree has warm, earthy colors, hand painted accents and saltio tiled floors giving it a to old world European charm. Many of the rooms have private garden patios, set in a lushly landscaped fountain courtyard with an outdoor fireplace and BBQ facilities when a gourmet presentation just doesn't get it done.  Kitchens, feather pillows and hand crafted rustic furniture are just some of the features that have been added during a total makeover of their furnished apartments and hotel rooms in 2004. The Lemon Tree has that quiet, subdued atmosphere where people feel at home for any length of stay.

Rates are subject to change.
For more options, and information visit getawayforawhile.com/Anaheim CA.


