Title: 
Discovering Countries Of The World

Word Count:
621

Summary:
Do you look at pictures or images of faraway countries and think to yourself, “Someday I’d like to personally explore that country.”?  Whether the visit is perceived as a cultural or business, educational or pleasure, days of frolic or days of rest,


Keywords:
travel, geography, countries, countrys, travelling


Article Body:
Do you look at pictures or images of faraway countries and think to yourself, “Someday I’d like to personally explore that country.”?  Whether the visit is perceived as a cultural or business, educational or pleasure, days of frolic or days of rest, the visit is a lesson in history, culture, geography, nature, and people.  It is valuable education.  Each moment spent in discovering another country helps acquaint the traveler with the life, history, scenic beauty, culture of the bigger world.  It is piecing together the puzzle that is the real world.  So, let us jet off to Europe, Africa, Australia, Asia, North and South America.  Let’s learn more about countries unknown and expand our horizon.

Who can resist the lure of South Africa’s majestic landscapes, desert dunes, subtropical forests, legendary safari, pristine white sand coast, multitude of bird species and the richest floral kingdom?  South Africa is a country of eleven languages and people of all colors and race living in a picturesque landscape.  Truly irresistible.

Costa Rica is home to four percent of the world’s wildlife species.  Lose yourself in its vast tropical rainforests.  Peep into live volcanoes.  Gaze at the infinite blue waters of the Caribbean.  Costa Rica is an adventure’s paradise.

Italy is a balance of art, history, fashion and magnificent natural landscapes.  Aside from the renowned cities of Venice, Rome, Milan, take time to visit the charming medieval hill towns, fishing villages like the exquisite Positano on the Amalfi coast, vineyards in Tuscany and the beautiful islands of Sicily and Sardinia.  Sate your palate with gastronomic delights of authentic pasta paired with good wine.  Definitely, it is a feast for the eye and the palate. 

Jamaica in the Caribbean is more than just Bob Marley and reggae.  It boasts of immaculate sand and pristine waters, spectacular mountains, steep waterfalls and the best coffee in the world.  Indeed, it is a sought after tourist destination.

Whether you decide to wake up to the majestic heights of the Himalayas, ride around on safaris, sail the backwaters, or find tranquility, India will forever captivate her visitors.  Kick off with Delhi, divided into old Delhi and New Delhi.  Visit Red Fort and Raj Ghat where the Gandhi Memorial Museum is located.  .  Jaipur, the Land of Kings is known as the “pink city” because of pink colored buildings.  A visit to India is not complete without a stop at Agra, the most famous Indian destination.  It is home to the Taj Mahal, the monument of love.  

Brazil is the land of samba and Rio de Janeiro, one of the greatest cities in the world. Wake up to the sun rising over the Amazon rainforest and a maze of water stretching out for miles.  Stroll along Ipanema Beach where almost everyone is sexy and beautiful.  Take a picture of Christ the Redeemer towering above the Corcovado Mountain.  Drop by the bustling Sao Paolo and experience its dynamic nightlife.  

China is the cultural treasure house of East Asia.  It is once dubbed the “sleeping giant” but is fast emerging as a superpower.  It is, undoubtedly, among the world’s must-see travel destination.  It has 5000 years of history.  The Great Wall, Xi’an’s Terracotta Army, the Forbidden City, Tiananmen Square are legendary.  A city not to miss is bustling Shanghai with its towering skyscrapers.  Soak in the breathtaking vistas – the Yangtze River, the Silk Route, the bamboo forests where pandas live and more.  It has 23 World Heritage sites within its vast borders.  

And the itinerary continues… There are lots more countries to explore and discover.  Are you excited to learn more about the world we are all part of?  Travel, read or browse the web and somehow be connected .


