Title: 
Discover The Pasadena City College Flea Market And Swap Meet

Word Count:
372

Summary:
Over 450 vendors can be found there selling everything from high end antiques and collectibles to toys and tools to new, used and vintage clothing and used furniture. The prices are low, the lines are short and the vendors are friendly and helpful. There are also approximetly seventy (70) record vendors offering to sell and swap records, compact disks and memorabilia ranging from the big bands era to present day performers.


Keywords:
flea market,swap meet,shopping,pasadena,pasadena city college,california,ca,leisure,travel


Article Body:
On the first Sunday of every month, Pasadena City College hosts a flea market and swap meet, from 8:00am to 3:00pm. This flea market is located on the Pasadena City College campus, 1570 E. Colorado Blvd. Pasadena, CA. 91106, (626) 585-7906, on parking lots 1-4 along the south side. and the west side (Hill St.). 

Over 450 vendors can be found there selling everything from high end antiques and collectibles to toys and tools to new, used and vintage clothing and used furniture. The prices are low, the lines are short and the vendors are friendly and helpful. There are also approximetly seventy (70) record vendors offering to sell and swap records, compact disks and memorabilia ranging from the big bands era to present day performers. Again the prices are quite reasonable and the vendors are friendly, helpfull and knowledgeable. They not only enjoy selling and swaping music items, they also enjoy talking about records and the music world. By the way, this is said to be one of the largest, if not the largest, record selling venues in Southern California. 

According to Pasadena City College, admission to the flea market is free (this is one of the few flea markets around that still provides free admission) and parking, while sometimes difficult is also free, at the parking garage on Del Mar Blvd. or on the east side of campus at the Bonnie Avenue parking lot. 

If you are looking for a flea market or swap meet that carries a good variety of merchandise, has very reasonable prices and is not overly crowded try the Pasadena City College Flea Market. Free admission and free parking makes this a good place for an outing. Even if you don't buy anything you will have a good time and it won't cost you anything. 

After you finish with the flea market and swap meet, take a short drive up Colorado to Old Town Pasadena where you can dine at one of the numerous restaurants, have coffee, a capuchino or a lattee and a pastry at one of the bakeries, many with sidewalk patios, take in a movie, visit an art gallery, go dancing, take in a comedy act, shop at one of the many boutiques and stores or just go people watching.


