Title: 
Disney For Young Kids

Word Count:
436

Summary:
Are you planning a trip with your little ones to visit Mickey? Here are some ways to spice up the magic:

Tip #1 - Meals with a Disney flavor

Build up the excitement by cooking creative meals that have a Disney flavor for your kids. For example, you can buy uncooked pasta in the shape of Mickey Mouse and whip up a delicious and healthy meal for your princes and princesses with that. "The Gourmet Pantry" in DTD carries it. You can call them at 407-828-3886 to order.

Ti...


Keywords:
disneyland, walt disney world, disney for children, disney for kids, disney vacations


Article Body:
Are you planning a trip with your little ones to visit Mickey? Here are some ways to spice up the magic:

Tip #1 - Meals with a Disney flavor

Build up the excitement by cooking creative meals that have a Disney flavor for your kids. For example, you can buy uncooked pasta in the shape of Mickey Mouse and whip up a delicious and healthy meal for your princes and princesses with that. "The Gourmet Pantry" in DTD carries it. You can call them at 407-828-3886 to order.

Tip #2 - Avoid the crowd

Crowds are annoying especially when you have kids with you, so it is wise to go when schools are in session.

Tip #3 - Hands-free

Considering bringing along the Playtex Hip Hammock if you are traveling with an infant/toddler. If your child is between 15 to 35 pounds, the hammock works perfectly. It keeps you hands-free while waiting for the bus, standing in line, tending to your older kids and browsing in shops. You can also take your toddler on rides with the Hammock. This is handy. It will make your trip just that much more enjoyable.

Tip #4 - Save your sanity

Kids get impatient while waiting in line, so bring snacks and toys to distract them. Take frequent breaks to prevent exhausting the kids. In the Magic Kingdom at Walt Disney World, kids can chill out at Ariel's Grotto and Donald's Boat. Ariel’s Grotto is a great place for kids to cool off in the kids water area and the interactive play area of Donald’s Boat allows children to ring the bell and steer the ship of Donald's ill-fated leaky. You may wish to arrive at the parks early in the morning, so that your kids can have a nap in the afternoon. This will keep them refreshed for the parades and fireworks.

Tip #5 - Research rides

It is important to research rides beforehand because young children may be frightened by loud noise or darkness. If your child is too young to ride Test Track at Epcot, a nice alternative is to duck into Test Track’s gift shop/ exit and let him/her ride on the cars in the shop.

Tip #6 - Dining options

There is a free Baby Care Center in each Disney park, so head for one when you are looking at some peace and quiet when feeding your baby/toddler. These centers are equipped with rockers, high chairs, and toys. There are even formula and baby food for sale. Do remember to plan one character meal because your trip won’t be complete if the little ones don’t get to mingle with their favorite characters.


