Title: 
Do A Sporting Stag Do in Birmingham

Word Count:
294

Summary:
If you're planning a stag do in Birmingham, you'd almost have to include some sporting activities. After all, Sport England has awarded Birmingham the title National City of Sport. Situated just west of the center of England, this sporting city offers a wide range of stag do activities for the bachelor party that's looking for something a bit unique and a lot active.


Keywords:
stag do in birmingham, stag weekend in birmingham, birmingham stag weekend, stag weekend


Article Body:
If you're planning a stag do in Birmingham, you'd almost have to include some sporting activities. After all, Sport England has awarded Birmingham the title National City of Sport. Situated just west of the center of England, this sporting city offers a wide range of stag do activities for the bachelor party that's looking for something a bit unique and a lot active.

While no one is suggesting that you leave off the traditional naughty doings that have been a part of the pre-wedding festivities since early Greek times, these days the stag do is more often a full-bodied stag weekend with activities planned for day and night. A Birmingham stag do gives your party the chance to take in a day at the races, compete in races of your own, bust a gut laughing at some of the finest comedy in the UK, and then get up in the morning to head out for a full day of off-road karting, paintball tournaments, quad biking or whitewater rafting.

If you're looking for a Birmingham stag do activity that will provide some unusual souvenirs for the lucky stag, how about an afternoon at the Birmingham greyhound track? In addition to giving him (and the rest of your lot) a chance to pad your pockets before a night out with the lovely strippers, you can name a race to commemorate his last hurrah. By making arrangements in advance through a UK tour operator, your stag do can boast its very own greyhound race, complete with private box and bar, race cards printed with the name of your race and a photo of the cup for your race being presented to the winnner. That's a Birmingham stag do deal that's tough to beat and impossible to forget.


