Title: 
Do You Know The Way Around Airport Parking Luton

Word Count:
425

Summary:
Located about 30 miles outside of Central London, Luton airport serves scheduled and charter flights to destinations all over the U.K. and Europe, the Middle East, and North Africa.

Airport parking Luton is not a problem for both the traveler on vacation or the businessperson on the road.

Three options are available when you need to park at Luton Airport.

The Short Term Parking lot is considered the premium product. The lot is situated adjacent to the Luton terminal ...


Keywords:
chocolate


Article Body:
Located about 30 miles outside of Central London, Luton airport serves scheduled and charter flights to destinations all over the U.K. and Europe, the Middle East, and North Africa.

Airport parking Luton is not a problem for both the traveler on vacation or the businessperson on the road.

Three options are available when you need to park at Luton Airport.

The Short Term Parking lot is considered the premium product. The lot is situated adjacent to the Luton terminal and is suited to executive stays and meeting and greeting passengers.

You will pay by the hour up to the maximum of a six-hour stay to take advantage of the daily executive rate for in this lot for airport parking Luton.

Some people want the advantage of being parked very close to the terminal even if they are going be away for some time. You may park at the short term lot for almost as long as you want.

Convenience is the by word when airport parking Luton. The airport recommends that for speed and convenience you insert your credit card into car park entry barrier. This opens the gate.

You can then park and lock your car and make your way to the terminal. Otherwise, obtain your entrance ticket from the barrier. Park and secure your car and make your way to the terminal.

And if you paid with credit card, when you return, just drive out without having to deal with the cashier. Follow the gold signs to get to the short term lot.

For longer team and less expensive parking, you may use the Mid Term airport parking Luton airport. This lot is designed primarily for longer trips.

Free fully accessible shuttle buses service the car park with drivers that are fully competent to help disabled customers to board or disembark the buses.

There is even a Special Assistance intercom enabling disabled customers to call for free assistance to their check-in desk.

For five days or even more, the Mid Term lot is the best for airport parking Luton. Follow the green signs and here again, use your credit card to make it easier and quicker to get in and out of the lot.

If you are taking an extended trip and need airport parking Luton, follow the pink signs to the Long Term parking facility. Parking rates are very much less expensive and the shuttle bus ride is a breeze.

And by the way, parking for motorcycles is available free of charge in the Short Term Car Park for airport parking Luton.


