Title: 
Edinburgh Stag Do Ideas

Word Count:
479

Summary:
While many folks are heading off to the continent for a stag weekend, there are some excellent reasons for choosing a city closer to home. You might, for instance, choose to do a stag weekend in Edinburgh, where you'll have your choice of dozens of daytime activities and the same wide variety of nighttime fun to send your mate off to the altar in style. Here are just a few of the things that you might include in your Edinburgh stag do.


Keywords:
stag weekend, edinburgh stag night, edinburgh stag weekend


Article Body:
While most folk will take any excuse for a party, there are some party reasons that have stood the test of time. Take the stag do, for example. It's been around since at least early Greek times when the lads of Sparta saw to it that their about-to-be-married chums got a send-off that was worthy of Zeus. Today, stag parties have come a long way, but the idea is still the same - one last fling for the happy fellow before he puts on the ball and chain for life.

While many folks are heading off to the continent for a stag weekend, there are some excellent reasons for choosing a city closer to home. You might, for instance, choose to do a stag weekend in Edinburgh, where you'll have your choice of dozens of daytime activities and the same wide variety of nighttime fun to send your mate off to the altar in style. Here are just a few of the things that you might include in your Edinburgh stag do.

Daytime Edinburgh Stag Weekend Fun
A stag weekend in Edinburgh can accommodate the tastes of any group from the active to the scholarly. Few other cities offer a range of activities as wide as the traditional Scots city. From kayaking to orienteering, from Five a Side to quad runners there's plenty of choice for a day of getting physical to gear up for the night. For the truly adventurous, there's canyoning - the art of hurtling down a canyon flume with nothing but a wetsuit to protect you from the rocks below. Is there a more appropriate metaphor for the new life your guest of honor is about to enter?

Edinburgh Stag Weekend by Night
They say laughter can cure almost anything - and Edinburgh's The Stand Comedy Club is sure to put that to proof. The popular club is often standing room only, so if you want to laugh yourself silly at up to five world class comedy acts in one night, you'd do best to get your tickets early. If clubbing is your thing, you won't even have to leave The Stand - when the comedy's done, a DJ takes the stage and the club transforms into one of the hottest nightclubs in the city.

Just a Little Bit Of Naughty Stag Night Hijinks
If you're of a mind that no stag do is complete without a pretty girl shedding her clothing and giving the soon-to-be husband a wiggle and tweak, then you'll want a tour of the clubs that hits Bottoms Up, the Fantasy Palace and Big Daddy O's. The girls are first rate - but again, the clubs can be busy on a weekend night. If you're only in town for a stag weekend in Edinburgh, you'll do well to set up a tour in advance with a UK tour operator who can assure you tickets and entry.


