Title: 
Enjoy Life On The Atlantic Aboard A Miami Yacht Charter

Word Count:
617

Summary:
When you charter a boat in Florida, you’re treating yourself to the ultimate in vacation experiences. Whether you choose a sailboat, yacht, motor boat or catamaran, there’s nothing like feeling the spray of the Atlantic on your face as you cruise around the eastern coastline, looking for just the right place to dock for a bit of fun.

If this sounds like your idea of the perfect vacation, then you’ll be happy to know that there are several establishments who are in the busi...


Keywords:
miami yacht charter, travel,vacation,sailboat,yacht charters, tourism,


Article Body:
When you charter a boat in Florida, you’re treating yourself to the ultimate in vacation experiences. Whether you choose a sailboat, yacht, motor boat or catamaran, there’s nothing like feeling the spray of the Atlantic on your face as you cruise around the eastern coastline, looking for just the right place to dock for a bit of fun.

If this sounds like your idea of the perfect vacation, then you’ll be happy to know that there are several establishments who are in the business of offering luxury yacht charters in and around the Miami, Florida area. After you’ve experienced one, you might just find yourself in the market for companies that offer luxury yacht sales, or sales of other types of water vessels.
 
Miami Yacht Charter Companies
 
• Water Fantaseas – Servicing the areas of Ft. Lauderdale, Aventura and Miami, this facility offers a variety of cruise options, including corporate charters, and an accommodation for special events. Among the many vessels that they offer, you’ll find luxury sport yachts, luxury motor yachts, party yachts, power boats, fishing boats, luxury mega yachts, luxury sailing vessels and catamarans. In addition to half and full day charters, they also provide term charters – all of which can be seen by visiting their website at www.waterfantaseas.com. This outstanding organization offers the best in top-quality sea-going excursions for those who want something more out of their next vacation.

• Biscayne Lady Yacht Charters – Found online at www.biscaynelady.com, this boat chartering company will put you in the lap of luxury when you book a vacation on one of their charters. Whether you’re interested in something for a corporate or social event, wedding or – perhaps – something a bit smaller, they have what it takes to outfit you with the latest in style at Biscayne Lady Yacht Charters. Among the amenities that their luxurious yachts include are three grand decks, the ability to accommodate up to 400 passengers, catamaran designed twin hulls, state-of-the-art interior and exterior design and lots more.

• Florida Yacht Charters and Sales – Serving Miami Beach, Key West and the Bahamas, the folks at this establishment offer charters and instruction, in addition to sales and service. For those who are interested in a more consistent yachting experience, they even provide the opportunity for boaters to join a fractional yacht sharing program, called “SailTime Miami”. Their full line of vessels, including yachts, sailboat, catamarans, trawlers, bareboats and motor yachts, offers a wide variety of crafts from which to choose, with amenities that will please even the most discerning of sailors. Visit their website at www.floridayacht.com for more information.

• Carrousel Yacht Extraordinaire – Whether your intention is to host a holiday party, reunion, anniversary, wedding, graduation, birthday party, business dinner – or simply charter a yacht for your own personal get-away – Carrousel Yacht Extraordinaire can accommodate your needs in a grand style. Cruise the Florida coastline to Palm Beach, Boca Raton, Ft. Lauderdale, Hollywood, Aventura, Miami and Miami Beach in one of the most luxurious chartered yachts of the day. Based in Miami, this chartering company offers a virtual tour of their top-of-the-line yachts by visiting their website at www.carrouselyacht.com.

By performing an online search, you’ll be able to find the right chartering service for you in virtually any waterside location around the world. Until you’ve experienced the luxury of a chartered yacht, you’re missing the vacation of a lifetime. Whether you want to get away on your own, or with family, friends, business associates or former classmates, there’s a vessel out there that’s right for you, and a company that will do its best to meet the needs of your ocean-going party.


