Title: 
Enjoying A Boutique Hotel

Word Count:
455

Summary:
If you’re choosing to stay in a hotel that’s been purposely designed to turn your holiday into an experience, you need to make the most of it.

Hotels have come of age in the past two decades. No longer do you have to choose between a huge run-of-the-mill chain hotel and a dodgy guesthouse. Today’s hotels are as varied and interesting as the people staying in them and your room, the bathrooms, the food and the service inside the hotel is as important as what you do outside ...


Keywords:
boutique hotels, chic hotels, hip hotels


Article Body:
If you’re choosing to stay in a hotel that’s been purposely designed to turn your holiday into an experience, you need to make the most of it.

Hotels have come of age in the past two decades. No longer do you have to choose between a huge run-of-the-mill chain hotel and a dodgy guesthouse. Today’s hotels are as varied and interesting as the people staying in them and your room, the bathrooms, the food and the service inside the hotel is as important as what you do outside it.

Every boutique hotel has different ways of distinguishing itself from the competition. Whether it’s a sumptuous breakfast in the morning, or complementary spa treatments, there’s something for you to relish at every one.

Relax

If you’re arriving at your hotel after a long flight, a stressful business meeting or with tired children in tow, then now’s the time to relax. Let the staff tell you all about the hotel and the facilities available to you, so that you can make full use of them during your stay. Accept the offers of drinks or dinner in your room to allow you to relax in private, or ask for a babysitter service or last minute tickets to a show to take your mind off things. There’s no rush to get breakfast the next day, so wrap yourself in the quality linen and cotton bedding and order some fresh coffee and a paper for the morning. Boutique hotels exist to make your stay a memorable one, so take full advantage of what’s on offer.

Ask

Whilst many boutiques excel when it comes to anticipating what a guest needs, there may be some things you need to ask for. Whatever it is, the staff will do their best to help – car hire; restaurant bookings, theatre tickets, sight-seeing tours or just some scrambled eggs late at night. Boutique hotels aren’t the sort of place where you need to worry about asking for something; once you get used to it, you’ll never go back to a chain hotel again.

Use

Make use of the facilities. If your hotel is particularly small, then you’ll only be sharing the facilities with a handful of people, if at all. Massages, facials and other spa treatments often come as part of the package and it’s a waste not to use them. The same goes for food – if the hotel says you can eat on your balcony or on the beach, give it a try. All of the services and facilities have been designed to make guests feel at home whilst indulging in some very non-homely treats, so don’t ignore what’s available.


