Title: 
Evening Activities for a Stag Weekend in Bristol

Word Count:
372

Summary:
The traditional stag night of strippers and lap dances has more recently been replaced with an entire weekend's worth of 'guy fun', often away from home so the scandalous naughty doings don't trickle back to those who might care. If you're planning a stag weekend for an upcoming wedding, a Bristol stag weekend offers many possibilities for memorable, unique stag activities.


Keywords:
bristol stag weekend, stag weekend in bristol, stag weekend, stag do, stag night


Article Body:
Ah, Bristol! If any city deserves the name of Home of Comedy, it must be Bristol. Home to Jongleurs and Jesters, a pair of world-class comedy clubs, and birthplace of Lee Evans, Justin Lee Collins and laughing gas, Bristol offers some unique possibilities for stag weekend activities. A Bristol stag weekend can combine an afternoon of paintballing, quad biking or five a side with an evening of carousing and comedy at one of Bristol's rightfully famed comedy clubs.

The traditional stag night of strippers and lap dances has more recently been replaced with an entire weekend's worth of 'guy fun', often away from home so the scandalous naughty doings don't trickle back to those who might care. If you're planning a stag weekend for an upcoming wedding, a Bristol stag weekend offers many possibilities for memorable, unique stag activities. Among the many Bristol stag weekend activities that you might include are:

:: Quad Biking at a Bristol course
   - An obstacle course run on quad bikes can kick off a stag weekend in Bristol with a bang. Get dirty, get the blood pumping and get the testosterone primed for a night on the town later.

:: Assault Course 
   - River rafting - upstream? A Bristol stag weekend favorite is an assault course that pits your team against the river - and other teams on a home-built raft made of articles bought in a 'ship's store'. It's another blood-raising activity that will prime the pumps for a hot night on the town later.

:: Bavarian Bierkellar
   - Instead of a nightclub, take the Stag out for a beer-filled night at a mini-Munich Bierfest. With oversized steins of the best brews in the world, and lots of raucous fun, it's a Bristol stag weekend standard.

:: Comedy Club
   - Bristol is the home of comedy - and the comedians that play the Bristol comedy clubs are past masters at pointing the finger at stags out celebrating their last nights of freedom. No Bristol stag weekend would be complete without a night of gut-busting howlers at a Bristol comedy club.

That's just a small handful of the activities that a Bristol stag weekend might include. You'll find more ideas at the Bristol Board of Tourism web site, or from a UK tour operator and event organiser.


