Title: 
Exciting hotel experience: SKYLOFTS at MGM Grand Hotel & Casino

Word Count:
565

Summary:
SKYLOFTS at MGM Grand is a absolutely original and exciting hotel experience created for current and sophisticated travelers who expect the greatest wherever they go, enjoy art and wonderful design and have the incomes to match their requests.


Keywords:
casino Las Vegas, Travel ideas


Article Body:
SKYLOFTS at MGM Grand, located on the top two floors of MGM Grand, each of the 51 lofts features 24-foot, has unveiled a exceptional and confidential haven of sleek, elegant two-story accommodations high above the spectacle that is the Las Vegas Strip. SKYLOFTS at MGM Grand is a absolutely original and exciting hotel experience created for current and sophisticated travelers who expect the greatest wherever they go, enjoy art and wonderful design and have the incomes to match their requests. 
SKYLOFTS at MGM Grand offers Tony Chi-designed lofts with one-to-three bedrooms that are the last in comfort. Described by someone as "urban chic above the Strip" the SKYLOFTS are created on New York-style lofts and propose open views of the Las Vegas skyline. They are overpoweringly comfortable, marvelously creative and particularly friendly spaces that are immediately familiar homes away from home for today's urban elite with uniquely modern tastes. An oasis of pleasure, the SKYLOFTS’ bath is decorated by the “Immersion Chamber,” the most decadent of shower experiences, with a steam room, and complemented by fabulous views of Las Vegas. The bath also features an infinity-edge tub with a “Champagne Bubbles” massage function. This luxurious bath experience is improved by a variety of Bulgari amenities.
Two-story windows put you in harmony with the sky above, while DREAM and SPA Butlers put you with the Las Vegas below. SKYSPA, open 24 hours a day, features separate spa treatment and fitness suites with a Bang & Olufsen sound system, choose exercise tools and custom-designed spa tubs. The fitness area meets the expense of guests views of Las Vegas and incorporates a treadmill, two elliptical machines and gracious waters and juices. Personal use of the fitness area is accessible for a per hour fee. MGM Grand Spa is a 30,000 sq ft spa and health facility. MGM Grand outdoor Pool complex with "lazy river" and cabanas. Cristophe of Beverly Hills salon. Shadow Creek exclusive 18-hole golf course. Shopping.
While SKYLOFTS rises above it all as a peaceful haven for discerning travelers, its visitors are seduced and indulged with private access to all of the attractive "Maximum Vegas" restaurant, salon, casino and entertainment experiences offered within MGM Grand. From its "A"-list entertainment, to award-winning restaurants including Chefs Joel Robuchon, Michael Mina, Tom Colicchio and Michael White, high-energy nightlife and comforting rejuvenation, Las Vegas is about reaching beyond the daily routines and into a world of delicate senses where life is destined to include the enjoyment of "Maximum" energy, luxury and escape. The MGM Grand Garden Arena is home to famous concerts, championship boxing and premier sporting and extraordinary events. The Arena offers comfortable seats for as many as 16,800 with exceptional sightlines and state-of-the-art acoustics, illumination and sound. Important events to date have included world championship fights between Evander Holyfield and Mike Tyson as well as Oscar De La Hoya vs. Bernard Hopkins and George Foreman vs. Michael Moorer; and concerts by The Rolling Stones, Madonna, Elton John, Bruce Springsteen, Paul McCartney, Bette Midler, Gloria Estefan, Janet Jackson, Phil Collins, Billy Joel, Backstreet Boys, ‘N Sync, Sting, Jimmy Buffett and the Barbra Streisand Millennium Concert. The MGM Grand Garden Arena is also home to the annual FOX Billboard Music Awards, the annual Andre Agassi Grand Slam for Children Benefit and the Academy of Country Music Awards (ACMA).
Make Skylofts your personal retreat, and suggest liberally from scenic vistas to incredible amenities and back.


