Title: 
Explore The Camel Trail In Cornwall

Word Count:
346

Summary:
Are you mad about cycling? Recent studies show that you are not alone. In fact, cycling is becoming increasingly popular in the UK, with Cornwall being named as one of the most idyllic places to experience a cycling holiday. So, why are so many people taking to two wheels?

The most obvious answer that springs to mind is that people are cycling to keep fit and help the environment. A closer look, however, reveals something else: an increase in cycleways and routes. Over the...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Are you mad about cycling? Recent studies show that you are not alone. In fact, cycling is becoming increasingly popular in the UK, with Cornwall being named as one of the most idyllic places to experience a cycling holiday. So, why are so many people taking to two wheels?

The most obvious answer that springs to mind is that people are cycling to keep fit and help the environment. A closer look, however, reveals something else: an increase in cycleways and routes. Over the last decade people and charities alike have been working hard to ensure that Britain become a cycle-friendly nation. Not only providing cycle lanes that run alongside roads but also traffic free cycleways. One of the most well-loved cycleways which has come to life in the last few years is the Camel Trail in Cornwall.

The British countryside certainly doesn’t get much more breathtaking than the wonderful Cornish landscape and the Camel Trail presents the perfect place to begin an exploration of the fruits Cornwall has to offer. The Camel Trail is a well-loved cycleway, which spans a wonderful piece of Cornish countryside over a distance of 17 miles from Padstow to Poleys Bridge. With approximately 350,000 users per year the Camel Trail is loved by locals and holidaymakers alike as an idyllic way to appreciate Cornish beauty at its best. Established as a cycleway in 2001, this cycleway follows the path of a disused railway line which was built in 1834 and linked London to the south west part of the country.

Cyclists who are intending to use The Camel Trail will find that they are able to hire their bikes from a variety of cycle shops along the cycleway and throughout the general area; including Padstow, Wadebridge and Bodmin. From this wonderful cycleway you will be able to discover a whole host of wildlife and enjoy the wonderful scenes as they unroll before your eyes. Furthermore, if you choose The Camel Trail for your cycling holiday in Cornwall you will have the time to explore all the little villages and towns along the way.


