Title: 
Exploring Malta By Car Offers More

Word Count:
420

Summary:
Tens of thousands of European holiday makers will plan, book and descend upon the shores of Malta this summer but as one of Europe’s best known and loved destinations might have more to offer than the typical package holiday might suggest. The islands position at the centre of the Mediterranean has resulted in a rich legacy stretching back some 7,000 years offering a cultural and historical wealth that would be of interest to those not usually inclined to snap up the benefits...


Keywords:
Malta, holiday malta, car hire malta, car rental malta


Article Body:
Tens of thousands of European holiday makers will plan, book and descend upon the shores of Malta this summer but as one of Europe’s best known and loved destinations might have more to offer than the typical package holiday might suggest. The islands position at the centre of the Mediterranean has resulted in a rich legacy stretching back some 7,000 years offering a cultural and historical wealth that would be of interest to those not usually inclined to snap up the benefits of a traditional package holiday.

A staging post at the crossroads of maritime routes, Malta has been, at various times in its’ history, a stronghold, home and refuge. Its’ unique position between the mainland of Africa and Europe have attracted a rich tapestry of cultural influences that can be felt in the island today. The island’s capital, Valletta, is a historic, walled town founded by knights is an interesting, baroque influenced town that has recently been awarded the accolade of World Heritage City. A heady mix of old and new, Valletta offers historic attractions, modern culture and a bustling atmosphere a world away from the traditional resorts of St Julians and Silema.

Exploring beyond the traditional resorts gives a greater impression of Malta and a more rewarding experience to the more independently spirited traffic. The south of the island is characterised by small fishing villages and secluded bays offering an authentic insight into rural Maltese life while inland the medieval walled town of Madina boats a rich heritage and historic attractions as Malta’s ancient capital. Malta’s tourist website (http://www.visitmalta.com ) provides a suitable introduction to the islands wider attractions.

Escaping the resort towns and venturing further is well worth the effort in Malta and whether you are looking for an independent holiday of culture and history or merely a day or two away from the sun and sand, the island has plenty to offer. Travelling in Malta is relatively straight forward but getting off the beaten track can be a little difficult with public transport. The best way to explore is be rental car and most of the major car hire firms in Malta (http://www.easycar.com/car-hire/links/Malta.aspx/EN ).

For further exploration of Malta – take a boat trip to the sister islands of Gozo and Comino for a more tranquil and sedate taste of Mediterranean life. Accommodation here is limited but well worth the effort is you trult want to get off the beaten track on holiday in Malta.


