Title: 
Explore the incredible beauty of India on your India tour

Word Count:
597

Summary:
Planning to spending your holiday and looking for a perfect destination? What about India? Mesmerizing, isn’t? Spend this time your holidays in India and be assured of a memorable holiday of your lifetime. There are a lot of options available in this country which makes your holidays memorable. Magnificent monuments, blazing deserts, adventurous spots, wildlife parks & sanctuaries, verdant landscapes, rich flora & fauna, rich culture and heritage, etc make this country one of the most popular.


Keywords:
India tourism,India vacation,tour to India


Article Body:
Planning to spending your holiday and looking for a perfect destination? What about India? Mesmerizing, isn’t? Spend this time your holidays in India and be assured of a memorable holiday of your lifetime. There are a lot of options available in this country which makes your holidays memorable. Magnificent monuments, blazing deserts, adventurous spots, wildlife parks & sanctuaries, verdant landscapes, rich flora & fauna, rich culture and heritage, etc make this country one of the most popular travel destination in all over the world. There are a range of tourism options available in this country. The country of various diversities India never fails to enchant its visitors on account of its various tourism options. 

One of the major factors of boom in <a href=" http://www.india-tourism.ws/"> India tourism</a> is its cultural heritage which can be seen at its various monumental heritage attractions. One can visit Taj Mahal or Rajasthan monuments, Elephant cave, Ellora caves, Khajuraho temples, Konark temples, south Indian temples, etc. Visiting these architecturally beautiful structures are wonderful ways to know and see the cultural heritage of India. Some major historic monuments of India are Taj Mahal in Agra, Golden Temple in Amritsar, Khajuraho Temple Complex in Madhya Pradesh, Victoria Terminus in Mumbai, Taj Mahal Palace in Mumbai, Rajasthan’s forts & palaces, etc. During your India trip don’t miss to visit these heritage attractions. 

Exploring the rural sides of India is also worth enjoying. It provides you a wonderful opportunity to know about rich culture and traditions of the country. You can know about the lifestyle, culture, and tradition of the country talking with its generous and hospitable people. Beaches of India also are worth exploring. Exploring breathtaking beaches provide you pleasant and relaxing travel experience. Beaches also provide you opportunity to adventure and sports. You can enjoy boat riding, sea cruise, water funs, water rafting, etc. Some famous beaches of the country are Goa beaches, Kovalam beach in Kerala, Marina beach in Chennai, etc. During your  <a href=" http://www.india-tourism.ws/"> tour to India </a> don’t miss to enjoy and explore these breathtaking beaches. 

The rich flora and fauna of India are also worth exploring. There are several wildlife parks and sanctuaries in this country. Exploring these parks and sanctuaries provide a wonderful opportunity to watch the sensational activities of wildlife attractions in their natural surroundings and also provide excellent ambience for nature tourism. Some well known wildlife parks and sanctuaries are Bharatpur bird sanctuary, Sariska national park, Ranthambhore Wildlife Park, Kaziranga national park, Periyar wildlife sanctuary, Corbett national park, Kanha national park, Pench national park, etc. Exploring these parks and sanctuaries provide wonderful and thrilling travel experience. Don’t miss to enjoy the rich flora and fauna during your<a href=" http://www.india-tourism.ws/">  India vacation</a>. 

Breathtaking hill stations also attract the attentions of tourists from all around the world to make their holidays in India. Some well-known hill stations of the country are Shimla in Himachal Pradesh, Kullu – Manali in Himachal Pradesh, Munnar in Kerala, Nanital in Uttaranchal, Ooty and Kodaikanal in Tamil Nadu, Darjeeling in West Bengal, Mount Abu in Rajasthan, etc. These breathtaking hill stations are also very popular among honeymooners and nature lovers. Don’t miss to explore the breathtaking surrounding of these hill stations during your India travel. For better traveling in India, you can opt for India tour packages provide by various India tour operators or travel agents.  

If you to want to enjoy the charm of tourism in India; welcome, visit India and explore the incredible beauty of the country.


