Title: 
Exploring The Florida Paradise Known As Key Largo

Word Count:
484

Summary:
Key Largo is an island in the Florida Keys archipelago and one of the largest of its islands. Key Largo is a popular tourist destination and calls itself the "Diving Capital of the World". Tourists enjoy Key Largo's scuba diving and sports-fishing. Key Largo’s proximity to the Everglades also makes it a premier destination for kayakers and ecotourists

Key Largo Florida. Even the name invokes a feeling of a tropical paradise. Key Largo was the first of the Florida Keys reso...


Keywords:
Key Largo,Florida,alligator farm,everglades,salt water,tropical


Article Body:
Key Largo is an island in the Florida Keys archipelago and one of the largest of its islands. Key Largo is a popular tourist destination and calls itself the "Diving Capital of the World". Tourists enjoy Key Largo's scuba diving and sports-fishing. Key Largo’s proximity to the Everglades also makes it a premier destination for kayakers and ecotourists

Key Largo Florida. Even the name invokes a feeling of a tropical paradise. Key Largo was the first of the Florida Keys resort towns. Now Key Largo is called the dive capital of the world. But there is much more to Key Largo than only scuba and skin diving.

Key Largo has the world's largest artificial reef, the 510-foot USS Spiegel Grove and is home to the John Pennekamp Coral Reef. The waters surrounding Key Largo are a National Marine Sanctuary, guaranteeing the best, most pristine waters available for your pleasure at the Stephen Frink Underwater State Park.

Here you can see the world Christ of the Abyss underwater statue famous while taking a glass bottom boat from Key Largo.

There are many opportunities to fish around Key Largo, both salt and fresh water. For the more adventurous, Key Largo offers kayaking, swimming with the dolphins, air boat rides and everglades tours.

On the other hand, my favorite Key Largo activity; kicking back with a tropical beverage and doing nothing at all but watching the beautiful sunsets.

The Key Largo Chamber of Commerce likes to say this: "Come stay in Legendary Key Largo, where reality ends and tranquility begins". I cannot blame them for expressing those sentiments.

Key Largo is the gateway and first stopping off point for a trip to the Florida Keys. Key Largo is only a short drive from Miami but is a world away. Nevertheless, that does not mean that you have to give up any of the amenities of a world-class resort area. Key Largo has a huge range of accommodations.

If five star luxuries is your desire, Key Largo has it. If you are more interested in a self-contained vacation, there are even private home and bungalow rentals in Key Largo. Bed and breakfast suit your fancy?

Key Largo goes out of its way to accommodate your needs. All budgets and all choices are available in Key Largo. Key Largo also has a wide array of RV and camping sites if that is your pleasure.

Great choices also apply to the activities you may want to pursue. In Key Largo, you can take a charter or rent your own boat and snorkel on nearby exotic reefs. On the other hand, you can dive some of the sunken wrecks that dot the undersea landscape at Key Largo.

If land based activities are more to you liking, Key Largo is nest to the Florida Everglades, where you can, take an airboat tour, see the bird sanctuary, or visit an alligator farm.


