Title: 
Explore the Mexican Caribbean with Cancun Catamaran Charters

Word Count:
527

Summary:
Cancun offers an abundance of adventures on the water. Read on to learn about opportunities to snorkel, fish, scuba dive, and more....


Keywords:
Cancun, Catamarans, Charters, Fishing, Sport, Weddings, Parties, Scuba, Diving, Jungle, Tours, Sailing, Boats, fun, Mexi


Article Body:
Those who have been to Cancun have experienced the enthralling beauty of what is known as the Mexican Caribbean and the ever-changing colors of its waters. They have embraced the tropical temperatures and the hospitality of its residents. But they may not have taken advantage of Cancun catamaran charters or many of the other water adventures that this part of Mexico has to offer. 

More than Beaches

Although many vacationers spend their days going to and from the city's gorgeous beaches, Cancun offers visitors so much more. Here are just some of the opportunities that await those who want to do more than dip their toes in the water:

Catamarans: Catamarans offer a combination of relaxation and adventure. You can climb aboard a catamaran and go to the one of the most beautiful islands in Mexico, Isla Mujeres, or take advantage of the unparalleled snorkeling in gorgeous, calm waters. If you prefer, you can simply lie out in the sun and soak up the rays. Charters are available for groups consisting of anywhere from twenty to eighty passengers. 

Sport Fishing: Chartering a fishing boat in Cancun is much more affordable than you might think, or you can join other single fishermen in an excursion to catch sailfish, marlin, mahi mahi, grouper, and many other varieties of fish. The best excursions and charters include fishing licenses and bait, are equipped with fish finders, GPS, high quality rods and reels, and fighting chairs.

Scuba Diving: The scuba diving in Cancun is magnificent, but there are few diving experiences to rival cave diving in the Cenote cave in Riviera Maya. Part of the Mayan underground water system, the caverns feature incredible stalagmite and stalactite formations and 300-feet visibility. You can also enjoy reef and wreck diving that will provide you with a once-in-a-lifetime experience.

Jungle Tours: For visitors to Cancun, the Nichupte Lagoon is a must-see. The best way to see the jungle is to sign up with a tour that enables you to drive your own speedboat, gives you plenty of time for snorkeling, and provides you with a trained guide. 

Events to Remember

Cancun Catamaran charters are great for corporate outings, Spring Break parties, or just for a day of sailing and fun. For more elegant occasions, or when regular boats simply won't do, chartering a yacht is sheer perfection. With a capacity of at least forty passengers, a chartered yacht is perfect for weddings, receptions, family outings, or even a private romantic getaway. 

The Price is Right

Whether you want to go on a fishing excursion or charter an exclusive yacht, the prices are quite affordable. For example, you can charter a 33-foot fishing boat for eight people for eight hours for only about $650. You can go on a cave dive for about $140 or a jungle tour for about $55. If you feel the need for speed, you can even go on an adrenaline-filled Shotover Jet tour through the mangroves for less than $50. 

The next time you go to Cancun, do more than dip your toes in the water. Take advantage of Cancun catamaran charters or one of the many other opportunities that await, and dive right in!


