Title: 
Extreme Stag Weekend in Bournemouth

Word Count:
360

Summary:
The stag weekend has come of age. In an era that features the MOST EXTREME reality shows where folks scale mountains and submerge themselves in vats full of creepy crawly bugs, it was only a matter of time before stag weekends started to feature extreme sports activities. If your stag is the type to appreciate the rigors of whitewater rafting and canyoning, then there's only one place to plan a stag weekend - Bournemouth.


Keywords:
stag weekend, bournemouth stag weekend, stag weekend in bournemouth


Article Body:
The stag weekend has come of age. In an era that features the MOST EXTREME reality shows where folks scale mountains and submerge themselves in vats full of creepy crawly bugs, it was only a matter of time before stag weekends started to feature extreme sports activities. If your stag is the type to appreciate the rigors of whitewater rafting and canyoning, then there's only one place to plan a stag weekend - Bournemouth.

A seaside resort in Southwest England, Bournemouth has long been known for such activities as parasailing, catamaran sailing and surfing. A stag weekend in Bournemouth can include any of those - but there are some even more extreme activities that can put your stag to the test and make sure that he's fitted for the rigors of the MOST EXTREME of all life's activities - married life.

Zorbing
If you haven't heard of zorbing yet, rest assured that there's nothing like it for getting you up close and personal in the most hair-raising thrill ride ever created. Zorbing has been described as a cross between a roller-coaster and whitewater rafting - minus the rails and the raft. Zorbing is an extreme sport from New Zealand. It involves a pair of transparent inflatable PVC balls, one suspended inside the other. You climb inside the inner ball and get firmly fastened in... and then they give you a heave at the top of the hill to start you rolling down at speeds up to 35 mph. To make it even more fun, you can fill the outside ball with water, and find out what it feels like to hurtle down a craggy hillside blindly, end over teakettle.

Zap Catting in Poole Harbor
If you'd rather do your extreme sports on the water, a stag weekend in Bournemouth can include an afternoon trying out one of the UK's fastest growing watersports - Rigid Inflatable Boats. Skim the waves of Poole Harbor, the world's second largest natural harbor, in one of these incredibly fast, powerful little speedboats. You can opt for a Fast Blast harbor cruise that takes you out on the open water to give her full throttle or add in some wakeboarding and waterskiing.


