Title: 
Family-Friendly Boutique Hotels

Word Count:
479

Summary:
Boutique hotels aren’t just designed for wealthy couples or adults only. Many boutique hotels welcome children and families.

Should families be excluded from the boutique hotels experience? Many hotels in this sector think not, and happily open their doors to families with children of all ages, providing a range of services and facilities to suit this market. For many families, the size and location of these hotels is perfect for a family holiday, and allows their children...


Keywords:
boutique hotels, chic hotels, hip hotels


Article Body:
Boutique hotels aren’t just designed for wealthy couples or adults only. Many boutique hotels welcome children and families.

Should families be excluded from the boutique hotels experience? Many hotels in this sector think not, and happily open their doors to families with children of all ages, providing a range of services and facilities to suit this market. For many families, the size and location of these hotels is perfect for a family holiday, and allows their children to experience great design, service and cuisine from an early age.

Beach holidays

What child doesn’t want to go on a beach holiday? Yet what parent doesn’t want a bit of sophistication and style when it comes to spending time near the sea? Boutique accommodation in some of the world’s most attractive beach resorts can cater for children, allowing them to enjoy the simple pleasures of the sand and sea, whilst parents can enjoy the best food, thoughtful beach accessories and rooms that are designed to bring the outdoors in. Examples of these hotels include the Beach House in Marbella, the Elounda Gulf Villas and Suites in Crete, the JK Place Capri in Italy and the Villa Floriana in Croatia.

City trips

Taking the family to see some of the most famous sights in the world is usually a good reason for a city break. European cities like London, Seville, Vienna, Paris and Rome are all full of exciting things to do, no matter what age your children. Museums, art galleries, boat excursions, theatre trips, adventure parks – a city break can encompass all of these and a boutique hotel is a great place to relax at the end of a hard day’s sightseeing. Great service means that your children can get a glass of milk or a cup of hot chocolate and something to eat to keep them going, and the central location of many of these hotels makes them an ideal base for exploring. Try the Egerton House Hotel in London, the hip Seven One Seven in Amsterdam, the Palacio Belmonte in Lisbon or the Hotel le Pavillon de Paris in the French capital.

Countryside capers

Explore a fabulous rural landscape by taking your family to a countryside boutique hotel. Hire bikes or take the bus into nearby towns and villages, or visit historic monuments, or simply go for a walk. Spending time in the countryside is a great way to unwind and the boutique environment gives you the perfect opportunity to relax. Choose one with a pool, and your children will be happy to stay and play whilst you read, use the spa or just take in the view. For a real treat, take a look at La Bastide de Marie in Provence, La Villa Hotel in Piedmont, Italy, the Cotswold House Hotel in Gloucestershire or the Kasbah du Toubkal in Morocco’s Atlas Mountains.


