Title: 
Finding A Good Hotel Cheap - 6 Essential Tips

Word Count:
332

Summary:
Do you really want a cheap hotel? Dirty carpets, smelly bathrooms, no hot water and greasy food. Unlikely.

You are really looking for a good hotel, cheap.

Why pay more than you have to for your hotel? If you search for a particular hotel on any search engine you will find wide a range of prices for the same room. You do not want a cheap hotel so much as a good hotel for the minimum cost, so YOU are the one paying the lowest rate in the hotel.

1. Choose a hotel based ...


Keywords:
hotel, cheap hotel, cheap hotel rooms, cheap hote london, new yoor cheap hotel, hotel deals


Article Body:
Do you really want a cheap hotel? Dirty carpets, smelly bathrooms, no hot water and greasy food. Unlikely.

You are really looking for a good hotel, cheap.

Why pay more than you have to for your hotel? If you search for a particular hotel on any search engine you will find wide a range of prices for the same room. You do not want a cheap hotel so much as a good hotel for the minimum cost, so YOU are the one paying the lowest rate in the hotel.

1. Choose a hotel based on recommendations.

Personal recommendations are not always possible, but look for booking sites that have a customer comments page. The reports are well worth checking out. They are usually short and people only bother if they have had a particularly good stay or if they have unfavorable comments to make. Comments like - Bathroom had smell of urine in the carpet, tell you far more than a glossy brochure or website ever could.

2. Use the Internet

The Internet allows you to compare prices, facilities and meal packages far more easily than was ever possible before.

3. Be flexible in dates

If you are flexible in dates, hotels or room facilities you can indeed drive a deal. Avoid Weekend travel, stay midweek, and at all costs, avoid school holiday periods.

4. Be flexible in location

If you are prepared to stay in less popular cities or on the outskirts rather than the city center you will get a better deal.

5.Check the Airline and Car rental company sites

The airline or rental company get a kickback (commission) from the hotels yet their deals can still be some of the best around.

6. Look out for last minute deals

If you can do so, and all you are looking for is a break away, then check out the Internet for last minute deals. These offer outstanding value.

Remember - It is not a cheap hotel you are looking for so much as a good hotel, cheap.


