Title: 
Fishing Lovers Flock to Baja California, Mexico

Word Count:
269

Summary:
Known for its enormous amounts of blue, black, and striped marlin, sailfish, dorado, wahoo, yellowfin tuna, roosterfish and more, Mexico sportfishing has become a favorite pastime of fishing and adventure enthusiasts worldwide. This ain't your normal, relaxing fishing trip folks. Sportfishing Cabo San Lucas is in a league all on its own. Definitely not for the faint of heart. And the holy grail of a catch, the blue marlin, is in high supply in the infamous Sea of Cortez.


Keywords:
fishing charters, Mexico sportfishing, special fishing packages, Sportfishing Cabo San Lucas 


Article Body:
Known for its enormous amounts of blue, black, and striped marlin, sailfish, dorado, wahoo, yellowfin tuna, roosterfish and more, Mexico sportfishing has become a favorite pastime of fishing and adventure enthusiasts worldwide. This ain't your normal, relaxing fishing trip folks. Sportfishing Cabo San Lucas is in a league all on its own. Definitely not for the faint of heart. And the holy grail of a catch, the blue marlin, is in high supply in the infamous Sea of Cortez. In fact the largest one caught last year weighed over half a ton! Bring the wife and kiddies, they'll have a great time too. Most of the resorts in Baja are wonderful vacation spots, with recreational experiences all are sure to enjoy. Snorkeling, diving, tennis, golf, aviaries, horseback riding, and much more. Many travel accommodations have special fishing packages which include airfare, hotel, and fishing charters on huge boats with mostly English speaking crews and at reasonable costs. Many hotels also offer special packaging, shipping, or smoking of your catch. Deep sea fishing in Los Cabos Mexico and the Sea of Cortez is an experience you will never forget. Think about the stories you'll be able to tell, wrestling a 500 pound marlin on a huge luxury charter, out in the warm waters of beautiful Baja. Sounds pretty nice. 

Disclaimer: This blog or article is for information purpose only, and should not be treated a professional advise or price protection guarantee. This blog is mainly used for search engine optimization and other commercial purposes and it is advised that readers seek professional consultation in the field of interest for more information.


