Title: 
Flying High

Word Count:
576

Summary:
Traveling can be a wondrous experience that has the capacity to broaden one’s perspective about life through numerous new experiences and discoveries along the course of a journey. It can also be very taxing and costly which is why there are quite a number of people who just dream continuously about dream vacation they will never take.

A lonely planet

While the earth is essentially a lonely planet in it’s galaxy being the single planet that hosts the most diverse life f...


Keywords:
airline tickets


Article Body:
Traveling can be a wondrous experience that has the capacity to broaden one’s perspective about life through numerous new experiences and discoveries along the course of a journey. It can also be very taxing and costly which is why there are quite a number of people who just dream continuously about dream vacation they will never take.

A lonely planet

While the earth is essentially a lonely planet in it’s galaxy being the single planet that hosts the most diverse life forms and unique biodiversity, one need not be lonely in this lonely planet. Go out and explore the only world you’ve got, making the most out of life by seeing the bigger picture through extensive travels.

The book called Lonely Planet has a version for each country in the world that will help you, the adventurous traveler, a new world to explore at every turn-- inexpensively.

A lonely bank account

Although the lure of adventure and discovery is strong, the pull of the reality that you may not be able to afford destinations despite the help of travel guides such as the lonely planet tends to rain on one’s parade. One of the biggest spends in traveling is actually the price of an airline ticket. Not to mention that purchasing one may prove to be a hassle if you have to buy one on your own and not go through a travel agent to be able to cut costs.

Fortunately, this need not be the case. With a little prudence and some flexibility, you can finally reach that dreamed of destination without having to take out a second mortgage on your loan.

Be Alert

So you’ve researched extensively on your destination and found the proper accommodations and have all the off-beat trips written down. While doing that, you should’ve kept your eyes and ears peeled for airline ticket promotions and chances are, you have found them. There are usually limited-time promotions from airlines and they advertise these in the papers and send email blasts.

The wisdom of the bamboo

Learn to be as flexible as the bamboo and get that airline ticket dirt cheap because of it. Find out what are usually the cheapest days to fly and book your tickets then. Also consider taking late night or very early morning flights with at least one stop and you can be sure that these will be discounted.
Check the package

Sometimes airlines will have travel packages that include accommodations and transportation bundled into the air line ticket price and these allows you to be able to save up on other expenses so be sure to ask your air line for these promotions.

The early bird

In this case, the early bird will not catch the worm but will land a discounted air line ticket by booking early. There are advance ticket discounts available if you reserve twenty-one days in advance. 

Fly!

So you have everything in tow and have landed the best deals for your travel destination which includes a great bargain on your airline ticket. Don’t forget to make a checklist so as not to forget anything and avoid inconveniences. Remember that all you need to bring are the essentials: passport; airline tickets; traveler’s checks; a sense of fun and adventure. And if things don’t go as smoothly as planned during your trip, remember that it’s the journey, more than the destination that counts.


