Title: 
For Visitors, Kiev Apartments Provide an Affordable Alternative to Hotels

Word Count:
505

Summary:
For tourists and business travelers, Kiev apartments offer a number of advantages over hotels.


Keywords:
kiev, kyiv, apartments, ukraine, accommodation, rent


Article Body:
If you're planning a trip to Kiev, consider going the nontraditional route and rent a Kiev apartment instead of a hotel accommodation. There are a number of advantages to Kiev apartments, including privacy, roominess, and kitchen facilities. In addition, by staying in Kiev apartments you have the opportunity to meet more of the city's citizens and experience more of the local culture, both of which can add to your vacation experience or business trip.

Why Kiev?

Kiev (also known as Kyiv), is the capital of Ukraine, and is situated on the Dnieper River. With close to three million residents, Kiev is the largest city in the Ukraine, and has all of the amenities of any major city. Although the winter months are quite cold, the summer months are mild, with an average temperature in the mid-70s. 

Because the city of Kiev cultivates tourism, visitors are able to easily get around to see the wondrous sites of this cultural center. The Kiev Metro subway system allows tourists to easily get to and from major attractions, and the trolley buses and trams afford an above ground view of the city. 

Kiev is steeped in history, and visitors can enjoy the architecture of the St. Michael's Cathedral, the St. Sophia Cathedral, St. Andrew's Church, the Zoloti Vorota, and, of course, the monument to Michael the Archangel in Independence Square. No visit to Kiev would be complete without a trip to St. Vladimir Hill to see the Prince Vladimir Monument, a huge bronze statue, or to the Monastery of the Kiev Caves, an underground monastery. 

For those with a cultural bent, Kiev is home to a wide variety of theaters, orchestras, and museums. From the Kiev Opera House and the Ivan Franko National Academic Drama Theater to the National Museum of Russian Art and the Kiev Circus, the city truly has something for everyone. 

Kiev is also known for its trees and lush vegetation, so a trip to the Kiev Botanical Gardens should be on every visitor's itinerary. The Central Botanical Garden boasts 13,000 varieties of trees and plants, while the A.V. Fomin Botanical Gardens are home to many rare species of flora. 

Finding Kiev Apartments

Kiev apartments offer a number of advantages over hotel accommodations, but how do you find them? There are online sources that allow you to search for apartments in Kiev on the basis of location, size, class, and price. You can even choose the amenities you desire, from basic air conditioning to a washing machine or Jacuzzi. 

It's best to select Kiev apartments that are near the center of the city, so that you'll be in walking distance of theaters, shops, subway stations, restaurants, and historical sites. Be sure that the apartment you rent comes fully equipped with bedding, blankets, towels, soap, and so forth. 

When selecting a company from which to rent an apartment, you should also consider the other services they offer. For example, it's helpful if the company can provide airport transportation, interpreter services, and tour guides or planned excursions.


