Title: 
Gatlinburg Cabin Vacation Tips

Word Count:
632

Summary:
Gatlinburg in Smoky Mountains is becoming more and more popular as a vacation spot, with nearly 10 million visitors arriving in the area each year. With mild winters and summers, Gatlinburg and small towns nearby are a common destination for people who enjoy hiking, fishing, horseback riding, bike riding, canoeing, whitewater rafting, river tubing, skiing and snowboarding. Gatlinburg accommodations range from moderately priced Gatlinburg cabins to exclusive private Gatlinburg...


Keywords:
gatlinburg,cabins,smokey mountains,chalets


Article Body:
Gatlinburg in Smoky Mountains is becoming more and more popular as a vacation spot, with nearly 10 million visitors arriving in the area each year. With mild winters and summers, Gatlinburg and small towns nearby are a common destination for people who enjoy hiking, fishing, horseback riding, bike riding, canoeing, whitewater rafting, river tubing, skiing and snowboarding. Gatlinburg accommodations range from moderately priced Gatlinburg cabins to exclusive private Gatlinburg chalets with their European charm.

When staying in a cabin in Gatlinburg, you are still close to shopping and theaters and can enjoy all kinds of outdoor activities such as hiking, fishing, or skiing. Here are ten essential things you can do while staying in the Gatlinburg cabin or chalet:

1. Take a country car trip. You can take a scenic route and visit the historic sites of Gatlinburg by car. The Newfound Gap Road runs across the Smoky Mountains and links you to park roads and footpaths that will take you to other places of interest in Gatlinburg.

2. Walking. Nothing beats the pleasure of sightseeing from a smooth well-groomed path across a spectacular forest with breathtaking mountain views. Fitness and stress relief of walking can never be underestimated. All the walking trails are carefully mapped and accessible from all main roads. Any Gatlinburg hotel will provide you with a guide that helps you find a trail that fits your walking speed and general fitness.

3. Bike in the mountains. If you decide to take a biking trip, alone or with your family, you can choose from a number of different trails. Biking trails in Gatlinburg range from an easy family-friendly gravel path, to the challenging mountain bike trails that require special equipment and can be quite enduring. You can rent a bicycle or bring one with you if you travel by car.

4. Horse Riding. If horseback riding suits your sense of adventure, you will find this family attraction to be quite popular in Gatlinburg. Hundreds of horses are located in stables across Gatlinburg. It is a great place to learn horseback riding, and no matter your riding skills, you will have a fun of your life. Gatlinburg cowboys even perform weddings in the western style!

5. Hiking. You need to obtain a permit for hiking overnight in the back-country. Make sure you come prepared with the right equipment and it’s worth noting that in some areas reservations are required to hike the Smoky Mountains trails.

6. Golf. The Gatlinburg Golf Course is close to all Gatlinburg cabins and Gatlinburg chalets. It is a fabulous year-round modern facility with challenging layouts and emerald fairways, beautifully wooded landscapes and well-manicured greens. A full service pro shop and food services area also work year-round.

7. Visit the wild life. Many people come to Gatlinburg to see black bears. They even choose to stay in Gatlinburg cabins that are close to bears – in the past few years, one hotel even offered a “bear suite” that overlooked a dumpster which bears visited often. Use common sense – these creatures can be quite dangerous.

8. Enjoy the traditional American food. If you want to try real American cuisine, Gatlinburg is the right place to start. From authentic regional treats in rustic settings to kid-friendly theme restaurants, over 100 restaurants work year-round.

9. Shop till you drop. Gatlinburg has more than 400 shops and five malls with handmade arts and crafts, unique traditional apparel and souvenirs. While loading up on souvenirs for everyone back home, you're sure to find a little something for yourself.

10. And 100s of other things – including Gatlinburg Sky Lift that rides in the center of the town for a spectacular view of Gatlinburg and the Great Smoky Mountains, Mysterious Mansion, Gatlinburg's largest scary house, rafting in the whitewater rapids, and visiting Star Cars Museum with it’s world's best star car collection.


