Title: 
General View Of Travel

Word Count:
436

Summary:
Travel, the very mention of it arouses great feelings in our minds even if it is for business as travel provides with unbound opportunities to mix fun with work. Leave that for a moment as it may; it may not surprise you to know travel is a big industry the world over. The travel industry comprises of multiple and interdependent complex network of hotels, resorts, transport sector which in turn includes airways, car rentals etc making you feel very proud of being the prime mo...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Travel, the very mention of it arouses great feelings in our minds even if it is for business as travel provides with unbound opportunities to mix fun with work. Leave that for a moment as it may; it may not surprise you to know travel is a big industry the world over. The travel industry comprises of multiple and interdependent complex network of hotels, resorts, transport sector which in turn includes airways, car rentals etc making you feel very proud of being the prime mover of the mammoth travel industry. So, welcome to the exotic exercise called as Travel.

Travel: For Career
Travel provides ample opportunities for career aspirants. At the entry level, there are opportunities like travel agents, tourist guides, front officers with all hotels, airlines and advertising agencies etc. Travel also provides opportunities for small entrepreneurs who want to operate a fleet of cars, coaches etc. In the deep jungles of Africa, small tour operators double-up as guides and drivers on a game safari.

On a still bigger scale, travel operators own a fleet of well-maintained buses on profitable routes where public movement is high on any given date even when one doesn’t take into consideration the tourists.

For most of you who want to take up travel as profession, there are exams to pass, which qualifies you for certifications for various levels like air ticketing agent, tourist guide etc. You must have noticed by this time that a tourist guide needs to know (and must be fluent) in at least 3-4 international languages in addition to his native tongue so as to be able to converse with international tourists.

Professional Needs
Professionals need to be very good at interpersonal skills, the more they are pleasant in their approach and nature the better. Knowing the etiquettes are important especially dealing with international travelers. What is a pass in your culture may not be so internationally. Integrity and sincerity are the other names of the profession. After all, travelers are almost unfamiliar where they want to travel.

Preventing Travel Sickness
Here are a few ways of preventing problems before they happen. And, if you are prone to a bit of travel sickness, we’ve included some possible cures below. Perhaps you can plan in advance, just in case?

1.Alcohol and fizzy drinks – Avoid them
2.Eating – Do not stuff too much in your stomach
3.Fresh air – Take in as much fresh air as possible before boarding
4.Relaxing – Your state of mind can help to prevent travel sickness. Just relax.
5.Medication – If all else fails, there are a variety of off the shelf medication that can help.


