Title: 
Get Around Easily with a New York Limousine Service

Word Count:
548

Summary:
New York limo service is more affordable than you think, and enables you to travel to your destination in style.


Keywords:
newark airport transportation,lagurdia airport transportation,new york limousine


Article Body:
If you live in New York City or travel to and from New York City a lot, you know all about the traffic there. Getting places is often next to impossible, even with the gazillion yellow cabs. If you're like me you often look with envy at those shiny limousines with their unformed drivers and wish you could sit in one. Well, you can. New York limo service is more affordable than you think, whether it's for Newark airport transportation, LaGuardia airport transportation, or to drive wherever you wish to go.

Every time I hail a cab in New York City or wait for one at the airports, I hope I'll be lucky enough to get one that's halfway decent and that the driver actually speaks English. I have spent many anxious moments wondering if I ever get to my destination. Or whether I'd get ripped off. Even if all goes well, I can't say I can remember many rides in New York cabs that were very pleasant. And given how much they cost by now, going with a limo makes ever more sense.

These days, using a New York limousine means you're getting your choice of a variety of great luxury vehicles such as BMW, Mercedes Benz, Cadillac or Lincoln sedans or limos. Sedans usually seat three or four, standard stretch limos six to ten, and SUVs seven. Stretch SUVs like the eye-catching Stretch Hummer can seat up to 20. If style isn't a priority, limo buses can be a comfortable alternative for up to 20 passengers. And if safety is a matter, you can even get armored New York limousines. Whether it's JFK airport transportation or a night on the town, limos are the way to go.

If you haven't been in a limo lately, you'll be amazed at what you can get these days. Apart from comfort, safety, reliability, status and luxury, there are now limos with such things as giant flat-screen TVs, hardwood floors, more than six feet of headroom, and even fish tanks for that soothing touch. Check the websites of the leading New York limousine services to get detailed descriptions of the features and amenities of their fleet of impressive cars and limos.

Limo service is all about luxury and feeling good about yourself. Being greeted by a uniformed limo driver at the airport is not only a great experience, it also means you're getting to your destination faster and with much less stress. And you have a driver who is thoroughly professional, discreet, and who knows his way around. Ordering a limo for guests and business clients shows you appreciate and respect them. Having one for a graduation or prom can be an experience you never forget. Limo services also offer wedding limousine specials so that you have one less thing to worry about. And for a night on the town or going to a big game, what better way than to take a limo? 

What if you have an emergency and need to quickly go to a place where cabs won't take you? A limo will. The best New York limousine services will drive you wherever you want within the continental United States. And they may even be part of an international network so you can travel in style wherever you go.


