Title: 
Get Ready Fast For Fall Leaf Viewing Trips

Word Count:
555

Summary:
Whether its a driving tour, a cruise or a bus, leaf viewing is a great way to spend a fall vacation. It's also big tour business and the are many options. As you dream of that hot apple cider on a crisp afternoon do a quick check list before you leave home so you're ready for any type of weather. If you're prepared then all you need to do is focus on having a fun and relaxing time.

Start preparing by taking out your favorite sweater. Think "chilly." Pack one that you can u...


Keywords:
travel, fall travel , leaf viewing, autumn travel, travel tips


Article Body:
Whether its a driving tour, a cruise or a bus, leaf viewing is a great way to spend a fall vacation. It's also big tour business and the are many options. As you dream of that hot apple cider on a crisp afternoon do a quick check list before you leave home so you're ready for any type of weather. If you're prepared then all you need to do is focus on having a fun and relaxing time.

Start preparing by taking out your favorite sweater. Think "chilly." Pack one that you can use outdoors as well as under a rain jacket or sitting inside by a warm fire. It's also time to get back into socks after a summer in sandals. A few pair of them should be on your list. Pack four pair and add a fifth one that is woolen or made for winter.

Layering clothes is paramount for fall trips outdoors. The sudden sunny burst in the afternoon versus breath chilling mornings can surprise anyone. A nice light weight fleece top with a wind proof jacket works well. Pack both.

While we think of blue cloudless skies on an autumn afternoon the chance of rain is pretty high so pack a rain suit. A jacket with a hood and pants are best. When outside all day in the wet and damp its important to keep dry all over for comfort and a complete rainsuit is the answer. Today's styles and fabrics come in all colors and patterns so you can be stylish as well as comfortable.

Make sure to add a small folding umbrella to your bag as well. Raincoats are fine but unless its full length with a zip in liner, rainy weather can start to feel downright uncomfortable by mid afternoon. Its miserable by evening unless you are warm from head to toe. An umbrella can help.

Pack a warm hat and gloves. Comfortable shoes are also a must and if they also happen to be waterproof its a big plus at this time of year.

Your camera gear needs to be in good working order so check it at home before you leave. Take extra batteries and memory cards. Film can be bought along the road if you want to travel light. Double check you camera bag and make sure it's moisture proof. If at all possible avoid taking a brand new camera since anything untried can miss these great photos you'll want to show off once you get back home.

However you are traveling you'll be on the move a lot, always more than you think, since you have to be outdoors to see foilage. Being mobile in your traveling will allow you greater freedom and flexibility. Pack light and put all your items into a single, carryable, soft side bag. Take a day pack for those daily viewing excursions and make sure you put a bottle of drinkng water inside. Take prescriptions in original bottles and always pack more than you will need. Binoculars are not required but can be a great joy if you happen to catch birds migrating or wildlife grazing before the first snowfall.

As long as you have the right gear you can travel anywhere anytime of the year. See you on the road!


