Title: 
Getting To Know The Work Of A Travel Agent

Word Count:
422

Summary:
For people who are fond of traveling to different places, visiting marvelous beaches, and taking a trip to the most exotic island paradise, the job of a travel agent seems to be a far better job than anything else. 

However, some people contend that the viability of a travel agent being a lucrative work has lessened due to the emergence of the Internet.

Nowadays, people can easily plan their vacation trips, acquire their tickets, and make their own plans and reservation...


Keywords:
travel, agent, travel agent


Article Body:
For people who are fond of traveling to different places, visiting marvelous beaches, and taking a trip to the most exotic island paradise, the job of a travel agent seems to be a far better job than anything else. 

However, some people contend that the viability of a travel agent being a lucrative work has lessened due to the emergence of the Internet.

Nowadays, people can easily plan their vacation trips, acquire their tickets, and make their own plans and reservation through the Internet. 

That is why some financial analysts have concluded that as the need for travel agents fall off, their wages deteriorates as well, considering the fact that it is already low. The median yearly salary of travel agents amount to $26,630, that was in 2002. The top 10% of the travel agents in the US were reported to have a salary of $41,660 or more. While the remaining half of the travel agents is currently earning between $20,800 and $33,580. All of these were bases on the U.S. Department Labor reports.

The bottom line is that travel agents are really not earning much. The only benefits they get are the discounts and special privileges on travel. Funny thing is, with their present salaries, travel agents may not even use these benefits because they cannot even afford to travel.

However, there are still those who want to become a travel agent in spite of everything. So, for those who really insist on becoming a travel agent, here’s how to do it.

1. A second language is a must for those who want to become a travel agent. Travel agents deal with different nationalities and a second language may just be handy in the future.

2. It is a must for every would-be travel agent to undergo 6-12 week training on how to become a travel agent. This includes all the basics of the job. 

3. Computer literacy is also important because all of the transaction, invoices, and reports are done through computer utilization.

4. Knowledge on up-to-date information about the trends in the business. Also, it is a must for every travel agent to know the best places to go.

5. It would be better for those who want to become a travel agent to have their certification as a Certified Travel Counselor. This is an added value to their work.

Becoming a travel agent is entirely dependent on the person’s interest. So, whether the salary is low or high, as long as the person is happy with the job, then, there wouldn’t be any qualms for it.


