Title: 
Global Travel and Vacations:  Luxury Travel on a Tight Budget

Word Count:
546

Summary:
Taking a vacation on a tight budget doesn't have to mean sacrificing the quality of your trip or hotel stay.  Here are some great tips on how you can enjoy a luxury vacation even on a tight budget...


Keywords:
travel, resort, vacation, holiday, cruises, europe, hotel, golf, beach, money, ocean, work at home


Article Body:
Traveling on a tight budget often limits families and individuals from experiencing their vacation to the fullest. But with a little budgeting and research, you can enjoy a luxury vacation even on a tight budget. After all, you've worked hard all year long, and your vacation should be a relaxing, fun experience. 

Here are some travel tips to help you budget for your global travel and vacations and find great deals on luxury resorts around the world.

Create a Vacation Savings Plan

Instead of trying to gather up enough money for vacation at the last minute, develop a savings plan at the start of each year. Save only $20 per week and you'll have $1040.00 after 12 months. This can take care of the hotel bill and maybe more if you find a great bargain!

Save Money on Food

When you arrive at your destination, go shopping for groceries. Note: Be sure the hotel or resort provides a refrigerator and microwave or stove. Save your "dining out" money for a few really special evenings out. This will allow you to enjoy a few delicious meals instead of wasting dollars on fast food every day. One family-of-four meal at a fast food restaurant could cost $30 USD or more!

Reserve in Advance

If you know far enough in advance where and when you will take your holiday, you can book your hotel and flight in advance and receive savings. Phone the hotel or resort where you would like to stay several months ahead and ask them to mail their latest brochure to you. Often times the brochures will contain rates for certain dates along with coupons. You can take advantage of "early bird" or "off-season" discounts.

Get to Know Local or Online Travel Agents

Contact local travel agents in your area and ask to be notified when special deals arise. They are willing to help because they get paid a commission. Also, ask about brochures to various luxury resorts around the world so you can get an idea of where you would like to go.

You can also join with a travel group online to receive enormous discounts on four and five star luxury resorts in Europe, Asia, Greece, Egypt, Israel, and many other destinations. Whether you'd like to stay at a beach resort, ski resort, golf resort, or take ocean cruises, they will do the research for you using their years of expertise. For even more savings, you can also sell global travel and vacations or memberships to others through a travel group and earn money. This allows you to work at home with your very own travel business or at least pay for your own vacation!

Plan Activities Online

Once you know your destination, you can plan some of the more expensive activities online in advance to enjoy Internet savings. Popular amusement parks, museums, and entertainment venues often give a discount for ordering tickets online in advance.

Save on Air Fare

If traveling by plane, try bidding on tickets to get a good price or look for departure times that offer cheaper rates. Many airlines cost less during the off-seasons as well.

No matter what your travel budget, you can enjoy a great vacation if you do enough advance planning. Make the most of your holiday while spending less!


