Title: 
Global Resorts Network (GRN) Putting Timeshares to Shame

Word Count:
378

Summary:
Global Resorts Network is changing the way people travel all over the world.  Brent Conrad with LifetimeResort.com has teamed up with Global Resorts Network (GRN) to provide the most enticing Lifetime vacation package ever!


Keywords:
Global Resorts Network (GRN),LifetimeResort.com,Vacation,Money,Life,Wealth,Never work again,Riches,Spend time with your family, Work at home,No Annual Fee,No Exchange Fee, No Black Out Dates,Afforadable,Resorts,resort,Beach,Sand,Drinks,Tropical,Global,GRN,Dinner,Moonlight,Hotel,Hotels,best price,Room Service,become rich,Lifetime Membership,LifetimeResort, water, Paradise,Income,Travel Membership,Flight,Car Rental, Money,Success,Black Sand,direct success,worldwide,sun, pinacola,tan,spring break, Restaurant, Eating out, Room Service, Bed, Kitchen, Love,holiday,baby Boomer,Hawaii,Bahamas,View,Balcony,Room With View, Ocean View,Timeshare,Forum,Location,Locations,Salt,Seafood,Work,Studio,Scuba Diving,Scuba,Snorkling,Whales,Whale watching,Dolphins,Cruise,walk on the beach,Parasail,Layout,Cheap tickets,rental,rentals,Shells,Entertainment, Dance,Sunset,Sunrise,Hilton,Expedia,Travelocity,Hot,Hot deals,White sand,Island,Private,Membership, Privat membership,Crab, Lobster,Fish,Sub,Shark,Turtle,Family,Gas,New,5,000 locations,Constant Income, Cash Flow,Jamacia,St. Martin,Florida, Miami,New York, Vegas, Las Vegas, Texas,Figi,Private Island,Income for Life,Mexico,Cabo San Lucas,Martini,Tranquility, Palm tree,work out room,Massage,Bungalo,Mobile,Flippers, Coral Reef,Helicopter,Helicopter ride,Boat,Deep Sea Fishing,Internet,Retire,Dining,Expensive,Sailing,Honeymoon,Warm Water,China,Thailand,Itinerary,Alabama, Alaska ,American Samoa ,Arizona ,Arkansas ,California ,Colorado ,Connecticut ,Delaware ,District of Columbia ,Florida ,Georgia ,Guam ,Hawaii ,Idaho ,Illinois ,Indiana ,Iowa ,Kansas ,Kentucky ,Louisiana,Maine ,Maryland ,Massachusetts ,Michigan ,Minnesota ,Mississippi ,Missouri ,Montana,NebraskaNevada ,New Jersey ,New Mexico ,New York ,North Dakota ,Northern Marianas Islands  ,Oklahoma ,Oregon ,Pennsylvania ,Puerto Rico ,RhodeIsland ,South Carolina ,South Dakota ,Tennessee ,Texas ,Utah ,Vermont ,Virginia ,VirginIslands ,Washington ,West Virginia ,Wisconsin ,Wyoming


Article Body:
Brent Conrad talks with everyone from, frequent travelers to the busy family that can only get away for vacation every couple of years. He states that saving people thousands of dollars that can be used elsewhere in life is priceless. 

LifetimeResort.com has given the average family a chance to vacation to the most exotic locations all over the world at a fraction of what it would normally cost to own a timeshare. Selecting from more than 5,000 different locations worldwide and over 200,000 available weeks makes the availability factor non-existent. Timeshares will be a thing of the past in the near future. Timeshares have a huge upfront cost that comes with mortgage payments if you can not afford to pay all of the initial cost upfront. They have annual dues whether you use the one lousy week of vacation or not! If you would like to stay somewhere else, you have to exchange your week for somebody else’s, GOOD LUCK! And if you want to sell your timeshare, Brent Conrad with Global Resorts Network (GRN) and LifetimeResort.com  will tell you, it will be more fact than fiction that the most you will get for your timeshare is 15-20 cents on the dollar. There are so many negatives associated with a timeshare that no wonder most timeshare owners are disappointed. It truly is one of the worst investments an individual can make.

LifetimeResort.com is taking a new approach on Travel. They believe in being able to pay a low one time, Lifetime membership fee that has No annual fees, No monthly Fees, No exchange fees, and No other fees ever! LifetimeResort.com is giving you a choice from over 5,000 different Resorts worldwide to choose from. These are NOT Motels either. They are four and five Star Resorts that are very well known. The rooms are spacious and have kitchens and balconies with views! The best part is, the most a client will ever pay is $698 for 8 days and 7 nights with No Black out dates or restricted weeks. The value on that is so apparent that LifetimeResort.com receives calls and e-mails from all over the globe on a constant basis.
<br><a href="http://www.submitsuite.com/products/article-submitter.htm">This article was published using Article Submitter</a>


