Title: 
Golf in the Costa Tropical, Andalucia

Word Count:
426

Summary:
Andalucia is the new destination for tourism in Spain. There are several options that this Costa Tropical region offers to tourist like sightseeing, suntan at the beach, snorkeling, trekking up the mountains, skiing in the winters and golf. Golf has become a major holiday sport and these days many hotels in this region have their own sprawling golf lawns.


Keywords:
golf, leisure,travel,holiday,spain,andalucai,costa tropical,grnada


Article Body:
According Real Federacion Española de Golf, their research has revealed some interesting statistics. According to them there were 35,462 registered golfers in Andalucia in May 2003 and has increased incredibly over the years. In 1983, the number of registered golfers in Costa Tropical was 33,711 as compared to 25,700 in the other areas of Spain.

Ramon Davila, the President of Andalusian Association of Land Developers of Residential and Sporting Tourism has said that there is a requirement for another 30 golf courses in the region. Golf has become a popular sport over the years in this region because of the number of foreign tourists visiting each year and because of the climate. Andalucian climate just seems to be so perfect for a game of golf. 

Right now there are 9, 18, 36 and 54 holes golf complexes available to tourists as well as part-time residents in this region. Some of the top regions with golf courses include:

Huelva
There are several golf course projects in the pipeline and under construction in Huelva like the 36-hole course at Ayamonte and a par 72 championship course as well as a par 71 measuring 6,300m. One of the popular places for playing golf in Huelva is the Islantilla golf resort, which is a 27-hole golf complex. The El Rompido Golf & Beach Resort is situated just an hour away from Huelva.

Cadiz
One of the popular golf courses here is the Novo Sancti Petri that has been extended from being a 27 hole to 36 holes and is expected to be increased to 54 holes. 

Golf Courses in Almeria
Almerimar Golf course: 18 holes/72 par
Cortijo Grande: 9 holes/36 par
Los Moriscos: 9 holes/36 par

Golf Courses in Cordoba
Cordoba: 18 holes/72 par
Granada: 18 holes/70 par
Los Moriscos: 9 holes/36 par
Pozoblanco: 9 holes/36 par

Malaga
The Flamingos Golf course is situated on the Marbella side of Costa Tropical. This golf course has been re-designed to host the European Seniors Tour Matchplay Championship. The Villa Padierna golf course is owned by the Grand Luxury hotel and it houses an Academy too. The Flamingo Blanco golf course is an unusual course because it has a par of 59. 

The Marbella Club Resort is planning to build a second golf course similar to the previous Dave Thomas course and it is going to be built right in the hills of Costa Tropical. This golf course is being built for the guests at the Marbella Club, Hotel Torrequebrada and the Puente Romano. 

There are many more golf courses being built and some are still in the pipeline but it seems that this is going to be the next top Golf destination in the world.


