Title: 
Great Yarmouth – For The Perfect Seaside Holiday!

Word Count:
534

Summary:
The article talks about Great Yarmouth as a great seaside holiday destination, with all year round attractions, great beaches and numerous activities to amuse all the family.


Keywords:
Great Yarmouth holiday, UK seaside holiday, Norfolk holiday


Article Body:
A buzzing seaside resort, Great Yarmouth on the beautiful Norfolk coast has all the right ingredients for a traditional seaside holiday the whole family will enjoy. 

Long stretches of golden beach, bags of attractions both indoor and outdoor for all ages, and many places to eat—including of course the traditional seaside fish and chips—ensure that Great Yarmouth caters for all.

The most essential element of a seaside holiday has to be the beach—and the 15 mile stretch of sandy beaches, dunes and unspoilt coastline between Winterton-on-Sea to Hopton, make Greater Yarmouth stand out from the crowd. Bring buckets and spades to make sandcastles, paddle in the sea – or even venture in for a swim on this award winning coastline - and simply enjoy the magic of a great British resort.

The resort looks out over Scroby Sands, the site of an impressive wind farm and also the home of a beautiful colony of seals, which can be visited by boat and is a great trip for all the family. Along with the Scroby Sands seals, there are many other fantastic things to see and do. 

For a fun-packed afternoon, visit the seafront theme parks where there are rides for small children and adventurous teenagers! Spend some time and a few pennies as you play the penny slot machines in the glittering arcades along the Golden Mile – where the fun never ends! 

Fun family activity is what Great Yarmouth is all about! Adults and children will love playing on one of the craziest mini-golf courses, while there are opportunities to hire a pedal or rowing boat for a lake tour at nearby Fritton Park. 

If the unpredictable British weather takes hold for a while there are some terrific indoor attractions. Make some amazing animal discoveries of reptiles at Amazonia or find out about the incredible creatures that live in our oceans. There is also a swimming pool and a chance to step back in time to the mid-20th Century at one of Great Yarmouth’s newest attractions, yesterday’s World.  

Great Yarmouth also has some wonderful history, with fascinating tales of Yarmouth’s famous figures including the great Admiral Lord Nelson. Discover what life was like for fishermen in years gone by or visit the birth place of Anna Sewell, the author of the children’s favourite ‘Black Beauty’. There are also guided walking tours available where you’re sure to uncover more interesting facts about the historic town.

And there is plenty to do in the evenings with some first-class entertainment. Experience a traditional end-of-the-pier theatre to see familiar faces take to the stage including comedy acts, while there is an amazing circus with heart-stopping trapeze acts and clowns, of course! If you’d prefer to keep active there is also a bowling alley and dog racing where you can soak up the thrills and excitement either by watching or having a little flutter.  

An all year round holiday destination, Great Yarmouth has a terrific range of accommodation choices from hotels to holiday parks, cottages to caravan parks to choose from. So to rekindle childhood holiday memories and experience a great British tradition, consider visiting Great Yarmouth for your next family holiday.


