Title: 
Great Sights in Spain

Word Count:
575

Summary:
When traveling to Spain, be ready to gratify in a diversity of culture and traditions. With its many regions, each with its diverse authority and ways of doing things, travelers to Spain will be certain be treated to a plethora of picturesque sights, sounds and experiences


Keywords:
Travel, Spain , Great Sights


Article Body:
When traveling to Spain, be ready to gratify in a diversity of culture and traditions. With its many regions, each with its diverse authority and ways of doing things, travelers to Spain will be certain be treated to a plethora of picturesque sights, sounds and experiences. 

Touted as one the world's famous tourist destinations, Barcelona, travelers to Spain will find the openwork spires of the El Templo Expiatorio de la Sagrada Familia or the Church of the Holy Family. The personal obsession of Catalan architect Antoni Gaudi y Cornet was reflected in the neo-Gothic architectural masterpiece reknowned for its undulating curves and flamboyant design just before he died in a trolley accident. Travelers to Spain's Barcelona will also find the paved thoroughfare Las Ramblas leading to Plaza de Catalu'a fascinating. In the oldest section of the city, travelers to Spain will get to see the Church of San Pablo del Ocampo and the Gothic Cathedral of Santa Eulalia, which is a monument to Christopher Columbus. In Barcelona, the Barri Gotic and the red brick Arc del Triomf can be found. Both were designed by Josep Vilaseca. 

Travelers to Spain will love touring Barcelon's finest educational and art institutions. Among them are the University of Barcelona, the Autonomous University of Barcelona, the Royal Archives of Aragon, the Archaeological Museum, the Museum of Ancient Art, the Museum of Modern Art and the Contemporary Art Museum.

Madrid, the capital of Spain, is a metropolis known for its nightlife. Travelers to Spain will be entertained with its bars and summer terazas. Areas of note are the Chueca and the Circulo de Bellas Artes where travelers to Spain can enjoy relaxing and drinking in its many bars and discotecas. Three of the finest museums in the world can also be found in Madrid. travel through Spain's art history as you view the country's art collection. Museo del Prado is the most famous of the lot. Travelers to Spain will be able to see in the museum Velazquez's Las Meninas and Goya's Las Majas. 

The Centro de Arte Reina Sofia, on the other hand, houses Pablo Picasso's Geurnica, a depiction of the Spanish Civil War. Travelers to Spain should consider the following notable museums such as Thyssen-Bornemisza art museum that houses close to 800 paintings; the Lazaro Galdiano Museum; the National Library, which houses every book published in Spain; Museum of Bullfighting; the National Museum of Decorative Arts; and the Cultural Center of Madrid, which contains a theater for zarzuela, Spain's version of the opera. Of course, no place will compare to the Royal palace itself, where travelers to Spain can walk through the residential rooms of 18th and 20th century royalty. 

Another sight that travelers to Spain should not leave without seeing is the Alhambra Palace, which is possibly the greatest work of the Moorish art in Spain. Consisting of several courtyards and patios, this Palace in Granada is a superb piece of architectural work with its elaborate inlaid walls and ceiling designs.

Traveling to Spain will not be complete without visiting Cordoba, a city in the South. Look for the Mezquita, Europe's grandest and utmost gorgeous mosque. Alcazar is another magnificent tourist destination. This Moorish palace was the venue for the Inquisition though it is currently essentially in ruins.

Spain's sprawling beaches and resorts also provide the perfect tourist destination. Travelers to Spain will fancy Costa del Sol and the Costa Brava, a string of coves from Palamos to Begur.


