Title: 
Green Valley Spa

Word Count:
394

Summary:
Green Valley Spa is the ultimate destination for eco-adventure travelers who want to exercise more than their major muscle groups. In addition to all the latest fitness techniques like Cardio La Cha Cha (a total body exercise derived from Latin Merengue, Salsa, and Samba dance moves); fitball; Pilates; and Tai Chi, Green Valley Spa takes guests on a spiritual workout.

Get started with an Aura & Chakra Field Analysis, which uses color therapy and energy medicine to measure,...


Keywords:
spa treatment, luxury spa, fitness, wellness, health, massage


Article Body:
Green Valley Spa is the ultimate destination for eco-adventure travelers who want to exercise more than their major muscle groups. In addition to all the latest fitness techniques like Cardio La Cha Cha (a total body exercise derived from Latin Merengue, Salsa, and Samba dance moves); fitball; Pilates; and Tai Chi, Green Valley Spa takes guests on a spiritual workout.

Get started with an Aura & Chakra Field Analysis, which uses color therapy and energy medicine to measure, analyze and display an accurate representation of your emotional-energetic state, and aura and chakra energy centers. You'll get a 24-page report, complete with your aura and chakra photos, plus a detailed account of your current energetic state, and personal profile.

Energize your body and mind with a guided "spirit hike" among the red rocks, trees, water, and flowers of Southern Utah. After you're done getting all worked up, come back down to earth with Rapunzel's Secret Hot Oil Treat. Green Valley Spa do their treatments right; for this heavenly treatment you'll rest under a willow tree"that's right, a willow tree" while your head, neck, and shoulders are gently massaged with a special cream, scalp tenderly stimulated with fingertips, and a warm pack applied to the hair.

While the marvelous ingredients work wonders, you get to bask in the warm breeze of the fresh outdoors. Supposedly when it's over you'll feel like a fairy godmother brushed you with her magic wand (maybe sitting under a willow tree has something to do with it?). Want something more substantial? Try a Painted Desert Clay treatment for enlivening dull skin. Allowed to dry and then brushed away, the clay reduces excess water weight and strengthens skin tone. When you're not getting rubbed down or worked out, spend time enjoying the views from your suite or learning something new. Sure, you're on vacation but why not broaden your horizons?

Learn to cook the "Green Valley Way" or take a golf lesson. Concerned about longevity? Of course you are! Why else would you be at a health spa in the middle of nowhere getting wrapped in clay? Take a class presented by Dr. Gordon Reynolds, where he'll share strategies for longer, healthier living. After such an amazing experience you can't go home empty handed. Take home a piece of Green Valley with the salt, clays, sand, and vegetation used in your treatments.


