Title: 
Guide To Bareboat Charter

Word Count:
659

Summary:
A bareboat charter is a great way to enjoy a luxury sailing vacation, without the hassle of other passengers. The first step in planning your voyage is to select a destination. The Bahamas and Caribbean are popular destinations for yacht charters. Several companies in Miami and Fort Lauderdale offer ships for trips to these destinations. 

An Overview of a Bareboat Charter
 
Once you have decided on a destination, you will need to choose a boat. The charter company or bro...


Keywords:
yacht charter companies,greece,travel,vacation,sailboat,yacht charters, tourism,


Article Body:
A bareboat charter is a great way to enjoy a luxury sailing vacation, without the hassle of other passengers. The first step in planning your voyage is to select a destination. The Bahamas and Caribbean are popular destinations for yacht charters. Several companies in Miami and Fort Lauderdale offer ships for trips to these destinations. 

An Overview of a Bareboat Charter
 
Once you have decided on a destination, you will need to choose a boat. The charter company or broker will send you brochures, pictures and descriptions of boats. Once you have chosen a boat, you sign a contract and pay a deposit to reserve your trip. Read the contract carefully. It will contain information on:

o Liability insurance
o Cancellation policy
o What is included in your charter
o Security deposit
o What to do if you experience a problem with the boat

Read the information carefully and ask questions about anything that isn’t clear or that you don’t understand. 

In most cases, you are paying only for the boat. You and your crew will be responsible for sailing the boat on your voyage. If you aren’t qualified, you will need to hire a skipper. The charter company can help you with this. You will be responsible for fuel, taxes and port fees. In addition, you will need to provide food and other supplies. You will need to arrange travel and hotel reservations. Some companies work with a travel agent that can help you with this and often get you a better rate. 

The size and age of the boat determine the cost. If you are travelling with several friends, family members or other couples, you can split the cost. This is a great way to enjoy a luxury vacation at a reasonable cost. With your co travellers, you will need to set an itinerary for your trip. Decide what activities you are interested in, and the sights you want to see. The charter company will help you set an itinerary that will include something for everyone in your group. 
 
Requirements
 
You will need to prove that you are qualified to handle the ship you intend to rent. You will be asked for your sailing resume, which details your experience. Some companies require a Bareboat Sailing Certificate. Prior to departure, a skipper will take you out on a short cruise for you to demonstrate your skills. This allows them to be sure of your ability and gives you a chance to get comfortable with the sailboat or motor yacht. If the skipper is not convinced of your skill, you will need to hire a skipper for the voyage. This can cost up to $200 per day. 

Choosing a Charter Company

You can charter either directly with the charter company or work with a charter broker. A broker works with several charter companies worldwide. The fee is paid by the charter company. The benefit of a broker is they have access to more boats and may be better able to find the perfect boat for your needs, and to fit your budget. 

Good brokers are familiar with all the boats they broker. You will be sent pictures, brochures and descriptions of each boat to help you make a decision. Ask about the age and condition of each boat. The newer the boat, the higher the price you will pay for your vacation. A five year old boat will be less expensive, but if it is well maintained, can give you a great trip at a lower cost. 

Whether you are using a broker or a charter company, choose an organization that has been in business for a long time. Check with the Better Business Bureau for information on companies operating in the United States. Ask for references from people who have used the company or broker in the past. Your trip is a big investment and you want to be sure you are making the best choice.


