Title: 
Guide to TV, VCR, and DVD Voltage Converters

Word Count:
609

Summary:
Taking your entertainment items with you while traveling overseas? Read this quick guide about voltage converters and formats for TV, VCR, and DVD....


Keywords:
voltage converter, voltage transformer, 110v to 220v 110 220 volts


Article Body:
When traveling overseas, voltage differences in various countries should be considered if you want to take along your TV, VCR, or DVD player. Luckily, there are products such as TV, VCR, and DVD voltage converters to make traveling with these items easier.

How Voltage Converters Work

Voltage converters, often called voltage transformers, enable you to use 110v TV, VCR, or DVD player with a 220v outlet or vice versa. Step down converters will lower the voltage from 220v to 110v (or other voltage ranges) while step up converters will raise the voltage from 110v to 220v (or other voltage ranges).   

When Do You Need a Voltage Converter?

A voltage converter or transformer is needed when traveling to other countries where the standard voltage differs from the standard used in your own country. If your country has a standard of 110 volts and the country you plan to visit has a standard of 220 volts, then you will need an 110v to 120v converter. If the opposite is true, you'll need a 220v to 110v volts converter.  Some countries offer both voltages, in which case you wouldn't need a voltage converter.

TVs and Voltage Converters

If taking your TV along, keep in mind that monitor formats for displaying television shows are often different in other countries.  Televisions create a surge when turned on, so choose a TV voltage converter that is more powerful than the wattage indicated on the back of your TV set. 

Though a voltage conversion will allow the television to work power wise, it will not make the format compatible. North American format for TV is called NTSC.  Other modes such as PAL mode used in Europe are not compatible with a television designed for NTSC mode. So, a voltage converter plus a multi-system TV might be required.

VCR and DVD Players for Traveling

Traveling with a VCR and DVD player can also be a hassle if you own an older model. The older versions may not work with some formats of televisions overseas, and many models (old or new) will likely need a voltage transformer to operate. Check the format of your player to ensure it matches the format of the available television set. Also, find out the voltage of the country you plan to visit.

Once plugged in, the VCR and DVD player can be used to watch videotapes and DVDs from your country, but maybe not those from another country. Just like with TVs, there are various formats being used around the world for videotapes and DVDs such as NTSC and PAL. 

Newer models of VCRs and DVDs called multi-system, code free, or region free will enable you to watch films from your country or from the country you are visiting. Also, some newer machines will convert the voltage automatically, so there's no need for a voltage converter with these.

Voltage Regulators 

Voltage regulators act as both a voltage converter and a voltage stabilizer. There are two types of regulators - Servo and Relay. A Servo type regulator stabilizes voltage by adjusting the converter or transformer to the desired output voltage.  It gives the most precise voltage and is great for areas with unstable voltage currency.  The Relay type regulator works electronically and is not as precise as the Servo type.

Before you go, find out what type of format and voltage converter you will need for your TV, VCR, or DVD player. If staying at a hotel, phone or email a hotel clerk to gather the information you need. Then, go online to shop for plug end adapters, voltage converters, or even a new multi-system or code free TV, VCR or DVD player for your enjoyment!


