Title: 
Guide to best family beaches in usa

Word Count:
535

Summary:
Beaches have always been a hot favorite as vacation spots. When one needs an escape from their daily chores the gusting waters at the sea provide a perfect sight to sooth the senses


Keywords:
family, beaches, travel, florida, duck


Article Body:
Beaches have always been a hot favorite as vacation spots. When one needs an escape from their daily chores the gusting waters at the sea provide a perfect sight to sooth the senses. Nothing is more rejuvenating than the best of U.S. beaches. Among top rated beaches in U.S. is the Fort Desoto Park’s North Beach, St Petersburg, Florida. The beach is a natural treasure for the city and accounts for majority of popularity enjoyed by it. It offers excellent opportunity for variety water games including kayaking, canoeing, boating, fishing, swimming, biking, camping and bird watching. A specialist attraction of the place is a dog park that enables one to go touring with their animal partners. Another vital facility offered here is ample parking space that is an essential requirement for any beach to be successful and popular. Concerned officers and administrators, who work to educate public about environmental concerns of the sea, contribute to enhance popularity of the beach through planned management and smart projects. 

Ocracoke Islands, Outer Banks, North Carolina is another favorite beach for vacationers. Ocracoke Islands being surrounded by water on all sides is reachable only by air or water and is a part of Hyde County. Its banks spread to around 16 miles offering all possibilities for surfing, fishing and swimming. Many birds that migrate from water and land on the eastern flyway present exotic view for bird lovers. 

One more beach adding to U.S. list of admired coastlines is Hanalei Bay, Kauai, Hawaii. The region offers excellent opportunities for high surfers and serves as a contest site for expert surfers. However there might even be dangerous waves at specific time spans. Both Amaama Road and Hee Road lead to Waioli Beach Park. Another popular coast is Hanauma Bay, on the island of Oahu that is essentially an underwater park. 

Florida boasts of having finest coastlines that spread around 1,100 miles. It has beaches to suit everyone’s taste. Shell Key, St. Pete Beach offers best birding opportunities with bird sanctuary spread more than half of the area. There is minimal concrete on the surface and consists of only natural beauties. Bahia Honda State Park is supreme tropical seashore revealing clear, gentle water. It serves as a tropical heaven on earth with swimming opportunities. Sebastian Inlet State Park at south of Melbourne Beach is excellent for surfing and is treated as capital of east coast. Another attraction of Florida’s beaches is that of South Walton famous for its soothing effects on feet. The gleaming sand on the beach provide exciting experience when walking bare foot. This is basically due to fact that this sand is composed mainly of pure quartz that has been brought down by Appalachian Mountains. The list of Florida’s superb coastlines extends to many other beaches but giving space to other seashores in U.S. are the following water bodies. 

Massachusetts, Coast Guard Beach at Cape Cod is major swimming beach during summer season. The region has limited parking space and even that remains closed during summer days. Visitors to the place are taken to and fro by specific shuttle bus services provided at those days. The place is excellent for hiking opportunities.


