Title: 
Have Luggage Security and Personal Identification!

Word Count:
295

Summary:
It's every traveler’s worst nightmare: standing at the luggage carousel in Anytown, USA, waiting for a bag that has unwittingly made its way to San Francisco. Add security to your luggage, Affordable Extremely Durable, High Gloss, Crystal Clear 10 Mil Laminated Tags! 2 1/2" x 4 1/4".


Keywords:
luggage, security, travel, identification, tags, id, gifts, baggage, vacation, airport, bus station, train station


Article Body:
It's every traveler’s worst nightmare: standing at the luggage carousel in Anytown, USA, waiting for a bag that has unwittingly made its way to San Francisco. Lost luggage can put a damper on even the shortest vacation. So if you're planning a family vacation this year, take the time to help ensure that your luggage ends up in the right place.  You can purchase unique, sturdy, weatherproof, bright, and bold luggage tags from my company, Luggage Tags Galore Store, with over a three hundred different graphic themes for you to pick from.  Measuring 2 1/2" x 4 1/4", Extremely Durable, High Gloss, Crystal Clear 10 Mil Laminated Tags!

You would never want to know all about the frustration lost luggage can cause.  Luggage care attendants have an enormous task of taking care of your luggage, while you're still on the ground.  Several pieces of information your luggage tags should contain to help your luggage arrive safely at your destination at the same time as you do. "The most important information you can put on a luggage tag is your name, home address and telephone number," and we also suggest that if you carrying a cell phone on vacation, use that number instead.

I also warn that luggage does occasionally get caught on various machines or can get wet if there is inclement weather, so it is important to make a tag that is durable and waterproof. Our tags are 10 mil thickness, which is heavy duty. Many companies only offer 5 mil luggage tags, and will fall apart easily.  As well, and we also note that our unique bright tags definitely STAND OUT in a sea of baggage.

Bottom Line!  For affordable unique, weatherproof, extremely durable, high gloss, crystal clear 10 Mil laminated luggage tags visit our website, at www.tagsgalorestore.com .


