Title: 
High Gas Prices Got You Down? Fun things to do Close to Home this Summer!

Word Count:
819

Summary:
22 Things Fun Things You Can Do Close to Home and Avoid the High Cost of Gas this Summer!


Keywords:



Article Body:
Summer Fun - Beat the High Cost of Gas and Stay Close to Home

I love Springtime; it’s my favorite time of the year.  It’s fun just to sit on the porch and drink a glass of fresh lemonade and listen to the birds sing.  Nature seems to bounce into new life as it beacons us all to a new beginning.  But soon it is over and then comes Summer.  Yea for summer!  School is out and there are lots of things to do.  What may be fun for some might not be fun for others.  But let me give you some ideas on those long summer days when the sun is scorching and a glass of lemonade is just not going to be enough to do the trick.

Although my favorite part of nature is the ocean, and I often hear it calling me in a soft voice, calling “C-i-n-d-yeeeee, C-i-n-d-y----eeeeeeee,  I know that because of the high price of gas, many people will be looking for alternatives closer to home if they don’t live close to the ocean.  I have to go to Daytona Beach, Florida, however. at least once or maybe even Myrtle Beach, South Carolina.

Anyway, since I live on the outskirts of Chattanooga, Tennessee here are some of the things I suggest:

1.  Take a walk along the Riverwalk or along the levee.

2.  Take a trip to the aquarium.

3.  Go to a great restaurant and we have quite a few (whether it be great southern B-B-Q or fried catfish and hushpuppies or a buffet with everything at Golden Corral).  Think about that last option several times if you plan on looking good in a bathing suit, however.  Ask me--I know.

4.  If you drive to our part of the country, bring your bikes as it’s a lot of fun to go to Chickamauga Battlefield and ride,  especially if you have a family and picnic areas are available.

5.  Go to the movie matinee and then a trip to the mall--whether it be to buy something new to add to your wardrobe or just window shopping.

6.  Join a health club with a steam room, sauna and outdoor  swimming pool -- I just did and I’m really looking forward to getting myself in shape.  I’m turning in to my mother more and more each day; since she take over 8 types of medication, I had no alternative.

7.  Go looking at new houses or open houses and just dream again.  Even if you plan on staying in the one you presently live in, it will either make you glad you live there or even give you new decorating ideas.

8.  Go to the flea market.
 
9.  Learn a new skill--whether it be marketing on the internet or playing the guitar.

10.  Visit a new church or go to church activities outside of what you are normally accustomed to, even if it is outside your realm of normality--experience the other side of life.

11.  Volunteer--whether it be at a hospital or non-profit agency or maybe go on a mission trip with your church or other organization and utilize your skills or just be of service.

12.  Have a block party and invite all your neighbors.

13.  Have your toes done--with the little painted on designs.

14.  If you have an elderly parent who lives alone, visit and stay for the day.  
15.  Work on a family tree and trace your roots; interview other family members and trace back as far as you can.

16.  Buy your dogs a new collar and take them for a walk after getting 
them groomed with a new summer hairdo.  When your pets feel good, it makes you feel good.

17.  Go to an outdoor sporting event like drag racing or baseball.

18.  Dye your hair a different color, just for the heck of it.

19.  Enroll in a yoga class.

20.  Go away to the mountains; here we are close to the Smokey Mountains and Gatlinburg--there are always fun family things to do there; you don’t even have to think.

21.  Take a trip to Whitewater Outdoor Water Park in Atlanta.

22.  Get around people who make you laugh.  My favorite person to make me laugh is my Dad. 

Yes, summer can be fun, but it does take a little planning, and if the high price of gas has you under the weather, just use your imagination when trying to find activities closer to home.  Even a picnic at the park can be fun.  Make a vow that this summer you will build on your family life and make memories.  You will be glad you did.  If you do come to Chattanooga, look me up and give me a call.

______________________
Cindy Brooks lives in Soddy Daisy, Tennessee with Rod and her two dogs (Bandit and Chancey).  If the high price of gas has you down, I have the solution.  For more information, go to http://www.internetwealthmethod.com


