Title: 
Hilton Head Accommodation

Word Count:
556

Summary:
The second largest barrier island on the east coast, Hilton Head Island, SC attracts more than 2 million people year round. In a courteous professional manner, we at Hilton Head Island accommodate cater to all of our guests. Located in the Lowcountry between Old South sister cities Savannah, Georgia, and Charleston, South Carolina, Hilton Head Island is plush with untouched marshlands, palmetto tree-lined roads, and 12 miles of public and private beaches. Whether you are trav...


Keywords:
hilton head, hilton head island, south carolina, sc, hilton head accommodation, vacation


Article Body:
The second largest barrier island on the east coast, Hilton Head Island, SC attracts more than 2 million people year round. In a courteous professional manner, we at Hilton Head Island accommodate cater to all of our guests. Located in the Lowcountry between Old South sister cities Savannah, Georgia, and Charleston, South Carolina, Hilton Head Island is plush with untouched marshlands, palmetto tree-lined roads, and 12 miles of public and private beaches. Whether you are traveling for business, golf, tennis, or family vacation, Hilton Head Island has a variety of accommodations to suit your needs. 

If you are vacationing with family and friends, affordable spacious homes and villas are available for as short or extended a period as needed. For those family reunions or vacations, mansions with 5 bedrooms or more have the endless seascape within walking distance or outside the living room window. For the romantic at heart, more intimate cottages and villas by the sea are ready and waiting to be rented. It's no secret to any golfer that Hilton Head Island hosts the Heritage Classic and boasts world-class courses. Rental houses, condos, and villas are tucked in along the sides of almost all courses, everywhere from first tee to eighteenth green. Whatever brings you to Hilton Head Island and however long you need to stay, we at Hilton Head Island will accommodate you with the type of rental property that suits and satisfies your needs. 

Whether visiting for an extended business trip or a pleasurable weekend at the beach with family and friends, Hilton Head Island has the hotel for you. With names you know and service you can depend on, the hundreds of island hotels vary in location and price, catering to all of our guests. With Hilton Head Island's laws and ordinances, hotels have a limited number of floors and exteriors that blend into the natural surroundings. In a more subtle way than other resort areas, our resort hotels display refinement while still having the luxury of pools and whirlpool spas, casual and fine dining, and the excitement of bars that inhabit the shore's edge. 

Traditional in their care and European modern in treatment, Bed and Breakfasts have the attention to detail the discerning guest comes to expect. Located in serene surroundings, with dancing fountain streams, lush gardens, and pampering spas, Bed and Breakfast inns of Hilton Head Island are first-rate for blissful honeymoons or the much-needed spoiling and tranquility of a getaway. After a respite in one of these Bed and Breakfasts, you will come away relaxed, refreshed, and ready for the jostle of day-to-day life. 

Among the more popular ways to stay on Hilton Head Island are timeshare rentals. Buying, selling, and renting timeshare property is an advantageous way to own a condo near the beach without your own efforts in upkeep and maintenance, so you can worry less about property issues and have more fun vacationing. And by exchanging your weeks and accruing points on the point system, you benefit by choosing different travel options around the world, while having a comfortable condo to come home to on Hilton Head Island. 

Whichever way you choose to stay on Hilton Head Island, the professionalism and courteousness of our hospitality you won't forget. And Hilton Head Island's beauty and charm will convince you to vacation with us again.


