Title: 
Hilton Head Resorts

Word Count:
466

Summary:
Hilton Head Island has a number of world class resorts, from 5-star branded hotels like the Westin Resort which is home to AAA four-diamond restaurant The Barony Grill, to the Sea Pines Resort which hosts the PGA Tour's annual MCI Heritage Classic one week after the Masters' in Augusta. The Disney Vacation Club Resort established in 1996 was fashioned after the hunting and fishing lodges fashionable in the 1940's. The resort covers fifteen acres and is adjacent to the Shelter...


Keywords:
hilton head island, hilton head, sc, vacation, travel, resorts, south carolina


Article Body:
Hilton Head Island has a number of world class resorts, from 5-star branded hotels like the Westin Resort which is home to AAA four-diamond restaurant The Barony Grill, to the Sea Pines Resort which hosts the PGA Tour's annual MCI Heritage Classic one week after the Masters' in Augusta. The Disney Vacation Club Resort established in 1996 was fashioned after the hunting and fishing lodges fashionable in the 1940's. The resort covers fifteen acres and is adjacent to the Shelter Cove Harbour Marina, with over 100 villas, a beautiful swimming pool, exercise room and a main lodge in the Palmetto Dunes Resort. Other resort areas include Shipyard Plantation, Palmetto Dunes, and Daufuskie Island. 

Shipyard and Palmetto Dunes offer a variety of activities including golf and world-class tennis, along with miles of beautiful beaches. Shipyard is renowned for its tennis and golf. It offers families affordable vacation experiences and is conveniently located near Coligny Plaza, North Forest Beach, and the Village of Wexford where fine dining and great boutique shopping are available. Also within the plantation is the Crown Plaza Resort considered by many to be the finest hotel accommodations on Hilton Head Island. Whether you enjoy golfing, playing tennis or just lounging by the pool, Shipyard is truly a resort for the adventurous and active family. 

Palmetto Dunes, located in the center of the island's seashore, offers other amenities such as fine restaurants, shopping and night life. Golf there is fantastic and challenging but yet social in nature. The plantation also includes an 11-mile lagoon system where one can rent a kayak and paddle away to observe some of the most beautiful homes on Hilton Head Island. 

Across Calibogue Sound from Hilton Head Island is the enchanting Daufuskie Island Resort, with miles of secluded beaches. The Daufuskie Island Resort offers a variety of romantic settings for weddings or intimate getaways. It's romance at its finest, a place where beautiful brides ride in horse-drawn carriages to their storybook weddings under canopies of palms and moss-draped live oaks. 

Finally, there is the original destination resort on Hilton Head Island. From its championship golf courses to the top tennis center in the United States, Sea Pines offers its visitors the best of everything. Sea Pines has quiet miles of bike paths, golf, spas, shopping, sandy white beaches, fishing charters and even dolphin cruises that depart from Harbour Town Marina, where the signature red and white lighthouse stands proudly looking over the harbor and the world famous 18th hole of the Harbour Town Golf Links. If you truly want a vacation for all ages, Sea Pines Resort has it. 

Hilton Head Island, simply put, is the gold standard for the vacationer who wants refinement and style. There are no neon lights, no ostentatious signs, just natural beauty blended with good old-fashioned hospitality.


