Title: 
Holiday Villas: The Perfect Home Base for Visits to Costa Blanca

Word Count:
501

Summary:
To fully enjoy all that the Costa Blanca area has to offer, those in the know rent holiday villas. Here's why....


Keywords:
Holiday,rent,rental,rentals,villa,villas,spain,costa blanca,portugal,algarve,costa brava


Article Body:
The Mediterranean coast beckons, and who are we to argue? If you've been to Costa Blanca, you know that Spain offers sun, sand, surf - and so much more. If you've never visited this slice of paradise in southeast Spain, you should definitely consider the area for your next holiday. 

The Appeal of Costa Blanca

There are a variety of reasons why Costa Blanca is so inviting. The sandy beaches are perfect for lazy afternoons, while the coves and inlets are perfect for scuba diving and snorkeling. For those who are so inclined, the Costa Blanca area offers everything from sailing and windsurfing to jet skiing and waterskiing. Anglers will appreciate fishing opportunities, while golfers enjoy gorgeous courses year-round. 

Aside from the pleasures at the water's edge, Costa Blanca offers a delightful assortment of other attractions. Shoppers love the boutiques and open-air markets, while night owls enjoy the lively club scene up and down the coast. Costa Blanca provides gastronomes with an array of taste sensations, from the freshest of seafood to traditional dishes like paella. 

The Best Accommodations

To fully enjoy all that the Costa Blanca area has to offer, those in the know rent holiday villas. The advantages of such rentals are numerous. One aspect that is appealing is that a villa rental allows you to have privacy, while another is that the villas are often incredibly spacious. If you're on holiday with more than four people, hotels tend to be too impersonal and don't have the space you need to really enjoy your time together. Holiday villas, on the other hand, can accommodate anywhere from six to twelve people. Similarly, a villa is often quite luxurious, and often has a private pool and other amenities that you and your party can enjoy.

Heading North to Costa Brava

Another ideal place to go on holiday is the Costa Brava region, located in northeastern Catalonia. The beaches are renowned, as are the artists (like Picasso and Dali) who treasured the area. As with Costa Blanca, you can easily rent a villa - or even an apartment - and make it your home away from home while you're on vacation. 

What to Expect

Whether you're interested in reserving holiday villas in Spain or in Algarve, Portugal, you should go online to see what's available. The most reputable sites have a fully automated, online booking system, and a standardized rental agreement. Generally, holiday villas are rented for a minimum of seven days, and a 30 percent deposit is required. In addition, you are typically asked for a deposit against incidental charges shortly before you arrive or upon arrival. 

Bed linens and towels are almost always included in holiday villas, as are cooking utensils and crockery. The cost of cleaning the villa is usually included in the price. Pets are generally not allowed, but if they are, an extra deposit is usually required. 

Costa Blanca is beautiful any time of the year, and there's no better way to enjoy it than from the comfort of holiday villas.


