Title: 
Holiday Guide-Enjoy your holidays & be healthy!

Word Count:
299

Summary:
Holiday season is the best among all seasons. Holiday season is the best for family gatherings, spending time with friends, and snowball battles. All of us want to enjoy holiday season. Several people feel migraine problems and severe headaches due to wrong strategy of spending holidays.  You should follow some guidelines to enjoy wonderful holidays.


Keywords:
holiday guide


Article Body:
Holiday season is the best among all seasons. Holiday season is the best for family gatherings, spending time with friends, and snowball battles. All of us want to enjoy holiday season. Several people feel migraine problems and severe headaches due to wrong strategy of spending holidays.  You should follow some guidelines to enjoy wonderful holidays. 

Following are some ideas that will definitely help you to make great holiday season:
 
During holidays try to eat little of everything whatever you want because holidays means fun not eating! Eat little instead of joining a gym after holidays.
 
Avoid potatoes & stuffed food. You should eat more vegetables during holidays to be fit and fine. 
 
Don’t spend your holidays in watching TV. You should spend your time with your nears & dears. 
 
Make a list of important activities that you want to do during holidays. This will reduce your tension and headache. 
 
You should also make a budget for your holidays and be familiar with your limitations. Don’t try to create more social events.
 
You may also handover some of your important tasks to a responsible person who is able to perform those tasks efficiently.
 
Get familiar with your financial limitations and also don’t try to cross your spending limit.
 
Don’t forget to take rest because you’ve to go back to your work after holidays.
 
Do your regular exercises and drink plenty of water and juices. 
 
Find some different ways that can make you happy. Forget the difficulties of past and be ready to enjoy your future. 
 
Don’t spend a lot on travel. You should try to participate in the festivals, marriages, birthday parties and other lovely occasions. 
 
Always spend your holidays with your caring friends, colleagues and family members. 
 
And of course don’t forget to laugh.


