Title: 
Holiday Insurance - Cheap Holiday Insurance - Travel Insurance - Instant Holiday Insurance

Word Count:
429

Summary:
Instant online travel and holiday insurance. Get your cover policy immediately online.


Keywords:
travel insurance, holiday insurance, single trip travel insurance, multi trip online travel insurance, worldwide travel insurance, 


Article Body:
Instant Holiday Insurance is one of the UK's largest independent travel insurance company selling cheap travel insurance products, holiday insurance, medical and general insurance services. Instant Holiday Insurance is a trading partnered with  of Essential Travel Ltd, who are authorised & regulated by the Financial Services Authority No. 300175

Our Holiday Insurance Web combines great value with comprehensive cover. We cover you for lost or delayed luggage, lost cash, passport and other personal documents plus emergency treatment. We established to offer UK customers comprehensive holiday insurance at competitive low prices. The travel insurance policy will cover you for any medical expenses that you incur should you be involved in an accident or become ill and require hospitalisation. Apart from medical expenses the policy should also cover things like; legal expenses, cancellation & curtailment,loss of money, baggage, passport, etc. and personal liability. Probably the main thing to consider is to make sure you are covered for any activity that you intend to undertake so that you and your equipment are covered while participating,e.g. skiing, scuba diving etc. Travel insurance in an instance without any hassle and with totally safe online transaction from start to finish. 

We have a range of products including single trip holiday insurance, long stay holiday insurance, annual multi trip holiday insurance, ski holiday insurance and more for individuals, couples and families for a matter of months and need adequate cover at resonable rates.

We have partnered with Essential Travel to offer you fantastic deals on Travel Insurance. Essential Travel has teamed up with AXA Insurance UK plc to help provide you complete peace of mind on your holiday. We also offer family insurance and World Wide Travel Insurance online for UK holiday makers. Single Trip travel insurance is perfect cover if you are off on one holiday or escaping on a short break. If you are planning to travel a few times this year then an annual policy offers you both convenience and value for money. Our service specialist was set up with one main aim to provide convenient high value cover at the lowest prices possible.

You can easily get instant online holiday insurance quote where you can select your insurance package, date of travel, which could be for Europe or worldwide. Once package is selected,you can then enter your credit card details and get print off of your travel insurance policy and cover details immediately. Insurance certificate will reach to you either by email or by regular post.

Enjoy your holiday and be safe during holiday by getting insured with instant holiday insurance.


