Title: 
Hotels in Barrow

Word Count:
420

Summary:
Situated on the coast line of North West England is a large town called Barrow in Furness, the town looks over the bay towards England's famous holiday area Blackpool on one side and has the historical isle of Walney on the other.


Keywords:
furness,cumbria,hotels,bed and breakfast,uk,england


Article Body:
Situated on the coast line of North West England is a large town called Barrow in Furness, the town looks over the bay towards England's famous holiday area Blackpool on one side and has the historical isle of Walney on the other.  The town is only a short drive away from one of the most beautiful areas of the UK, the Lake District national park and because of this the town can often provide a useful base for tourists and travelers.

There are plenty of hotels in Barrow to choose from, the town also has a lot of guest houses and bed and breakfast accommodations each with their own individual characteristics, from the friendly relaxed atmosphere of Roosecote farm houses who serve massive breakfasts in the morning to the ultra modern Travelodge hotel facilities in the middle of the town.  Some of the guesthouses are converted Victorian buildings, however they have still kept the classic style of the age and look extraordinary.

 If you are looking for a guest house or hotel in Barrow then you will find that many of them are located on Abbey Road, this is the towns main road which can make it much easier to get out and explore the Furness area.  One such famous area to explore in Barrow is the 700 year old ruins of a Cistercian monk's abbey known as Furness Abbey, at one time the Abbey was the UK's second grandest Abbey and it is a very popular attraction.  Keeping on the same theme near this famous abbey you can find the Abbey hotel with its large gardens.  Sitting in 14 acres of its own private woodland the hotel has many facilities and can be booked for virtually any occasion such as weddings or parties.  On the other side of the town is Walney island a great place for kite surfing, the island also has some great bed and breakfast places to stay at.  No matter where you decide to stay in the area you can be sure that the service will be good and the stay will be pleasant, most of the family run guesthouses have been in business for a long time so they know how to make people feel welcome.

Thankfully now many of the hotels in Barrow in Furness now have their own websites so you can have a good look around and pick on you like the most. This also makes booking your place to stay much easier and whole break away from home run much more smoothly.


