Title: 
Houston Texas - A Great Vacation and Travel Destination

Word Count:
492

Summary:
Have the vacation of a lifetime at Houston, Texas - by knowing the Attractions to see - Best times to visit - Places to stay, and more.


Keywords:
houston,houston texas,vacation,travel,nasa,nasa johnson space center


Article Body:
Traveling to Houston, Texas whether for vacation or for business there are lots of different things to do and see. One of the most popular destinations in Houston, Texas is the NASA Johnson Space Center.

The Space Center is open from Monday-Friday 10 am – 5 pm and on weekends from 10 am – 7 pm. During the summer and holidays the hours are extended. If you are wondering about a particular time of the year when you are planning a vacation then you should check the events schedule to find out the operation hours. The Space Center is located about 25 miles from downtown Houston at 1601 NASA Parkway.

Entrance price is $18.95 for adults and children four-11 are $14.95. Seniors cost $17.95 and parking is $5. If you buy your tickets online then you will receive a special discount that you won’t receive if you buy at the gate. The best time of the year to go really depends on what you are looking for. If you like crowds then holidays and the summer are great times to go to the Space Center. But, if you like it when there are not a lot of crowds then the weekdays and winter months are better times to visit.

The audio astronaut tour at the Space exhibit is exceptional and is a great way to tour the center. As you are listening to the tour you may recognize the voices of past astronauts like John Glenn. The point of the space tour is to learn more about the history of space exploration and how the dream became a reality. There are audio tours available in English and Spanish as well as specialized tours for children. Learning the space history as you are touring the center is really incredible and makes the experience much better.

There are many attractions and exhibits including the Space Center Theatre, Blast Off Theatre, NASA Tour, the Astronaut Gallery, and Feel of Space, Starship Gallery, and the Kids Space Place . There really is something for everyone at the Space Center in Houston . There are many education programs as well. These include school visits, teacher programs, day camps, distance learning, space school, scout camp ins and education outreach.

When you are in Houston to visit the Space Center there are many places you can choose to stay. There are hotels, condos, and more for rent in Houston as well as in the surrounding areas that will allow you easy access to the Space Center as well as other destinations in and around Houston .

There is a website that has great information on USA Vacations and Unique Travel Spots Listed State By State and Season, the website is called: Seasonal Vacation Spots, and can be found at this url:

http://www.seasonalvacationspots.com

By Robert W. Benjamin

Copyright © 2007 

You may publish this article in your ezine, newsletter, or on your web site as long as it is reprinted in its entirety and without modification except for formatting needs or grammar corrections.


