Title: 
How Fantastic Would A Spa Break Be

Word Count:
642

Summary:
These days’ alternative therapies are all the rage. Reiki, aromatherapy, reflexology, crystal healing, detox regimes, it is difficult to know where to start. One of the best ways to try out some of the more popular treatments available is to go for a stay at a spa centre. Not only can you get away from all the burdens and bustle of modern life, but you can also try out many new treatments and leave all the hard work in the hands of others.

While a visit to a spa is often s...


Keywords:
Short breaks, spa, spa break, short holiday


Article Body:
These days’ alternative therapies are all the rage. Reiki, aromatherapy, reflexology, crystal healing, detox regimes, it is difficult to know where to start. One of the best ways to try out some of the more popular treatments available is to go for a stay at a spa centre. Not only can you get away from all the burdens and bustle of modern life, but you can also try out many new treatments and leave all the hard work in the hands of others.

While a visit to a spa is often seen as simply a great way to pamper the body, they are becoming an increasingly popular for brides to relax and beautify following all the arranging required and prior to the actual wedding event instead of a hen night. They are also a fantastic way to wind down after periods of high stress and form a central role in the healthcare and beauty regimes of all the female, and many male, Hollywood celebrities.

Typical services that are available can include a full body massage, aromatherapy, body wraps, facial treatments, Jacuzzis, saunas, steam rooms, swimming pools and gymnasiums, however most spas will also offer their own selection of tailored treatments from skilled therapists to provide the ultimate in holistic beauty care and supreme relaxation.

Usually the modern spas will offer a selection of different types of massages such as:

- Shiatsu which is meant to balance the body's QI energy forces. This involves the applying of varying degrees of pressure along points and meridians throughout the body which are associated with the QI energy flow. This is meant to strengthen and balance the bodies energy flow in order to promote feelings of well-being.

- Reiki which unlike many other forms of massage does not involve any pressure, instead using a traditional pattern of hand positions resting on the body to help bring deep relaxation and healing.

- Swedish massage is probably the most well known type of massage in the West, and uses a series of kneading, pummelling, brushing, tapping and rubbing motions to help treat injuries and reduce body tension.

- Reflexology is a surpisingly effective and deeply relaxing foot massage which uses steady pressure being applied to corresponding points in order to free blocks throughout the body, eliminating tensions, stimulating the circulation, and assisting the body's own natural healing process.

- CranioSacral Therapy is used to treat chronic pain, migraine headaches as well as a range of other conditions through the realigning of the spinal cord, from the bones of the skull right down to the sacrum at its base, along with the interconnected membranes.

- Lymphatic Drainage has become a popular and widely used whole-body technique, utilising precise, gentle and soothing rhythmic movements to aid both acute and chronic conditions such as, neuromuscular disorders, headaches and even types of fibrosis.

- Rolfing uses deep manipulation to help restore the body's natural alignment following injury or damage due to poor posture.

Other types of massage therapy can also be easily found, making often the most difficult part of the entire experience, deciding which ones to choose. If there is any doubt however there is sure to be someone on hand to advise which would be most suitable, at any reputable centre.

Next you can go on to the other services such as a facial which will leave you feeling cleansed and rejuvenated, after your skin has been exfoliated, toned and moisturised. Then when you are thoroughly worn out by being pampered, simply lie back and relax or visit the Jacuzzi to really feel the burn.

Locating a suitable spa is easy; a quick search on the internet or a visit to a UK short break specialist site (like http://www.superbreak.co.uk ) should bring up a list of fitting venues and treatments to choose from. Just don’t become too stressed when deciding where to go.


