Title: 
How to Get the Most Exchange for your Timeshare Vacation Dollars

Word Count:
437

Summary:
This article is about getting the most out of your timeshare unit, especially when you are using it in conjunction with an exchange company to vacation around the world, and not just at the resort where you purchased!


Keywords:
Vacation rental, family vacation rental, timeshare rental, fractional ownership, destination club, w


Article Body:
Do you know how to avoid a Timeshare Vacation Trap?  Timeshares have become a very popular alternative for families wishing to spend quality time together during the various school holiday seasons, yet everyone has heard the horror stories of people getting trapped in a Timeshare dilemma.

You spend a lot of money to have fun with your family. No one wants to get stuck with a place they can not sell, and no longer wish to visit. To avoid this trap you first need to consider the reasons you want to buy a Timeshare. 

Do you like to go to the same place every year? If you do then buying the exact week, in the exact apartment or lodge in your chosen resort is a fantastic idea. If going to the same place year after year sounds kind of boring, then perhaps you want to make use of an exchange company to visit different resorts and countries each and every year! There are over 5,000 resorts world wide to choose from. To most the concept of being able to explore different places around the world represents an ideal vacation alternative. Yet it’s not always possible to exchange the week that you own for the one that you want! Is there some way to better your odds? 

The answer to this question is in fact yes, it is possible to better your odds. The key is in understanding how Timeshare exchanges work. The concept of the timeshare exchange is simple. You are swapping a weeks vacation in one place for a weeks vacation in another place. A like for like exchange. So how then do they measure to compare the value of one week to that of another week in a different place?

The answer is simple. It really comes down to supply versus demand. The most popular Timeshare units are the larger ones in the highest quality resorts. The most popular times to travel are during the busiest holiday seasons when schools are closed and universities are on break. To have the maximum trading power you would need to purchase the largest and highest quality Timeshare unit, for a week that falls in the busiest season that you can afford. You may not always get an equal trade on your unit, but you will most likely get a good quality unit during your requested time period. 

Never consider a Timeshare as a "financial" investment. Do not be misled by salesmen's figures and projections. The timeshare is an investment in lifestyle. It’s a way of having a five star vacation without having to own your own five-star-resort.


