Title: 
How Trailers Aid Truck Use

Word Count:
536

Summary:
As an industry, the manufacture of trailers dates back only half a dozen years, but it has grown rapidly until today there are seventy-five or more trailer manufacturers in the country, and several are exporting to foreign countries. For more about utility trailers, dump trailers, gooseneck trailers, Logon to: http://www.texasbraggtrailers.com


Keywords:
car hauler,dump trailers,equipment trailer,gooseneck trailer,utility trailer


Article Body:
The trailer posses so many advantages as an auxiliary vehicle that it is coming into use rapidly, particularly in the central and far western states, where industry and commerce are less conservative than in the east. Those who have adopted equipment trailers find that they double their hauling capacity of their trucks, greatly reduce waiting time of trucks and drivers, and increase the earnings or cur down the ton-mile operating cost materially.
As an industry, the manufacture of trailers dates back only half a dozen years, but it has grown rapidly until today there are seventy-five or more trailer manufacturers in the country, and several are exporting to foreign countries. 
Trailers are made in a wide variety of types and capacities for all sorts of purposes, ranging from the little pneumatic tired two-wheel trailer of 500 pounds capacity, to be attached behind runabouts and touring cars, to ten-ton and fifteen-ton trailers and semi-trailers, hauled by powerful tractors and motor trucks. These include car haulers, dump trailers, utility trailers, equipment trailers, gooseneck trailer etc. Size is one of the main considerations while looking for a trailer. The maximum towing capacity and maximum tongue weight of your tow vehicle are limiting factors.
By use of trailers and car haulers, many hauling jobs can be done that would be impossible with trucks alone, as for example – the handling object too heavy, too big or too long to be loaded on the truck. Weights of ten to twenty tons and more are divided between truck and trailer so that neither is overloaded and the weight is distributed over six or eight wheels instead of being concentrated on four.
Tow trucks are expensive, especially if the distance is great. A utility trailer is a great way to haul vehicles and a good investment if you need to do so regularly. Packing equipment and loading it into a pickup truck bed can get old very quickly. A utility trailer will allow you to drive your equipment right up onto the trailer without the aid of ramps or two strong men. Utility trailers are great for hauling appliances, live stock and recreational vehicles. 
Open utility trailers are well suited for many applications including small landscaping businesses that are just starting out and need a way to haul their landscape equipment. As their business grows and they decide to move up to an enclosed trailer, the open utility trailer will still be incredibly useful for hauling all sorts of material such as mulch, rock and plants.
The use of dump trailers has been gaining in popularity as one of the most cost effective means for handling tear-off removal. Licensing fees, insurance costs and maintenance expenses associated with a dump truck are astronomical in most parts of the country. The use of dump trailers is a more cost effective and more versatile method for handling tear-off debris.
Dump trailers can be utilized for other practical purposes as well. Use it to haul equipment and material to and from various job sites. Their crews bring job site debris back to the yard at the end of each day. When the trailer is full, they just hook it up to their truck and take it to the dump.


