Title: 
How to Get the Lowest Airfare Possible

Word Count:
429

Summary:
Everyone knows that air travel can be expensive and we are all looking for ways to get it a little cheaper.


Keywords:
airfare, lowest airfare


Article Body:
Everyone knows that air travel can be expensive and we are all looking for ways to get it a little cheaper.  With all of the added fees and such, there is little left to the imagination of the extreme costs that come with this form of travel.  There are however ways that one can ensure they are getting the lowest airfare possible without having to go into the poor house to do it.  All you need to do is make a few plans and there is no reason why you can not travel for a decent amount of money on pretty much any airline that is currently in operation.

First and foremost you should plan ahead if you want the lowest airfare.  Airlines will give deep discounts to those that book well in advance of the departure time.  If you know when you need to leave then this is a good idea.  You can book in advance for up to eight months on most airlines and this will mean that you have some of the best rates. Those that get their reservations in well ahead of time and are on the plane first get the best rates for that flight.   This method is great for those that know when and where they are going to be traveling and that can mean a large discount.

For those that can not schedule in advance there is the good old stand by system to make for the lowest airfare.  In the event of a cancellation the airline is eager to fill that void.  In this event, there is a very good chance that you can get the seat at a greatly reduced rate.  This is due to the fact that the airlines want to make sure that they have as many people on each flight as possible to make sure that there is enough profit to mandate the flight.  Of course there is a chance that you may not be able to get on the flight if there are no cancellations.  And the fact is that you have to be in the terminal waiting for the cancellations.  This can mean some very long waits indeed.

For those that are internet savvy there is the popular online discount houses to get the lowest airfares.  These sites are very popular and have been saving people millions of dollars in airfare for the years that they have been in business. Using a direct link to the airline these sites will search the best possible packages to make sure that you get only the lowest fares.


