Title: 
Ideas for a Stag Weekend in Brighton

Word Count:
331

Summary:
Bright lights, bright folks, Brighton - the fastest growing venue for stag weekends in the UK. Brighton has always been known for its party-by-the-sea atmosphere, and it just keeps getting better. With a full slate of clubs and pubs from the posh to the dodgy, there's something to fit any stag night theme from the staid to the over-the-edge. If you're looking for a top spot to hold your stag weekend, Brighton is the place to be.


Keywords:
brighton stag weekends, stag weekends in brighton, stag do, stag night


Article Body:
Bright lights, bright folks, Brighton - the fastest growing venue for stag weekends in the UK. Brighton has always been known for its party-by-the-sea atmosphere, and it just keeps getting better. With a full slate of clubs and pubs from the posh to the dodgy, there's something to fit any stag night theme from the staid to the over-the-edge. If you're looking for a top spot to hold your stag weekend, Brighton is the place to be.

Brighton's beaches are spectacular - and just the place for a round of watersports to prime the pump for evening festivities. Whether your lot prefer a beach barbecue with volleyball and the best scenery to be found anywhere (and we're not talking about the cliffs here) or something more energetic, Brighton offers unique and unusual stag weekend activities that can't be found anywhere else. Spend a wet and wild weekend on the water with activities like kayaking, wakeboarding, waterskiing and Zap Cats, and finish up your night at a top VIP night club. (Hint: if your stag weekend in Brighton was arranged by a tour operator, you'll have no worries about queues - you can arrive in a limo or a party bus and be ushered right past the waiting throng.)

Brighton is host to a full schedule of party activities from the wild to the sedate. If paintball and extreme sports aren't quite the ticket for your stag weekend in Brighton, how about a vineyard tour, a night at the Casino or an afternoon of golf on one of Brighton's greens? And of course, there's no saying that you can't mix it up with a day of karting or kayaking followed by a night at one of Brighton's premiere lap dance clubs and a day at the race to recover.

Whatever type of event suits you best, Brighton is sure to provide it. A tour operator that specialises in creating custom stag weekends can help you put together the perfect goodby to bachelorhood for your mate.


