Title: 
Iowa Tourism

Word Count:
445

Summary:
Iowa is not always the first place people think of when they are deciding where to spend their tourist dollars. But the truth is, Iowa has a lot to offer tourists, and Iowa tourism is on the rise. Perhaps it has to do with the fact that Iowa has tourist activities for each season, and there is always something to do no matter what time of year you are investigating Iowa tourism options.

Facts About Iowa

The many sites available for Iowa tourism have lots to offer. These...


Keywords:
iowa, tourism iowa, real estate iowa, things to do iowa


Article Body:
Iowa is not always the first place people think of when they are deciding where to spend their tourist dollars. But the truth is, Iowa has a lot to offer tourists, and Iowa tourism is on the rise. Perhaps it has to do with the fact that Iowa has tourist activities for each season, and there is always something to do no matter what time of year you are investigating Iowa tourism options.

Facts About Iowa

The many sites available for Iowa tourism have lots to offer. These tourism sites are also happy to give some facts about Iowa for tourists to note. For instance, the capitol of Iowa is Des Moines, which is located in the middle of the state and has a population of over 198,000. The state flower is the wild rose, the state tree is an oak, and chances are pretty good that in the spring and summer you may catch a glimpse of the state bird, the eastern goldfinch. Iowa is named for the Ioway Indians that used to live in that region.

What Can You Do In Iowa?

The question should not be what can you do, but what can't you do. Iowa tourism is the quintessential travel destination in that it has something for every one. If you like to gamble, you can do it in Iowa. Iowa has some of the best cultural opportunities for tourists. Museums, art galleries, and musical and theater productions are common events in the bigger cities.

If you prefer the great outdoors, Iowa tourism is for you. You can hike, camp, fish, boat and golf on one of the state's many excellent golf courses. There are plenty of state parks to explore to your heart's content.

Iowa also offers tourists a rich heritage of history. There are historic sites to visit and learn about in every corner of state, especially along the mighty Mississippi.

And if you are just in the market for a good time, check out Adventureland, one of the best amusement parks around. Thrills and excitement are yours for the taking.

What Else Does Iowa Have To Offer?

Iowa has a tourist bureau that is ready and willing to help you plan your business or personal trip to their state. They can help you with family travel, pet-friendly travel, cheap and discount travel options and lots of information for the business traveler, too. They can give you information on everything from lodging to dining to area airports.

So if you have never thought of Iowa as a great travel destination, think again. Check out Iowa, and you will be pleasantly surprised. It's no wonder that Iowa tourism continues to grow.


