Title: 
Italian Translation Into English - Days & Months

Word Count:
304

Summary:
I have an ongoing interest in Italian English translation and Italian life in general. I hope this article Italian Translation into English - Days & Months' will help those trying to learn the Italian language. If these articles prove of interest then I will continue writing a whole series on these subjects.

Italian / English Translation of the Months of the Year
gennaio — January
febbraio — February
marzo — March
aprile — April
maggio — May
giugno — June
luglio — J...


Keywords:
italian,english,translation,into,axis,translations


Article Body:
I have an ongoing interest in Italian English translation and Italian life in general. I hope this article Italian Translation into English - Days & Months' will help those trying to learn the Italian language. If these articles prove of interest then I will continue writing a whole series on these subjects.

Italian / English Translation of the Months of the Year
gennaio — January
febbraio — February
marzo — March
aprile — April
maggio — May
giugno — June
luglio — July
agosto — August
settembre — September
ottobre — October
novembre — November
dicembre — December

Unlike the English translation, in Italian the names for days of the week are not capitalised.

Here is an Italian English Translation of some other useful phrases;
Che mese è? - What month is it?
In che mese siamo? - What month are we in?
È dicembre - Its December
Siamo in dicembre - We are in December

Italian / English Translation of the Days of the Week
lunedì — Monday
martedì — Tuesday
mercoledì — Wednesday
giovedì — Thursday
venerdì — Friday
sabato — Saturday
domenica — Sunday

Again, unlike the English translation, in Italian the names for days of the week are not capitalised. So the translation is not only the letters but also the capitalisation.

Here is an Italian Translation of some other useful phrases;
oggi - today
domani - tomorrow
Oggi è martedì - Today is Tuesday
Domani è giovedi - Tomorrow is Thursday

For me there is another side to this translation. Mondays in England v Mondays in Italy.
Generally an English Monday is rainy and depressing. But lets translate that to an Italian Monday. Sure you still have the daily commute. But it's much more likely to be a sunny day (even in winter). So even though you might wish you were still at the beach or skiing down a mountain, you feel much more happy. Especially as you stop for a coffee and take the time to talk Italian with strangers before starting work.


