Title: 
Keeping Lives Safe On The Road

Word Count:
424

Summary:
Accidents do happen unexpectedly, but they can be avoided. 

However, despite the fact that a lot of people are trying their best to avoid it, still, many are in danger in the road while traveling. They will never know when an accident will take place. In fact, it seems that the number of people who gets into accidents while traveling is continuously growing.

In 2003 alone, statistics show that over 6 million car accidents have been reported in the United States, and in ...


Keywords:
travel, safety


Article Body:
Accidents do happen unexpectedly, but they can be avoided. 

However, despite the fact that a lot of people are trying their best to avoid it, still, many are in danger in the road while traveling. They will never know when an accident will take place. In fact, it seems that the number of people who gets into accidents while traveling is continuously growing.

In 2003 alone, statistics show that over 6 million car accidents have been reported in the United States, and in those accidents about 2.9 million were injured and 42, 643 people were killed. That is, indeed, a very alarming figure considering the fact that the campaigns about driving safely and avoiding road accidents are in full force.

So, where does the problem lies? Is it on the driver, the car manufacturer, the government, or is it fate for most people who get into accidents? In reality, nobody can really tell who to blame. The only choice people have is to continue driving safely and avoid accidents.

However, in the event that accidents happen, the only way to solve the mishap is to deal with it. Here’s how:

1. Emergency numbers in one’s mobile phone are extremely important.

People just don’t realize this yet, but the emergency numbers stored in their mobile phones are vital to one’s life, especially when away from home or while traveling. 

Surveys show that people who usually survive in accidents are those who were attended to immediately by health experts. This goes to show that immediate actions are important so as to save people who have met accidents.

2. Panic is the number one killer in an accident.

The reason why many people do not survive in an accident is because they tend to panic first. They get so panic-stricken that they can no longer clear their mind and think of ways how to deal with the dilemma. That is why it is extremely important to stay calm when accidents and happen and think of ways how to solve the problem.

3. Prevention is still the number one remedy.

Today, car accidents are currently the top most causes of death, usually within the age bracket of 1 to 37. Hence, the majority of the drivers, who are prone to accidents, are young. Usually the causes of accidents in young people are speeding, reckless driving, not wearing seatbelts, and drunk driving.

And so, it is important to observe traffic rules and regulations so as to prevent road accidents while traveling. As they say, an ounce of prevention is better than a pound of cure.


