Title: 
Kelowna Siesta, The Pandosy Inn a Family Oriented Kelowna Motel

Word Count:
341

Summary:
Kelowna Siesta !! If you like the weather hot, enjoy the warmth of the sun, the beach, play golf, ski, enjoy good food and wine, the orchards, then these are just a few of the incredible attractions that draw tens of thousands of visitors and tourists to this travel paradise called the Okanagan Valley and Kelowna.  You will need a Siesta!


Keywords:
Kelowna, kelowna siesta, kelowna vacation, kelowna holiday, kelowna golf, kelowna wines


Article Body:
Kelowna Siesta, The Pandosy Inn a Family Oriented Kelowna Motel

A siesta, original Spanish meaning a short nap taken in the early afternoon, often after the midday meal. Such a period of sleep is a common tradition in hot countries. 

If you like the weather hot, enjoy the warmth of the sun, the beach, play golf, ski, enjoy good food and wine, the 
orchards, then these are just a few of the incredible attractions that draw tens of thousands of visitors and tourists to this travel paradise called the Okanagan Valley and Kelowna. 

All this, of course, with a chilled glass of wine in your hand! Once you have left the "luxury" of your Suite at the 
Pandosy Inn you are only a few minutes walk to the beach, minutes from the beachfront boardwalk, markets, and shopping at its finest. In case you were wondering Pandosy Inn is only blocks away from numerous beaches. Everything is within easy walking distance so don´t forget to take your camera along! 

The Pandosy Inn is a Kelowna Motel and is located right in the heart of Okanagan Mission Area. The Pandosy Inn is one of those hard to find gems that not everyone has a chance to experience. A family owned business that caters to your personal needs on a daily basis. Pandosy Inn's hospitality and the relaxed, "laid back" (siesta) style vacation experience that will have you wanting to come back year after year.  From the huge decks and balconies off your suite you will see a large pool and hottub area totally inside the motel structure of the Inn, not to mention the views of the mountains and lakes.

If your vacation is to be in paradise, Kelowna and the Pandosy Inn is a pretty good start, then please give them, your hosts at the Pandosy Inn a call, and allow them the opportunity to show you some good, old, Kelowna hospitality, and for you to experience the sights, and sounds that make Kelowna and Okanagan Valley an exceptional vacation experience.


