Title: 
Lake Hopatcong; A Vacation Paradise

Word Count:
308

Summary:
Just when I thought I experienced the best in New Jersey’s resort destinations at the Jersey Shore, a friend suggested I visit the Lakeland area in Morris County, in particular Lake Hopatcong. This is New Jersey’s largest lake and actually is located in two counties Morris and Sussex . The towns of Roxbury, Mount Arlington, Jefferson and Hopatcong border the lake. Each of these towns although distinct in ambience, has real estate properties in common. There are beautiful home...


Keywords:
 real estate, homes, condos, houses, homes, realtor


Article Body:
Just when I thought I experienced the best in New Jersey’s resort destinations at the Jersey Shore, a friend suggested I visit the Lakeland area in Morris County, in particular Lake Hopatcong. This is New Jersey’s largest lake and actually is located in two counties Morris and Sussex . The towns of Roxbury, Mount Arlington, Jefferson and Hopatcong border the lake. Each of these towns although distinct in ambience, has real estate properties in common. There are beautiful homes that are affordable where many of the employees of the resort areas reside. Also available are very upscale homes overlooking the lake. Many New Jersey residents are purchasing vacation homes in these lakefront towns. The vacation homeowners use these as their summer/fall retreat and the rest of the year subsidize their income by using the property as a rental.

Lake Hopatcong offers camping, water sports, fine dining, some of the best fishing in New Jersey much more. On Sunday mornings there are sailboat regattas. Regattas are a very exciting event to witness, especially when the lake wind kicks up!

Water skiing! Lake Hopatcong is like glass in the early morning. This is the place to be for water skiing, Lake Hopatcong has many coves, which offer wonderful water skiing conditions. If you have never water-skied before, there are water ski instructors for the novice or for the beginner who wants to become an expert.

Every type of recreational boating is welcome, whether it be speed, sail or pleasure boats. And yes Patio boats are also welcome, the "party barge" is alive and well on Lake Hopatcong.

For those who really enjoy the great outdoors, there are two public beach areas and Mahlon Dickerson Reservation for camping. Many New Jersey vacationers take advantage of these accommodations and use the local marinas boat rentals got their water sports activities.


