Title: 
Lake Havasu: More Than Just A Picturesque Resort Town

Word Count:
493

Summary:
Lake Havasu is home to the London Bridge and is known, internationally, as the ‘Personal Watercraft Capital of the World’. Lovers of the outdoors will have a great time enjoying the beautiful landscapes and breathtaking 450 miles of shorelines and sparkling waters of this spectacular lake in Arizona. Even though this town is recognized as a ‘resort’ area, it doesn’t have the crowds and over abundance of tourists that most resorts do, which makes it especially nice to visit.


Keywords:
lake havasu,lake havasu city az real estate,lake havasu city,lake havasu spring break


Article Body:
Lake Havasu is home to the London Bridge and is known, internationally, as the ‘Personal Watercraft Capital of the World’. Lovers of the outdoors will have a great time enjoying the beautiful landscapes and breathtaking 450 miles of shorelines and sparkling waters of this spectacular lake in Arizona. Even though this town is recognized as a ‘resort’ area, it doesn’t have the crowds and over abundance of tourists that most resorts do, which makes it especially nice to visit.

The lake community offers a huge selection of recreational activities including just about every kind of water-related activity you can think of. You can bring your own jet ski or boat or rent one of theirs. You can even take a cruise on a paddleboat around its waters. There is also camping, swimming and great trails to hike. 

The 45 mile long lake is surrounded by the Parker damn at the base of the Chemehuevi Mountains and provides free, public fishing access. Lake Havasu's deep waters offer striped bass, crappie, bluegill, catfish and trout. Additionally, there is lineside bass which can be found in schools around an area called the Parker Strip. A good tip for you fisherman is that some of the best fishing on the lake is toward the south end in the Bill Williams Arm.

If you like four-wheeling, ATV-riding, dune buggies or riding motorcycles, the Lake Havasu Bureau of Land Management (BLM) can accommodate any of your off-road recreational desires. You can really have a blast tooling around there as its terrain includes hundreds of miles of roads and trails in additional to two wide open areas. 

There are two public campgrounds located on the Parker Strip area of Lake Havasu with sites available on a first-come, first-serve basis. You can camp there along the beautiful Colorado River for up to 14 days. There is also the Empire Landing Campground which has 50 drive-in campsites in addition to 28 tent sites. This facility has outdoor showers, bathrooms and a swimming beach. Also, every campsite is equipped with its own picnic table. The Chemehuevi Indian Reservation also offers camping, boating, fishing and other facilities with a permit.

How about taking your boat camping with you? There are 125 lakeside campsites available on the Arizona side of the lake. Most of the sites at the boat-in campgrounds are equipped with a picnic table and bar-b-q grill and are also on a first-come, first-serve basis.

You can also check out the Lake Havasu State Park which is located on London Bridge Road along the beautiful shoreline of Lake Havasu. The park is open 365 days a year and has 3 boat launch ramps and 42 campsites. There is also a 1 ½ mile Mohave Desert walking trail and the Arroyo-Camino Interpretive Garden on the grounds.

In addition to campsites, there are also charming inns, hotels and two private resorts located on Havasu Lake. With accommodations for every lifestyle and taste, you are guaranteed a wonderful experience with memories that will last a lifetime.


