Title: 
Last Minute Festive Packages From Superbreak

Word Count:
487

Summary:
Why not let someone else worry about Christmas and New Year this year and book a last minute stay in a hotel over the festive period. Forget about buying the food, cooking the dinner, washing it up or organising the New Year party - just relax and concentrate on spending time with your loved ones. It’s not too late to down tools – short break specialist Superbreak still has availability for those wanting a real rest this year. From a candlelit dinner for two to a trip to the ...


Keywords:
hotel, hotels, travel, short break, holiday, vacation, accommodation, reservations, weekend break,


Article Body:
Why not let someone else worry about Christmas and New Year this year and book a last minute stay in a hotel over the festive period. Forget about buying the food, cooking the dinner, washing it up or organising the New Year party - just relax and concentrate on spending time with your loved ones. It’s not too late to down tools – short break specialist Superbreak still has availability for those wanting a real rest this year. From a candlelit dinner for two to a trip to the local pantomime there is something for everyone.
Examples include:

CHRISTMAS - Three nights in the Lake District - £375 per adult, £105 per child - Arrive at the four star North Lakes Hotel Penrith on Christmas Eve for a three night break in the Lake District. The package includes mulled wine and music by the Salvation Army on Christmas Eve followed by a candlelit dinner, traditional Christmas lunch starting with a glass of bubbly and followed by a visit from Santa plus a buffet in the evening accompanied by light musical entertainment. On Boxing Day there is time to explore or perhaps relax in the hotel’s spa before a candlelit dinner that evening with entertainment for a table-top magician. The price of £375 per person includes three nights’ accommodation on a dinner, bed and breakfast basis, Christmas lunch, entertainment as mentioned. Based on two adults sharing. Children under 16 sharing a room with adults cost £105 per person. Arrivals on 24 December only.

NEW YEAR - Three nights in Bournemouth - £299 per adult, £100 per child- Arrive at the three star Carrington House hotel on 30 December for a three night break seeing the New Year in with style. The package includes afternoon tea with children’s entertainment on arrival on 30 December plus a four course dinner with children’s buffet and disco until late, a trip to the local pantomime (Aladdin) on New Years Eve afternoon, a gala dinner with live band and disco to see in the New Year, brunch on New Years Day plus a three course evening meal with magician and night at the races. The price of £299 per person includes three nights’ accommodation on a dinner, bed and breakfast basis, New Year brunch, entertainment as mentioned plus tickets to the pantomime. Based on two adults sharing. Children under 14 sharing a room with adults cost £100 per person. Arrivals on 30 December only.

Who are Superbreak?

Superbreak ( http://www.Superbreak.com ), incorporating ( http://www.Theatrebreak.com ), is the internet division of Superbreak Mini Holidays Limited, the market leader for short breaks throughout the UK. Superbreak is part of Holidaybreak plc, a publicly quoted leisure company whose share price can be found in most major UK newspapers, or at http://www.holidaybreak.com.

Based in York, England, Superbreak specialises in booking 2-5 star hotel accommodation throughout Britain for the leisure traveller. Superbreak hold allocations of rooms at all hotels and we can book up to and including the day of departure.


