Title: 
Lets Go To Mexico - 5 Great Mexican Destinations

Word Count:
660

Summary:
So your finally going on that oft dreamt about vacation and your destination is Mexico, ole’!  The allure of Mexico is appealing for many reasons some of which can be


Keywords:
mexico vacation, mexico travel, mexico cruises, mexico all inclusive trips


Article Body:
So your finally going on that oft dreamt about vacation and your destination is….Mexico, ole’!  The allure of Mexico is appealing for many reasons. You have the acient ruins of the Mayan temples, the big city life of Mexico City, and let’s not forget the beaches! 

Mexico is known for its fabulous resorts and luxurious beaches with a dash of fantastic night life. Spring breakers have known this for years and often decide to go back, albeit on a much tamer vacation then when they drank tequila from a stranger’s shoe for a tee shirt. 

Mexico hosts a wide range of natural wonders that appeal to many of those that want to explore outside their home countries. You have mountains, volcanoes, and sea life that can’t be found anywhere outside of the waters of Mexico. 

Some of the more traveled Mexican  destinations include Acapulco, Cancun, Puerto Vallarta, Mazatlan, and Cozumel.

Acapulco is rated as one of the top tourist attractions in the world.  It is also Mexico’s largest beach resort.  It is home to some of the world’s finest hotels, as well as miles of beautiful white sandy beaches.  As in most tropical climes, Acapulco offers a wide range of water activities such as snorkeling, deep sea fishing, and scuba diving.

If you are going for the golfing then you won’t be disappointed as Acapulco has fantastic courses with a wide range of difficulty for all players. You can rent a boat and sail the coast for a long weekend or even a daily excursion. 

Acapulco is also a great family vacation center and you can’t be the romantic getaways.  Most of the hotels offer an all-inclusive package for couples and families at fantastic prices!   

Cancun, what can you say about Cancun? It is one of the world’s most famous resort destinations.  Cancun has grown into a large city and one of the world’s most popular vacation getaways. When looking for a vacation destination most people consider Cancun as their top pick for its great nightlife, access to the Mayan ruins, a theme park within a half hour drive, and the fantastic resorts and beaches. 

Puerto Vallarta is another Mexican treasure.  It is without question a tropical paradise. Like Cancun, there is plenty to local historical sites for the history buff in you.  Book yourself a guided tour to see the Sierra Madre Mountains and take in some of the most exotic wildlife you could ever see on a tour. Fishing, sunning, and scuba diving are great ways to pass the time during the day and plenty of bars and nightclubs to dance the night away.

Another popular past time of Puerto Vallarta is the shopping.  You will love perusing the many high end boutiques as well as the local craft booths that make up the shopping district.   

Mazatlan is THE destination to visit if you are going to Mexico for the fishing as one of the world’s greatest ports.  The waters are known as being the perfect depth and temperature for fishing.

Some of the other popular activities available in and around Mazatlan include surfing, tennis, golf, and fishing.  It is also known for the malecón.  The malecón is a long winding stretch that runs through nearly the entire city and covers roughly five miles of beach.  

Mazatlan is also home to a Mardi Gras type festival that is held before Ash Wednesday and lasts for five days.     
Cozumel is Mexico’s most populated island.  It is a popular attraction for snorkeling or scuba diving. Cozumel has some of the most beautiful coral reefs you could ever imagine.   

Without question Mexico is one of the best travel destinations worldwide. It does not matter if you prefer to swing in a hammock while waiting for your next buffet to begin or climbing the steps of the Mayan ruins, get out and live life like you mean it!


