Title: 
London Hotel Breaks – Grange Holborn Hotel 5* (Holborn)

Word Count:
367

Summary:
Contemporary design reflecting one of the world’s most fashionable cities – the Grange Holborn Hotel contrasts some of London’s more traditional accommodations. The modern architecture and décor mirror a city eager to keep its standards, striving to remain the benchmark. Your stay at the Grange Holborn Hotel will be one of luxury. Service is exquisite and obliges your every need.

Situated where West End greets the city, the hotel is ideally placed for shopping adventures i...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Contemporary design reflecting one of the world’s most fashionable cities – the Grange Holborn Hotel contrasts some of London’s more traditional accommodations. The modern architecture and décor mirror a city eager to keep its standards, striving to remain the benchmark. Your stay at the Grange Holborn Hotel will be one of luxury. Service is exquisite and obliges your every need.

Situated where West End greets the city, the hotel is ideally placed for shopping adventures in Oxford Street, or maybe you prefer the surreal experiences of Covent Garden. The Holborn tube station is barely 400 metres walk and offers easy access to the city’s financial district.

Bed and full breakfast (based on two people sharing) will cost you £89 (per person per night) during spring, and £92.50 throughout summer and winter. For those travelling alone a supplement of a similar amount will incur. A mid-week (Monday to Thursday) supplement valid for summer and winter will cost a further £32.50.

Royal Garden Hotel 5* (Kensington)

The 5 AA red star Royal Garden Hotel parades elegance and panache to very high standards. The Royal Garden sets the yardstick others strive for, and invariably fail. Boasting a total of 396 sizeable rooms, many have magnificent views over the majestic Kensington Palace and its beautiful gardens. The hotel features two marvellous restaurants and serves three stylish bars. For the more health conscious a health club is on site and also a spa.

Based in up-to-the-minute Kensington, the hotel resides just 4 minutes walk from High Street Kensington tube station, presenting easy access to most of the city and London’s vast library of attractions.

Bed and full breakfast (based on two people sharing) will cost you £102 (per person per night) during spring. Through summer and winter the price drops slightly to £87.50. The single person’s supplement is £93 in spring, falling to £87.50 in the course of summer and winter. A mid-week (Monday to Thursday) supplement of £7 is valid during spring. This rises to £32.50 throughout summer and winter. A deluxe room upgrade is available from an extra £40 per room per night.

Please note all prices are correct at time of press (December 2005). For reservations call Superbreak on 0870 701 2200. Lines are open 8am – 11pm 7 days a week (excluding Christmas Day).


