Title: 
Looking for the Right Hotel in Greece? Try Beautiful Crete!

Word Count:
536

Summary:
Whether you're an avid outdoors enthusiast or are more interested in the culture and traditions of the Greece, Crete has something for everyone.


Keywords:
hotel, crete, greece, online reservation, travel, vacation


Article Body:
If you're planning a vacation to Greece, you should make it a point to visit the beautiful island of Crete. Whether you're an avid outdoors enthusiast or are more interested in the culture and traditions of the Greece, Crete has something for everyone. Best of all, Crete offers splendid accommodations to anyone looking for a hotel in Greece.

Mountains and Seashores

The defining geological features of Crete are its mountains, made up of three ranges: the White Mountains, the Idi Mountains, and the Dikti Mountains. Aside from the beautiful scenery, the mountains in Crete feature plateaus, caves, and gorges. The Ideon Andron, or Zeus Cave, overlooks the fertile farmlands of the Lasithi Plateau, while the Samaria National Park showcases the Samaria Gorge, filled with a breathtaking array of flora and fauna. If you're a nature lover, travel in Crete means trekking through gorgeous scenery and the opportunity to view a wide variety of birds and other wildlife.

If you're the type who hears the siren song of the water, the beaches in Crete are unparalleled. The clear waters make snorkeling and scuba diving a memorable experience, while the Vai beach is perfect for relaxing in the sun. There are also wonderful wilderness beaches where you can explore rock formations and find the perfect escape.

Food and Drink

A vacation to Crete wouldn't be complete without indulging in the local cuisine. Even if you're not up to tasting the islands traditional snail dishes, you can enjoy fresh squid and octopus, smoked ham and sausage, skewers of souvlaki, and a myriad of local cheeses. 

When it comes to beverages with a kick, you'll enjoy tsikoudia (similar to Italy's grappa), Greek beer, and Cretan wine. Of course, ouzo is also a must when you're in Greece. For a morning jumpstart, you'll delight in strong Greek coffees that you can order sweetened or unsweetened.

Hotel Accommodations

When you're looking for the right hotel in Greece, it's important to first decide what amenities you'd like. Do you want to be in a hotel on the beach, with easy access to the water, green parks, and local villages? If you're going on vacation with your family, would you like a spacious suite with four beds so that everyone can stay in the same room? Do you want access to nearby restaurants and nightlife?

If you're going to travel to Crete, you can arrive either by airplane or by boat. Once you get there, however, you may want to consider staying near the flawless sandy beach of Georgioupoli. With unparalleled beauty and breathtaking views, Georgioupoli offers visitors the perfect Greek experience.

When it comes to booking your hotel in Greece, consider doing so with an online reservation directly with the hotel of your choice. Many visitors who travel to Crete report that booking directly with their hotel, rather than a tour operator, saved them both money and time. The best online reservation systems are available in a multitude of languages, incorporate multimedia - like photos, video, and flash - into their websites, and are accessible to those with vision impairments.

However you arrive in Crete and wherever you stay, be sure to soak in the sun, the landscape, and the local culture and cuisine. Enjoy!


