Title: 
Luggage, How Its Changed!

Word Count:
265

Summary:
Ever since man has moved from place to place, they had to take their things with them. This required luggage of some sort to carry and keep valuables. Luggage started as heavy chests and boxes for the rich and royalty to keep all their belongings together and organized.


Keywords:
luggage, laptop cases, briefcases, discount luggage, garment bag, discount luggage sets


Article Body:
Ever since man has moved from place to place, they had to take their things with them. This required luggage of some sort to carry and keep valuables. Luggage started as heavy chests and boxes for the rich and royalty to keep all their belongings together and organized.

It has changed from those days to ways for most people to keep their items when on the go. Traveling by car, plane, train or boat, people needed luggage to keep their valuables in.

As more lightweight materials were invented, these materials were used to make durable lightweight luggage. Lightweight luggage is made of a combination of materials including cloth, vinyl and leather. These durable materials made it easier to carry, lighter to move from place to place and are less expensive than most quality luggage from the past.

We now have suitcases, tote bags, laptop cases, backpacks and briefcases. In fact you now can find luggage or bags for just about anything that people feel needs to be carried with them. 

The neat thing as well is that with the cost of manufacturing today just about anybody can afford quality luggage and bags to travel with their valuables. 

Rolling luggage was the next idea that was revolutionary that has now changed the whole travel industry allowing travelers to get around with even heavier luggage sets in no time at all with ease. Wheels on luggage that expands, luggage that is soft and able to be put in tight spaces, and hard luggage that protects your belongings and will survive the very rough handling of baggage handlers.


