Title: 
Luxe City Guide: London

Word Count:
1510

Summary:
Article on great London luxury hotels, restaurants, and night life.


Keywords:
London, London Hotels,London Travel


Article Body:
Famous for its culture and pubs, lovers of highbrow or lowbrow entertainment are right at home in London. It is a site for tourists eyes and a mainstay for whats next in cultural, fashion, and entertainment circles. There are plentiful options available for lodgings, fine dining, activities, events, and sites. Did you know that London is among the leading centers of global finance? 

Here are some suggestions on where to stay, where to eat, and where to play on the pavements of London. Whether you are part of the stiff upper lip or the lithe hip circle, Londons calling and all are welcomed here!  

Luxury Hotels in London

The Sofitel St. James London is a five star hotel in Piccadilly that features an award winning French restaurant, Brasserie Roux, and is a five minute walk from Trafalgar Square. The St. James Bar and the Rose Lounge are must sees. Edwardian decadence at its finest is found near the West End between Sloane Square and Knightsbridge at the Cadogan London Suites named after famous guests include Oscar Wilde, Edward VII, and Lillie Langtry. Gucci, Tiffany, Harrods and Harvey Nichols are in the neighborhood. Some of the Victorian periods most discreet moments occurred at the Cadogan. The Stein Group hotel is a member of the Leading Small Hotels of the World. 

Best Restaurants in London

Gastro pubs are the latest eatery wave circulating the town. With ye ole pubs disappearing into the London fog, pubs purveying ole English charm also are serving up epicurean level cuisines. The Duke of Cambridge claims to be the worlds first certified organic gastro pub. The food is seasonal; the wines are organic; and the ales are brewed locally. Restaurants owned by Gordon Ramsey are among Britains finest restaurants. Award winning chef Gordon Ramseys establishments are so popular that table reservations must be made two months in advance. However, there are eight restaurants in the UK owned by Mr. Ramsey. 
Mosimanns is an exclusive fine dining experience that transcends the meal itself. Chef and owner Anton Mosimann is an institution among gourmands. The restaurant is a caterer to the Prince of Wales. In addition to the main room, there are six private dining rooms sponsored by prominent corporations, such as Davidoff and Bentley Motors, and decorated thematically. 


To Do in London
 
London has myriad options for filing up a visitors itinerary. Lovers of live music might want to check out Chelseas 606 Club. It is renown for top
notch jazz, blues, and soul acts. There also are times when impromptu performances by musicians in the house turn out a concert worthy of a CD release. Bar Rumba is fantastic music club in central London near Piccadilly Circus. Music featured runs from jazz fusion to funk to R&B to reggae to hip hop. It is a basement bar with a capacity of 450 plus capacity. Its intimate, sweaty, and loud. New music settings are featured nightly. Milk & Honey is a bar open to the public till 11 p.m. It is members only thereafter nightly. Painstaking detail is put into each drink, as fresh fruits and other ingredients and hand squeezed during the day. The bar has rules that promote ultra civility and chic refinement at all times. Ambiance and decorum are the key attractions here. It is the type of place that is either totally loved or hated, as there is no midpoint here. 

Attend a show at the world famous Royal Albert Hall. Daytime tours and exhibits are offered as well as evening entertainment that ranges from musical concerts to ballet to theater to film debuts. Located in the upscale Kensignton Gore area, it is a great area for general sightseeing too. The hall received a major makeover in 2000. 

Many museums now have day and evening hours with exhibitions, lectures, and special events. The Victoria & Albert Museum has 27,000 works displayed. There are collections centered on architecture, jewelry, artwork of Asia, the Middle East, and Britain just to name a few. The Science Museum in South Kensington is part of the NMSI family of museums. There are four distinct museums. 

Notes on London

If shopping at the finest shops is part of your desired London experience, numerous upscale shops, boutiques, and bespoke clothiers can be found on Regent, Piccadilly, Oxford, and Bond streets. The British Airways London Eye is the worlds highest observation wheel. Londons official tourism Web site, Visit London, presents its list of the top 10 London must-see attractions. Visitors can obtain tickets online to tour the British Airways London Eye and the Tower of London.  

Stay tuned for more!

Written by the staff writers of Just Luxe

 Famous for its culture and pubs, lovers of highbrow or lowbrow entertainment are right at home in London. It is a site for tourists eyes and a mainstay for whats next in cultural, fashion, and entertainment circles. There are plentiful options available for lodgings, fine dining, activities, events, and sites. Did you know that London is among the leading centers of global finance?

Here are some suggestions on where to stay, where to eat, and where to play on the pavements of London. Whether you are part of the stiff upper lip or the lithe hip circle, Londons calling and all are welcomed here! 


The Sofitel St. James London is a five star hotel in Piccadilly that features an award winning French restaurant, Brasserie Roux, and is a five minute walk from Trafalgar Square. The St. James Bar and the Rose Lounge are must sees. Edwardian decadence at its finest is found near the West End between Sloane Square and Knightsbridge at the. Suites named after famous guests include Oscar Wilde, Edward VII, and Lillie Langtry. Gucci, Tiffany, Harrods and Harvey Nichols are in the neighborhood. Some of the Victorian periods most discreet moments occurred at the Cadogan. The Stein Group hotel is a member of the Leading Small Hotels of the World.



Gastro pubs are the latest eatery wave circulating the town. With ye ole pubs disappearing into the London fog, pubs purveying ole English charm also are serving up epicurean-level cuisines. The Duke of Cambridge claims to be the worlds first certified organic gastro pub. The food is seasonal; the wines are organic; and the ales are brewed locally. Restaurants owned by Gordon Ramsey are among Britain & apos finest restaurants. Award winning chef Gordon Ramseys establishments are so popular that table reservations must be made two months in advance. However, there are eight restaurants in the UK owned by Mr. Ramsey is an exclusive fine dining experience that transcends the meal itself. Chef and owner Anton Mosimann is an institution among gourmands. The restaurant is a caterer to the Prince of Wales. In addition to the main room, there are six private dining rooms sponsored by prominent corporations, such as Davidoff and Bentley Motors, and decorated thematically.
 
London has myriad options for filing up a visitor's itinerary. Lovers of live music might want to check out Chelsea's. It is renown for top notch jazz, blues, and soul acts. There also are times when impromptu performances by musicians in the house turn out a concert worthy of a CD release. Bar Rumba is a fantastic music club in central London near Piccadilly Circus. Music featured runs from jazz fusion to funk to R&B to reggae to hip hop. It is a basement bar with a capacity of 450 plus capacity. Its intimate, sweaty, and loud. New music settings are featured nightly. Milk & Honey is a bar open to the public till 11 p.m. It is members only thereafter nightly. Painstaking detail is put into each drink, as fresh fruits and other ingredients and hand squeezed during the day. The bar has rules that promote ultra civility and chic refinement at all times. Ambiance and decorum are the key attractions here. It is the type of place that is either totally loved or hated, as there is no midpoint here. 
Attend a show at the world famous Royal Albert Hall. Daytime tours and exhibits are offered as well as evening entertainment that ranges from musical concerts to ballet to theater to film debuts. Located in the upscale Kensington Gore area, it is a great area for general sightseeing too. The hall received a major makeover in 2000. 

Many museums now have day and evening hours with exhibitions, lectures, and special events. The Victoria & Albert Museum has 27,000 works displayed. There are collections centered on architecture, jewelry, artwork of Asia, the Middle East, and Britain just to name a few. Science Museum in South Kensington is part of the NMSI family of museums. There are four distinct museums. 

If shopping at the finest shops is part of your desired London experience, numerous upscale shops, boutiques, and bespoke clothiers can be found on Regent, Piccadilly, Oxford, and Bond streets. The British Airways London Eye is the worlds highest observation wheel. Londons official tourism Web site, Visit London, presents its list of the top 10 London must see attractions. Visitors can obtain tickets online to tour the British Airways London Eye and the Tower of London.


