Title: 
Making the Best Use of Disney Timeshares

Word Count:
386

Summary:
Disney vacation timeshares offer very high standards of service to their partners. Read on to learn how you can get the full value of money spent on Disney timeshares.


Keywords:
timeshare, timeshares, timeshare rental, time share, disney timeshare, timeshare sale, timeshare resale, sell my timeshare, buy timeshare


Article Body:
Timeshare resorts are a good choice for people who would like to enjoy a luxurious vacation for a very lower price.  Disney timeshares are for the people who would like to go to Disney World on a consistent basis.  There are many a number of member discounts offered to the people who have invested in the Disney timeshares to souvenirs, restaurants, discounts on park fees and lot more.  Disney timeshares can be passed on to the children or make them avail the points while the owner is alive. It all depends on how to use it.  There are a number of Disney vacation timeshare re sales available at a much lower cost, but there is no guarantee as they are not connected with Disney.  It is good to do a thorough research online.  

The Walt Disney vacation timeshare resorts are based on the point system mostly.  The timeshare owners are eligible to use their vacation advantages in any of the five branches of the Disney vacation resorts worldwide.  If a family has earned more than 230 points, it is eligible to stay for a week in the resort.  The best thing about the Disney vacation timeshares is that there are no black out dates, but the person has to book far in advance to avail a room at the resort of his choice.  Another advantage is that one agent and one phone number are all needed to make arrangements including the transportation reservations and for the restaurant reservations.  All most all the locations of the Disney vacation timeshares are up to the four and five star mark, but meant only for those who make use of most of the points and also during popular period of the year, one has to spend more points on it.

Disney vacation timeshares offer very high standards of service to their partners and also the partners are required to adhere to the Disney world tradition of excellence.  The disadvantages or the downsides are that the annual maintenance fee comes to around $800- $900 after paying a whooping amount on the closing costs.  The Annual maintenance fees can go up each year at least by five percent.  Also, booking fees up to $100 is collected for every arrangement made; if the bookings are done separately again the booking fees are separate for the same person.


