Title: 
Maui By Air, The Best Way Around The Island

Word Count:
763

Summary:
Maui helicopter tours are a great way to see the island from a different perspective and have a fun adventure. If you have never been on a helicopter before, this is a great place to do it. You will see all the beauty that Maui has to offer and can have a great time for the entire family. Tours are not too expensive and last from forty five minutes to over an hour. You can see places that are typically inaccessible with Maui helicopter tours. Places that are not available by ...


Keywords:
vacation,travel,hawaii,kauai,helicopter,tour,trip


Article Body:
Maui helicopter tours are a great way to see the island from a different perspective and have a fun adventure. If you have never been on a helicopter before, this is a great place to do it. You will see all the beauty that Maui has to offer and can have a great time for the entire family. Tours are not too expensive and last from forty five minutes to over an hour. You can see places that are typically inaccessible with Maui helicopter tours. Places that are not available by foot or vehicle can be seen by air. Breathtaking sights await those who are up for some fun Maui helicopter tours. If you will be staying on the island for a considerable amount of time, you may want to think about doing multiple Maui helicopter tours. There are multiple destinations and you can see all the island has to offer.

East Maui helicopter tours will give you a view of the ten thousand foot volcano, Haleakala or House of the sun. This volcano is dormant and last erupted in 1790. You will be able to see the crater of the volcano and the dry, arid earth surrounding the south side of the volcano’s slop with Maui helicopter tours. The view of this is truly breathtaking and is a sight not to be missed. It is also highly educational with a chance to see a dormant volcano up close, something that can not be seen every day. On the northern and southern sides of the volcano, you will see an incredible different view however. These sides are lush and green and you will be able to see some beautiful waterfalls and gorgeous brush. Tropical rainforests abound on this side of the island and it is something that is not easily accessible by any other means than by air. Maui helicopter tours will allow you to see all of these sights. Make sure to take a camera or video with you when going on Maui helicopter tours to capture the beauty of the scenery and to show friends and family at home all the wonderful things you saw while on vacation.

West Maui helicopter tours have a slightly different view than what you will see in the east. The smaller of the two volcanoes on the island is on this side. Unlike the east volcano, this one is no dormant but extinct with millions of years of erosion cutting deep valleys and into the mountains. The rainfall is high in this are and it results in many waterfalls that cascade over the steep ridges. This area is entirely uninhabited and pure. There is no way to reach this destination except by air so if you want to see this breathtaking view, Maui helicopter tours are the way to go. It is said that this area of Maui is one of the most beautiful natural landscapes in the world and should be missed if you have the opportunity to take Maui helicopter tours to this part of the island. Since it is only accessible by air, this is the only way you will be able to see it.

Molokai Maui helicopter tours will take you to a different island but one that is only nine miles away and easily accessible by air. This island has a very small population with a different culture and scenery. The entire coast of the northeast is lined with cliffs and remote beaches. They are completely inaccessible by any other means of transportation than air. People who live on the island have never even seen this remarkable scenery unless they have taken Maui helicopter tours to view it. When the weather has been rainy and there is a lot of rainfall for he season you will see many astounding waterfalls. The cliffs in this region are among the highest in the world and to see water cascading from the high peaks is simply breathtaking. The short jaunt from Maui with Maui helicopter tours is well worth seeing the beauty of this natural environment.

Maui helicopter tours are a great way to tour those places that can not be reached on foot or by car. The tours last approximately one hour and range from approximately one hundred eight five dollars to two hundred forty dollars person. For many, this is a once in a lifetime opportunity to see natural scenery that will not be available again. Taking cameras and videos to capture the moments will also allow you to relive the tour again and again as you reminisce throughout the years.


