Title: 
Mauritius Vacations

Word Count:
293

Summary:
Portuguese naval explorers later stumbled upon this beautiful island in the wake of Vasco de Gama's voyage around the Cape of Good Hope in 1498. Apart from introducing pesky monkeys and rats, the Portuguese did little to influence the place.


Keywords:
mauritius, mauritius vacation, travel, vacation


Article Body:
Port Louis is the capital and main port of Mauritius, it was founded by the French governor, Mahe de Labourdonnais in 1735. The harbour lies sheltered in a semi-circle of mountains. Portugal is a land which has heterogeneous but unequalled culture. Portugal was one of the worst countries in Western aggregation before the launching of Democracy in the assemblage 1974 and the incorportation into dweller Union in the assemblage 1986.

Port Louis, the capital and largest city, has a population (1997 estimate) of 146,499.

Sugarcane is the main cash crop of the country which is grown on 90% of the cultivated land and accounts for 25% of the export of the country. Sugarcane is grown on about 90% of the cultivated land area and accounts for 25% of export earnings. The government's development strategy centers on industrialization (with a view to modernization and to exports), agricultural diversification, and tourism.

Summers stretch from November to April with temperatures reaching 34 Centigrade on the coast. Humidity is highest from December to April but this is always manageable, especially in the coastal regions where there is a constant breeze. Summer runs from November to April, with temperatures reaching as high as 93ºF (34ºC) on the coast. Humidity is highest from December to April but is never unbearable, particularly on the coast where there is a constant sea breeze.

Visit the shops, indulge in the water sports available or spend a lazy day on the beach. In the evening, enjoy the world-renowned sensuous Sega Dance performance, a highlight dinner entertainment. Visit the bustling Port Louis that happens to be the happening capital city of Mauritius. Tours to Curepipe in Mauritius brings you to an enchanting world of tea gardens and ship building industry.

Mauritius is indeed the paradise on earth, take your Mauritius Vacation, you'll love it.


