Title: 
Michelins Highest Honor Awarded to Wynn Las Vegas

Word Count:
522

Summary:
This article tells the reader about the new Wynn casino including reviews of restaurants and accommodations.


Keywords:
wynn, las vegas, hotels, casino, luxury


Article Body:
The premier edition of the Las Vegas Michelin Guide (2008) has awarded Five Red Pavilions, the highest rating available, to Wynn Las Vegas Resort and Country Club. Wynn is the only resort in Las Vegas to receive such honors. Two coveted Michelin stars were awarded to ALEX, Alessandro Stratta's namesake restaurant, and one star to both Richard Chen's Wing Lei and Daniel Boulud Brasserie.

In North America, only eight hotels have received Michelin's highest rating of Five Red Pavilions, only eight restaurants have received two stars and 55 restaurants have received one star. Wing Lei is the first and only Michelin rated Chinese restaurant on the continent. 
These prestigious honors bring a trifecta to Wynn Las Vegas, the only casino resort in the world to hold the Mobil Five-Star and AAA Five-Diamond awards for both hotel and fine dining.

The Michelin Guide features a selection of the best restaurants and hotels in a given city or region, across various comfort and price scales, and is widely considered the "bible of gastronomy for foodies." Restaurants worthy of a star or multiple stars reflect the characteristics of first-class quality, a mastery of cooking and a superior product. 
Named for internationally acclaimed executive chef Alessandro (Alex) Stratta, ALEX offers refined French cuisine in one of the most luxurious and opulent settings at The Tower Suites at Wynn Las Vegas. Chef Stratta creates seasonal menus inspired by the flavors of France.

In the hands of this gifted chef, even the simplest of ingredients are transformed and elevated to the summit of fine dining. ALEX has received additional honors including the AAA Five-Diamond and Mobil Five-Star awards. 
Wing Lei takes its place as the "Haute Chinese" restaurant at Wynn Las Vegas. Helmed by rising star chef Richard Chen, Wing Lei offers guests refined Chinese cuisine in a beautifully elegant setting. The menu features traditional Chinese selections as well as new, innovative pairings of Eastern and Western ingredients.

World-renowned chef Daniel Boulud and co-executive chef Wes Holton showcase their mastery of French cuisine at Daniel Boulud Brasserie. The menu features modern brasserie fare that pays homage to Boulud's roots while playfully reinterpreting many classic dishes. Boulud's signature touch is highlighted in an elegant and cozy atmosphere with a magnificent view of the Lake of Dreams.

Wynn Resorts, Limited is traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the ticker symbol WYNN and is part of the NASDAQ-100 Index. Wynn Resorts owns and operates Wynn Las Vegas, a luxury hotel and destination casino resort located on the Las Vegas Strip. Wynn Las Vegas features 2,716 luxurious guest rooms and suites; an approximately 111,000 square foot casino; 22 food and beverage outlets; an on-site 18-hole golf course; approximately 223,000 square feet of meeting space; an on-site Ferrari and Maserati dealership; and approximately 76,000 square feet of retail space.

On September 6, 2006, Wynn Macau, a destination casino resort in the Macau Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China, opened. Wynn Macau currently features 600 deluxe hotel rooms and suites; approximately 130,000 square foot casino; casual and fine dining in five restaurants; approximately 26,000 square feet of retail space; a health club, pool and spa, along with lounges and meeting facilities.


