Title: 
Middlesbrough City Guide, Including Middlesbrough Hotels

Word Count:
1026

Summary:
Introduction:

Middlesbrough is situated on the south bank of the River Tees. It has a long industrial heritage with the coal and iron industries using the river to transport materials, and the shipyards based on the River Tees. The factories and processing plants are still there today. It also has four shopping centres and all the facilities you would expect with a population of about 200,000.

Places of interest:

Middlesbrough is famous for being the birth place of C...


Keywords:
Middlesbrough hotels


Article Body:
Introduction:

Middlesbrough is situated on the south bank of the River Tees. It has a long industrial heritage with the coal and iron industries using the river to transport materials, and the shipyards based on the River Tees. The factories and processing plants are still there today. It also has four shopping centres and all the facilities you would expect with a population of about 200,000.

Places of interest:

Middlesbrough is famous for being the birth place of Captain Cook and celebrates this with an award winning museum. Other museums relating to Middlesbrough’s history sit comfortably alongside art galleries and the unique Nature’s World to give visitors a wide selection of places to visit. There is also the Middlesbrough Theatre, an Art Gallery, and a multiplex cinema at Teeside Park.


Nature's World is a unique visitor attraction, extending to over 25 acres, provides a model for a balanced and sustainable future. Attractions include a traditional composting and organic gardens, a 400m long working River Tees model and a futuristic eco-structure and hydroponicum.

Captain Cook's Birthplace Museum is close to where he was born in 1728. It is an award winning museum showing the life of Captain James Cook and his voyages of discovery. It also houses interactive displays and exciting audio-visual presentations, hands-on experiences, exhibition area, café and gift shop.

Transporter Bridge Visitor Centre shows Middlesbrough's Industrial Heritage and the history of this unique bridge. The bridge, opened in 1911, has a middle that acts as a ferry across the Tees.

Dorman Museum is a refurbished museum displaying the history of Middlesbrough from the 19th century, a collection of Middlesbrough and Linthorpe pottery, exhibitions, discovery centre, and cafe.

Middlesbrough Art Gallery combines an art gallery with exhibitions by local artists.

Things to do:

Middlesbrough offers an exciting choice of activities for visitors on day trips or short breaks. Fast gaining a reputation for innovation - it is witnessing a retail explosion with a myriad of designer shopping and fashionable boutiques, as well as retaining the traditional English high street names. In 2005 the town hosted numerous major exciting events - from the multi cultural Mela to the world renowned Tall Ships race.

During the day, Middlesbrough is alive with activity. From the wide open walkways of our four shopping malls to the more traditional shop fronts of Linthorpe Road, Middlesbrough blends familiar high street names with the excitement of designer labels and the tradition of covered markets.

The Captain Cook country tour takes in the magnificent scenery of the North Yorkshire moors and coastline, Middlesbrough being the first port of call in this 70 mile tour.

Premiership Middlesbrough Football Club offers regular action at the Riverside stadium to lovers of the beautiful game. Die hard fans can get a glimpse behind the scenes on a stadium tour.

Newham Grange Leisure Farm visitor centre tells the story of the farm from the 17th century to the present day. The farm also has a 19th century veterinary surgery which gives the visitor an opportunity to see some of the medicines and equipment used in the 1890s.

Food & Drink:

Middlesbrough’s restaurants feel passionate about quality food and service. Equipped with most of the essential cuisines to titillate any taste bud, the area continues to evolve in culinary terms thus developing into a real multicultural centre for food. A host of pubs in and around the town centre do a great line in food and drink, and many now put on their own entertainment as well.

Etsuko Japanese and Oriental Restaurant is unique to Middlesbrough, serving a vast choice of freshly cooked oriental dishes. It has a semi open kitchen that adds to the overall contemporary feel of the restaurant, where the layout lends itself to a very sociable and distinctly oriental dining experience and atmosphere.

La Terrasse restaurant has a Parisian theme, with an emphasis on quality seafood dishes. The restaurant has an award for the quality and standard of cuisine and service. The cosmopolitan style brasserie serves tempting traditional food with a local perspective alongside the ever-popular carvery.

The White Room exudes a calming and relaxing atmosphere – the perfect conditions for an enjoyable meal for two or for a special group occasion. The spacious and unusually designed room is the ideal place to enjoy a glass of wine and fine food.

Hardwick's is open for Sunday lunch and the weekly menu changes every three weeks, giving diners a wide variety of choice. Dedicated to Gentleman George Hardwick, ex-Middlesbrough FC player, this restaurant is adorned with photographs of George in his playing days.

Nando's prides itself on excellent value for money and traditional Portuguese hospitality. The speciality is the succulent, Portuguese flame grilled, Peri- Peri chicken served in a fun, relaxed atmosphere.

Hotels & Accommodation:

Middlesbrough offers a range of visitor accommodation to suit all tastes and budgets. Available accommodation ranges from three and four star hotels to cosy guest houses and bed & breakfasts.

Hotel Baltimore
Wainstones Hotel
Highfield Hotel
Thistle Middlesbrough

Entertainment

The town has a range of entertainment venues and attractions to suit all tastes and interests. In Middlesbrough you can choose from more than 20 cinema screens, a leading provincial theatre and sophisticated restaurants offering a mouth-watering variety of cuisine. There's plenty of other activities to choose from - bowling to bingo, classical concerts to disco.

Middlesbrough Theatre, formerly called Middlesbrough Little Theatre, puts on shows of all genres for all generations performed by local and touring casts.

The Purple Onion is the top venue in the Tees Valley, combining superb food in the restaurant with Jazz, Blues and Disco in The Cellar for people of all ages.

Sassari Continental Cafe Restaurant is open all day specialising in authentic Italian food using only the best fresh ingredients and in the evening the upstairs function room hosts theme nights, DJ nights & live bands.

A multiplex cinema at Teeside Park offers a selection of the latest films.

With a huge selection of places to stay, things to do and excellent restaurants and bistros - Middlesbrough is a great choice for a short break!

This Article may be freely copied as long as it is not modified and this resource box accompanies the article, together with working hyperlinks.


