Title: 
Money Tips For Travelers

Word Count:
589

Summary:
We hope that these money tips will help you save some money while traveling and make you trip more enjoyable.

PLANNING
Start with thorough trip planning. Use free destination guides. Buy a guidebook, it will pay for itself within the first day of your trip. Do not forget to buy a travel insurance, it will provide you with peace of mind while on a trip and prevent you from becoming a bankrupt if something happens.

It is becoming a popular trend - to buy your holiday usi...


Keywords:
travel,tips,tip,money,advice,traveler


Article Body:
We hope that these money tips will help you save some money while traveling and make you trip more enjoyable.

PLANNING
Start with thorough trip planning. Use free destination guides. Buy a guidebook, it will pay for itself within the first day of your trip. Do not forget to buy a travel insurance, it will provide you with peace of mind while on a trip and prevent you from becoming a bankrupt if something happens.

It is becoming a popular trend - to buy your holiday using a credit card. This option allows you to have an official record of your purchases/bookings. Some cards also provide an additional insurance to the holder. American Express lets you transfer your purchasing points to your frequent flier program account. When you purchase an air ticket with MasterCard, the credit company automatically signs you up for an accidental life insurance with $100,000 coverage amount.

In order to save on your trip, travel with a partner(s). You can book a double hotel room for almost the same amount as a single one. By splitting accommodation and dining costs, taxis, car rental fees travelers in a group will save money.

BOOKING
For sightseeing try to travel off-season, usually October through April in the Northern hemisphere and April through October below the equator. You will be able to find cheaper airfare, find more budget rooms, spend less time in lines, and meet more local folks than tourists.

ACCOMMODATION
Keep written records of all accommodations you reserved. Learn the cancellation policies. Usually late cancellations or no shows are charged one night stay. If you have to cancel, try to do it long in advance. Reconfirm all reservations two days in advance by phone.

During summer and weekends year-round, you can get a fancy business hotel room at a cheap one-star hotel price.

DINING
You can save a lot of money by buying food at a local grocery store.

Eat according to the season. Order and buy food that is in season where you travel, it will cut down your dining expenses.

Avoid touristy restaurants, instead eat where local people eat. There you will find better food for less money.

Try to adapt to local cuisine, combine learning the local dining traditions with good prices.

Avoid breakfasts at hotels, they are usually high-priced.

Every country has menu specials. Learn simple words and you can dine well with locals anywhere for under $20.

TRANSPORTATION
Save money by driving in groups. For four people it is generally cheaper to share a rental car than to buy a bus ticket or a rail pass to travel between cities. Avoid renting a car in a big citiy, it is less convenient than using public transit. Airports usually have cheap and regular public transit connections to the town center.

Carefully choose parking spots. Thieves recognize and target tourist cars.

learn your rail options. If you travel a lot, buy rail passes. Three rides generally cost more than a day pass.

In Europe budget airlines can often get you from one city to another faster and cheaper than the train. Beware though: budget airlines often use small airports located far from town, which can cost a extra time and money. You also are allowed less luggage on board for free.

SHOPPING
Use your moneybelt to store the cash safely.

Students, families, and seniors should ask for special discounts.

Understand all fees and expenses. Ask to have all bills itemized. Do your own math when calculating the cost.

We wish you a successful and safe trip!


