Title: 
Moving Dilemmas Consider Storage Facilities

Word Count:
466

Summary:
Over the years people unconsciously acquire things. The clutter or excessive furniture, object d’ art, or books only get noticed when it is time to move. Then you have to find an answer to the problem. Well   you can take everything with you, or donate things to family, friends, or charity, or have a garage sale, or put things into storage.


Keywords:
moving companies search, compare movers, moving insurance, auto transport, moving tips


Article Body:
Over the years people unconsciously acquire things. The clutter or excessive furniture, object d’ art, or books only get noticed when it is time to move. Then you have to find an answer to the problem. Well   you can take everything with you, or donate things to family, friends, or charity, or have a garage sale, or put things into storage.

The modern solution is to put things you don’t want to use but cannot part with into a state-of-art storage facility.  Many storage units have things like climate control, pest control to prevent destruction of stored items, as well as round the clock security.

When locating a storage unit keep in mind issues like will you need to take things out of storage often? If yes then choose a facility located close to where you live. Compute how much space you will actually need. Experts recommend taking a smaller space and filling it floor to ceiling rather than paying for space that will never be used. There are options like mini storage for really small loads. Think about whether you are storing antiques or paintings if yes, then look climate controlled storage.

Standard sizes of units are: 5x10; 10x10; 10x20; and 10x30. Find out how many items each kind can store. For example a 10x20 can hold most things from a two bedroom house while a 5x10 will hold a couch, chair, chest of drawers, small boxes, bicycles, and motorcycles.

Make a list of possible units. Find out how long they have been in operation and whether they have a solid reputation. Read all the rules and regulations. Some storage units allow 24 hr access while others have timings. Consider protecting your goods with sufficient insurance coverage. 

Pack all the items to be stored in weather resistant strong boxes with padding like bubble wrap if there are breakables. Make a key list what each box contains and decide a priority list where by what you are unlikely to use will be stored at the  bottom or back of the facility and what you may need to retrieve will be stored in front such that it becomes easily accessible.

The rent to be paid will be calculated on the size of the unit, the number of units available of the size you need, the term of lease, as well as facilities offered. Even storage facilities offer discounts so do ask. Clever negotiation can save you money. Many facilities charge in addition to rent, set up or processing fees as well as late fees if the rent is not paid within the stipulated time.  Read the agreement carefully and seek answers to questions regarding security, insurance, the presence of an on site manager, adequate lighting, and ownership of the facility. Ask for references and check them out.


