Title: 
Museum of World Treasures in Kansas - A Great Vacation and Travel Destination

Word Count:
432

Summary:
Have the vacation of a lifetime at the Museum of World Treasures in Kansas, by knowing the Attractions to see - Best times to visit - Places to stay, and more.


Keywords:
travel,vacation,museum of world treasures,kansas


Article Body:
If you are looking for an out of this world experience then you must visit the Museum of World Treasures in Kansas. Many tourists have just happened upon this gem of a museum and sung its praises to the point that it is a recommended vacation destination even if you aren't in the area! When you walk in you will be greeted by the skeleton of an albertosaurus and until you leave the museum you won't stop being amazed at all there is to see. One aspect kids love is the castle recreated with monsters and even a dungeon! Some of the other fun aspects include original documents and even pictures from American patriots, European royalty, war, presidents, and more. There are even ancient artifacts on display.

This is perhaps America's most interesting museum not to mention the most exciting. There are 10 dinosaurs on display that were alive once upon a time as well as two 
royal mummies from Egypt. Other amazng displays include exhibits from many of the US wars including the Revolutionary War, Civil War, both World Wars, Vietnam, 
Korea, and more. There are even exhibits on Hollywood Stars, the Wild West, musician and sports stars. And, if that is not enough to get your attention, there is also a 
puppet theater, moon walk, and more for the kids. There is so much to do and see at this museum that every American should take the time to visit and see all that is on 
display. It truly is impressive and very educational.

Kids under four years old get in free and adult tickets cost $8.95. Senior tickets are $7.95 and kids are $6.95. The museum is open from 10 am until 5 pm Monday through 
Saturday and from noon to 5 pm on Sunday. This is an amazingly affordable place to visit especially when compared to all that it offers. If you are in Wichita, Kansas, or 
anywhere nearby then you need to make the effort to visit the Museum of World Treasures. You won't regret it and it might be the most interesting and fun museum you 
have ever visited. It will certainly be the most educational!

There is a website that has great information on USA Vacations and Unique Travel Spots Listed State By State and Season, the website is called: Seasonal Vacation Spots, and can be found at this url:

http://www.seasonalvacationspots.com

By Robert W. Benjamin

Copyright © 2007 

You may publish this article in your ezine, newsletter, or on your web site as long as it is reprinted in its entirety and without modification except for formatting needs or grammar corrections.


