Title: 
My first time in Jamaica

Word Count:
618

Summary:
Oh my gosh! It was so beautiful you cross so much blue, green waters and Cuba too. It took four hours in the plane, the time was behind eastern standard time. So it seem like 3 hours. When we arrived at the airport, certain parts of their airport was not air conditioned. It was my first time out of the country and we could tell we were in another country. They showed everyone which way to go through customs.


Keywords:
Jamaica,travel,traveling,coastalcoastalcoastalcoastal,costal,island,workout,training,dalebrown,daledupree,vanessabrown2,davaldupree,flying,vacation,vacatoins,vacationing,


Article Body:
Oh my gosh! It was so beautiful you cross so much blue, green waters and Cuba too. It took four hours in the plane, the time was behind eastern standard time. So it seem like 3 hours. When we arrived at the airport, certain parts of their airport was not air conditioned. It was my first time out of the country and we could tell we were in another country. They showed everyone which way to go through customs. My husband and I were shocked that there was no air conditioning. However, the workers were very pleasant to us. This was in 1995, they had a group of woman dressed colorfully singing like the commercial "Come to Jamaica". That did it for me. I was so excited. We were ushered by the Hotel Representative who told us which mini bus to take and we were on our way.

That took about 45 minutes. We immediately notice the driving was on the left side of the road. Not many stop signs or any type of traffic signs. No speed limits, everyone was moving pretty fast. We arrived safely. Once again the bus driver was so very pleasant. The motel was beautifully, we had the all exclusive deal, all meal and drinks were included in the one price. We ate most of our meals outside. The food was delicious. I really enjoyed the jerk chicken and the goat meat for the morning breakfast. I did not travel to another country to eat American food. I was so ready to try all the dishes. That is exactly what I did. I ate mango every morning. It was great to experience different taste and types of food.

The weather was a perfect 85 degrees with a warm breeze that blew sun up to sun down. The water was crystal clear blue and some spots were green. We took a tour in a glass bottom boat. I thought I was on the animal planet channel. We also took a raft ride down a long river where we seen many exotic plants. No animals though. Along the river, there were Jamaicans doing carvings and sell carvings. Their work was so beautiful, I just wished I had more money, and the ability to have it all shipped back. I would have brought Christmas gifts for everyone.

The beautiful thing is I found a way I can go to Jamaica again and again. But I now have the ability to share the gift of travelling. I have lifetime trips that are also transferrable. I plan on giving out vacations as gifts to the family. Jamaica is a country I feel everyone should experience. Not only is it beautiful, but I also feel the people made it wonderful. I must say once again the workers, the natives were so pleasant. And the seem to work all day long. The Jamaicans were not allowed to received tips at the motel that we stayed at. They seem happy to have a job. They seem to know something or a little more about appreciating what they have. I not sure, but I know their economy is either you are rich or your poor. Their money was $33 dollars of Jamaica money equal $1 of American money. We did tip them anyway, because we got to know them by their names and they made us feel so welcome. They didn't have to.

I been there two more times since then. People tell me about all their different vacations. I feel like don't fix what is not broke. I just can't wait until I go back to Jamaica again. One of my goals in life is to go every year, and spend at least 3 weeks when I do.


