Title: 
Need a Travel Idea? Luxor Hotel and Casino

Word Count:
444

Summary:
The Luxor Hotel and Casino makes its existence famous right through the valley not only by shining the world's strongest ray of light into the sky, but also by offering cutting-edge restaurants, notorious entertainment, incredible attractions and comfortable accommodations. In both ancient and modern era, pyramids have dazzled and shocked onlookers, whether in Egypt or any other exotic place. The Luxor of Las Vegas is very special.


Keywords:
travel, casino, vacations, hotel and casino


Article Body:
The Luxor Hotel and Casino, situated at the south end of the Las Vegas Strip, makes its existence famous right through the valley not only by shining the world's strongest ray of light into the sky, but also by offering cutting-edge restaurants, notorious entertainment, incredible attractions and comfortable accommodations. 
This 30-story black glass pyramid contains so several services on such an colossal scale that it's practically its personal Vegas vacation. Spacious rooms surround the world's principal hall, which boasts shopping, dining and entertainment. The casino, at more than 100,000 square feet, is one of Las Vegas' biggest, presenting shut to 2,000 slot and video poker machines, a selection of table games, a variety of and sports book and poker rooms. 
As the Luxor continues to undergo most important renovations (with least impact on guests) through 2009, illusionist Criss Angel, who on one occasion levitated over the Luxor's ray, won't be the only motive guests aren't capable to believe their eyes. The hotel-casino is shedding its Egyptian representation and moving into the contemporary era with an additional adult-oriented theme, with ultra-chic lounges, restaurants and clubs. 
The LAX Nightclub attracts numerous of the world's most recent celebrities while Noir Bar offers its intimate location to an selected guest list. Flight, a bar situated just outside LAX, is the ideal spot for club-goers to grab a little drinks before buckling their seatbelts for take-off at LAX. Aurora, a 24-hour, 157-seat lobby bar, invites visitors to get off their feet with its stylish, sleek look and variety of modern cocktails. Fall 2007 will bring Liquidity, a center bar with a water theme that will flow out onto the casino floor. 
Dining choices assortment from Asian specialties at Fusia to the gourmet delights of Luxor Steakhouse. Indulge in a casual Mexican food at La Salsa, where several atrium-levels seating overlooks the active hotel lobby. The trendy American bistro, Company, and the seductive restaurant and ultra lounge, CatHouse, are scheduled to open in winter 2007. 
In summer, sunbathers and swimmers can be spotted soaking up the sun at the open pool deck through windows in the sidewalk that connects the two-story parking garage to the hotel. Situated in the pool area, Luxor's spa Nurture, lives up to its name, presenting a steam bath, whirlpool, sauna and a collection of body treatments. 
The Atrium Showroom offers entertainment options for everybody whether it be Ronn Lucas and his life-like puppetry, comedian Carrot Top and his amazing bag of props or Fantasy with its seductive cast of ladies. 
In both ancient and modern era, pyramids have dazzled and shocked onlookers, whether in Egypt, France, Greece or any other exotic place. The Luxor of Las Vegas is very special.


