Title: 
New York Limos: Not Just For Business Anymore

Word Count:
534

Summary:
If you know New York City, you know that there's only one way to get around that magnificent metropolis in style, and that's by limo.


Keywords:
New York limo,luxury cars,nyc car service,new york city


Article Body:
If you know New York City, you know that there's only one way to get around that magnificent metropolis in style, and that's by limo. A luxury NYC car service is where it's at if you want to pamper yourself, your guests, your business associates or your friends and family. New York limousines will get you anywhere you want to go, and they are not just for business anymore.

When most people think of limos, they picture a stretched Cadillac or Lincoln. Those, and especially Lincoln stretch limos, are still very popular and make up a good percentage of the cars in many limo fleets. However, these days you can also get other luxury cars like Mercedes Benz S-Class or BMW 7-Series sedans. The leading New York limo services also cater to those who prefer the size and comfort of luxury SUVs like Lincoln Navigators and Cadillac Escalades. In addition, SUVs come in stretched versions with a Cadillac Stretch Extended Sport Vehicle seating 18 and the ultra-prestigious Stretch Hummer seating 20! If headroom is a primary issue, limo vans and buses fit the bill. They can seat between 7 and 19 passengers in comfort. New York car service can even provide armored vehicles. Though they may look just like a regular Lincoln Town Car or Cadillac Escalade, they provide the ultimate protection.

Another misconception about limos is that they are just for wealthy business executives. Sure, business has long been taking advantage of the comfort, reliability, safety and professionalism of New York limo service for airport transportation and pickup or driving clients in style. But today's premier limo companies have greatly extended their service offerings and branched out into new fields.

One increasingly popular service is New York limo excursions where a driver who is also a tour guide picks you up at your hotel for a sightseeing trip. Refreshments are included, and tours are available in many languages. If you plan a night on the town, what better way to go than rent an elegant limo with its own bar. No need to put up with cabs or designated drivers; the limo service does it all, and you'll be envied wherever you go. Take some friends to a ballgame? Get a limo and avoid the hassles of parking and traffic. Planning a wedding? Limos mean there is one less thing to worry about, and the wedding party arrives and leaves in grand style and comfort.

If you haven't been in a limo lately you're in for a surprise. Whether it's riding in a late model luxury car, in the complete privacy of a stretch limo, or the plush, spacious interior of a limo bus, you're in for a treat. Whether it's large flat-screen TVs, multi-disk digital DJ systems, surround sound, mood lighting, bars, or even hardwood floors and fish tanks, there's almost nothing that's not available to increase your riding pleasure and convenience.

So whether you've had it with cabs, plan an event, need to impress a client, or simply want to make sure you get there safely and reliably, Mew York limousine service is the way to go. It's more affordable than you think, and with all the stress in life today, you deserve a break.


