Title: 
New York Limos: Less Expensive Than You Think

Word Count:
521

Summary:
Are limos really only for the fortunate few? Do they cost a fortune? Do you need to be a member of some exclusive club? The answer is no....


Keywords:
New York limo,luxury cars,nyc car service,new york city


Article Body:
If you live in New York City or have been there, you've seen the elegant limos, the luxury car service that is used by the fortunate few. While mere mortals use the subway or hail a cab, important people are chauffeured around in gleaming limos. They never have to wait, they never have to find a parking spot, and they never have to put up with the inconvenience of getting there. But are limos really only for the fortunate few? Do they cost a fortune? Do you need to be a member of some exclusive club?

The answer is no. New York limos are just another service available to New Yorkers and anyone who visits this great city. Limo companies specialize in providing elegant, reliable and safe transportation in a metropolitan area where it is often difficult to get around. So instead of a ratty taxicab, limo customers get to ride in the famous stretch limos, in late model luxury cars, in stretched SUVs, in specially equipped buses, or even in armored vehicles. And the price for this is less than most people think, especially in this day and age of ever-rising gas prices.

In this article I'll give you some ideas of what New York limo service costs. A lot of people use limos to get to and from airports. In general, riding to or from LaGuardia, JFK or Newark with a limo service will cost about $100 in a luxury vehicle like a Lincoln Town Card, a Mercedes Benz S-Class or a big BMW. Airport transportation in stretch limos or SUVs is between $175 and $225, but consider that such vehicles can accommodate between six and ten passengers, so a larger group can actually ride in style for no more than splitting up into several taxicabs. Add to that the convenience of being together and arriving together, and the advantage of limo service is obvious.

For those who simply want to sightsee in New York City or the Burroughs, hourly rates of NYC car service are usually between $70 and $130, with a minimum of two or three hours depending on the type of trip. Keep in mind that limos, unlike taxicabs, cannot just pick up the next ride once they drop off passengers. This means that hourly limo rates are based on garage-to-garage travel time, which seems fair enough. Also, like anywhere else in life these days, there are some additional fees and taxes. These include tolls, parking, gratuity, New York City tax and now fuel surcharges. But even with these, limos remain a relative bargain in many situations. 

When it comes to travel and transportation, it's often a cost-benefit analysis. Having a client picked up in a limo instead of having them fend for themselves may well close a deal. Going to see a Mets or Yankees game in a New York limousine can make the game a special experience, and for a larger group, it's cost-effective and fun. All for a fee of around $120 in a luxury car or maybe $225 for a stretch limo with bar. Using limos is not only a pleasant, relaxing experience; it can also make financial sense.


