Title: 
Nip/Tuck & Travel

Word Count:
401

Summary:
Looking for an extreme makeover or just a little Nip/Tuck?

Are you aware of the growing trend of medical tourism? If not, consider this, have the vacation adventure of a lifetime in an exotic country, with sun, sea and pristine white beaches. Your personal assistant awaits you at the airport, accompanied by car and driver. You are whisked away to a luxury beach hotel where you are warmly greeted and everything has been made “just right” for your arrival. Sound great so far...


Keywords:
Medical tourism, travel,plastic surgery,cost of plastic surgery,Nip/Tuck,medical holidays,


Article Body:
Looking for an extreme makeover or just a little Nip/Tuck?

Are you aware of the growing trend of medical tourism? If not, consider this, have the vacation adventure of a lifetime in an exotic country, with sun, sea and pristine white beaches. Your personal assistant awaits you at the airport, accompanied by car and driver. You are whisked away to a luxury beach hotel where you are warmly greeted and everything has been made “just right” for your arrival. Sound great so far? Now add world class plastic surgery. Got your interest?

The kicker, the price tag! This “lifestyles of the rich and famous” treatment will run you half the cost of staying home and having just the surgery. Yes, you heard right half the cost of staying home and having just the surgery! Imagine all this and medical treatment or plastic surgery performed by some of most qualified surgeons in the world. No wonder hundreds of thousands of people annually are exploring the advantages of medical tourism.

A well-known Dallas socialite who travels every year to have "a little work done" said "Why in the world would I pay double the money for half the quality?" That's a good question. She went further adding, “I could never afford the top surgeon in Dallas, but abroad I can, and would I really want to trust my face or body to my second choice because my wallet couldn’t stretch far enough?

Plastic surgery and medical tourism trends continue to grow every year. Medical tourism is expected to be a global $2 billion dollar market by 2012. Countries where medical tourism is being actively promoted include South Africa, India, Malaysia, Philippines Singapore and South America. The latter, South America is known for being home to arguably the best plastic surgeons in the world.

There is no end in sight for the worldwide growth of medical tourism, in fact, Malaysian Airlines recently announced their plans to become the first airline to book medical holidays direct from their travel agents and ticket counters. The giant tour operator Thomas Cook has also announced plans to market medical holidays in the near future.

The worldwide demand for plastic surgery rises every year and as more individuals who desire a “Nip/Tuck” realize they can afford VIP treatment with a top surgeon in another country they’re packing their bags and heading to the airport.

Robert Strong


