Title: 
Nudist Resorts Celebrate the 31st Annual Nude Recreation Week this July 10th - 16th

Word Count:
734

Summary:
Tired of the same old boring chain hotel vacations? Learn all about nude recreation. It is the fastest growing travel niche in America. This July 10th - 16th is Nude Recreation week which celebrates all of these fun resorts.


Keywords:
nudist,colony,colonies,nude,topless,resort,resorts,vacation,vacations,travel,trip,trips,nudism,palm springs,california,hotel,hotels, leisure,recreation,florida,caribbean,topless,clothing optional,inn


Article Body:
Nude sunbathing and swimming have a long history in America. Some of the more famous early nudists were Presidents George Washington and John Quincy Adams. Ben Franklin took daily "air baths" as he called them au naturel.. Many more presidents such as FDR enjoyed skinny dipping. And Norman Rockwell's painting titled No Swimming showing children skinny dipping at the local water hole, graced the front cover of The Saturday Evening Post on June 4, 1921.

This July, nudists will be celebrating the 31st anniversary of Nude Recreation Week from July 10th to 16th. The American Association for Nude Recreation http://aanr.com is the major sponsor. The purpose of this week is to inform people of all the fun that they are missing out on by not taking nude vacations.

According to a recent Wall Street Journal article, nude recreation is one of the fastest growing segments of the travel industry. Nude vacationers now have choices such as cruises (with such lines as Holland America, Carnival, and Star Flyer). upscale resorts, and rural campgrounds and clubs. Guests feel very safe and comfortable at nudist resorts as inappropriate behavior is not allowed. One upscale resort owner is even a past President of the Palm Springs Chamber of Commerce.

As can be expected, the most popular clothing optional resorts are located in warm parts of the country. Most notably Palm Springs, CA and Florida.

Cypress Cove Nudist Resort located just outside of Orlando, FL in Kissimmee is Florida's most famous nudist destination. It is very popular especially because it is close to all the attractions of Orlando like Disney World.

In Palm Springs, the popular place is The Terra Cotta Inn Clothing Optional Resort and Spa. http://sunnyfun.com Sunny Palm Springs is a very popular nudist destination as it has the best weather in America. Averaging less than 3 inches of rainfall a year. there is no warmer, sunnier city in the U.S. Another very important reason that nudist love Palm Springs is there are no mosquitoes because it is a desert city. Save the bug spray for your Florida vacations.

The Terra Cotta Inn's popularity is also due to their catering to couples trying nude sunbathing for the first time. Instead of requiring memberships and mandatory nudity like many nudist resorts, a first timer could initially wear a bathing suit or beach wrap if they so desired. And there are no membership fees. Guests fly from around the world to stay with them. Mary Clare, the owner says, "women are more intimidated by nude sunbathing at first, but ultimately they love it more because they love the sense of freedom. You don't have to worry how you will look in a bathing suit as you aren't wearing one. Some women are nervous the first time they come here, and will just try topless sunbathing at first. But usually, after maybe 30 minutes, they feel comfortable and go nude just like everyone else. Everyone always ends up nude sunbathing here because of our safe environment. Woman really appreciate it that we think of their feelings and well being and allow them to go nude sunbathing when they are ready." This technique of allowing women to to feel comfortable is very successful. Terra Cotta has one of the highest repeat guest rates in the travel industry at just over 75%.

Nude recreation week is to remind people that you don't have to settle for the same old boring chain hotel vacations this year. There really are fun places where you can relax and feel totally free. If you are looking for a new, fun vacation, give a clothing optional resort a call. You will be glad that you did.

Tom and his wife Mary Clare own the popular Terra Cotta Inn Clothing Optional Resort and Spa http://sunnyfun.com . Rated as one of the 10 best clothing optional resorts in the world, they are the perfect vacation destination. Los Angeles Magazine featured them as one of their 4 favorite vacation resorts for couples. Tom is a past President of the Palm Springs Chamber of Commerce. They are experts in the hospitality industry and it shows as they have one of the highest repeat guest rates in the travel industry at just over 75%. Considered the most mainstream nudist resort in America, they are perfect for first time nude sunbathers! For more information give them a call at 1-800-786-6938. Feel free to reprint this article.


