Title: 
Old Alabama Town in Alabama - A Great Vacation and Travel Destination

Word Count:
384

Summary:
Have the vacation of a lifetime at Old Alabama Town in Alabama, by knowing the Attractions to see - Best times to visit - Places to stay, and more.


Keywords:
old alabama town,travel,vacation,alabama,montgomery


Article Body:
If you are interested in visiting an amazing village in the south then you must check out Old Alabama Town in Alabama. This village is made up of quite a few 19th and 
20th century buildings that are authentic and have been restored to their original beauty. Located in Montgomery, Alabama, the town stretches over six blocks in the 
historic downtown area of this city. That's a pretty big area and it can take up to half a day to wander around and see the architecture and all the buildings.

When you visit Old Alabama Town it is like you are walking into the late 1800s and by entering this realm you can "meet" the people who had such a huge impact on 
developing this part of Alabama simply by reading about their lives and seeing where they lived and worked. Seeing how the different buildings were in their original form helps visitors see the distinct difference in lifestyle from city dwellers and those who lived in more rural areas.

More than 40 different buildings have been restored in this tiny little village and by doing so the non profit corporation in charge of it all is helping people remember the past 
and learn from it for future benefits. You truly will be amazed when you visit Old Alabama Town and kids will be especially filled with wonder. That's because they can see how buildings were constructed so many years ago and give them a new appreciation for the world today.

Everyone who visits Old Alabama Town leaves with a renewed appreciation for all the hard work of our ancestors to make a better world not to mention a newfound appreciation for today's conveniences. This is a fabulous day trip for singles, families, and pretty much any tourist who would enjoy a good time learning about the past.

There is a website that has great information on USA Vacations and Unique Travel Spots Listed State By State and Season, the website is called: Seasonal Vacation Spots, and can be found at this url:

http://www.seasonalvacationspots.com

By Robert W. Benjamin

Copyright © 2007 

You may publish this article in your ezine, newsletter, or on your web site as long as it is reprinted in its entirety and without modification except for formatting needs or grammar corrections.


