Title: 
One Hot Erotic Vacation

Word Count:
287

Summary:
Discover the latest in resort review from Gabby Love...LesSPORT !


Keywords:
travel,travel asia,travel mexico,travel europe,travel south america,travel spain,travel central america,travel china,travel france,travel canada,travel switzerland,travel germany,travel austria,travel argentina,cheap travel,


Article Body:
One Hot Erotic Vacation


It's Springtime which means it's time to spice up your love life by planning an erotic getaway! Gabby Love is designed to enhance relationships. The following will consist of tips to a favorite locale of Gabby Love that shall be a once in a lifetime experience...LesSPORT is the featured location.


Located on the Caribbean island of St. Lucia, LesSPORT is an all inclusive resort that features tropical grounds, Spanish inspired architecture, and plenty of great sun . The amenities are overwhelming from extensive spa services,fitness classes,massage therapies,beauty treatments,relaxation therapies,as well as sports which include fencing,tennis,archery,and so much more. The great point of this recommendation is that almost all of the above services are included in the price of your stay.
The guest rooms at the resort are housed in several locations on the property and come in various sizes from garden rooms for singles to ocean front suites which are available with one or two bedrooms. The rooms are wonderfully designed and decorated with quality furniture and fixtures. They offer air conditioning,direct dial phones, and a private bath with shower. There are a few rooms that come with ocean views, balconies, and mini refrigerators.

Last but not least LeSPORT offers two main restaurants for your dining pleasure, Cariblue and Tao. Cariblue offers great breakfast and lunch buffets as well as a la carte dinner menu in a fairly casual setting. For a more formal dining experience , Tao offers an award -winning dinner experience. However reservations must be made early because Tao is extremely popular.


Gabby Love is all about enhancing ones relationship and views. Exploring the unknown together will create a very memorable experience.


