Title: 
Paintball Stag Do in Nottingham

Word Count:
435

Summary:
Paintball as a stag do? But of course! Paintball may have started as an afternoon with a few nutters running around with marking guns, but since its inception in the early 1980s, there have been lots of little refinements that make paintball a perfect stag do activity. Here's a few ideas for ways to fit an energetic afternoon of paintball into your Nottingham stag weekend.


Keywords:
stag weekend, nottingham stag do, nottingham stag weekend


Article Body:
Are you looking for a novel idea for a stag do for your best mate? The typical stag do these days is more than just a night out on the town. With the average age at marriage rising, today's bride and groom - and their mates - tend to have a bit more disposable income - and a lot more reason to celebrate when one of their own decides to tie the proverbial knot. So when it's time to give one of the crew a memorable sendoff into married life, a lot of people are opting for more than the traditional evening of lap dancing and semi-nude girls. In fact, entire stag weekends packed with fun activities are gaining in popularity. If you live in or around Nottingham, one stag do activity that you might include in a stag weekend is a rousing afternoon of paintball.

Paintball as a stag do? But of course! Paintball may have started as an afternoon with a few nutters running around with marking guns, but since its inception in the early 1980s, there have been lots of little refinements that make paintball a perfect stag do activity. Here's a few ideas for ways to fit an energetic afternoon of paintball into your Nottingham stag weekend.

Scenario Paintball
Add a little spice to a game of paintball by making it more than a game. Instead of just playing a grownup version of Capture the Flag, let a professional tour operator set up a scenario for your stag do paintball game. Pit your pals against each other in an attempt to retrieve the kidnapped groom from the clutches of a brace of strippers who don't want to lose him to married life - or split them into teams to infiltrate 'enemy headquarters' in a daring WWII spy scenario.

Tournament Paintball
Another Nottingham stag do idea is to stage a paintball tournament. Let the entire crew battle it out to name the Grand Champion - and guarantee him a place of honor in the evening festivities right alongside the groom-to-be.

Chicks 'n' Stags Paintball
If you're planning a special weekend away for the entire wedding party, why not include a Chicks vs. Stags paintball game? Pit the guys against the gals in an afternoon of woodsball or speedball and play out the Battle of the Sexes in a Grand Melee on a Nottingham paintball court.

Paintball in Nottingham is just one example of a fun stag do activity that a professional tour operator can help you arrange. Other unusual and fun stag do activities include kayaking, orienteering, canyoning and of course, the perennial favorites - the Pub Crawl.


