Title: 
Personalize Your Trip by Staying at a Tucson Bed and Breakfast

Word Count:
492

Summary:
Whether you're spending the weekend in Tucson or are in the city for an extended stay, a Tucson bed and breakfast can make your visit richer and more memorable.


Keywords:
Tucson bed and breakfast, Tucson lodging, Tucson hotel, Tucson AZ bed and breakfast


Article Body:
An oasis in the Sonoran desert plain, Tucson, Arizona, is a haven for residents and a year-round wonderland for tourists. Tucson's picturesque beauty belies its growing high-tech industry and its nickname as "Optics Valley." Nestled amongst five mountain ranges (the Tucson Mountains, Rincon Mountains, Santa Rita Mountains, Tortolita Mountains, and Santa Catalina Mountains), Tucson is home to a half million people, with many more wintering in the area. At the heart of Tucson, though, is the University of Arizona. Established in 1885 and located in midtown, the University of Arizona enrolls over 37,000 students. 

Whether you're visiting a University of Arizona student, in town for business, or have chosen Tucson as your vacation destination, the city offers something of interest to virtually everyone. Every December and March, for example, the Fourth Avenue Street Fair is home to craftsman and artisans showcasing and selling their sculptures, candles, pottery, and other art. In February, the city hosts the renowned Tucson Gem & Mineral Show, drawing visitors from dozens of countries around the world. 

May's Tucson Folk Festival is free to the public and showcases local and regional musicians on several stages throughout the area. It also features workshops and sing-alongs, as well as food and craft booths. Rodeo Week, or Fiesta de los Vaqueros, is immensely popular with locals and visitors alike, while events like Tucson Meet Yourself and the All Souls Procession embrace the diversity of cultures in the area. 

When it comes to Tucson lodging, visitors have a variety of choices. While a Tucson hotel or motel might appeal to some, others enjoy the more intimate feel of a Tucson, AZ, bed and breakfast. The welcoming ambience and personalized service of a Tucson bed and breakfast are unparalleled, and many visitors enjoy staying in upscale Tucson lodging that is within walking distance of the University of Arizona, the shopping district, the zoo, and the botanical gardens. 

Due to their historical nature, some Tucson bed and breakfast locations truly give guests a sense of place and time. Some of these upscale boutique inns, such as those located in the West University Historic District, can date back to 1899. The owners delight in sharing the home's history with guests, and can often chronicle the chain of ownership with historical documents and anecdotal evidence. 

The guest rooms in these Tucson bed and breakfasts are often as unique as the home's history. You may, for example, have the opportunity to choose from among several types of room decor, ranging from Zen and Safari to Country Spring and Antique. That doesn't mean, however, that you won't have access to modern amenities. At the right B&B, you'll find that most of the rooms have exterior entrances, making it a breeze to come and go as you please, and all have modern kitchens.

Whether you're spending the weekend in Tucson or are in the city for an extended stay, a Tucson bed and breakfast can make your visit richer and more memorable.


