Title: 
Pet Friendly Vacation Rentals and Holiday Homes

Word Count:
515

Summary:
Pets are an integral part of ones family, especially for all pet lovers. So, when a family goes on vacation it is considered that the pet goes along. All vacation planning thus includes the pets and pet friendly vacations and travel planning make more sense.


Keywords:
Pet friendly,dog,cat,rental,List,listing,villa,vacation rental,holiday rental, holiday home,vacation home, pet friendly rentals


Article Body:
Pets are an integral part of ones family, especially for all pet lovers. So, when a family goes on vacation it is considered that the pet goes along. All vacation planning thus includes the pets and pet friendly vacations and travel planning make more sense. According to statistics, 60 million households in the USA are proud pet owners. About 15 million or 25% of these pet owners travel on vacations with their pets and stay in pet friendly lodgings. For the convenience of these pet owners pet friendly hotels, vacation home rentals and condos are available across many locations. The following are a few tips to keep in mind while traveling with a pet.

1. While making your vacation rental or hotel reservations, make sure you double-check that pets are permitted. Make sure that you get the “pets allowed” receipt for your reservation either online or through normal mail channels. Verbal assurances cannot be relied upon. 

2. The next step is to get your pet acquainted with traveling. One can achieve this by using the car. Get the pet into the car and make sure you play with it to make it relax. After a while, take it for a short drive. Increase the length of the drives bit by bit, so that the pet gets used to long drives that you may take on most vacations.

3. Keeping the safety factor foremost in mind, make sure you get your pet to get used to being secured inside the car. Securing harness can be bought from the local pet stores. 

4. Make sure you pet is properly tagged with the identification containing the pet’s name, owners name and the phone number, preferably your vacation rental’s or cell phone number. This will ensure that the pet is returned to you easily in case it wanders off in new surroundings. Make sure you have a photograph of your pet handy, so that in case of a loss, enquiries are easier.

5. Always check with your vet before the vacation, if any vaccinations are needed to suit the environment of your destination. If your pet is a dog, make sure you carry the up-to-date rabies tag on its collar. It could be required in many places.

6. Upon arrival at the pet friendly vacation rental always inform the check-in person or staff that you have a pet along with you. Make sure you understand and follow the rules of the place regarding pet restricted areas in the vacation rentals.

7. Never let the pet use the furniture in the pet friendly vacation rental for sitting or sleeping unless covered with your own sheet. Use the bathroom for placing water and food containers over an old newspaper to facilitate cleaning up.
 
8. Avoid leaving the pet unattended in a pet friendly vacation rental. If you have to do so, please inform the clerk or the rental agent of the same. Make sure you pet is secured while doing so lest it may surprise or hurt the vacation rental staff.

Traveling and vacationing with pets can be fun, if you use a little commonsense and care while doing so.


