Title: 
Places to stay in San Diego CA

Word Count:
1090

Summary:
This article we will be focusing on a few of the beach hotels on Coronado Island which is populated with some of the most family friendly, pleasant, and professional accommodations for business trips, and those very special family vacations.


Keywords:
Places to stay in San Diego CA, Coronado Beach Hotels, Coronado Hotels, Coronado Island, Places to Stay on Coronado Island, Hotel Del Coronado


Article Body:
Places to stay in San Diego CA

Coronado Beach Hotels

San Diego CA is among one of the top 10 places to visit in the world, specifically because of the sandy beaches and the overall ambiance as that Southern California has to offer.  For the purposes of this article we will be focusing on a few of the beach hotels on <a href=“http://www.getawayforawhile.com/San20CA”>Coronado Island</a> which is populated with some of the most family friendly, pleasant, and professional accommodations for business trips, and those very special family vacations.  Specifically when it is time for you and yours to <a href="http://www.getawayforawhile.com">Getawayforawhile.</a>

One of the oldest and most popular hotels on Coronado Island is the Hotel Del Coronado or The Del as many of its guests have more affectionately named it.  Since its opening in 1888, The Del has attracted filmmakers, presidents and royalty. A National Historic Landmark, is situated along 28 oceanfront acres on Coronado Island, and is considered one of America's most beautiful resorts.  The legend continues to unfold with the recent unveiling of the dramatic enhancements of a $150 million restoration. With year-round sunshine and classic Victorian architecture, The Del is a favorite for romantic getaways, family adventures, meetings and conferences.  For those times when it is necessary to go to the gift shop and find your choice of places to eat, The Del features several dining and shopping options, a fully staffed recreation department offering children and teen programs, new fitness center and seasonal activities. Guests can pamper themselves at the oceanfront Spa with a variety of massage options and body treatments. Recently rated one of the top 10 hotels in the world by USA Today, it's easy to see why The Del has enchanted guests for more than a century, perhaps you may be one of them.

Another magnificent choice for family destinations as well as business chips is the Best Western Suites Hotel Coronado Island.  No charity case among hotels and places to stay on Coronado, The Best Western Suites Hotel Coronado Island is known among Coronado Island's miles of white sandy beaches, marinas, bicycle trails, public parks and the nation's most ideal climate. Business and family travelers alike will relish the central location, outstanding service, and unbeatable prices of the Best Western Suites Hotel Coronado Island. Choose from our tradition of graciousness, in beautifully designed guest rooms and suites. The close proximity to the North Island Naval Air Station makes the Best Western Suites Hotel Coronado Island an ideal location for government and military travelers. Coronado is a beautiful resort community, located just south of downtown San Diego and is surrounded by the ocean on one side and Glorietta Bay on the other. Perched at the edge of convenience and entertainment, there is no shortage of things to do or places to eat at the best western suites hotel Coronado Island.

There are travelers that make the most out of every vacation they can possibly get, and for those folks who enjoy an extended stay with family friends or even associates an excellent choice is the Coronado Beach Resort Condos.  Located on the romantic and historic Coronado Island, Coronado Beach Resort lures guests with its distinctive beachside charm. During your stay, explore all the sites that make Coronado a local favorite, from the charming downtown area to the variety of gourmet bistros. Guests of Coronado Beach Resort have access to all of the amenities of the Loew’s Coronado Bay Resort including the pools, hot tubs and tennis courts. Just moments away from the resort, you’ll find downtown San Diego, the San Diego Zoo, and SeaWorld San Diego, with LEGOLAND just half an hour away. Mexico is just around the corner with great cuisine, shopping and of course an exciting nightlife.  Recently renovated, each suite offers elegant decor that is also casually delightful. Each beautiful room features a flat screen cable television, internet connections and kitchens complete with cookware and place settings. Guests are welcomed to the lobby by a baby grand piano, a cozy fireplace and Cody, the macaw.  Coronado beach Resort offers a variety of activities for everyone to enjoy, right at the resort! Have a family barbecue on the rooftop patio where you can watch the ocean as you enjoy time together. Take a swim or enjoy a game of tennis at the nearby Loew’s Coronado Bay Resort. Rent a bicycle from the resort and take a ride along the water or relax on the sand with beach towels, chairs, sand toys and boogie boards available for your use. Coronado Bay Resort offers group activities for a chance to meet fellow guests and make the most out of your vacation. 

For those families with children that are old enough to be unsupervised for a short amount of time the Villa Capri by the Sea is an intimate, charming boutique hotel in the tradition of the finest European hotels and Inns. The on-site, concierge-style management offers hospitality, friendless and personal assistance that has long made us a place where guests from all over the world come back again and again.  Located across the bay from San Diego, the Villa Capri by the Sea is easily reached by car, cab, bus, and ferry or water taxi. Opposite the historic Hotel Del Coronado and the Pacific Ocean on the enchanted and serene island of Coronado is an excellent choice for any family vacation.  There are 14 units of all sizes and shapes that face a sun-drenched patio with a graceful stairway overlooking a shimmering pool, where a continental breakfast is served daily. They feature rooms, suites and apartments with fully-equipped kitchens, fitting the needs of singles, couples, and families--as well as the corporate or business traveler.  The Villa Capri by the Sea features comfortable “Sleep Therapy” pillow top beds, tubs and showers, phones with voice mail and data ports, refrigerators, microwaves and kitchens with all that you, and those old enough, would need to prepare a delicious meal or hearty breakfast.  The Villa Capri by the Sea is walking distance to Coronado's finest boutiques, restaurants, theaters and the heavenly beach. Bicycling, boating, fishing, golf, and tennis are just steps away.  As well as old San Diego’s other more popular attractions.

Rates are subject to change.
For more options, and information visit <a href="http://www.getawayforawhile.com/Coronado20Hotels"> Coronado Beach Hotels.</a>

This article is intellectual property of the author.  Any republications should maintain the original work, and also credit the original author.


