Title: 
Planet Hollywood Resort & Casino, where everyone is a star

Word Count:
385

Summary:
Introduction for Planet Hollywood Hotel & Casino, Las Vegas. A Sheraton Resort (formerly the Aladdin) is the place where everyone is a celebrity. Offering the glamour of Hollywood, guests are treated to the star treatment which ensures everyone feels both welcome and comfortable. The Planet is a place where you belong.


Keywords:
travel, casino las vegas


Article Body:
Be seen at the newest Resort and Casino in Las Vegas, at the most excellent position on the strip. Planet Hollywood Hotel & Casino, A Sheraton Resort (previously the Aladdin) is the place where each person is a star.
Offering an impressive variety of luxurious guest rooms and oversized suites, the Planet is a place where you belong. Each of the 2,600 rooms features a marble bathroom, most with personal soaking tub and separate shower, as well as a host of extra luxurious services. Guests are moreover able to get pleasure from two sparkling pools, six floors with fantastic strip views, poolside food and beverage service and a relaxing atmosphere there's no better place to beat the heat. Pool is heated and seasonal. 
Discover a fantastic collection of different cuisines offered to you in the style that respects and exemplifies the price you've chosen. Planet Hollywood's excellent restaurants bring dining quality to the Strip. 
Inside the magical walls of Planet Hollywood, your entertainment wishes will be granted with a amazing collection of shops, clubs and lounges, and the famous Theatre for the Performing Arts. For shopping, the Miracle Mile Shopping Mall features exceptional restaurants, shows, brand name shops and street vendors for all ages and likes. Entertainment is extraordinary. Enjoy headlining performances at the 7,000-seat Theater for the Performing Arts, which will feature The Beauty of Magic starring Hans Klok and Pamela Anderson. STOMP OUT LOUD, from the producers of STOMP, will be the main act in the newly designed 1,500-seat Showroom.
Boasting three acres of gaming under one roof with your favorite table and slot games, the Planet's newly designed Casino features video and plasma, giving patrons a true "Wow" from the moment they step on the floor. Almost three acres of gaming that include all your favorite slots and table games plus a huge poker room and a state-of-the-art race and sportsbook. The beautiful, new, smoke-free poker room is home to 10 tables, where every minute of every day you'll find high-hand jackpots ranging from $50 to $599. Cash games include $3-6, $5-10 and $10-20 limit Hold 'Em and Omaha, and $1-2, $2-5, and $5-5 no-limit Hold 'Em. Planet Hollywood also has $2-$5 stud games with 50¢ antes.
Offering the glamour of Hollywood, guests are treated to the star treatment which ensures everyone feels both welcome and comfortable. The Planet is a place where you belong.


