Title: 
Popular Cigar Lighters

Word Count:
301

Summary:
Cigar lighters come in all shapes, sizes and styles, and they are one of the most important accessories for any serious cigar aficionado.


Keywords:
Cigars, Cigar Humidors, Cuban Cigars, Discount Cigars


Article Body:
Cigar lighters come in all shapes, sizes and styles, and they are one of the most important accessories for any serious cigar aficionado.  

There are many brands available on the market today, most of which can be purchased at one of the numerous online cigar stores found on the Internet.  One of the most popular and respected models, the IM Corona Double Corona Lighter, is flint reliable and holds butane released by a patented dual nozzle.  It, along with many other brands, is available at Cuban Crafters’ online store. 

Other popular brands include the Colibri 3003, the ST Dupont Gatsby and the Blazer Z Plus.  Lighters can run anywhere from just a few dollars to over $100.  The most expensive models, such as the Colibri Vortex II, are made of hand-crafted silver and boast wind-resistant flames and built-in cigar punches.  Many of these high-end cigar lighters are available from the Cigar King, an online provider of some of the finest cigars and cigar accessories.

Lighters are just one set of the many products available to a serious aficionado.  Various types of humidors, chests, boxes, cutters and portable humidifiers can be purchased to preserve and display a collection, or enhance the smoking experience. 

During the U.S. cigar boom of the 1990s, the demand for quality accessories like cigar lighters was stronger than ever.  Riding a wave of popularity ushered in by public the endorsements of celebrities and by the emergence of online availability for discounted brands, cigars have seen dramatic sales increases, particularly among younger generations looking to emulate the elegant, debonair lifestyle touted by magazines like Cigar Aficionado.  Though many still swear by the notion that a cigar can only be properly lit by a match, the cigar lighter has become an indispensable accessory for the serious collector and casual smoker alike.


