Title: 
Popular Varieties of Cigar Boxes

Word Count:
296

Summary:
A cigar box can come in many shapes and sizes, and hold anywhere from five or six items to a complete collection containing hundreds of cigars.  Great for gifts, cigar boxes serve both to protect and preserve their contents, and to display them in an attractive, elegant setting.


Keywords:
Cigars, Cigar Humidors, Cuban Cigars, Discount Cigars


Article Body:
A cigar box can come in many shapes and sizes, and hold anywhere from five or six items to a complete collection containing hundreds of cigars.  Great for gifts, cigar boxes serve both to protect and preserve their contents, and to display them in an attractive, elegant setting.

Modern cigar boxes are often similar to humidors in that they feature climate-controlling features that optimize the temperature and humidity in order to preserve the cigar’s flavor and appearance.  Some are custom made out of wood and hand-crafted to suit the exact décor of the buyer’s home.  

There is also a large market for antique cigar boxes.  Serious collectors fetch hefty prices for containers that date back to the turn of the century or even earlier.  

Whether a buyer is seeking a cigar box for aesthetics or for preservation, cigar boxes make perfect gifts for any aficionado.  Online merchants such as Cigar King offer some of the finest cigar boxes, available in many price ranges.  A simple Cigar Caddy made out of Otter Box can be purchased for under $20, while a classic Ashton humidor of beautiful walnut can run upwards of $1500.  

Other discount cigar stores offer boxes at reduced rates, and they can often be shipped to the customer overnight.  For those looking for other cigar accessories to compliment a cigar box, there are many brands and styles of lighters, cutters and ashtrays that could make for a perfect gift set for any cigar aficionado.  

If you are having trouble locating a suitable cigar store or distributor in your area, consult Cigarworld online for a directory of all local and national cigar outlets.  There you will find literally hundreds of locations, both online and off, which offer cigars and cigar accessories to suit any occasion.


