Title: 
Portofino World Site - Official Tourist Site for Portofino.

Word Count:
427

Summary:
Portofino World site is the new official tourist site for Portofino in Italy.  Always considered one of the eight marvels of the world, Portofino, famous for its beauty and exclusivity, has embraced the new technology of the internet so that everyone can admire and know its beauty and charm.


Keywords:
portofino, vacation, guide, travel, italy, luxury hotels


Article Body:
Portofino World site is the new official tourist site for Portofino in Italy.  Always considered one of the eight marvels of the world, Portofino, famous for its beauty and exclusivity, has embraced the new technology of the internet so that everyone can admire and know its beauty and charm.

Unforgettable stars of the Dolce Vita such as Ava Gardner, Brigitte Bardot, Frank Sinatra, Lauren Bacall and Humphrey Bogart, have made Portofino famous in the world which is synonymous with passionate, evocative and romantic encounters.  Today, it is still the place to encounter the international Jet Set.

Portofino World Site will be a great virtual gateway on display every day throughout the world, with a refined and simple philosophy: "To unite all new technology into a unique easy style inspired by Made in Italy which is famous and respected in every corner of the world" says Editor Enrico Alexis.  It is a design integrating multimedia communications on the web, sponsored by the Comune di Portofino, through its Chairman of Tourism, Francesco Gaioni, who organised the style, quality and function of the site.

At your computer, it is possible to reserve Hotels and Suites in Italy, in the zones of Genova, Portofino and Cinque Terre, and all the best 5 Star luxury hotels in Italy, such as, Il Quisisana in Capri, I'Excelsior and St. Regis in Rome, Il Grand Hotel in Florence, Il Danieli and Il Gritti in Venice, Il Pierre and The Gray in Milan, Il Saraceno in Amalfi, Il Meli in Porto Cervo, I'Atlantis Bay and Timeo in Taormina, Il Parco dei Principi in Positano.  It is also possible to find speciality fish restaurants, to know where to find all the top fashion houses, for example in Portofino, we think of Louis Vuitton, Zegna, Cartier, Gucci, Bulgari, Hermes, also in Portofino, to reserve a luxury yacht for a sea voyage, to see photos, paintings, films and special events.

Portofino World Site will be become the jewel in the crown for promoting the Ligurian coast in the world.  The historical Genova with its ancient palaces, port, and the biggest aquarium in Europe, sensual Santa Margherita Ligure, romantic Camogli and of course Cinque Terre, could start your journey, your walks and excursions in the splendid landscape beside the sea.

To organise an Italian holiday for many foreign visitors, visit www.portofino.ws where it is possible to reserve, in a secure way, a selection of our hotels, also in Rome, Milan, Venice, Florence, Capri,Taormina, Amalfi, Ischia and Positano and other locations.

Portofino World Site, something to be proud of.


