Title: 
Quick Guide for Global Travel and Vacations

Word Count:
589

Summary:
Vacationers are traveling to exotic places like never before. If you're planning a vacation, here's a quick guide for global travel vacations...


Keywords:
travel, resort, vacation, holiday, cruises, europe, hotel, golf, beach, money, ocean, work at home


Article Body:
Whether planning a trip to Europe or a cruise to the Caribbean, there are few things you should know before booking your vacation. Global travel and vacations are somewhat different than the average three-hour drive from your home. If you don't plan in advance, you might find yourself stuck in an undesirable hotel with no money left for fun! Here's a quick guide to make your vacation planning experience easier and more enjoyable.

Choose a Travel Destination

Don't settle for the norm! Choose a global travel destination that will make a lasting impression. Consider the following before making your decision.

1. What leisure activities do you enjoy while on vacation? Golf, amusement parks, nightlife, fun on the beach, skiing, hiking, biking, or some other activity?

2. Climate of the destination. Will it be cold, hot, or mild for the time of year you will travel?

3. Do you want seclusion from the hustle and bustle of the city or do you want to stay where the action is?

4. What is your travel budget and available vacation time frame?

These four things should be carefully considered before booking a trip. Choose a destination that features the activities you and your family will enjoy. If it's a beautiful beach resort you want, try an Asian beach in Indonesia, Thailand, or Singapore. If it is art and culture you enjoy, try a destination in Europe such as Rome, Venice or France. If you're an avid shopper while on vacation, choose Hong Kong, where open-air markets, shops, boutiques and malls are at every turn!

Research Your Destination

Once you choose a destination, narrow it down to a city and hotel or resort within that city. Use online resources to research the area and find the best deals. But, be sure a "good deal" doesn't mean sacrificing service or quality of the hotel. With global travel and vacations, you should research in detail so you'll know what you're getting beforehand.

If you want huge savings on luxury resorts, consider joining a travel group that offers membership discounts for booking. This will save you both time and money. They will research and book your vacation for you. Some travel groups will even allow you to sell memberships or travel packages to others as a "work at home" business. You can save money and make money at the same time, all while traveling to the places you love!

Plan for Legalities

Give yourself plenty of time to get your passport and other important documents you may need while traveling internationally. Different countries require different things, so check with the country's government offices to find out what is needed. If you don't know where to begin, ask a travel agent for help in this area, or use the Internet for research. Be sure to ask about car rentals or car hire, driver's license compatibility, airport luggage regulations, and travel insurance.

Plan Activities before You Travel

Once you know your destination, use the Internet to find activities you'd like to do while there. This will save you time when you arrive and will give you a general idea of what's available in the area. Find out where the best spot at the ocean shore is for swimming or sunbathing. Get directions to local golf courses. Find holiday coupons online for amusement parks, museums, aquariums, and other sites.

Planning ahead has many advantages for long hotel stays or cruises, and you can enjoy your vacation without worry when you arrive at your destination. Start planning for your global travel and vacations today!


