Title: 
Quick Guide To Cape Town

Word Count:
444

Summary:
Cape Town has emerged as a city for romantics, adventurers, explorers and families alike. The city now boasts a number of exquisite boutique hotels from where you can enjoy everything Cape Town has to offer.

Where is it?

Cape Town sits on the south west corner of South Africa, where the Atlantic and Indian Oceans meet. It has its own airport and visitors are never short of entertainment or excitement.

Where can I stay?

Cape Town’s growth into one of the most energ...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Cape Town has emerged as a city for romantics, adventurers, explorers and families alike. The city now boasts a number of exquisite boutique hotels from where you can enjoy everything Cape Town has to offer.

Where is it?

Cape Town sits on the south west corner of South Africa, where the Atlantic and Indian Oceans meet. It has its own airport and visitors are never short of entertainment or excitement.

Where can I stay?

Cape Town’s growth into one of the most energetic cities in the world has been matched by the quality of the hotels. In particular, there has been a boom in boutique hotels – designed to catch the attention of the discerning traveller. These hotels provide well-designed and thought-out rooms and public areas and levels of service that anticipate guests’ every need. This new style of hotel includes Atlantic House, which occupies an enviable position in the trendy resort of Camps Bay, the Kensington Palace, a minimalist delight with just eight rooms, set right in the heart of the city, and The Bishops Court, which supplies spacious rooms, a pool and floodlit tennis court and fabulous views of the surrounding landscape.

What can I see?

Cape Town has something for everyone. Whether you’re looking for designer shopping, water adventure, mountain treks, wine tasting tours or even safari trips, you can find it in Cape Town. With an enviable climate and the domineering presence of Table Mountain, Cape Town manages to combine stunning landscapes with urban chic, catering to a wide range of visitors. For those who lack the energy but want the view, take a cable car to the top of Table Mountain, where you get fantastic views of the city below and the ocean beyond. Robben Island is notorious for being the home of Nelson Mandela during his years of imprisonment and is now just half an hour away by boat and has been transformed into a living museum. If you want to damage your credit card, visit the V&A Waterfront, home to designer shops, cinemas, restaurants and craft markets surrounding a working harbour.

How do I get around?

Cape Town is fairly easy to drive around – cars drive on the left here – and car hire is reasonable. If you want to explore the Western Cape then it’s a good idea to hire a car so that you are in control of your day. Trains and buses link all the major cities in South Africa and there are long-haul bus services as well if you’re planning a few days somewhere different. You can also rent a bike to travel round the city or use local taxis.


