Title: 
Rajasthan Tours: Simply Unforgettable

Word Count:
500

Summary:
When we talk about tours and travel in India, our mind first moves towards Rajasthan, a colorful and vibrant state of India drenched in rich culture and royal grandeur. Travelers from all over the world come to Rajasthan to experience its rich culture and tradition of great hospitality.


Keywords:
Rajasthan  tours, Rajasthan holidays, Rajasthan tourism


Article Body:
When we talk about tours and travel in India, our mind first moves towards Rajasthan, a colorful and vibrant state of India drenched in rich culture and royal grandeur. Travelers from all over the world come to Rajasthan to experience its rich culture and tradition of great hospitality. The culture of Rajasthan is defined by the Rajputana Empire who governed it for centuries. Besides rich culture & tradition there are a lot of options for tourism in this exotic state.

The royal land of Rajasthan is considered to be the land of monuments because there are several magnificent monuments, fantastic forts, palatial palaces, stunning havelis, terrific temples, etc in this royal state which make enhance it royal grandeur. These magnificent forts and palaces also tell the saga of romance and bravery of its erstwhile rulers. Some of these forts and palaces have now been converted into grand heritage hotels which provide tourists luxury  Rajasthan tours experience with unforgettable hospitality. 

Exploring the major cities of Rajasthan is also worth enjoying and provides a memorable Rajasthan holidays experience. Cities like Jaipur (the capital of Rajasthan and popularly known as the Pink City), Udaipur (also popularly known as the Romantic City, the City of Lakes, the City of Sunrise, the Venice of the East, the White City, etc. ), Jodhpur (also popularly known as the Sun City or the Blue City), Jaisalmer (the Golden City), Bikaner (the Camel City), Mandawa (the City of Forts & Stunning Havelis), Pushkar (the Sacred City), Mount Abu (the only Hill Station of Rajasthan), etc play a major role in boom of Rajasthan tourism. 

All these cities are dotted with some of most famous forts & palaces and draw the attention of tourists from all over the world. Not only cities, even remote villages of Rajasthan have a lot of tourism options to offer tourists. The royal land of Rajasthan is also globally known for great Indian Thar Desert. Camel Safari on the shimmering golden sands of Thar Desert surely will be a unique travel experience. Travelers from all over the world come to Rajasthan and enjoy camel safari to the Sam Sand Dunes and watch the romantic sunset view. There are several Rajasthan tour packages available to explore the desert landscapes and several magnificent monuments of the state. 

Not only desert and monuments, the diverse land of Rajasthan is also known for its rich flora & fauna. There are several wildlife parks and sanctuaries in the state which appeal you for tours to Rajasthan, India. The Keoladeo Ghana National Park, Sariska National Park, the Ranthambhore National Park, etc are globally known wildlife sanctuaries in the state which are known for rich flora and fauna. Exploring these wildlife sanctuaries provide exhilarating experience of Rajasthan tours. 

Over all, Rajasthan is a land where one can get fascinated with a lot of tourism options. No any part of the country one can find such diverse range of tourism options. If you too want to enjoy real tourism experience in India, you must travel in Rajasthan.


