Title: 
With Cheap Airfare, Travel is Limited Only by Your Imagination

Word Count:
492

Summary:
Don't let your preconceived notions of the costs of travel keep you from experiencing the world firsthand....


Keywords:
cheap airfare,cheap international airfare,cheap airfare to europe,cheap flights to india,india travel,cheap flights to d


Article Body:
In his book, "The World is Flat," Thomas Friedman argues that the beginning of the twenty-first century can be characterized by one word: globalization. While the Digital Age may or may not become the great equalizer, it has certainly given us access to a worldview that was unavailable to our parents and grandparents. A natural extension of the immediacy we feel when we watch videos about, read the blogs of, and listen to people from other countries is the urge to experience their worlds. Indeed, in survey after survey, when people are asked what they would do if they had true financial freedom, the top response is, "Travel." 

Let Your Imagination Take Flight

Unfortunately, because of perceptions about the cost of airfare and lodging, travel experiences remain elusive for many people. But what if you had access to cheap airfare? What if you could get cheap flights to India, cheap airfare to Europe, or cheap flights to Dubai? Wouldn't the world become, proverbially speaking, flatter? And wouldn't your life be exponentially richer?

Technology and Experience Open the Doors to Travel

At the heart of the Digital Age is the Internet, which makes it possible for ordinary individuals to have access to many of the resources that were previously only available to "insiders." Cheap airfare is a prime example of the flattening of the world through the power of the Internet. Typically, two types of airfares are available: published fares, which are the prices quoted by airlines; and consolidator airfares, which are offered to a small number of high-volume travel agencies and which are deeply discounted. Because these travel agencies now sell tickets online, anyone with Internet access can buy a cheap airfare. 

Beyond Flying

These same high-volume travel agencies have access to other travel bargains as well. For example, by booking with an online travel agency, you can also find steeply discounted cruises, lodging accommodations, car rentals, and vacation packages. In a sense, these online sources provide you with one-stop shopping to plan the vacation of your dreams, whether it's for India travel, an exotic cruise, or a whirlwind trip through Europe. 

Finding the Best Online Travel Bargains

Whether you're looking for a bargain trip to Orlando or cheap international airfare, be sure to select an online travel agency that is reputable. Look for an agency that was founded by experienced travel industry professionals, and that has been online for at least five years. The agency should be endorsed by the International Airlines Travel Agent Network (IATAN), and should be experienced in helping both individuals and corporate customers book their vacations, trips, and group travel. In addition, make sure the agency offers you a variety of contact options, from an online quote form to a toll free number. 

Don't let your preconceived notions of the costs of travel keep you from experiencing the world firsthand. With cheap airfare and a reputable online travel agency, your destination is limited only by your imagination.


