Title: 
World travel and tourism is generating in excess of US$7 trillion a year.

Word Count:
633

Summary:
World travel and tourism is generating in excess of US$7 trillion a  year, and is expected  to rise to over US$13 trillion over the coming decade according to the World Travel & Tourism Council's (WTTC) Tourism Satellite Account (TSA) research, sponsored by Accenture and prepared by Oxford Economics.


Keywords:
travel, travel agents, travel business opportunities, home-based travel businesses, timeshare, home-based business, work from home


Article Body:
World travel and tourism is generating in excess of US$7 trillion a  year, and is expected  to rise to over US$13 trillion over the coming decade according to the World Travel & Tourism Council's (WTTC) Tourism Satellite Account (TSA) research, sponsored by Accenture and prepared by Oxford Economics. The magnaminous size of the industry has resulted in a proliferation of booking engines and business opportunities to sell membership packages worth substantial discounts at hotel properties throughout the world.  
While it is exciting for travelers to have all these options, it can also be a challenge to  search through  all  available  information  to find out which ones are legitimate and actually work! That is why I am writing this article.  To share with you an opportunity that has had a profound impact on my life and truly believe it will do the same for you. 
GLOBAL RESORTS NETWORK (http://www.newwaytotravel.com ) is a marketing arm of a 20-year old company that is a market leader in the resort travel business.  They offer a platinum luxury resort membership that provide you with unrestricted access to over 5,000 of the most luxurious hotel and resort destinations in the world.  Large number  of  properties  available  through  this  membership  can  not  be  booked  using  other on-line  travel  sites,  like  Orbitz  or  Tracelocity,  because  access  to  them  is  limited  to  timeshare  owners  only. 
By becoming a member of Global Resorts Network you will never have to pay more then $799 for one week’s stay at a four-  to  five-star resort and in many cases will pay as little as $299. It  is  not  a  misprint!  $299  for  a  full  week  of  resort  living!  Not  just  a  tiny  room  in  the  hotel,  but  full-scale  resort  unit,  with  kitchen,  bedrooms,  living  room  and  all  the  amenities  of  a  4-5  star  resort!  With no blackout dates or restricted weeks, you are in complete control. Whether you want to go to Hawaii or Cabo in peak season, Colorado in ski season, Arizona in golf season, or take a Disney Cruise in any season, our membership offers a service like no other.
As a member, you have access anytime to top resort destinations; including highly sought after timeshare resort properties, world famous Sheraton Resort properties, Marriott Resort Properties, and many other luxury resort destinations (enjoy discounts on all the major cruise lines as well).
One of the best member benefits is that there are no annual dues or exchange fees, no  maintenance  fees,  no restricted weeks, and no blackout dates- giving you year-round access to the world's top resorts in peak season, completely eliminating any need for a timeshare purchase!  The  price  of  the  Platinum  Membership  is  only  $2,995!  Compare  it  to  a  timeshare  cost  ranging  from  $7,000  to  $40,000  and  it  you  will  realize  the  what  a  great  product  it  is.  The  matter of  fact,  the  membership  will  pay  for  itself  after  only  two  or  three  vacations!
Since the membership is fully transferable, it will provide you, your children, and your children's children, a lifetime of vacation happiness and memories.
What makes Global Resorts Network even more appealing is that you can profit from this business opportunity by promoting it within your network of relationships.  We offer one of the most aggressive compensation structures in the business and more importantly our FREE EBOOK ( http://www.oceaniswaiting.com ) will provide a step-by-step guide on how you can make enough money from this opportunity that you will never have to work a real job again!
In closing, Global Resorts Network can be a life-changing experience for anyone that chooses to get involved.  You will get to visit places you have always dreamed of, meet amazing people, and most importantly achieve your goal of financial freedom. We have changed many lives for the better and would love to do the same for you!


