Title: 
Worlds Most Popular Scuba Diving - Similan, Thailand

Word Count:
350

Summary:
Similan, Thailand - Mu Koh Similan National Park has been rated first
 by the U. S. publication Skin Diving of the top ten dive sites in the
 world. The Similan Islands in the heart of the Andaman Sea are indeed
 unparelled in their exotic beauty. If planning a visit, keep in mind that
 anytime between December to April is recommended, with the best month
 being March, because the monsoons are over and the water is clear.


Keywords:
kohh, similan, diving, rocks, scuba, koh, scuba diving, islands, located, beach, sea, sea fans, kohh similan, soft corals sea, koh similan, water, tac


Article Body:
Worlds Most Popular Scuba Diving - Similan, Thailand

Similan, Thailand - Mu Koh Similan National Park has been rated first
 by the U. S. publication Skin Diving of the top ten dive sites in the
 world. The Similan Islands in the heart of the Andaman Sea are indeed
 unparelled in their exotic beauty. If planning a visit, keep in mind that
 anytime between December to April is recommended, with the best month
 being March, because the monsoons are over and the water is clear. 

Similan is really the Malaysian word for nine, as there are nine
 islands in the Similan group: Kohh Bangu, Koh Similan, Hin Huwagralok, Koh
 Payu, Koh Ha, Kohh Hok, Kohh Miang, Kohh Payan, Kohh Payang, and Kohh
 Huyong. 

Shark Ridge Rocks are pinnacle rocks near Kohh Payan or Kohh Sam
 (Three). Here, several species of sharks like Silvertip, Leopard Shark, and
 Reef White tip can be found.

Fantasy Rocks are another scuba-diving site consisting of several large
 rocks totally covered with soft corals, sea fans, and many species of
 fish. They are located to the west of Kohh Similan or Kohh Paed
 (Eight), and are one of the more popular diving sites.The beach here is white
 like powder. Snorkeling is possible from here. To the right is found
 the towering 'Sailing Rock', a symbol of Kohh Similan which can be
 climbed in order to take in a panoramic view of the bay.

Christmas Point Rocks are another scuba diving site, a complex of rocks
 full of soft corals and sea fans found to the northwest of Kohh Ba-ngu
 or Kohh Kao (Nine).

Kohh Bon is located between the Similan Islands and Kohh Tachai. There
 is no beach and the underwater scenery here is not as beautiful as
 elsewhere, but scuba divers may often find Manta Rays.

Kohh Tachai is located at the northernmost tip of the park. There is a
 beautiful white beach on the island but no accommodation. The water is
 suitable for scuba diving, and Whale Shark is often found here.


Visit Greeting Thailand for more information.
 
Email: info@greetingthailand.com
http://www.greetingthailand.com


