Title: 
Wynn Las Vegas Review

Word Count:
756

Summary:
Situated at the north end of the Las Vegas Strip, the 217-acre Wynn Las Vegas Resort is a 50-story gleaming testament to the opulence and glamour that is Las Vegas. Opened in the spring of 2005 by the master innovator Steve Wynn himself, this 5 star resort offers the ultimate luxury designed for the exclusive Vegas traveler.

But does the Wynn really live up to the hype? Here's a quick review of the highlights to help you decide for yourself.

Rooms:

The Wynn offers so...


Keywords:
wynn,hotel,resort,las,vegas,in,review,reviews,steve,casino,nevada,nv,room,reservations,best,online


Article Body:
Situated at the north end of the Las Vegas Strip, the 217-acre Wynn Las Vegas Resort is a 50-story gleaming testament to the opulence and glamour that is Las Vegas. Opened in the spring of 2005 by the master innovator Steve Wynn himself, this 5 star resort offers the ultimate luxury designed for the exclusive Vegas traveler.

But does the Wynn really live up to the hype? Here's a quick review of the highlights to help you decide for yourself.

Rooms:

The Wynn offers some of the largest and most luxurious rooms on the strip - 5 suite types in all, ranging form over 640 square feet up to 1950 square feet. They offer wall-to-wall, floor-to-ceiling windows with fabulous views of the Strip or the exclusive Wynn golf course.

All rooms offer cordless phone, fax, high speed Internet access, Pillowtop king-sized signature Wynn beds with 320 thread count European linens, In-room massage, manicure, pedicure and hair styling services, Desert Bambu™ bath amenities, over-sized Turkish towels and flat-screen LCD high-definition TVs. Plus all suite guests have private pools and terraces.

Casino:

The 110,000-square-foot casino offers the full range of table games, including Blackjack, Big 6, Craps, Caribbean Stud, Roulette, Let-it-Ride , Pai Gow Poker, Pai Gow, Three Card Poker and Casino War. If slots are your preference, you can choose from over 1850 slot machines in denominations ranging from 1¢ to $5,000.

The twenty-seven table poker room offers Hold'Em, Omaha Hi-Low, and mixed game combination with game limits ranging from $4/$8 up to $100/$200. There are also higher limit games as well as pot limit and no limit games.

The Wynn casino stands apart in that it offers lots of natural light and very little smoking.

Golf:

Created by the world famous Tom Fazio exclusively for Wynn resort guests, the golf course is actually integrated into the resort itself so that your first tee is less than 50 feet away from the hotel. This is the only on premise 18-hole, par-70, championship golf course on the Las Vegas strip and includes nearly 6 miles of cart paths, two marshland areas using natural groundwater, and a 37-foot-tall waterfall.

Shows:

Franco Dragone, the man behind 'Mystère', 'O', and Celine Dion's 'A New Day', has created an all new show at the Wynn called 'Le Rêve' (The Dream). Performed in a domed theater where no seat is more than 40 feet from the action, this show is the first of its kind in Vegas.

Restaurants:

If you've always wanted to dine with the most famous chefs in the world you can do it at the Wynn. Chef Paul Bartolotta of the Ristorante di Mare was named the Best American Chef - Midwest by the James Beard Foundation. Executive Pastry Chef Frédéric Robert was named Restaurant Pastry Chef of the Year by Filere Gourmande Magazine and Pastry Chef of the Year by Champerard Guide. Chef Alessandro Stratta heads the Riviera Cuisine which was called the Best New Restaurant 2005 by Esquire magazine and received the AAA Five Diamond Award of Excellence for 2006.

The Wynn offers over 15 restaurants to choose from with a vast selection of cuisines so you'll never get bored (or even have to leave the resort!).

Spa:

The spa offers 45 treatment rooms for massage, body treatments, facials, and hydrotherapy. Enjoy a customized massage to sooth away the stresses of the day or relax with a loved one in a couples massage.

Choose from the very latest in anti-aging technology with specialized facials including the Anakiri Active Enzyme Facial for added exfoliation and nourishment or the Naturopathica Custom Facial which is based on traditional European deep cleansing techniques.

Shopping:

The 75,000 square foot Wynn Esplanade is where you'll find the most glamorous, chic names in fashion: Chanel, Dior, Oscar de la Renta, Gaultier, Louis Vuitton and and the only Manolo Blahnik boutique outside New York.

For men, there's Brioni and of course the Penske-Wynn Ferrari and Maserati showroom. And if that isn't enough, just a few steps across the street you'll find the Fashion Show mall.

With it's prime location and exclusive shopping boutiques the Wynn is a favorite hot spot for top fashion makers and shoppers alike.

Downside:

Unfortunately yes, there is a downside. While the Wynn offers the best in luxury and chic accomodations - you're going pay for it. This is not a hotel for the traveler on a budget. So if you're worried about money, you may not want to stay here. However if you want to stay at one of the top hotels in the world and want a once-in-a-lifetime experience, the Wynn is the 'IT' place to be (and be seen)


