Title: 
Yacht charter in Greece

Word Count:
520

Summary:
The Greek peninsula at the far south east of Europe is made up of the mainland (Attica, Peloponnese, Central Greece, Thessaly, Epirus, Macedonia and Thrace) and the islands in the Aegean and Ionian Seas. The area has a population of about 10 million. The Greek cruising area offers about 2000 islands and 10,000 nautical miles of coastline.


Keywords:
yacht charter greece, yacht charters greece, yacht charters in greece, yacht charter in greece, private yacht charter greece, boat charter greece, boat charters greece, bareboat yacht charter greece, motor yacht charter greece, charter yachts greece, crewed yacht charter greece, sailboat charter greece, sailing charter greece, sail charter greece, greek yacht charters, catamaran charter greece, yacht charter greek islands,bareboat charter greece


Article Body:
The name of Greece's capital derives from the name of the Goddess of wisdom and intelligence, Athena. This unique city is where democracy first saw the light of day, and where the Parthenon, the gem of architecture, was built. Today, about a third of the population of Greece (around 4,5 million people) live in Athens, and the modern city offers an endless variety of culture and entertainment.


Two hills lie at the heart of the city, one surmounted by the Acropolis and the monuments of Perikles, and the Lykabettus hill with the small white church Agios Georgis. Plaka and Monastiraki, the city quarter around the Acropolis hill, is a tourist highlight with narrow alleyways and attractive squares, which show the city’s romantic side. In summer the streets are full of bustling activity, in the most picturesque of settings. Kolonaki, the quarter around the Lykabettus hill, is typical of modern city life with its elegant boutiques and numerous caf&#953;s.


We strongly advise you to spend a day or two in Athens, in order to view its many attractions such as the Apterous Nike temple, the Dionysus Theatre, the Odeon of Atticus and the House of Music, which should not be missed.
Piraeus, Athens’ harbour, is one of the largest shipping junctions in the Mediterranean, as it has been since ancient times. It has made quite a name for itself amongst travellers to Greece, due to its attractive nightlife and its romantic seafood restaurants and taverns.


The coast from Piraeus to Kalamaki is lined by high-rise apartment buildings. During the hot summers, the nightlife moves from the city to this coastal strip and its numerous beach clubs and restaurants.


Kalamaki  the port and base:

Steering into the harbour during the day is no problem. At night there are beacons, which have to be spotted amongst the many lights on land. The harbour provides excellent protection against winds from all directions. The first mooring piers in the harbour are reserved for a private yacht club. The ware is sufficiently deep and the bottom is solid. Petrol can be delivered to the quayside; water and electricity will soon be available at all anchorage's. Showers are located near the port offices. Finally, there are many shops and several nice taverns near the harbour, and buses to Piraeus and Athens can be caught from the main road.

North of Evia, and away from the usual sailing routes, lie the green islands of the Sporades. All the islands are fertile, gentle, and idyllic, being known for their white beaches and rich under water fauna. Those islands that are more readily accessible have developed into popular holiday destinations. Peace and quiet is the trademark of Alonissos, the tree-covered Skopelos, Peristera (with just 25 inhabitants), the uninhabited Psathura, Palagonisi, and Skiros in the South. Alonissos stretches out quite far and along with the islands just off its coast makes up the “Sea Park”, a natural reserve that is home to the Mediterranean seal and dolphins. The islands are very closely grouped, being about 15 to 20 nautical miles apart, and are thus an ideal area for family holidays and inexperienced yachtsmen.


