Title: 
You Don’t Provide A Wireless Connection At Your Hotel Yet?

Word Count:
439

Summary:
In this article I will be discussing rental property and hotels that do not yet provide wireless Internet to their renters. Almost all laptops today have the ability to automatically detect and connect to wireless Internet providers.

Most businesspeople who travel and even many that are on vacation bring their laptops along for work and for play. These people look for hotels, motels, short-term apartments, and vacation rentals that provide wireless Internet as part of thei...


Keywords:
reserve,free,hotel,motel,apartment,shortterm,short-term,vacation,condo,rental,reservation


Article Body:
In this article I will be discussing rental property and hotels that do not yet provide wireless Internet to their renters. Almost all laptops today have the ability to automatically detect and connect to wireless Internet providers.

Most businesspeople who travel and even many that are on vacation bring their laptops along for work and for play. These people look for hotels, motels, short-term apartments, and vacation rentals that provide wireless Internet as part of their rental agreement.

These days a hotel that does not provide a wireless Internet connection for their guest is severely handicapped in regards to getting more reservations. There are many hotel and motel owners, resort owners, apartment building owners and others that still hold back on adding a wireless Internet connection. They simply don't want to pay for it.

What they do not realize is that they are already paying more for not having a wireless connection than they would be by having one.

Whenever a businessperson travels and calls to make a reservation, saying "No we do not provide a wireless Internet connection", is the same as me offering you a dollar and you saying, "No thanks, already have one."

You pay to list your property on websites and in newspapers, the phone book and other places. You do not know how many people see your ad or your listing and see that your hotel or property does not have a wireless connection and do not even bother calling you. So you cannot tell how much business you are losing just by those that do call and ask that question.

Also many hotel owners do not know how easy and inexpensive a wireless connection is to install. Some people are just set in their ways. “Well, we’ve never offered that and we’re doing okay.” That is the attitude of someone who is satisfied or one whose business is on the decline.

A wireless connection will pay for itself easily through the extra rentals you will get and don’t even know that you are missing right now.

Some hotels and rentals want to charge extra for the Internet connection. Again, the money you bring in from those who are willing to pay extra will not be more than the money you lose from those that will not rent from you because they can get Internet service free elsewhere.

Also, you want your short-term rental, vacation rental, hotel, or motel to seem like it is a classy place to stay. Charging for each little additional service does not do anything to enhance your guest’s impression of your hotel or other rental.


