Title: 
Your Own Adventure - On The Trail Of The Da Vinci Code

Word Count:
405

Summary:
Make your next holiday be as wild as your imagination.


Keywords:
Adventure, Da Vinci Code, Trip, Europe, Luxury Holiday, Things To Do, USA, Asia, Africa, Worldwide


Article Body:
With some clever planning before hand, you can get to do more things the only thing you'll be concerned with is if you have enough time to squeeze everything into your mini adventure. 

Top 10 European city destinations (in no particular order) 
: Amsterdam 
: Rome 
: Prague 
: Paris 
: Barcelona 
: Venice 
: Budapest 
: Florence 
: Madrid 
: Vienna 
Source: Thomas Cook.

Don't Just Observe – Participate In Life
Think about it, when your friends come back from their escapade, what do they tell you? They tell you about all the activities they got up to, and they have the countless pictures to prove it. But, if your budget is holding you back, this could mean you won't have much to tell friends back home. You won't get to do all the things you'd like to do during your holiday. Friends will think 'You've travelled all that way and for what?' 

Making Your Money Stretch 
With the average spending money of £200 for a weekend away, costs can run up fast. Gate14.co.uk has the solution to this problem. They provide visitors access to impressive value-for-money tours, city passes and a magnitude of special deals available for over 400 cities worldwide. 

: City passes – which not only cut the cost of local public transport, but also offers reduced or even free entrance to a number of places you may already have on your list of things to see and do 
: A day at the races and other sports events 
: Theatre tickets 
: Theme parks (this one is particularly cost effective for families) 
: Wine tasting and cooking events 
: Cultural/Historical tours 
: Dining out 
: Cruises 
: Nature tours 
: Museums 
: Designer shopping spree excursions and so much more... 

This way you can find out, before you even set off for the airport, what there is to see and do in your chosen holiday location and have the ability to pre-book events and services.  Here's just a small number of mini adventures you could get up to on your next holiday 

: Da Vinci Code walking tour 
: Canopy adventure 
: Dive with the sharks 
: Private Safari 
: Horseback riding 
: Luminous Lagoon 
: Romantic dinner cruise 
: SoHo and NoLita shopping tour 

A Different World
You can be as adventurous or as relaxing as you want. Remember, you are in control. Try something you've never done before. With so much to experience it would be a shame to miss it all. Now, with the majority of your trip organised and prepaid you can truly rest back and enjoy.


