Title: 
Your Own Private Paradise

Word Count:
465

Summary:
You've battled packed parking lots and frazzled parents desperately seeking an Xbox 360, not to mention your overly inquisitive relatives, now it's time to follow the psychiatrist's... er, doctor's, orders and book a relaxing all-about-you vacation. 

But the last thing you want is to surround yourself with boisterous throngs of people. Imagine relaxing beachfront on your own veranda, next to your private pool. Watch the sun rise and set, take soothing walks on the sandy be...


Keywords:
cabo san lucas, cabo, mexico, mexico travel, travel, baja, baja travel, baja california, villa


Article Body:
You've battled packed parking lots and frazzled parents desperately seeking an Xbox 360, not to mention your overly inquisitive relatives, now it's time to follow the psychiatrist's... er, doctor's, orders and book a relaxing all-about-you vacation. 

But the last thing you want is to surround yourself with boisterous throngs of people. Imagine relaxing beachfront on your own veranda, next to your private pool. Watch the sun rise and set, take soothing walks on the sandy beach, sip pina coladas and dine on traditional local cuisine. Cabo Villas, a division of Earth, Sea & Sky Vacations, have the perfect remedy for winter ailments: private beachfront villas, houses and estates in sunny Cabo San Lucas. 

With more than 70 beachfront properties, you're sure to find one to fit your lifestyle and budget. Cabo Villas arranges special onsite services, from chef-prepared meals to spa treatments, to make your escape from the hustle and bustle of daily life complete. Basically, you won't have to lift a finger (that is, unless you need to break up the slush at the bottom of your margarita glass). Each property is unique, lending to a one-of-a-kind experience. The Villa Maria offers unparalleled ocean and mountain views from its hillside location. You'll forget all about the shoving match at the mall once you set foot in one of the elegant hacienda-style rooms, with marble and Cantera tile floors, ceiling fans, and colonial furnishings. Fall asleep in your king size bed with the doors to your terrace open, letting the warm ocean breeze wash away holiday stress. Wake up to the sun rising over the Bay of San Lucas and then head downstairs for a swim in your private swimming pool while your personal chef prepares a breakfast fit for royalty. This 6,000 square foot, 4-bedroom villa (sleeps 10) is available for $1,440-$1,800 a night. 

If the holidays really got you down, Villa las Flores offers countless opportunities to undue the damage done by harsh winter weather and cruel holiday shoppers. Watch the whales swim by as you soak off negative vibes in your private Jacuzzi, or enjoy a massage or steam-bath in your master bedroom suite. Forget about overdone rump roast and lumpy mashed potatoes as you savor a gourmet dinner prepared by a chef on your spacious patio, surrounded by magnificent ocean and mountain views. You'll have plenty of room to roam among Villas las Flores- 12,344 square feet. This 7- bedroom estate is available for $1,440 - $2,200 a night. 

Finding your own private hideaway is easy. Just log on to www.CaboVillas.com and search their listings- you can even view streaming videos of the properties online and make your reservations right then and there. You'll get all the amenities and prompt service you'd get at a luxury resort, with the benefit of having your own private space. Reserve your villa today.


