Hemophilia and Back Pain 

Hemophilia is a bleeding disorder, which is inherited. Hemophilia disorders include Hemophilia A, which is the common disorder that emerges from deficiencies. Hemophilia B also emerges from deficiencies. The disorder causes back pain, spontaneous GI bleeding, large spreads of bruising, bleeding joints, muscles, soft tissues, etc. Pain of the joints, swelling, and limited range of movement (ROM) is also a symptom that emerges from hemophilia. Recurrent hemorrhaging of joints also occurs, which causes back pain, as well as pain to spread out over the entire body. 

Hemophilia is inherited from carries, such as sisters or mothers. The disorder is spread to x-links of male traits largely. The physical traits are explored by medical experts, which order HCT tests, PT, PTT tests, and so on. The doctor monitors the patient while testing occurs, searching for decreases in HCT and Hgb, as well as prolonged coagulation. VIII is considered a diagnostic emerging from hemophilia A. often the factors are missing. 

If the patient tests positive from test results, management is setup. The patient is limited to activities, and is assigned cold compression to eliminate pain. Corticosteroid is prescribed, which makes up Solu-Cortef, or HSS. (Hydrocortisone sodium succinate) 

Motrin is giving to the patient to reduce pain, as well as colace, or docusate sodium, which is a stool softener. Since the disorder can lead to complications, such as shock, melena, ankylosis, AHF (Sensitization to the antihemolytic factor), GI bleeding, hematuria, hematemesis, and so on, doctors will monitor the patient in an effort to intervene and avert further complications. 

What to avoid: 
Patients are recommended to avoid sport contact, blowing nose, straining during defecating, coughing, lifting, etc. This sounds crazy, since it is a natural action in life, yet each action can complicate, or irritate the disorder. Aspirin and injected intramuscular aids should also be avoided. Since the patient is assessed for hematuria, bleeding, hemorrhaging, hematomas, melana, etc, avoiding the elements can help you reduce pain and symptoms emerging from hemophilia. 

In addition, the patient must learn strategies to avoid pressuring the joints. Canes and/or crutches can help you keep weight off the weight bearing joints and/or muscles. 

If you experience pain after taking your medication, you can use cold compressors to reduce the agony. Back pain makes a person feel miserable. The pain often affects the mental and emotional health, which you should learn stress reduction tactics to minimize stress. Learning methods to reduce pain is one way you can reduce stress. 

NOTE: When visiting your dentist make sure you tell him/her that you were diagnosed with hemophilia (IF applicable), since failing to do so can lead to problems, such as hemorrhaging. 

It is amazing that many medical disorders and disease can cause back pain, yet the fact is anytime the skeletal system is interrupted, back pain can emerge. Back pain often occurs from hemophilia, especially when the joints spacing is hemorrhaging. 

Hemophilia occurs primarily in males, which bleeding starts immediately after a minor injury occurs. The bleeding causes a variety of problems, which leads to pain and suffering over the entire body. 

If you were diagnosed with hemophilia, it is wise to follow your doctor’s advice and maintain your health. Basic stretch exercises can help you promote a healthier system as well. Learn the steps to promote good health. Men specifically find it difficult to visit the doctor and adhere to advise, however you can live healthier if you follow instructions wisely. 

After considering hemophilia, we see that the disorder can lead to back pain. In addition to this disorder, people experience back pain from Cushing’s syndrome, or in medical terms Hypercortisolism. 

