

Leaning Toward Back Pain 

We all lean toward back pain when we fail to note warning signs. Before the back begins to ache, our body sends messages, transmitting them along a channel of nerves, fibers, roots, muscles, etc, thus reaching the brain. The brain spills out the details of the messages sent, which includes the message, stop leaning toward backaches. 

Backaches are often caused when the muscles are overexerted. In some instances, hereditary of involuntary diseases cause back pain, which is out of our body’s control? 

In life we all may enjoy sports, running, exercise, jogging, sitting, standing, leaning, bending, twisting, dance, etc, yet all these fun activities can cause back pain. You can stop leaning toward pain by using common sense and basic strategies to avert the pain. 

For instance, if you weight train and experience pain, you can use over the counter medications on short-term basis to relieve pain. Take the meds prior to workout to stop leaning toward back pain. 

In addition, when you lean forward or back you can learn proper methods to avert back pain. In all things we do, there is a wrong and right way to act in life. 

Fact: Did you know that practicing to lean correctly has proven to be a mind-blowing treatment for the joints known as sacroiliac derangement? 

If you have practiced leaning toward back pain now is the time to stop your action and take control of your body. 

Fact: Did you know practices of incorrect leaning could prevent you from bending forward and performing simple actions, such as tying your shoes? 

When you learn how to lean correctly, it trains the joints by stretching the muscles that rest amid the pelvis as well as the thoracic spinal column. 

Let’s relax your back. If you have stenosis and/or generalized muscle conditions, the action will not reduce your pain. Otherwise, find a hard surface, such as your kitchen table or countertop. Make sure that you can level your weight at the height of your table and/or countertop. Move your feet so that they are slightly apart, and place the palms of your hands on the hard surface, facing backwards. Now, lean to the front while slowly lifting your heels off the floor. Hold your position up to 15 counts, slowly release, and wait a few minutes before leaning toward a healthy sacroiliac joint. 

Did you know small things such as wearing the wrong shoes or sitting suddenly could cause back pain? If you didn’t, well you are in for a surprise. When sitting you should always lower the body weight into the chair while using your hands and arms to support your weight. In other words, avoid sitting in chairs that are missing rest arms. What do you think they call them rest arms? 

Did you know that curling into a fetal position could relieve pain that emerges from Herniated Slipped Disks? The same position will reduce pain that emerges from arthritic symptoms as well. In addition, if you have muscle spasms, PMS symptoms, etc, curling in a fetal position can reduce your pain. 

Hop to it! Lie on the bed, lying on the right, or left side. Bring the knees, extending them upward and toward the torso. (Chest) Take a soft cushion-like object, such as a pillow and place it amid your inner areas at the knees. The cushion will assist in reducing pressure at the hips and pulling of the legs. Do not curl up tightly, or else raise the hips. 

Stretching the muscles daily can benefit the joints, cartilages, muscles, bones, ligaments, tendons, etc exceptionally providing you do the stretch workouts correctly. 

