Sacroiliac Bones and Back Pain 

The coccyx is the area of our back that can break easily from backward falls, motorized accidents, etc, since it does not offer us balance. Connected to the coccyx or the smaller bone at the spine base is a fuse of bones that climb up the spine. The bones connect with the sacrum joints at the lower back. The sacrum connects to the hipbone and forms into the pelvis joining the lower region and iliac bones. The iliac bones are larger structures that connect to joints called sacroiliac. The sacroiliac is a fraction of the hip ilium and the joints sandwiched between the sacrum and the ilium. 

In this region, millions of people are deformed, since the sacroiliac is often asymmetric. For this reason, millions of people suffer lower back pain. Sacroiliac joints can only move a unit of length equal to one thousandth of a single meter, since the joints are thicker than other joints. The sacroiliac joints give support to the arms, shoulders, trunk, and cranium in all directions. Amazing, since the joints sit low and near the pelvis and sacrum: 

The joints often move in direction of the other and provide less mobility than any other joint or muscles that makes up the spine. The forces of gravity that restrain these joints increases the odds of back pain, since these joints will experience overloads of tension caused from the strain that emerges from larger lifts of the lower back and the trunk along the contractions of the upper back region. The joints are restrained also by a group of the most compelling muscles in our body, which these muscles curve over the sacroiliac. Still, the sacroiliac is our support for the cranium, which we can move in all directions because of these joints. As well, the sacroiliac controls the movement of our arms, shoulders, and trunk.

The joints can only move slightly, yet amazing the sacroiliac is our central reason that we run, walk, abruptly halt, and so on. The sacroiliac joints are flexible as well as powerful. 

At the lower back, a connection meets in the area of the loins, which makes up the lumbar. The lumbar is the smaller and lower area of the back. This area makes up a small number of bones at the larger spine and sets it self apart from other elements of the back. Beneath these bones are disks. In addition, intricate tissues that connect the bones lay beneath the lumbar giving us support, since it surrounds various parts of the body and organs that consist chiefly of collagen and elastic. The connective tissues also support reticular fibers, cartilages, fatty tissues, etc. The connective tissues however do not have blood vessels or nerves that connect. 

At the back are two separate spinal columns that are flanked between the disks. The spinal columns loosely fit between the surfaces of joining parts. In summary, four surfaces join slackly to corresponding spinal columns. The two columns will move smoothly, sliding transversely over the other surface. You can notice these vertebras in action while considering arch aerobics, or similar movements. The lumbar joins with spines at the curvature of the back. 

Now, these areas of the spine allow us to twist, turn, move from one side to the other, and bend back or forward. The ribs do not underpin these areas, since it is higher than the lumber. This means that injuries are likely to occur from actions, such as twisting. In fact, the lumbar is holding up more weight than the average bones and joints in the vertebrae, since it must withstand over volumes of stress. 

Because the lumbar lacks support from the spine, something has to become the intermediary to support the lumber and that intermediary is known as the cylindrical girdle. 

