Synovial Joints and Back Pain 

The synovial joints are made up of capsule ligaments, tendon sheath that is the liner of synovium, tendons, cartilages, and synovium. Fluids pass through these joints. The synovial joints connect with the bones, which structured scaffolds of the body joins with additional bones. The joints produce fluids, which lubricates them. The fluids contain itself within the capsules, which promote movement. Movement is limited by bone structures. Flexible sectors can also limit movement, as well as connective tissues and inelastic mechanisms. 

When the synovial joints are interrupted, it affects the ligaments. The ligaments will limit movement of abnormal joints. Ligaments induce movement amid “two bones” that make it easy for a collection of muscles to contract, expand, and stimulate the nerves. The nerves expand to CNS. (Central Nervous System) 

Bones attach to the muscles via tendons. Tendons are thin and stronger than the muscles, which the tendons permit the muscles to converge by pulling it through small openings. Bursa acts a servant to the joints and muscles, since it precludes friction from traveling amid the “two” progressing exteriors. Bursa is a sac filled with fluids, which if bursa rubs against another joint it causes inflammation. Bursitis can set in if rubbing causes inflammation and the sac fills with fluid. Bursitis usually targets the elbows and shoulder, yet the pain extends to the back. When the bursa fails, it can cause swelling, pain, fevers, and numbness, stiffness of the joints, fatigue, and limited mobility. 

The human skeleton is made up of “206” bones. Inside the skeleton system is the cranium, jaw, collar bone (Clavicle), shoulder blade (Scapula), sternum, (breast bone) ribs, humerus, spine, radius, ulna, pelvis, carpals, (wrist bones) metacarpals, (palm bones) phalanges, finger bones, femur (Thigh bones), patella (knee cap), tibia (Shin bone), fibula, tarsals (ankle bone), metatarsals (Foot bone), and phalanges. (Toe bones)   

When the skeleton structure is interrupted, it can cause back pain. Most cases of back pain are treated with bed rest, foot elevation, ice packs, compression, and so on. Many diseases can cause back pain, which the cause is found in disruptive blood vessels, soft tissues, etc. The problem can lead to excessive bleeding, which slows the healing process. 

R.I.C.E 
R.I.C.E is a rule of structure one should keep in mind when treating back pain at home. If you have tension in the muscles, you can use this structure to reduce back pain. Rest is essential if you have tension in the muscles. Rest includes putting your feet up and relaxing the spinal column. Ice packs are used to relieve pain as well. You can wrap ice in a damp, soft cloth and apply it to the area. Keep the pack on the area up to fifteen minutes. You can place an ice pack on the injured region every hour. If you have injured your knee, then elevate the leg before applying your ice pack. 

Rest and Ice packs starts R.I.C.E, which continues to compression. Compression reduces looseness of the muscles. 

In addition, if blood escapes into injured blood vessels, you can compress the area to apply pressure. Avoid applying pressure surpassing the volume, which the blood from the arterial system needs room to flow smoothly. 

Elevation involves keeping the leg a distance from the floor. You can elevate the legs to reduce lower back pain. Lie flat on the back and elevate the leg in a supporting chair. You can also place a pillow between the knees to reduce back pain. 

Keep R.I.C.E. in mind when you have tension on the back, or have sustained an injury. However, if you injured your back or joints seek medical help immediately. 

