The Intermediary Cylindrical Girdle and Back Pain 

How the cylindrical girdle affects sacroiliac
The intermediary cylindrical girdle is the go-between for the sacroiliac. Since the sacroiliac does not have support, yet it permits a variety of turns and twists, it needs an intermediary to hold it up. The sacroiliac connects with the ilium and sacrum at the upper area of the hipbone or ilium and the joints between the ilium and sacrum. Now, if this girdle is interrupted it can cause a disease known as muscular dystrophy. The disease is crippling. MD is characterized by plodding waste of the skeletal muscles. 

The Cylindrical girdle is also known as the pectoral girdle, and/or the shoulder girdle, which is a scheme of bones that support, paired frontal limbs, such as forelegs, arms, or fins. The bones also surround the stomach and gives support to the sacroiliac joints. The Cylindrical girdle helps us to raise the posture, or body keeping it erect while standing. 

The cylindrical girdle connects to 12 areas of the back, i.e. 12 spinal columns. Attached to the 12 columns are the thoracic vertebrae. These ribs hold breathing space, leaving a gap within the body to promote breathing through a vacuum-like funnel that inflates into the respiratory organs in the vertebrae’s, or lungs. 

The lungs is an air-breathing vertebrae that pairs spongy organs connected to the respiratory and sets within the rib cage, transferring oxygen into the bloodstreams and removing carbon dioxide as it travels. The thoracic vertebrae are a protective shield for the vital organs, as well as the backbone. In addition, the thoracic shields the lungs, liver, and heart. 

The thoracic bones is connected to the channel ribs
At the spine is an elongated line of bones that is supported by the ribs. The thoracic ribs levers the bones. Along the channel are several ribs, which erect and extend to the joining front spine. This makes up nine ribs that lack mobility, yet another three ribs below these babies protects the nine and makes room for additional movement. Now we have potential back pain for real, since those joints are subject to wear and tear. Now between all of these medical terms, rest the joints, which often degenerate causing diseases, such as osteoarthritis due to frequent twisting, turning, etc.  

We can discuss a brief background of osteoarthritis to help you see where it leads. First, osteoarthritis is a form of arthritis that affects the back, since joints and cartilages gradually lose strength. The disease often hits middle-aged people, yet it could start early. Read the details above to learn why. 

In addition, these joints could endure damage from injuries, vehicle accidents, brutal attacks, and so forth. 

The joints mentioned enable us to turn side to side and in various directions, which is what causes the wear and tear. 

The joints outlined also connect to the cervical spinal column. The cervical spinal column is the neck or cervix that relates or belongs to any sections of the body that bear a resemblance to the décolletage. The cervix rests at the décolletage, rather the neck of the womb. It consists of a narrow passage that leads to the vagina. The cervical spinal column has around seven spinal columns. Spines start to shrink forming smaller forms as they reach or near the cranium. Attached are near level joints that become wider and slightly incline in the direction of the higher section and to the facade region of the body. 

The cervix can move in many directions. In addition, the cervical spine connects with the higher region of the cranium, thus providing support. These areas are of concern, since people often use their head to balance, which is what causes headaches to occur. Once the headaches start, one will often experience pain at the cervical and continues onto the lower region of the back.  

