


Threads of Bands and Back Pain 

Inside the skeletal muscles rests some powerful elements, which include ligaments and tendons. The ligaments alone are muscular bands of stringy-like threads that produce collagen threads of muscle fiber. The fibers and threads of ligaments connect to the bones, which attach to the muscles. Collagen is essential, since it exists in the connective proteins found in muscle fibers, skin, tendons, bones, cartilages, connective tissues, etc, which collagen halts the flow of semi-solid proteins, which are transparent and rests beneath the cartilages and bones. (Gelatin)  

Ligaments join with the bones and joints, which in areas the fibers and bands of threaded-like elements will surround the joints. We get our strength from this action. Working with the ligaments are tough bands of connecting muscles that join with the bones. The inelastic bands and/or cords of tough fibers that join with the connective tissues and attach to the bones and muscles are known as tendons. Tendons can suffer tearing, which can also scar the muscles. Tendons provide us strength, power, resilience, and so forth. 

Tendons join connective proteins, or collagen. The inelastic cords make up fiber proteins. Attached to tendons are joints and cartilages, which feed from the tendons and ligaments. Ligaments form a bond by connecting to the joints. The joints’ connective articulated junctions spread amid the bones. Within the connections, we get our ability to move, as well as our range of motion. (ROM) ROM is the level of joint is ability to move, which if range of motion is restricted; it causes swelling, inflammation, and pain. The back pain emerging from limited ROM can affect the joints, and the membrane known as synovium. This membrane is the joints’ liner and supplies antibodies. Antibodies are produced to ward off infections. The protein is manufactured via B cells, and acts through responses from the body of antigen. In short, if bacteria or virus is present the antibodies will kick in and ward the potential risks off. Now, if the antibodies do not kick in, it can lead to disorders of the synovium. We now have fluids that are not creating properly and are affecting the cartilages. Since the fluids are not responding, as it should, our body starts to avert the need to ward off infections. 

Antigen is fluids that stimulate the production of antibodies. Now that we have problems emerging from ROM, etc, we can see that it moves to affect the cartilages. The problems outlined in this article not only cause back pain, but can also cause arthritic symptoms. Arthritic symptoms also cause back pain. Now that Range of Motion is interrupted, the smooth planes of the cartilages start to deteriorate. When deterioration sets up the cartilages will restrict range of motion. Deterioration also causes the cartilages to resist when weight-bearing joints are attempting to act. The cartilages are also sturdy elasticity tissues that form skeletal muscles and bones during the growth cycle. If the cartilages are disturbed, it can cause interruptions of the bursa. Bursa once more is a sac filled with fluid. The fluid in bursa assists the joints, bones, cartilages, synovium, etc, by reducing friction and minimizing risks. Bursa disorders cause swelling, and inflammation. 



When bursa conditions are present, the pain will sometimes start at the lower back, and may continue to other areas. Symptoms, such as pain, fatigue, numbness, limited mobility, joint stiffness, fevers, swelling, and so on often emerge from bursa conditions. 

In worst conditions muscle spasms, poor posture, skeletal deformity, edema, inflammation, and so on may arise. 

Once the spinal canal, columns, etc are interrupted additional conditions follow that extend back pain to fractures. 

