Title: 
Trading the FOREX,  your most profitable investment opportunity?

Word Count:
920

Summary:
Advantages of trading the FOREX market over all other kinds of investmensts. It gives you higher profits for your investment trading a few hours the week. It is your key to financial freedom and an awesome lifestyle.


Keywords:
forex trading, forex profits, foreign currency trading, forex profit secrets, forex profits


Article Body:
Forex stands for the Foreign Exchange market, or Forex (FX). The foreign exchange market (FOREX) is the largest financial market in the world, with a volume of over $1.5 trillion daily in the US alone; more than three times the total amount of the US Equity and Treasury markets combined.

Traditionally, investors only way to gain access to the foreign exchange market was through banks that transacted large amounts of currencies for commercial and investment uses. Now because of federal rule changes, Forex trading is no longer a monopoly of the banks and investment houses, that means you too can enter and profit from the largest financial market in existence.

Forex trading is an alternative to the unpredictable fluctuations and ups and downs of the other markets. Trading is about making money and the opportunities in this market are boundless, they far exceed the slim pickings in the other markets.

Today, foreign exchange market brokers are able to offer small traders like you and me the opportunity to buy or sell any number of smaller money lots with the option to trade them at the same rates and price movements as the big players who once dominated the market. 

You can start with as little as US $ 300 in your account, and you would be surprised to find out that trading currencies is far less risky than any other kind of trading. And that is why before long all the other traders won’t fail to discover the FX market and the immense wealth creation possibilities it has to offer. This is your time to get in one of the biggest, and most exciting, opportunities that has come along in decades, and you can learn forex trading strategies easily, there is even a free course “Forex Freedom” you can grab and start on your way to Forex profits.

Still need more reasons to give the Forex trading your full attention?
There are many different advantages to trading forex instead of futures or stocks: 

1.Lower margin

The margin requirements that are needed for trading futures are usually around 5% of the full value of the holding, or 50% of the total value of the stocks, the margin requirements for forex are about 1%. For example, the margin required to trade foreign exchange is $1000 for every $100,000. That means trading forex, your money can play with 5 times as much value of product as a futures trader’s, or 50 times more than a stock trader’s.
When you are trading on margin, this can be a very profitable but it’s important that you understand the risks that are involved as well. Here is where a great Forex trading course comes in to help and support you all the way to real profits.

2. No commission and no exchange fees

When you trade in futures, you have to pay exchange and brokerage fees. Trading forex has the advantage of being commission free, which is much better for you. Currency trading is a worldwide inter-bank market that allows buyers to find sellers in an instant. 

3. Limited risk and guaranteed stops

When you are trading futures, your risk can be unlimited. For example, if the price for an item falls dramatically, you can’t leave your position and this could wipe out the entire equity in your account as a result. If the price keeps falling, you have to find more money to make up for the deficit in your account.

4. 24 hours marketplace

With futures, you are generally limited to trading only during the few hours that each market is open in any one day. Unlike other financial markets, the Forex market has no physical location, no central exchange. It operates through an electronic network of banks, corporations and individuals trading one currency for another. Forex market operates 24/5. You can trade any time you like from Monday to Friday. 

5. Free marketplace

Foreign exchange is perhaps the largest market in the world about $ 1,9 trillion and with the huge number of people trading forex around the globe, it is very hard for even governments to control the price of their own currency, the prices are fair.

6.You Can make money in rising and falling markets 

There are no restrictions to sell currencies short, which means that with forex currency trading you can make money just as easily in rising and falling markets. 

Forex trading is simply a great alternative to futures and commodities trading. Unless you are a broker, you will likely want to get some help in forex trading to help ensure that you are successful with it. As with all trading, there are always some risks involved, but if you follow the tips and teachings of people who made the Forex easy to trade, there is nothing which can stand between you and substantial profits.

Now I ma sure you have some questions like:

Where do you start?
Who would teach you the great profitable strategies?
Who would mentor you so your risks are minimalized?
Who would explain to you the special Forex terminology and its nuts and bolts?
Who would show you how to trade the Forex for profits working just a few hours the week?

The easiest way to get started is to get the free course “Forex Freedom” and study it carefully. You will see and feel the advantages of such an investment over all other kind of investments and you know you can start with as little as $300. Seize your chance now because it might be like having your own licence to print money on demand.


Karima Begag


