Title: 
Skin Cancer - Do You Visit Tanning Salons?

Word Count:
310

Summary:
One of the main causes of skin cancer is exposure to harmful sunrays. If you thought that getting tanned at tanning salons was safer than the sun, please think again before visiting any salon again.


Keywords:



Article Body:
One of the main causes of skin cancer is exposure to harmful sunrays. If you thought that getting tanned at tanning salons was safer than the sun, please think again before visiting any salon again. Tanning beds and sunlamps are as dangerous as the sunrays.

Most of the bulbs used in the salons emit both UVA and UVB radiations that are also found in the sunlight and are responsible for both Melanoma and Nonmelonoma types of cancers. Exposure to tanning bulbs also reduces our bodys ability to repair the damaged DNA, which is caused by UV radiation.

Tanning not only may cause cancers as the last damage but also prematurely ages the skin. How many of us realize that tanning is bodys response to damage to the skin. every time, you get tanned , you accumulate skin damage. There is no such thing as safe tanning.

Unfortunately the cosmetic trends are pushing more women to tanning salons. More people are inviting cancer for the sake of the tanned look. Melanoma can kill if not diagnosed earlier. Unfortunately the young population is not changing its behavior about getting tanned. as they accumulate skin damage over the years, their getting affected by skin cancer at later stage of their life is increasing.

If you are one of those who believe that a tan is good and that tanning beds or sun lamps are safe, please stop using them. You are putting your life to a very painful death.

This article is only for informative purposes. This article is not intended to be a medical advise and it is not a substitute for professional medical advice. Please consult your doctor for your medical concerns. Please follow any tip given in this article only after consulting your doctor. The author is not liable for any outcome or damage resulting from information obtained from this article.


