Bass fishing reports to the rescue


Sometimes even the most techno-oriented person would like to live his life in the streams where living comes on hand. Bass fishing report either be coming home with nothing bass on hand, or getting your camera to capture the moment of having your finest catch.

Bass are fishes with different kinds; the striped bass and the largemouth bass, small mouth bass and spotted bass.  The striped bass comes from the family of Percicthyidae and its other members include white bass and white perch. The striped bass and white bass are also known as temperate basses- exercising moderation and self restraints.

Stripped bass fishing can sometimes be very different activity compared to chasing those regular bass. The important thing to remember is that each and every fish requires a slightly different approach to maximize the possibility of success. The best way to go about things is to know the fish itself. Learn its movement and capability to escape as a prey. 

The largemouth bass, small mouth bass and spotted bass- belong to the sunfish family Centrarchidae whose other members include: bluegills, pumpkinseed and rock bass. These basses are also referred to as warm water basses or black basses. 

A smallmouth bass is a greenish brown color, with a vertically striped side. The most suitable way to distinguish the two is simply by looking at their mouth. 

If you recognize the upper jawbone extends past the eye then you know you have a large mouth bass on your hands. On the other hand, if the fish has a reddish eye, and the upper jaw bone stops before the eye, then you have caught a smallmouth bass. 

Another good clue is the weight, a small mouth bass ways and average of seven and a half pounds. The best place to go small mouth bass fishing is near rocky streams. Once you have caught them, they pretty much taste like a large mouth bass.

Bass have progressively and gradually grow to be the most well-liked freshwater sport  in the United States. Their popularity has increased due to the rise of the bass fishing tournament industry that helps sell recreational fishing products and train other fishermen on how to catch bass.

Modern Bass Fishing has its roots in the Southern United States, originally for the purpose of food-hunt. The sport has evolved into a multi-billion dollar industry. The sport has changed radically since the 1950’s from modest beginnings and has develops into the second most specifically sought after game fish in the USA. The sport has driven the development of all manner of fishing gear, from rods, reels, lines, lures, and electronics to modern 'Bass Boats'. 

Competitive bass fishing alone generates approximately two billion dollars annually. Overall the latest numbers place the value of the sport at over seven billion US dollars. 

The majority of participants no longer views Bass as a food fish. Nowadays, most fish are released as soon as it is caught. In competition anglers are penalized heavily for dead fish, in some cases dead fish are not weighed. Fish turned in for weighing are immediately released or placed in tanks and treated for stress and injury to their slime coats, then released back into the water. 

Sports fishermen and governmental wildlife departments have initiated the Largemouth across the world. Largemouth bass can be found worldwide, Japan, Australia and South Africa have active programs of stocking. The subculture of competitive Bass Fishing has followed the fish across the globe. There have been a number of tournament events in the USA involving invited participants from Japan, South Africa and Australia. 

Anglers themselves had created an organization where fishers can best enjoy the camaraderie of bass fishing with fellow sportsmen. Bass Fishing Clubs take their existence all the way to United States, and are split up by the western, central, and eastern divisions. These Bass Fishing clubs is an assortment -from competitive to recreational. 

A usual bass fishing club will give and offer its member with newsletters, and occasionally periodicals that provide information about upcoming events, contests and tournaments. Bass Fishing clubs are a great way to get involved in tournament fishing as they can often be used as springboards to enter national tournaments.

Most of these bass fisher clubs have their own web pages where you can gather more information about the club specifically, including dues, locations and pictures and write ups of past events and tournament regarding bass fishing sport.

Unfortunately, we cannot give you the best insights on the most suitable technique in bass fishing because everything differs in one way or another. A small bass is differently caught from a big bass. The technique lies within your hand. It depends on you what technique to use best.  



