Effective lures for bass fishing 


Many say and believe that a bass fisherman is only as good as his Bass Fishing lures. Well, this is fifty per cent true to some circumstances; because in reality, a great bass fishing lure is useless unless you know how to use it.

There are accurately thousands of different bass fishing lures available all around the world and chances at the local bait and tackle shop doesn't make all of the variety of lures available to you. Lets accept the fact that the world of bass fishing changes nearly every day, trends come and go, and if the attack that you usually knew will always be the attack you’ll going to use is from twenty years ago, well it’s time to let your self escape in traditional way of hunting bass.

There are many kinds of bait that looks like a fish, exactly look like one, topwater, lightest lure that can able to float in the water, the worms that attract bass for them to think that they are just a worm, the jerk baits that is usually in light color, the craw cranks who look like a small crab, the crank baits that look like a fish with a long mouth and lastly, the buzz bait that releases a noise that calls the bass for it will be in attraction. 

High Roller Fishing Lures (salt water) trigger explosive strikes in the open saltwater flats, possesses the ability to finesse trophies from oyster lined creek channels as well as shallow mangrove lagoons. In saltwater, High Roller Fishing Lures deliver thrilling action, strength, cast ability and the durability needed to catch Bull Redfish, Gator Spotted Sea Trout, Massive Snook, Monster Kingfish, Tarpon, Bluefish, Spanish mackerel, Stripers, Amberjack and Jack Crevalle. The Original High Roller, a custom-walking lure, spooks the competition. Designed for exceptionally long casting, the Original High Roller is possibly the most versatile fishing lure we make.

The Pop Roller is a delicate Trout, Snook and Redfish bait, ideal for calm conditions and creek channel fishing. The Chug Roller, with its echoing, deep chug, calls fish from great depths triggering acrobatic strikes. The Rip Roller series is the most often lure of fishermen, because it sales almost double than other lure. Due to the noise that the prop makes when ripped thru the water, it totally rips the competition, the Crank Roller and the Wiggle Roller round out the series with un-paralleled buoyancy, flash and structure bumping reactions. 
 
The High Roller (freshwater) is designed for professional fisherman, High Roller fishing lures are proven tough and performance tested. Originally made for Largemouth and Smallmouth bass, High Roller offers poppers, aggressive walking baits, noisy crank baits and world-class prop baits that outperform, out-cast and out-catch the competition. 

There are also the so called Classic Bass Fishing Lures, like the Pro Series Jig, it is weedless designed with dual rattles, the Pro Series Spinner Baits a premium plated blades, the Tournament Series Spinner Bait it is commonly used while in a tournament, and lastly the Clacking Buzz Bait it is the noisiest buzz bait that is existing around the world.

Lures are important in bass fishing for it is the life and the link of the fishermen to the bass. It creates a big connection to them that in line in fishing. This lure may be the cause of the last breath of the fish who dares to eat them and it is also the start of one person to consider him/her self as a fishermen. 







