Where to Catch Your Dream Bass Fish of a Lifetime- Hook on to These Bass Fishing Trip Destinations


Bass fishing is an adventure many Bass fishermen are all too willing to experience. The search for the ultimate bass fishing location is a never ending quest for many bass fishermen, counting many facets that can qualify it as the best ever, or maybe as close as it could ever get to perfection.

Here are some of the best bass fishing locations where you can take your bass fishing trips with your friends or family.

·	The Soronan Adventure

First stop is in Phoenix, Arizona.

Test the waters of Arizona for some of the best trout and bass fishing around. The lakes of Arizona offer some of the best bass fishing found anywhere in the southwest. With four incredible lakes to choose from, there is a bass fishing trip suited for every condition, season and skills level.

Along with the exciting fishing that awaits you, you'll also discover a world of lush vegetation and a tremendous wildlife population that thrives in and around the water environment. 

If you arrange for tours available on-line, you will be guided by an expert, not just on fishing, but on the flora and fauna of the desert, as well as on the native history of the area.

Everglades fishing of Florida

Lets turn around our short fishing trips to the everglades fishing of Florida. 

Everglades fishing is very diverse, from shallow country grass flats to the outside islands and canal systems. Everglades fishing is done with fast moving baits, top water plugs big worms, spoons and buzz baits. Plastic worms sometimes do.

The Florida everglades hold the record of highest number of fish caught per person per hour of any fishery state. 

Brazil – Bass Fishers Paradise

Regarded as the worlds best bass fishing area is in Brazil. The many flora and fauna in the vast regions of Brazil offers a unique bass fishing trip experience for any person. 

Bask in the many splendors Brazils environment offers. But of course, it is the bass fishing that stands out for any bass fisherman. Spend countless relaxing hours in its calm waters then spend some ample time of your Brazilian Bass fishing trip absorbing the culture and great food (aside from your catches) Brazil has to offer.

Mexico’s hottest bass laden lakes

One of Mexico’s newest fishing lakes, Aguamilpa is a 70,000 acre haven of bass fishes that is a bass fisherman’s dream bass fishing trip destination. Surrounded by lush mountains for a breathtaking scenery, a bass fishing trip with friends and family is a worthwhile adventure you are liable not to forget.

First class accommodations are surrounding the are with newly built lodges to provide a comfortable lodging for all of you. Relaxing times and great food are among its many attractions but the bass fishing is still its top come on. 

Also in Mexico, tagged as the best big bass lake worldwide is Lake Baccarac.

Stocked with Florida Largemouth bass, Lake Baccarac is bestowed with the largest number of huge 10 pounder and above bass fishes one can catch in a single bass fishing trip. 

With an area of 25 miles long and 5 miles wide, there is enough space for a plethora of bass fishermen. Surrounded by fresh mountains with the descent of fresh mountain air, this is a haven for many bass fishermen. Lodging and accommodations are abounding with latest comforts and amenities one can enjoy. It’s like having a lake in your own backyard.

Then there is Texas.

With its great weather and great people, its lakes are regarded a notch higher above the rest. Bass fishing is hardly just a hobby for many Texans. It has become a passion and many other Bass fishermen from all over the world trek Texas for a fantastic Bass fishing trip.

Some of the more frequented areas for a bass fishing trip are Canyon Lake, Caddo Lake, Falcon Lake, Lake Travis, Lake LBJ, Lake Fork and so much more. 

So the next time you embark on a bass fishing trip, try to visit some of the best Bass Fishing trip mentioned above and you will surely have the time of your life. Its you, your gear and a bass, life just cant be better than this for an avid bass fisherman..
