Make a Christmas card Inspired from Bass Fishing


For the majority people, Christmas time means shopping for gifts, cards and presents for their friends, family, co-workers and many others.  Unfortunately, shopping for Christmas often times creates a lot of stress and burden for people due to the fact that they have to go out, fight the crowds and pay retail prices for the Christmas gifts they buy.

Now, you can get all of your Christmas gifts and supplies including ornaments, trees, cards, crafts and cookies at discount prices online and at the same time, same lots of time!  Like the bass fishing Christmas card, they are also available online. 

We all know that almost everybody in Florida is fascinated with bass fishing. They even consider bass fishing as their number one freshwater sport. 

Most of these anglers have built bass fishing services because of them; bass fishing is already a hard habit to break.

Not only that, some of them would even make Christmas cards inspired from bass fishing. They do this as an effective business product especially on the holiday seasons or any other special occasions.

For children, Christmas cards are colorful and are usually printed with jokes, stickers, or games. There are also special Christmas cards that hold money or gift cards. For adults, Christmas cards are often either traditional or humorous. And most of the adults get their Christmas cards on the Internet. 

Like Bass Fishing Christmas Cards which can be redeemed for online purchases, catalog orders, and purchases. 

Most Bass Fishing Gift Cards are mailed separately to the shipping address of your choice. Such as:

• Bass Fishing Christmas Cards delivered in 3-6 business days.

• Catalog(s) or the gift cards are shipped separately.

• Free standard shipping to US zip codes

• Gift Card amounts are in US funds

Not only that, here’s your second choice...

Most Bass Fishing Greeting Cards businesses provide a great way to send a gift almost instantly to your favorite outdoor enthusiast. Simply provide them with the dollar amount and they will email a Gift Card that can be used immediately.

These are important reminders on how you can get the card that you order:

•	Most Bass Fishing Christmas Gift Cards are delivered within four hours if ordered during normal business hours. Otherwise they may take 4 to 24 hours to be delivered.

•	These gift cards are usually delivered without any problems. However, a full inbox, invalid email address, or a spam filter can prevent the greeting card from reaching the recipient's inbox. In order to be certain that a Gift Card has been received, please check with the recipient.

•	Gift Cards are available for U.S. orders only and are in US funds.

•	 Catalogs will not be mailed, but current catalogs can be viewed online.

And here is your third choice, if you want your bass fishing Christmas card to be more memorable do it yourself. It’s the thought that counts, not the amount anyway!

An ordinary hand-made Christmas card is very special, how much more if it was motivated by bass fishing? Very peculiar is it not? And yet too easy!

Here’s what you will need:

a piece of card 17cm x 25cm

a piece of crepe paper or tissue paper slightly smaller than the card

several pieces of colored paper, recycled or interesting texture

metallic braid or cord, or colored ribbon inspire

ruler 

glue

scissors

pinking shears

and of course do not forget your pictures with the bass fishes (have it scanned please)

And here’s the easy way to do it:

1.	Carefully fold the piece of card in half.

2.	Use a very small amount of glue to fix the tissue paper inside the card as a lining.

3.	Trim a piece of colored paper with pinking shears, so that it measures 13cm x 8cm. Glue it to the front of the card, leaving an equal margin on each side.

4.	Cut a simple shape - a Christmas tree, a star, bells etc. - from an interesting paper of a toning or contrasting color. Glue the shape to the front of the card.

5.	When you are done with that, edit the picture that you have just     scanned. You can use Paint Shop Pro for it.

There you have it, just use your creativity and you’ll have a Bass fishing Christmas card to give to a bass fishing enthusiast.




