Highly Enjoyable Bass Fishing at Puerto Vallarta


The world’s finest destination for vacation is Puerto Vallarta Mexico. It is well- known for its legitimate environment located on a large bay of beautiful sandy beaches and they are filled with big lunkers.

This is the real Mexico complete with cobblestone streets and colonial architecture with beautiful weather that goes along with, and friendly people bringing their warm smiles.  

Puerto Vallarta is one of the loveliest places you can spot on the globe. It combines a unique ethnic culture with today’s resort facilities, reflected in a variety and inspiring activities and convenient accommodations. Puerto Vallarta’s geographical diversity is represented in its mountains, jungles, waterfalls, rivers and weather is not a hindrance for your fabtastic vacation. They always have a great weather that will not spoil your ultimate vacation in life. 

As the Puerto Vallarta’s popularity has grown bigger and bigger, more tourist flock in, luckily it does not get crowded in the view of the fact that it is located on the huge Banderas bay (“also known as Bay of Flags”), one of the largest natural bay of Pacific Ocean.

Banderas Bay is one of the most excellent locations for sport fishing in the globe. Angler’s from around the world come back every year to find out if they can beat the last year’s big fish that had been caught. It is a brilliant place to find bass fish, mahi-mahi, marlin, tuna, Dorado, rooster tail, and red snapper for the reason that it is a 40- mile-wide bay, with a depth of two miles.

Some of the other species that can be caught in the area include Amberjack, Pargo, Snook, Jack Crevalle, Snapper, Grouper, Rainbow Runner, Red Snapper, Rooster Fish, Sierra, Spanish Macarel, Triggerfish, and many more.

One of Mexico’s hottest bass fishing lake is known as Agua Milpa, which opened in the fall of 1997.the 70,000 acre lake, one of the most easy to get to of Mexico’s hot bass fishing lake can get to by paved road in 3 hours, either your heading from Guadalajara or Puerto Vallarta or by air to Tepic, Nayarit then a short 45 minute ride to the lodge.

The largemouth bass fish lake was secluded from fishing until the fall of ’97. It is an ideal food base and has an ideal growing temperature for bass fishing making it as there own paradise. Agua Milpa Lake is loaded with aggressive largemouth bass, averaging from 2 ½ to 10 pounds. The most numbered healthy bass fish caught was over 50 fishes for just 4 hours and the largest fish caught that time weighs six pounds. 

The best fishing rigs in Mexico are the bass fishing boats and motors. They are all equipped with new or nearly new outboards, troll motors and swivel fish.

Fishing fanatics from all over the world meet on this lake to try their luck in catching the largest creatures that are hard to find. They are required to have a fishing license either for daily or annual purposes. Tournaments and most of the fishing activities are coordinated at the Puerto Vallarta Bass club located at the lake Agua Milpa

Catching and releasing fish is now starting to get known in Puerto Vallarta and in the world which make the anglers more concerned about protecting and increasing the sport fish population. Practicing good catch and release techniques provides a first class fishing experience while recognizing our responsibility to maintain our valuable fishing resources for future generations. When properly handled and released, fish will continue to repopulate the waters for our continued enjoyments.  If fishes are not released and handled properly, there will come a time that in the next generation fishes will not be transparent anymore.

Pity the children of the next generation for they may no longer see the beauty and exquisiteness of the fishes that swim in the oceans, seas, rivers, lakes, bays and other aquatic forms. Still pity to them for they can no longer taste the deliciousness of these fishes.  

Come and visit Puerto Vallarta if you want to have the big chance of a life time. Choose this place for your next vacation and you won’t regret the adventure you’ll have to experience and the beautiful sceneries and exotic beauties of the place.








