Bass Fishing Facts You Need to Know

Some people may not be aware of what bass fishing is. Bass fishing has an interesting story. It begun in the late 18th century and it still continues to develop until today. More and more people have been hooked up with bass fishing. 

It is in fact one of the most popular hobbies of many people and in most countries. More and more countries have been adopting bass fishing.

It had probably in the beginning practiced in search for food from among the people in the south of the United States. From that day onwards, it has started getting numerous audiences of all ages and nations. Today, several countries such as Australia, Cuba, South Africa, United States and most citizens from Europe participate in this kind of event.

The year 1768 or 1770 was the birth of bass fishing sports. Onesimus Ustonson was the one who introduced his first multiplying reels to the fishing gurus and lovers of bass fishing. From then on, it was developed into bait caster. 

William Shakespeare Jr. have materialized the construction of a level wind device and secured its patent on 1897.

Then after, the William J. Jamison Co introduced the excessively ornamented Shannon Twin Spinner in 1915 and was enhanced to create today's spinner baits.

In the year 1932, President Franklin D. Roosevelt has instituted the formation of Tennessee Valley Authority and has encouraged the construction and building of several dams. These dams were later used for culturing different varieties of bass fishes. If these dams were not built, the people would not have the place to go for bass fishing. 

Five years later, the famous DuPont Company filed copyright for nylon fishing net, and this was later urbanized into nylon monofilament fishing line.

The year 1992 is one of the most glorious events in the history of bass fishing. Larry Nixon, the famous fisherman in the history of bass fishing won $1 M total earnings for this sport on this year.

A lot of fish species that are being caught in the bass fishing events include the following:

Micropterus punctatus - Kentucky Bass

Micropterus dolomieui - Smallmouth bass

Micropterus salmoides (Lacepede) - Largemouth Bass  

The other known classes of Micropterus are also wedged but in those times, one that remains most accepted is the Largemouth bass. On the other hand, it should be emphasized that some of the Australian Bass are different from the above North American Bass variants even though most share comparable features.

Possibly, the most vigorous success of Bass Fishing was in the 1950s. The popularity of the game during this age is the springboard to the development of modern fishing equipments from bass boats, rods, lines, lures and various fishing gears.

The contribution of bass fishing industry to the US economy records $50 to $70 Billion and the number continues to grow. Statistics show that the audience base of this sport is increasing and that more and more people are getting interested in it compared to tennis and golf.

Electronic gears during that time were also integrated and incorporated among the host of equipments bass fishers which were used at that same time. Reels of different types, which function in carrying and hoisting, were also created.

Now that you have a little understanding about bass fishing, you can already start your own bass fishing in your place. It is important to know the certain facts about bass fishing so that you will fully understand how it started.

In addition, you must know how to build up a victorious bass fishing pattern. Having a larger bass will really help you in your fishing trip. 

Some may also go bass fishing at night if they want to so it is good that you be taught professional night bass fishing techniques. 

Besides, the others may also be benefited by learning the professional winter bass fishing techniques for those who have experienced the four seasons. 

These are only some of the many styles and tips on how to progress and enhance your bass fishing strategy. But if you do not have any plan at all, you may really get dissatisfied from time to time. But, it is optional that you first learn and read adequate information and guides about bass fishing.

