It's the Canada Bass Fishing Way


“Fishing, an act of catching fish. Fishing for sport, leisure, and relaxation is called sport fishing, or angling, derived from the Old English word angel, meaning “fishhook”.”

Bass fishing represents one of the most popular fishing sports experienced today. The bass family, together with Striped, Largemouth, Smallmouth, Spotted, Black, and White, serve to start countless numbers of latest anglers every season. This fame has yielded a multi-million dollar industry unto itself, aside from the businesses of other modes of sport fishing. To illustrate this point further, there are boats on the market intended specifically for bass fishing.

Canada provides a quantity of the world's most excellent fishing grounds. The summer season opens in March and ends late in July. Many anglers head for Vancouver Island to fish for Feeder Chinooks, Halibut, Ucelet, and King Salmon aside from Bass. The variety of fish found within Canada's borders help to preserve it as a popular destination for the sport fisherman. The fame of Canada's fishing and tourism industry can grant many great opportunities, but it also serves as a problem for protection of the country's resources.

Northwestern Ontario is world-famous for the constantly giving good supply of bass fishes. But you will also get pleasure from the adventure and experience of hooking into the fighting Muskie and Northern Pike, the tasty walleye and Yellow Perch. The gorgeous, dirt free lakes offer up good fishing spring, summer, and fall. You will grasp your limit most days, but even when the fishing slows down, the loveliness of our Canadian wilderness is an remarkable experience in itself.

Fish for bass, walleye, muskie, northern pike, lake trout and yellow perch in Northwest Ontario Canada at one of Canada's most outstanding fishing resorts, Ranked #28 in the world for overall fishing and #1 in the world for combined walleye and muskie (musky) fishing. 

Bass (fish), ordinary name for many food fishes, but not equivalent to any particular scientific classification. A variety of bass are known by such local names as black, white, or rock bass. Bass or "Smallies" are known as the little fighters and are enjoyable to catch!

In the United States there are 9 general and 30 type of fish in the family containing bass and sunfish. The calico bass, also called black crappie, is originate from the Great Lakes and upper Mississippi Valley to New Jersey and southward to Florida, Louisiana, and Texas; it reaches a length up to 36 cm (14 in), but rarely weighs more than 0.2 kg (0.5 lb). The rock bass seldom exceeds that weight and is a poor food fish. It is abundant west of the Allegheny Mountains, south to Louisiana, and north into Manitoba, Canada.

The most essential basses in this family are the black basses. The largemouth black bass is also called bayou, lake, or straw bass, and sometimes, in the southern United States, trout. The smallmouth black bass resembles the largemouth bass, and the dotted bass is found in the Mississippi basin. Largemouth bass are found throughout the central United States and may achieve a weight of 9 kg (20 lb). Smallmouth bass are found from Lake Champlain southwest to the Appalachian region; they reach a maximum weight of about 2.3 kg (about 5 lb). 

Small mouth bass are the feistiest fish in Northwest Ontario, pound for pound. In the sunset country lakes teem with these fighters waiting to take hold of your bait and provide you with plenty of action. The sheer numbers of smallies in this area make Sunset Country one of Canada's first bass fishing locations. In addition, numerous lakes offer tremendous largemouth bass populations as well, making this area a must visit destination for any serious angler. With over 70,000 lakes, they’ve got some great fishing holes for you to choose from.

Spawning usually occurs over a period of 6-10 days in the late spring and early summer. Growth is rapid at first. Ask around for tips on the great time to Bass fish in Canada with your local tourist.

