The Perfect Place for Bass Fishing in Central Florida

Fishing in Florida is easy, exciting and fun because there are so many productive places to fish in the state, it’s not stretching the truth to say if you see some water and it’s more than a few inches deep, there’s probably fish to be caught. Pair this with the fantastic weather Central Florida has and you’ve got heaven on earth for many Bass fishermen. You can virtually go bass fishing everyday.
.
You can fish everyday of the year, that adds to the attraction as a fishing Mecca. Your chances of catching what you want do vary with the time of the year. But with the temperature and weather barely fluctuating and changes are at a minimum, it is not unlikely to catch a fish even when out of season. 

The largemouth bass is the best known and most popular freshwater game fish in Florida. Found statewide, largemouth bass have rapid growth rates. Historically known for huge bass, Florida remains an outstanding destination to catch a trophy Bass.

Central Florida offers not only Lake Toho which is the most popular lake of the Kissimmee Chain, but the fame Stick Marsh-Farm 13 fishery as well as the trophy bass lake Walk in water. Lake Toho is relatively shallow 18,800 acre lake that is covered with various types of aquatic vegetation. The most abundant is the massive hydraulic beds that can be found growing to the surface in up to 12 feet of water. 

For Florida bass fishing, bream fishing, or anything in between, Bass World Lodge is the place to be. Their location on the St. Johns River in Georgetown, Florida gives us quick access to some of the most lucrative Florida bass fishing and bream fishing grounds in the United States. Bass World Lodge offers professional guide services, spacious cabins, and fully stocked bait and tackle shops, as well as bass and pontoon boat rentals.

Lake Toho is a lake that faces North/South, the lake is approximately 9 miles long and only a couple miles wide

Similar to most of the Florida lakes medium to large Wild Shiners are the best producers for trophy fish. However, many lurkers are taken on soft plastics, Carolina rigs; Rat’s Traps, crank baits, soft plastic jerk baits, and suspending hard plastic jerk baits are one of the favorites of the local fishermen.

The Seminole Indian name Okeechobee actually means big water, an appropriate title for the largest freshwater lake in the United States occurring entirely in one state. The lake is approximately 37 miles long by 30 miles wide (448,000 acres, 700 square miles) with an average depth of almost 10 feet. To fishermen nation wide, Okeechobee is renowned for the sheer numbers of bass it contains per acre and the fact that it produces more Florida trophy bass over 8 pounds than any lake in Florida and the United States.

Because the river flows north, the upper basin is the area to the south that forms its marshy headwaters. The middle basin is the area in central Florida where the river widens forming lakes Harney, Jessup. Monroe and George. The lower basin is the area in Northeast Florida from Putnam County to the river's mouth in Duval County.

The source of the river, or headwaters, is a large marshy area in Indian River County. It flows north and turns eastward at Jacksonville to its mouth in the Atlantic Ocean

The total drop of the river from its source in swamps south of Melbourne to its mouth in the Atlantic near Jacksonville is less than 30 feet, or about one inch per mile, making it one of the "laziest" rivers in the world. Because the river flows slowly, it is difficult to flush pollutants.

For example, the water color in the Harris Chain is much stained.  This is a blessing as most bass in these lakes are shallow and hold close to cover.  Noisy lures are effective and multiple presentations to the same spot are required to get the fish's attention. 

The biggest problem most fisherman encounter when fishing in the Harris Chain for the first time is purely mental.  Coming from other areas of the state or country, they look at the pea-soup water color and get the impression that these lakes are fishless.  This is a shame as they are missing out on some great action if they only knew more about fishing under these conditions. Never underestimate Central Florida; it is a well kept open secret that many fishermen have failed to discover.






