Experience Bass Fishing in Florida and Live the Adventure of a Lifetime


The state of Florida is known for its exceptional bass fishing. Its popularity has yielded a million dollar industry for this state. A lot of boats on the market are designed specifically for bass fishing and generates revenues as well for the boat owners. 

There are lots of beautiful species found underneath which captivate fishermen as well as tourists out for some snorkeling or swimming. For people who specialize in fishing, it is a dream come true to capture such wonderful species. It is a thrilling experience one can never forget. Good freshwater fishing can be found not only in lakes but also in ponds, creeks and canals. 

Largemouth Bass, Redfish, Black Crappie and Trout are some of the fascinating sea creatures targeted by expert fishermen in the many inland lakes of Florida. Fishing guides are very courteous and friendly. This allows the customer to take full advantage of the knowledge and expertise in the migratory patterns of baitfish and the predatory fish that pursue them throughout the different seasons of the year. 

St. John River is the longest river in Florida. Its clear copper-colored waters and floating hyacinth islands are bold and enchanting. The area contains marshy wetlands as well as citrus groves which are irrigated by zigzag canals linking the reservoirs, swamps, lakes, palm trees, flat-water marshes and cypress stands.  Large numbers of the best and the biggest trophy black bass are caught in regular basis. Wetland-dependent species thrive here including blue herons, limpkins, pelicans, turkey, alligators, bald eagles, rabbits, wild hogs, tortoise, deer, wood storks, populous and ospreys. 

The river itself is great for fishing and catching enormous sizes of fish. In order to fish bass from rivers, it is best to seek out breaks in the current, perhaps from a fallen tree, a stump, or rocks. The fish that bass feed upon will normally school below a dam, thereby making these spots ideal for bass fishing. There are numerous techniques available to pursue the sport of bass fishing. 

For a beginner, it is advised to gather more basic tools to get started. Also it is suggested to start with artificial bait until the angler has a better understanding of the unique characteristics of the bass fish. Both amateur and seasoned anglers use Spinner bait. 

Ditches and dikes were constructed in the St. John’s River headwaters in order to serve agricultural pursuits. To expose rich soils to grow citrus, row crops, and to raise beef cattle, the marshes were drained. However, channeling the St. John’s headwaters for groves, farms and ranches eliminated hundreds of thousands of acres of marshes, upset the fragile wetlands ecology that was the foraging, nesting and nursery habitat for wildlife, and made the area susceptible to damage from floods from hurricanes. 

In the year 1988, the Management District and the US Army Corps of Engineers began a project to restore the drained marshes, construct reservoirs, levees, canals, spillways and water control structures to provide flood protection to the area. The project also created some fantastic trophy bass fisheries. Since then more than 150,000 acres of marshes are being restored and enhanced in the Upper St. John’s River headwaters reclamation project. 

The space Coast of Brevard County is considered among many fishermen to be the “Redfish Capital of the world”. It is almost an entirely closed system were in, the Big Bull Redfish do not migrate to the open waters of the Atlantic Ocean, therefore increasing the opportunity to catch the fish of a lifetime. It is not rare to catch Redfish. The brawl of this game fish is both unmistakable and unforgettable. It pulls hard on the drag and can coil your line in a matter of seconds. It is really an amazing experience catching enormous sizes of these sea creatures! 

Central Florida also offers visiting anglers the opportunity to catch Trophy Largemouth Bass and Black Crappie from one of its many Inland Lakes. 

There are plenty of wonderful and popular lakes in Central Florida such as Lake Toho, Kissimmee Chain, Lake George, Harris Chain, Lake Conway, Butler Chain and the St. Johns River. People all over the world come and visit Florida not just because of its natural beauty but because of its spectacular bass fishing. 
  

