Release those Fishing Urges with Free Bass Fishing Games


Satisfy your craving to fishing not only through the waters but with your home PC too! Do not fret if it’s not the fishing season or the weather is not good for fishing. You can experience the rush and fun of bass fishing anytime and at the comfort of your own home. Free Bass Fishing Games are available for you in the internet. 

Here are some bass fishing games and downloads you can come across on the Internet.  They are free to download or play online, just make sure you check the system requirements included with the bass fishing games or software summary. Plug in and connect, here are some of the most exciting and realistic free bass fishing games for you.

1. Fishing Expert 4.0. Fishing Expert contains a database that queries your fishing conditions, and then provides you with one of over 400 proven fishing methods or patterns. It takes into account weather, time of year, types of water, wind conditions, spawning conditions, high/low pressure systems, and much more.

2. Pro Bass Fishing. Plunge yourself into a fishing adventure made more  alive with splashing fish, jumping frogs, dancing water bugs, rippling water, bouncing rod tips and the biggest, hardest fighting bass fishes that ever landed on a PC. The fishing adventures are endless as you choose the lake, the hot spot, the species, the tackle - even the weather, its your game and your rules.

3. Rapala Pro fishing by Activision. Rapala Company is well known to every avid fisherman as they are taking in big bucks for the products and accessories and now a game is bearing their name. Drive fast on your bass boats and even air boats. Take the ultimate online bass fishing high with this free to try bass fishing game.

4. In-Fisherman Freshwater Trophies by global Star Software. Get the big boys out of the boat  and be the In-Fisherman. Take the day off virtually and be the big man in the lake. Bag that trophy fish then strive for more. This free bass fishing game provides the bass fishing high that the real thing offers.

5. Pro Bass Fishing by Atari. LAN play and do fishing challenges with your friends and beat the popular on-line gaming portal, Game Spy Arcade. Enjoy the scenery of the northern and southern lakes. What’s up ahead will always be a surprise. Have that wonderful weekend get away with the boys anytime of the week and at the comfort of your own home. 

6. Outdoor- Life: A Sportsman’s Challenge. the Sim – city meets the backwoods yokel cousins. Your ultimate hunting and fishing destination is right in your fingertips. Take those big bucks and monster bass flourishing as you market your outdoor paradise. You have complete control and power of everything you want in bass fishing all at the click of a mouse.

7. Championship Bass by EA Sports.  This game provides computer anglers with small selection of lakes and rivers but have an extensive selection of lures and colors to choose from. Clean and simple play methods and not overly complicated. Good quality graphics with a huge amount of fun factor, something you can definitely expect from EA sports.

8. Trophy Bass 4 by Vivendi Universal games. Dubbed as the mother of all PC Bass fishing games, this game sets the standard of playability and “fishability”. Trophy Bass 4 is a game that provided tons of fun and demonstrated classic control of any fishing game. It has a large library of fishing tips thus you will learn real life fishing while playing this exciting game. 

9. Flysim Fly fishing Game by FlySim.com.  these incredible game portrays real life physics that you can feel as you practice your fly casting. Practice flycasts at fish that demonstrate realistic behavior. 

10. Trophy Bass 3D by Vivendi Universal Games. This game came up after Trophy Bass 2. This game came up with new and improved 3D rendered game engines. You must be familiar with the game series and make up with the speed of these game. The rush of adrenaline is like a jolt and the experience is breathtaking. Strap on for the ride of a lifetime!





