A Review of North Carolina Bass Fishing Reports from the Experts

All of the fishermen, especially those who live in North Carolina love to compare the lakes in their place and also how they make fishing a great hobby.

When you start to pile things up, it becomes noticeable right away that there are some "kissing cousins" among bass lakes in the Tar Heel State of North Carolina: reservoirs that look like each other closely are enough that they are said to "fish alike." And that no two reservoirs are more strongly related, it can be argued, than High Rock Lake and Buggs Island Lake.

Heres a tip for you crank bait fishermen: If you use the clip locks, use the Norman Speedclips, taking the factory split ring off so the clip goes directly to the bait keeps the action of the bait true and you have a lot less trouble with the line fouling. That is best to use in North Carolina Bass Fishing.

For bass pro and Buggs Island guide Joel Richardson, summer bass success means hitting main-lake structure in 12 to 20 feet of water. are relatively shallow, as Piedmont lakes go; they are fed heavily by tributary creeks but affected more by river current, and no one will ever confuse them with clear lakes. They're also shallow enough upstream that navigation into the upper areas can be touchy.

And for some glorious reason, all of those features cause or allow bass to bite on those three reservoirs when the weather is pushing 90 degrees and more pages on the calendar have been throw away than are remaining.

They are the kingpins of their respective river systems - High Rock on the Yadkin and Buggs Island on the Roanoke. They are both relatively fertile, growing good populations of bass, stripers, crappie and catfish of various shapes and sizes. 

This will melt the plastic back together. Obviously you don't want to use this trick over buying new baits, but if you're stuck on the water with no spare baits, this will get you through the day.
All of them are fed by a lot of very nice, large creeks. None of them would ever be considered "clear" by any stretch of the imagination. All of them have a very strong rung at the bottom of the food-chain ladder: great populations of baitfish.

Now take this as an example, the three wonderful reservoirs in the Piedmont region of North Carolina: Buggs Island Lake, Jordan Lake and High Rock Lake. None of them are tremendously deep reservoirs. At least three fishermen in North Carolina appreciate this phenomenon. 

When you rip a hole in your soft plastic bait, heat the blade of your knife with a lighter and insert the hot blade in the tear. 

After a heavy down pour fish anywhere you can find water running into the lake this water will be full of nutrients starting a vibrant food chain and bass will be all over it.

Stitching. Lots of big Bass specialist uses this method for connecting with BIG Bass. You simply pull the bait along very slowly with your hand rather than your reel. This forces you to slow down and really enhances the feel of your bait and any pickup.

Everything from why you are supposed to wear your life jacket, theories on the shape versus size of baits and why some colors work and some don’t. You will also find general tips about how to arrange or store your tackle, equipment needed for shore fishing,  and ways to stay safe when you are out enjoying our great sport of bass fishing.

Beginners for bass fishing is a significant area to cover. I hope that we have been able to help you out as a beginner in having a north Carolina bass fishing and hope that you will return for more beginners tips and articles soon. Now what are you waiting for? The water is just waiting for you to come around and fish. Get your equipments ready and be bewildered with your first catch.

Experience bass fishing in north Carolina to have that new feel and experience that you won’t want to miss all your life.




