Ontario smallmouth bass fishing at its best!

Smallmouth bass can be best found from Ontario’s Great Lakes shoals to scenic. The glacial lakes of the Canadian Shield and in thousands of rivers, creeks, and lakes in between is the best Ontario smallmouth bass fishing.

Largemouth is largely in warmer bodies of water which has a shallow cover, whether it is wood and weeds or the rocky outcrops. In some of the lakes with mixed habitat, the largemouth region overlaps with that of smallmouth, making for various angling action in Ontario smallmouth bass fishing.
Ontario smallmouth bass fishing are usually best in more open water, where you can make use of light to medium-action 6- to 10-pound-test lines and 6- to 7-foot spinning rods. The Fly-rodders also find these smallmouths keen to take top-water poppers or minnow-shaped ribbons when the fishes can be found in shallow water. 

During the summer season, in deep underwater points, submerged islands, rocky shoals and weed edges are the best and ideal places to catch these hard-fighting, tail-walking fish. 
Ontario smallmouth bass fishing is different from all places for bass fishing. Northern Ontario is most famous for its medal smallmouth bass fishing. They love the unsteady clear lakes with little plant life and make your home in shoreline rocks and points, as well as offshore shoals, they are found often in the deepest part of the water. 

Wilderness Air can take you to the beautiful remote Canadian wilderness as we fly you in to your own exclusive lake. Stay in one of our deluxe outpost cabins, which are extremely well maintained and comfortable. Wilderness Air sometimes represents the best in Ontario smallmouth bass fishing outposts!

The smallmouth bass got its name for the reason the rear end of its lower jaw does not expand past the eye, while the lower part of the jaw of a largemouth does. There is a low notch linking dorsal fins and the body often resembles dark broken bars. 

The smallmouth bass typically matures about the age of three or four and can live up to ten to twelve years. On a light line, Ontario smallmouth bass fishing is a spectacular battler, and it is often jumping frequently and diving down into the depths. The average length for a smallmouth ranges between 10 and 20 inches. The Canadian record for the largest smallmouth bass is 10 pounds, 8 ounces caught in Ontario smallmouth bass fishing.

Crawling spinnerbaits or retriev-ing shallow-running crankbaits along the sub-merged weed patches also pay off. Bass of both species in deeper water can be taken with diving crankbaits, Largemouth tactics that work elsewhere are also effective in Ontario. Fishing differs from flip-and-pitch styles around the shallow, matted weeds, docks, and stumps, to thrilling top-water stroke on jerkbaits, poppers, and hovering plastic worms. 

Ontario smallmouth bass fishing is the best place for you to go fishing. Here are some tips on how to enjoy your bass fishing:

First, you should always remember that a smallmouth bass has a very big difference from a largemouth bass! You need to approach it differently. Largemouth bass can be found around the thick weed beds, but the smallmouth bass rather hide out where the rock ledge drops off stridently.The popular baits are crawfish, minnow, leeches and hellgrammites. You can try using everything that resembles a minnow such as plastic worms and flag flies.

You should always remember that in Ontario smallmouth bass fishing, it is often grouped together by size. Now, if you find a smaller-sized group, there will hardly ever be a bigger smallmouth amongst them. If you' are dropping a live bait from your boat, the more permissible lines is the better. The Lower minnows or crayfish down will be directly. 

The season like Mid June throughout fall is the perfect time for catching yourself a big smallmouth! During Mid-June, the smallmouths are found on the beds, by fall they are found in 10 to 15 foot depths under. The enthusiastic angler should group rattletraps, cranks and jigs, and always make sure to use a marker buoy to stay with the school properly.

Now if you want to go fishing, Ontario smallmouth bass fishing is the best idea that you can have. 




