Basic Knowledge about Striped Bass Fishing: Learn More to Catch More


For the first time that you would hear about striped bass fishing, you would probably think of the factor that drives people to engage in such activities. You would say that only those people who have an idea on what it is would be amused of this kind of fishing. But who says no to fishing? If ever you would then surely your missing one great experience in life!

People have been striped bass fishing for many years. People bass fish for many reasons. Some of them enjoy fishing regardless of what they catch. While others fish because they want to catch a lot of stripers and some would fish for food. Of course every person who is into fishing has the same problem - finding fish and catching them.   

In 1879, Stripers were first introduced to California from the East Coast. The stripped bass are also called rockfish because they usually dwell under the rocks.  They look very much similar to a white fish. These species moves around in groups. 

So when you are fishing, and if you catch a striped bass then there is a good chance that you will be able catch more. This kind of fishes likes to eat smaller fish, and other coruscations.  Stripped bass fish are the favorite meal of blue fined tuna and sharks. 

Striped bass are migratory. Most adults after spawning in rivers move into the salt water for summer and fall. Many of them feed from one bay to the other. In late fall & winter some fish moves upstream to the fresh water.

These bass fishes are often caught using small artificial lures. There are numerous techniques available to pursue the sport of bass fishing. 

For beginners, it is advisable to gather more basic tools to get started. Also it is suggested to start with artificial bait until the angler has a better understanding of the unique characteristics of the bass fish. Both amateur and seasoned anglers use Spinner bait. The biggest stripped bass caught is 53 pounds.

Of course to catch stripped bass you must know how to locate them, but this is great challenge to most anglers because there are so many factors that need to be determined to be able to locate one. 

Basically the first thing that you should learn in bass fishing is to know how to read Maps. This way, it would be easier for you to take on the appropriate location that is good for bass fishing. 

You need to remember that bass fish like Largemouth bass, smallmouth bass and stripped bass do not have the same characteristics. 

This is another factor in catching bass fishes. These creatures have their own distinctive traits, so you must learn their nature so that you would be able to know where to locate them. 

The weather condition must also be considered, when it comes to striped bass fishing. It is very important to know that the most practical places to look for active bass is just after cold fronts and during early spring and late fall periods. The depth or the hollowness of the water also serves as a factor to know a good location.

Once you are aware of their habitat and have mastered the techniques in catching then you are ready to go on your first stripped bass fishing.
  
If you want to find and catch Stripped bass there are a lot of guides that can help you.  Legends and masters do exist in bass fishing. They are the ones who are ordinary men that transcends from their natural being when they are on the water with a bass casting rod in hand.

It is an extraordinary experience catching these bass fishes and watching them move and jump out of the water. Even just at staring at them it is really a wonderful feeling. They are really such beautiful creatures!
