Thousand reasons to go to Thousand Islands for bass fishing


One of the most popular sports in the United States is bass fishing.  Thousands of articles had been written about this sport, from tips to testimonials to experiences. Thousands or maybe millions are hooked in this sport. You can usually find them basking on their bass fishing in great lakes and rivers or other aquatic formations in the United State.   

One of the ore popular fishing venues for bass fishing is the Thousand Islands. This is a group of more than 1,000 small islands in east central North America, in St. Lawrence River just east of Lake Ontario, to be particular. 

Most are part of southeastern Ontario and the rest are part of northern New York; and many of these islands are privately owned. It has been estimated that there are as many as 1,700 islands, but an exact count is difficult because of the large number of tiny islets. The largest is the Wolfe Island (127 sq km/49 sq mi) in Ontario. The islands have been a popular summer destinations since the mid 1800's.

Because of these, Ontario’s most important scenic and recreational attraction is its waters. The province is home to some 250,000 lakes and has thousands of rivers and streams. Four of the Great Lakes are the Lake Superior, Lake Huron, Lake Erie and Lake Ontario. 

The extensive shorelines of these lakes provide a natural playground for the people. Lake Simcoe, Muskoka and others, are very accessible lakes from the north of Toronto. They are also popular vacation centers. Ontario also shares with New York’s one of the greatest scenic attractions in North America, the Niagara Falls.

The Thousand Islands make a patch work of the river as it leaves Lake Ontario. The islands cater to large rocks, hold farms, estates, and summer cottages that can cost millions of dollars. Now, because of the popularity of it as a vacation and fishing destination, there are islands where in resorts and lodge houses are put up for the accommodation needs of the tourists and bass fishing enthusiasts.

You will find also a lot of establishments that sells and rents gears and boats to be used for their bass fishing. Restaurants are abundant if you finally get tired of eating your catch.

Ontario’s fishing activity can be divided into commercial fishing and recreational or sport fishing. Although fishing was an important economic activity in the 19th century, the commercial catch is relatively small today. Like other fishery problems; overfishing, pollution, habitat destruction, and the introduction of predators have greatly reduced catches. 

Thousand Islands being very rocky are places that small mouth bass species love to stay and live.  The beautiful scenery and the rocky background of Thousand Islands, bring adventures to bass fishing aficionados and lovers.  They loved to go there not just for bass fishing but also for sight seeing and camping.  There, they tried to commune with nature and feed their imaginations.

A large part of Canada’s freshwater catch comes from Ontario. The major species of fish caught during recreational fishing are perch, smelt, walleye, and smallmouth bass.  While the colorful fall foliage draws an annual pilgrimage of tourists to the area. It is the fabulous bass fishing of the Thousand Islands region that attracts the attention of anglers competing in Thousand Islands for bass fishing. 

The water is clearer, and baitfishes are abundant. The bass always make access to the bait and make feeding better. Because the zebra mussels have cleared up the water, vegetation is more widespread, which means the bass have better overall habitat. Both the largemouths and smallmouths are thriving.

While the bass may be both larger and more abundant, they are still found in the same areas discovered by touring pros. In St. Lawrence, those areas include Lake of the Isles, Goose Bay, Chippewa Bay, and the rocky coves and points around the Admiralty Islands. In Lake Ontario, the key spots are Fox and Grenadier Islands, and Chamount Bay

These characteristics of Thousand Islands of Ontario make the place greatly known for bass fishing. The geographical aspect, location and richness of  its great lakes and rivers make bass fishing a sport or hobby very inviting. 






