Colic in babies is actually not as serious as most think. Moms and dads who are not as experienced may not agree. The crying bouts that your baby will let you suffer from will make anyone think that it is a life and death situation. It is not; but this does not mean that you will not do anything to alleviate the problem. 

Colic is characterized by a pain in the abdomen and the stomach. Until now, medical experts and physicians are still trying to pinpoint just what causes the colic. They still can’t find the answer.  Some believe that this is because of allergy while others think it is inborn. And because there is no specific cause, there is also no specific cure for the episode. Something that parents find unfortunate as colic episodes is not exactly a walk in the park. 

Babies, when suffering from colic, will suddenly go into shouting matches that can destroy your eardrum. What is worse is that these crying and shouting episodes can last from one hour to as long as five hours, even the whole day, depending on the severity of the colic and the way parents handle the situation. 

They will also become fussy and restless. Some parents tend to panic especially when this is the first time that they have seen their kids cry so loud and for so long. At one glance, they seem so inconsolable. 

Colic happens to babies as young as three weeks old. This is the onset of the colic. For babies who are premature, colic can start at the sixth to eighth week after the supposed to be due-date. 
Episodes will peak at the second month and will begin to wane at the third month. Often, colic episodes will cease by the end of the fourth month. 

The reason why is still a mystery for scientists, who do not even know what starts the problem in the first place. There is really no exact profile on who can get colicky. It can happen to any baby, whether they are healthy or not. Some experts believe that people colic in infants can actually be genetic as parents who have had colic when they were babies will most likely produce an offspring who will also be afflicted with colic. 

One of the most obvious signs of colic in babies is the crying episodes that will begin to become frequent and recurring. If the episodes happen at specific time or period of the day, usually after eating, colic may be the problem. Colic episodes can last for a few minutes to an hour and can happen many times a day. Crying will also start without any real reason unlike when they are hurt or hungry. 

Parents should also observe the moment when they stop crying or when the crying episode cease. Often, crying will stop when they have passed gas or moved their bowels. 
Another symptom in babies is their apparent restlessness. Because their stomach pains them, they will most likely draw their legs onto their stomachs and abdomens with their hands clenched. When you touch their abdominal muscles, they will be tense and hard. Babies also trash around and will appear to be in constant pain. 

Babies suffering from colic will also have red cheeks, because of the exertion in crying and in keeping the pain in check.
