Remedy for Colic

Research shows that more than 20% of babies will develop Colic. This is not a disease or a disorder but parents will have to deal with the endless hours of crying until the newborn is four months of age.

Is there really a permanent solution for Colic? The answer is no. The best thing that a parent can do is remedy the situation until this will gradually go away as the infant gets older. 

Here are some of those remedies.

1. Infants are used to having something in the mouth due to breastfeeding. Since the mother’s breasts cannot be there every time, using a pacifier can help the baby stay calm thus preventing excessive crying.  

2. Watching the baby cry does not do anything. The parent must remedy the colic baby by taking it out of the crib and swaying it from side to side. Sometimes the sense of touch can do wonders making the infant know that he or she is safe. It will also be a good idea to sin g a lullaby that has been known to help the child drift again to sleep. 

3. Another way to remedy a colic child will be to use a CD that plays light music. Studies have shown this works similar to how the mother sings a lullaby to the child. 

4. The baby will get heavier as it gets older. Instead of carrying it in the arms, another remedy will by putting the infant in the carriage and going for a stroll. Some parents have taken the child for a ride in the car, which also helps calm the newborn.  

5. Giving the baby a warm bath can also help. Since this can’t be done every time, the parent can put a warm bag on the belly or try massaging lotion instead. It will be a good idea to cover the pack with a towel since the temperature could be too much for the infant.  

6. The type of food being eaten by the mother may also cause the child to be colic. Consulting with a dietitian help prevent this from happening as foods that produce gas are replaced with healthier ones. 

If the situation does not change, this is the time that medication such as Simethicone drops should be used. 

7. Some mothers stop breastfeeding after the 2nd month and change this with cow milk formula. Some babies are colic because of the formula so one way to remedy it will be to change this with a soy based formula. 

8. Air is the root cause of some children being colic especially when the infant is now drinking from a bottle. The parent should check the hole of the nipple since a big hole makes the baby drink more than usual. If this happens, it will be a good idea to buy a new set of nipples. 

A colic baby believe it or not is a healthy one. This is because the behavior it shows makes people aware of its existence and needs. 

There will be times that the parents will get up late at night or early in the morning to address this but this can be remedied. Before one knows it, the excessive crying will not happen anymore as the infant has adjusted to the new environment. 

 





