Knowing how to treat colic

If your baby is onto a different level of crying or showing signs of chronic irritability, then the infant might probably be suffering from a severe abdominal pain caused by spasm, obstruction, or distention of any of the hollow viscera—such as the intestines—called "colic." 

Known to occur at the early stages of infancy, colic is characterized in varying levels of severity. Since this is caused by gas trapped within the intestines or spasms of new intestines, most babies experience extreme discomfort and can even develop serious digestive problems if not paid proper attention. 

ALL ABOUT COLIC

Colic refers to the extreme end of normal crying behavior of babies with ages 3 weeks up to 3 months or from 6 to 8 weeks of age. Experts say that the amount of the baby's crying can be at varying levels and can be generally diagnosed as colic when a baby but cries extremely and excessively for more than 3 hours a day, more than 3 days a week, of for more than 3 weeks. 

Research shows that colic generally results from a combination of an infant's sensitive temperament, environment, and immature nervous system. These factors can easily make a baby cry and can be difficult to stop once the period started. Experts say that colic is Norman and is not usually related to serious health conditions like digestion problems. It can only lead to this if the baby develops intolerance to cow's milk protein, fructose, and transmission of medication by-products during breastfeeding. 

Colic can be characterized in newborn babies if they show abnormally irritable attitude or cries for no apparent reason. Aside from crying vigorously for long periods despite your consoling efforts, colic can also be distinguished when the baby shows signs of gas discomfort or abdominal bloating, has a hard and swollen stomach, knees pulled to the chest, clenched fists, flailing arms and legs, an arched back, and experiences frequent sleeplessness, irritability and fussiness.

Usual symptoms of colic include extreme discomfort in a baby's tummy due to unreleased abdominal gas, but serious symptoms like vomiting, diarrhea, fever, or blood or mucus in the stool are not. If you notice these symptoms, he or she might be suffering from a more serious digestive problem that needs immediate medical attention. 

TREATING COLIC 

When a baby starts to suffer from colic, he or she can be very difficult to console. For parents, especially to those first timers, colic can leave a feeling of guilt, frustration, exhaustion, confusion, and inadequacy because of the periods of distress brings to both of you. If you're baby experiences colic and you would want to treat it, there are several options available for you. But make sure that that you visit your pediatrician or doctor first before giving your child any treatment options such as medication, remedy, or supplement. 

Since colic is common to babies, experts say that several measures can be done at hospital or even at home. Colic treatment at home may include the use of a pacifier, gently rocking the infant using a rocking chair or lap, massaging the infant's abdomen or back, ensuring a quiet and non-stimulating environment when colic period begins, changing the baby's diet and feeding techniques especially in breastfeeding and playing relaxing music. 

If you want to seek medical treatment, make sure that you visit your doctor first to get prescription. Medical treatments may include simethicone drops like Maalox, Gas-X, Mylanta, and Phazyme to relieve gas, trying alternative to milk-based formulas like whey-based formulas, soy-based formulas, and hypoallergenic formulas. 

