Equine Colic

The diseases that animals and humans face are very different. Perhaps because of the biological structure or simply because a person can describe the pain while a dog, a cat or a horse is unable to do the same. 

It takes practice to be able to diagnose a problem with an animal. Sometimes, a sudden change could be nothing or this could be fatal. One good example is equine colic that happens to horses.

Horses that suffer equine colic usually experience from abdominal pain. Veterinarians are unable to pinpoint the exact cause but attribute the problem to the food being given to the animal. Something new may have been given which causes gas to build up 

Stress and lack of exercise could also be the culprit. Studies show that equine colic happens more often to those raised in stables than those in the field.

When the horse feels restless, decides to kick its own belly, paws or rolls on the ground, stands outstretched or has a curl on the upper lip, the owner should call a vet because these are the usual symptoms of the disease.

This can only be confirmed with a more thorough exam given by the doctor that will reveal an increase in heart rate and temperature. Some medicine may be given but if it still refuses to eat, there is a very high chance that the horse will die.

Treatment must be administered almost immediately since most horses die within 48 hours. Unfortunately, even if the animal survives, it may happen again which is why preventive measures must be taken. 

Here are some of these steps;

1. The owner or those who are in charge of taking care of the animal should follow the regular feeding schedule as well as make sure the stable is clean at all times. There must always be a sufficient supply of clean drinking water especially when the weather is hot to prevent dehydration. 

2. Parasite could bring other diseases that could also make the horse sick. It will be a good idea to set up a parasite control program to prevent this from ever happening. 

3. The ideal diet for a horse is processed grains. If this is not yet being used, it is advisable to do this from now on. 

4. Taking the horse out for a ride will give it the much needed strength to fight off certain diseases.   

5. Some owners give horses multivitamins and other drugs. Before doing so, this should be checked by the veterinarian since this could be the root cause of equine colic. 

6. It is okay to give the horse hay every so often. Before doing so, it will be a good idea to check it for foreign objects that could also cause problems when it is digested. 

7. Horses are unable to brush the teeth like humans. So, the person has to take care of that as part of the hygiene, which is just like cleaning the stable of waste daily. 

There are many types of equine colic that vets classify. These cases range from mild to severe. Since horses owners may not be able to distinguish one from the other, it is always advisable to get help immediately so the problem can be treated before it is too late. 

