Natural Remedies for Colic

Colic is a normal phase in the life of a baby during the first few weeks until the third or fourth month. Doctors believe that the excessive crying makes parents more aware of the responsibility of raising a child.

There is no miracle drug that can help treat colic babies. Parents will just have to face it until the child is able to adapt to the new environment and use some natural remedies along the way. 

One of the simplest ones parents can use is music. This is probably the reason why lullabies were invented and those who don’t have a singing voice can get the same thing on compact disc. This should be placed whenever the infant is in the crib, which can help it, sleep comfortably.

Another natural remedy is the diet that the mother is having. Certain foods produce gas and when this is converted to milk, it is like passing on the same thing to the child. A dietitian can make a plan so this will not happen. 

If the mother is no longer breastfeeding and is relying on milk concentrates, perhaps switching to soymilk instead of the regular kind can help the colic baby.  

Some parents think that the infant can survive on breast milk alone in the first few months. Babies also need water and this should be checked before giving it to the child. A good way to do this will be to read the ingredients on the side of the product label.

When a colic baby is crying, parents will normally carry the child. This works but since motion comforts most infants. If the mother is having a hard time carrying the baby, another way to do this will be to go out of the house. 

The woman can put the baby in a carriage or strap it to the car seat so both mother and child can spend quality time in the park or for a joyride. 

Babies at a young age also get stressed out. Giving the infant a massage, a warm bath or using aromatherapy can help comfort the infant. The individual can also use a hot bag and put this on the belly and making sure that the water is not too hot. 

Babies are colic because of the new environment. No one can blame the infant especially when the home has been the mother’s womb for the first nine months. In order for the baby to slowly adjust, parents can try swaddling or holding the infant close to the chest. This will make the baby reminisce how it was like before. 

The various natural remedies are effective. This may not work all the time so the parents should try something different or a variation when things have not improved. 

There are of course medications available that can treat colic babies. Parents should consult with the doctor first which one will do the trick before administering it to the infant. 

Parents should not panic if the child is classified as colic. This is because it is not a disorder and this is a good indication that the baby is normal. Both the mother and father should be ready for some hard days ahead since there will be a lot of sleepless nights making one feel very exhausted. 
 

