Title: 
Let us learn to live with gorilla terrorism

Word Count:
895

Summary:
Terror is a frame of mind, it based in psycho disorder syndrome, which makes one mind dissatisfied with its existence. In today’s global village concept era the terrorism is threating the idea of one world, where international non governmental and governmental organizations are working hard to achieve millennium development goals to end hunger, illiteracy, HIV/AID. On other side some psycho disordered persons are trying to disturb the system in name of religion, castes and creeds.


Keywords:



Article Body:
Terror is a frame of mind, it based in psycho disorder syndrome, which makes one mind dissatisfied with its existence. In today’s global village concept era the terrorism is threating the idea of one world, where international non governmental and governmental organizations are working hard to achieve millennium development goals to end hunger, illiteracy, HIV/AID. On other side some psycho disordered persons are trying to disturb the system in name of religion, castes and creeds. In 20th century terrorism had its open face as it had some geographical territories under theirs belt, like Taliban’s in Afghanistan, LTTE in Sri lanka etc in rest of world. But in 21st century terrorism has changed its character because loss of its geographical territories after 11/9. When international attention was focused on its global network and scope, after then terrorists has started used gorilla terrorism as their main operational tools in all around the globe.
1.	9/11 in 2001, New York attack on WTC.
2.	13/12 in 2003, New Delhi attack on Indian parliament.
3.	7/7    in 2205, London tube’s attack.
4.	29/10 in 2005, New Delhi serial bombs attacks.  
We the global citizens should start to learn to live with these types of inhumane actions (gorilla terrorism).By such acts the terrorists want to create panic in commoners that they can strike any part of world. This makes insecure to citizen about their existence, resulted into abnormal behavior. Panic and abnormality suit in terrorists designs. This gorilla terrorism is not easy to combat and not easy to eliminate. Only way is to minimize the feeling of this on our day to day life.
How will it be?
1.	Psycho combat.
To defeat the motives of gorillas, first we have to learn the ground reality i.e. it can be at any place and on any occasion so we should always be ready to combat with it. This needs mental toughness and maturity to keep cool in such accidents. To prepare people all around the globe, study of terrorism faced people i.e. Sri Lankans etc can be examined to multiply it into all in world about their early recovery from any terrorist attacks, to make enjoy under such insecure conditions etc.This will help to defeat the prime purpose of terrorists to make abnormality in routine life of society also it will make common citizens responsive to theirs surrounding.
2.	Socio combat.
This measure is of curative in nature as different to first one. To minimize the ground reasons, which forced any one into psycho disorder syndrome which resulted into dirtiest face of human (terrorism).We must invest more on education, sanitation, industrialization and commercialization among those religious communities which is serving main nursery for terrorism in all around the world. The young agers are being used for any type of gorilla terrorism so provision to education, exposure to industrialization and commercialization can make these young think many times, because education and leisure make one individualistic. Once any one thinks of own he or she can not throw his/her lives. No one left behind (NOLB) in development should be our mantra to limit the basic nursery of terror.
3.	Technological combat. It is a tool to prevent and combat the terrorism, but it can be contrast if it be used by militants, like communication and information and communication technologies are being used by terrorists to expand their regime. So R&D  on terror combat technologies should be encouraged i.e.
a)	Cost efficient automatic explosive sensor for public places. Putting affordable automatic explosive sensors in all possible public places should be first global policy to combat with terrorism in all around the globe. It will scale down the involvement of general public in such heinous terrorism attacks 
b)	 Speedy fist aid medical kit for terror hit victims. If we can able to develop a specialized fist aid medical kit for terror hit victims who will be placed at public places and can be used by layman i.e. in any terrorists attack 90% injured need first aids for burns injuries . Spray which can be sprayed in whole in terror hit area can be answer to it be developed.
c)	Global terrorists attacks information network. As earth quakes are recorded from all around the world to keep all records of quakes occur in earth, such a global network should be development which can record all details of every terrorists attack held in all across the world. It will on one hand keep all terrorists tracks in world under one system which can be used when and where required, on other hand it will unite people from all parts of world to fight against terrorism cutting all geographical barriers.               
4. Tactical combat. This is pre and post operative measures. Oppressions and atrocities of terrorists towards those, for which they proclaimed are fighting, should be made public through their mode of communication to lessen their mass support.
 It is very easy to write Terror combat write up, but really patience full act to take against terrorism. So to keep equilibrium between write ups and actions requires trials of every possible suggested ways in Terror combat write up. Last not the least is that terror has to make surrender before humanity, it only question of perfect timing, it will happen only if we can learn to live with gorillas terrorism.
  E-mail: drawat@abcnewsnetwork.com                      
          : dineshabcnews@aim.com                         
                                                                                   
   Dinesh Singh Rawat
special correspondnet
ww.abcnewsnetqwork.com


