Title: 
10 Reasons Why To Print with Printer Anywhere

Word Count:
785

Summary:
PrinterAnywhere has developed a new technology and software that allows any user with internet connection to connect and print any document all over the world. The users just need to download and install the free software that PrinterAnywhere provides. Also the page the user wants is printed thousands of miles away from your own computer.


Keywords:
computer printer, remote printer, share printer, print anywhere, print anywhere


Article Body:
PrinterAnywhere has developed a new technology and software that allows any user with internet connection to connect and print any document all over the world. Users now have the power and provision to connect to any printer all over the world without any networking. The users just need to download and install the free software that PrinterAnywhere provides. That too without the requirement of any special knowledge by the user or the owner of printer!

With the software that Printer Anywhere provides, the user is now able to print anything directly from your applications like the Photo Editor, Outlook Explorer, and so on. Also the page the user wants is printed thousands of miles away from your own computer. 

The software is developed with such precision that uses high security as well as the quality standards for the printing the page at the desired destination. The software also uses a high quality encryption algorithm and securely sends the printable media through electronic pulses to the desired destination. This also adds to the user’s security because the imitation of the original copy is sent. 

The Printer Anywhere software also bans the forwarding of the document, thus, unlike e-mail, solves the problems faced for the privacy issues. It is also unnecessary for the user to have an email id for the printing of document anywhere in the world. The user also has the authority of how many copies are to be printed. 

There are the ten most basic reasons why to print documents around the world using on the software that is provided by Printer Anywhere. The ten reasons are:

1. To ensure that the documents are not only received but also printed:
Many times it happens that the important documents that are sent through email are received properly but are either misplaced or are deleted from the receivers computer. With PrinterAnywhere, the user can be assured that the documents are not just received but printed so that the receiver has a hard copy of the documents.

2. The user does not want to send electronic copies of the documents:
With the sending of emails, all the privacy issues pop-up. The emails, for example, can be forwarded and the privacy of the document is compromised. Instead if the user chooses to print the document using PrinterAnywhere, the user has a benefit of preventing the abuse of privacy.

3. The recipient does not have the application to open the document: 
With the technology advancing all the time, there is an acute possibility that the recipient does not have the proper application to open certain documents that have come from the other parts of the world. Hence it is very useful to have the software provided by PrinterAnywhere, which facilitates the printing of any document in any part of the world. This saves the time in finding and installing the correct application to open the document.

4. The user wants to print paper photos on someone else’s printer:
The software is very useful in printing you archived photos on any printer in any part of the world. So, instead of sending the photos through email and then let the recipient download and then print the photos, the user can directly print the photos on the recipient’s printer.

5. The user wants to ensure that the documents are printed on loy on the specific printer:
The software provided by the PrinterAnywhere ensures that when a document sent for printing, it goes to the right recipient.

6. The user wants to print directly from the applications as if it were a local printer:
The user now has the opportunity of printing the required document directly from the application by just commanding the application to print and then giving the correct link of the address of the recipient printer.

7. Microsoft printer sharing on the home network of the user doesn’t seem to work:
The Microsoft printer sharing may not work correctly hence; PrinterAnywhere is a better option for all the users.

8. The document is too big to print or the user wants to save his paper:
If the user does not wants to waste his paper for something which maybe useless yet necessary, then with PrinterAnywhere, the user has the option to directly print the document at the recipient’s printer.

9. Fax quality is not good or the international fax calls are very expensive:
The Fax calls are very expensive in case you want to send a fax overseas. In this case the PrinterAnywhere is a very good option.

10. The user wants to print right at that moment and for free:
PrinterAnswers is the best option to print documents on the spot and for free.


With all these reasons, PrinterAnywhere is the most irresistible.


