Title: 
7 INCREDIBLE advantages of "Water-Powered Car" technology to YOU!!!

Word Count:
378

Summary:
Do You Want To Know RIGHT NOW How You Can Easily 
Convert Your Car To Burn WATER as FUEL And Stop 
Wasting Money On Gas ? To get involved in knowing all there is to know and in learning how to POWER YOUR CAR WITH WATER, visit http://www.burn-water.net


Keywords:
water injection, fuel save, make hydrogen, [water injection], [fuel from water], "make hydrogen", water motor, hydrogen generators, hydrogen power, [run your car on water], hydrogen generation, auto electric


Article Body:
7 INCREDIBLE advantages of "Water-Powered Car" technology to YOU

http://www.burn-water.net

Article Summary: No doubts about it, it's now possible to power your car on water as well as gas, instead of 100 gas. Apart from the many advantages that this technology have on the planet, it also has many widespread advantages to many individuals around the world, including YOU.

Below are 7 of these incredible advantages of the water for gas to YOU:

1- Improves your gas mileage by up to 35%. This includes both city and highway driving conditions. Imagine how much money this would save you at the end of the month and at the end of the year. It is estimated that this could save you as much as $897.40 per year. If you are two, three or four drivers in the family, this yearly savings increases dramatically. And what if you have a fleet of 50 drivers in your company? Then your yearly savings will multiply to $44,870. More if you have more drivers.

2- Eliminates harmful exhaust emission that pollute the environment and contribute to global warming. Your engine will ADD oxygen to the environment instead of polluting it. How about doing something good to help the environment for a change?

3- Greatly enhance engine power and performance. The more gas you use on your car, the more the engine gets battered- thus reducing the performance. But by using water as an alternative, this enhances your engine power instead and improves performance.

4- Remove carbon deposits and prevent future carbon build up.

5- Reduce the operating temperature of the engine and waste heat into the environment.

6- You will notice a calmer, quieter and much smoother engine operation and smoother gearshifts. This is due to the effect water has on the combustion cycle inside your engine.

7- Enjoy a longer life expectancy of your engine, especially the pistons, rings and valves.

These are just some of the many advantages of water for gas technology to YOU. Remember, even YOU can build the device needed to make this technology work for YOU, from the comfort of your home.

About the author

To learn more about water for gas technology and how you too can build your own water for gas powered car, visit http://www.burn-water.net for all the SECRETS of Water Car Technology


