Title: 
A Case For Cases. Ipod Cases That Is.

Word Count:
600

Summary:
Have you recently bought an iPod? Or are you on the verge of buying one?

Take a look around next time your out and about. iPods are becoming as prolific as cellphones. Of course they are! The iPod is such a great gadget! Do you know the first thing you must do after buying an iPod?

You need to protect it! Most people don't. Even though the iPod owner spends as much as $30 - $60 USD on iPod accessories. That's 30 to 60% of the original iPod price.

The majority of peop...


Keywords:
ipod cases, ipod chargers, ipod accessories.


Article Body:
Have you recently bought an iPod? Or are you on the verge of buying one?

Take a look around next time your out and about. iPods are becoming as prolific as cellphones. Of course they are! The iPod is such a great gadget! Do you know the first thing you must do after buying an iPod?

You need to protect it! Most people don't. Even though the iPod owner spends as much as $30 - $60 USD on iPod accessories. That's 30 to 60% of the original iPod price.

The majority of people are buying fancy accessories such as fm transmitters, docking stations, wireless remote kits. Don't get the wrong idea these are great gadgets BUT the first accessory you should be buying is protection for your iPod.

Get the basics before getting the fancy goods. iPod skins and cases come in a huge variety of styles and quality. Whatever your style - there is a case for you!

By purchasing a Skin or Case you'll be protecting your iPod from these common problems:

* Click wheel scratches

* iPod screen scratches.

* Mirrored back scratches.

Despite the superiority of the Apple iPod, it still suffers from some major issues. Being easily scratched and short battery life. These issues lower the resale value of an iPod. This may not seem important but if you want to trade in your older one for a newer one, these things will matter. Aside from that, who wants their own pristine, beautiful iPod all scratched up? Every time you take your iPod out of your pocket it causes microscopic scratches!

There are many accessories out there but most do not fulfill the basic needs of your iPod. Protection. You need to protect your iPod before anything else. Make sure you first equip your iPod with a good quality case, skin, or sleeve.

The most popular iPod cases are as follows:

Cellphone sleeve converted to a case.

This is the most common and are most easily available. Unfortunately the mirrored back of the 3G and 4G iPod are easily scratched by the sleeve as the rub against it. If you can afford a 3G or 4G iPod then you can afford not to go this route. Protect your purchase and buy something specifically for your iPod.

iPod Silicone skin.

This is the most common case today. They come in every shape and size, color and texture. Be aware though there are mass produced low quality cases produced in China with questionable materials that tear easily. The cheap silicone skins also pick up dirt and lint easily. You can find better and branded products from the USA or Japan. 

iPod Leather Cases.

iPod leather cases are also extremely popular. Unfortunately people have reported that the Apple branded one scratches the mirror back and does not have a cover flap. There are many quality leather case suppliers on the web. Check the stitching on the case for good workmanship. Belkin and Digital Lifestyle are a few that come to mind. 

Water and Shock Resistant Cases.

There is an increasing need for these types of cases due to our active and mobile lifestyles. There are a plethora of cases in this market also but be forewarned that a case can only be water resistant not water proof. Water resistant means it can withstand water splashes certainly not to be immersed in water and definitely you would not bring diving! There are many aluminum cases available that offer superb shock resistance.

With the new knowledge you have, you are now ready to find the case that best fits your needs and most importantly your style! Happy case hunting.


