Title: 
A Highly Technical Xbox360

Word Count:
491

Summary:
Xbox360, the latest version of the video game console that has been manufactured by Microsoft, was a term that was finally arrived at by the computer software company last year. This was after a marketing firm that it hired conducted a survey which asked people whether they thought the Xbox evoked a more "next generation" or "next-gen" sound. It was apparent that Microsoft was having worries at that time that sticking to Xbox2 as the name of its new video game console would m...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Xbox360, the latest version of the video game console that has been manufactured by Microsoft, was a term that was finally arrived at by the computer software company last year. This was after a marketing firm that it hired conducted a survey which asked people whether they thought the Xbox evoked a more "next generation" or "next-gen" sound. It was apparent that Microsoft was having worries at that time that sticking to Xbox2 as the name of its new video game console would make it appear or sound older or less "cutting-edge" than its main rival, the PlayStation 3 or PS3.

Keeping such a concept in mind, Microsoft recently announced that it has successfully produced a set of fresh 360 backwards compatibility update of the Xbox which the firm is scheduled to release anytime within the week. This is in keeping with the company's commitment to concentrate on the continuous improvement of the console's features. Peter Moore, the game's top honcho, said the updates are presently having their final testing at Microsoft. Once completed, these will be released to the market sometime this week.

Aside from the compatibility updates, the Xbox360 is also reported to have a special feature that has the capability to perform maintenance functions in the console's storage devices. A player, who recently purchased a copy of the video game, said the console's cache can be cleared simply by going to the system blade, then to its memory. From there, the player said, one can press Y on either the HDD or the MU. The said player consequently posted his observations on one of the console's numerous websites.

A Microsoft representative did confirm the existence of the said feature. However, he tried to make it clear to those who purchased the console that while the HDD clearing feature is a part of the game's entire electronic processing system, it is also a part of the technical support process. Ideally, it should only be utilized in instances when technical operations are involved. Moore said that while the said Xbox360 feature, when utilized, will not really harm or cause severe damage to the console, still it is advisable that it be used sparingly and only upon proper instructions from a qualified Microsoft customer service staff.

The latest model of the Xbox is considerably much smaller in size than its predecessor. It also has the obvious looks of a 21st century set top box. In addition, the game also contains a removable hard drive that is located on the left side of the console.

In general, the Xbox360 is, for all intents and purposes, a most powerful console, a truly next generation video game that has amazing top-of-the-line and cutting-edge features. It promises to provide an amazing digital visual enjoyment. The latest Xbox has a variety of hot as well as new game titles ranging from science-fiction, to adventure, to action, to sports, and to practically anything that the human mind can imagine.


