Title: 
A Look at DVD Shrink Wrap Systems

Word Count:
326

Summary:
Shrink wrap machines use plastics to protect items from moisture and dirt during storage or transport. The plastic film is wrapped around the item and then the film is heated. It shrinks and conforms to the shape of the item, forming a barrier between the product and outside hazards. Shrink wrap systems may be small and manually operated for the home business, or large-scale automated machines used by shipping companies. Automatic machines can process more items and hour than their smaller counterparts.


Keywords:
Shrink Wrap, Shrink Wrap Machines, Shrink Wrap Systems, Shrink Wrap Bags 


Article Body:
Shrink wrap machines use plastics to protect items from moisture and dirt during storage or transport. The plastic film is wrapped around the item and then the film is heated. It shrinks and conforms to the shape of the item, forming a barrier between the product and outside hazards. Shrink wrap systems may be small and manually operated for the home business, or large-scale automated machines used by shipping companies. Automatic machines can process more items and hour than their smaller counterparts.

DVDs can be easily shrink wrapped for a professional look that protects the DVD from the environment.  Machines designed to shrink wrap DVDs work more efficiently than generic hand-held shrink wrapping systems. Some machines shrink wrap only DVDs; others can shrink wrap both DVDs and CDs. Machines specifically designed for DVDs are typically cheaper than dual systems, and can be purchased for under $5,000. 

To shrink wrap a DVD with a shrink wrap machine, place a precut plastic cover on the machine's platform, and then place the DVD on top of the plastic. Close the machine's cover to heat seal the DVD. The sealing temperature is electronically controlled by the machine. These semi-automatic machines can shrink wrap about 200 DVDs an hour. Automated machines work twice as fast, shrink wrapping about 400 DVDs an hour. 

More expensive, fully automatic machines can shrink wrap about 55 CDs or DVDs a minute, or about 3000 an hour. These machines cost about $16,000, but can also handle films other than plastic. Paper or cardboard could also be used, for example. Automated high throughput machines are portable and can sit on tables, taking up less space than floor-bound machines, but the table-top machines can shrink wrap DVDs and a comparable rate. 

Several online stores sell all kinds of DVD shrink wrap systems at wholesale prices. These Web sites sell both the machines and the films need to shrink wrap DVDs.  There you will find everything you need to package DVDS with a professional look.


