Title: 
ACT Consultants Play Pivotal Role in Maximizing ROI

Word Count:
477

Summary:
ACT certified consultants can perform a variety of services that ensure that the software's effectiveness is maximized for your company's specific needs.


Keywords:
act consultants, act certified consultants, act 2008, act 2008 software, act help


Article Body:
Today, millions of individuals and tens of thousands of companies are using ACT! software solutions to organize contacts and leads, manage daily responsibilities, track sales opportunities, communicate more effectively, and gain insights into their businesses. With options for deployment in a Windows environment, in mobile computing, and in a Web-based interface, ACT 2008 software is a critical tool for helping a wide variety of businesses succeed. 

Yet those companies that achieve the best return on their investment make it a point to use ACT consultants in their software implementation. That's because ACT certified consultants can perform a variety of services that ensure that the software's effectiveness is maximized for your company's specific needs.

In essence, ACT consultants meet with you and your team to explore cost effective options to increase the performance of the ACT 2008 software. This translates to less effort on the part of your employees while increasing productivity. They can help increase business performance by providing:

Specialized Training: Although ACT 2008 is superior software, staff training is a crucial component of any systems integration. ACT consultants can determine which components are most useful to your company and conduct extensive staff trainings that will enable your employees to get the most out of ACT 2008. The best ACT consultants offer both on site and online trainings, and offer free follow-up phone support.  They can also train your in-house trainers so that new employees can easily come up to speed and consistently and effectively use ACT 2008 software. 

System Administrator Training: ACT consultants can train your system administrator in best practices, and will focus on the most useful ACT features for your company. When your system administrator is trained, you will have your own in-house expert. 

On-Site Support: If you don't have an in-house IT department, ACT certified consultants can save you time and money by maintaining your system for you. Service techs can both install and maintain the software on your system. 

Customization: ACT consultants can upgrade your ACT software and customize your ACT 2008 to ensure that it provides the highest functionality for your specific business. For example, ACT consultants may be remote sales force automation experts and can integrate your software with handheld devices, providing remote access to your databases. 

Data Recovery: Although no business ever dreams that they'll need data recovery experts, if a worst-case scenario comes to pass, ACT certified consultants can work their magic, recover your data, and minimize your downtime.

There's no doubt that ACT 2008 provides more features and functionality than previous versions of the software. But in order to get the best return on your investment, it pays to turn to ACT certified consultants to guide you through your purchase, integration, customization, training, and - heaven forbid - data recovery. Experienced ACT consultants have extensive software knowledge and understand the needs of various industries so that they can provide you with the computer system that performs.


