Title: 
Alternatives To Television

Word Count:
302

Summary:
It is quite easy to spend several hours a day glued to the screen of a television set. It is estimated that on average an individual watches approximately two full months worth of television over the course of a year. Some suggest that this fascination with television has contributed immensely to the obesity problem in North America. Finding an alternative to watching hours of television a day may pose a difficult task for some people who simply cannot miss a particular show ...


Keywords:



Article Body:
It is quite easy to spend several hours a day glued to the screen of a television set. It is estimated that on average an individual watches approximately two full months worth of television over the course of a year. Some suggest that this fascination with television has contributed immensely to the obesity problem in North America. Finding an alternative to watching hours of television a day may pose a difficult task for some people who simply cannot miss a particular show that they watch on a regular basis. However, despite the temptation television creates, there are far more enjoyable activities one can participate in during those few hours regularly spent in front on the small screen.

Since television is a major contributor to weight problems, exercising seems like a logical thing to do as opposed to viewing hours of sitcoms. Not only is exercising an enjoyable way to kill a few hours it is also a great way to burn a few calories. Simply getting outside and going for a brisk walk not only helps one avoid the enticement that is television but also has a profusion of health benefits. Along with assisting one with weight loss, exercising can also increase the ability of the heart and lungs to function more efficiently and moreover help an individual feel better both inside and out.

Picking up a hobby is another excellent substitute for television. An individual can perhaps learn and develop a new skill, such as knitting or darts for example, or perhaps start a collection of something, which may even become a lifelong leisure pursuit for them. Reading is yet another fantastic option to aid with the evasion of television. Reading not only allows one to be imaginative but it also permits the expansion of the mind and promotes mental health.


