Title: 
Antivirus Software - Protecting Your Computer's Data

Word Count:
311

Summary:
When you buy a new computer you must protect your investment from malicious software programs such as viruses, worms, spyware, and trojans.  These programs can cause serious damage to your computer system by erasing data or providing your sensitive data to criminals.


Keywords:
best antivirus software, top antivirus software, antivirus software


Article Body:
When you buy a new computer you must protect your investment from malicious software programs such as viruses, worms, spyware, and trojans.  These programs can cause serious damage to your computer system by erasing data or providing your sensitive data to criminals. You can help protect your personal computer by installing antivirus software to remove and prevent nasty viruses and spyware.

There are various antivirus programs available on the market and while they all do the same job, there are several things to keep in mind when choosing a program.

First you will want to consider the ease of use of the software.  The average computer user is not tech savvy so you will want your antivirus software to be very user friendly.  Look for features such as easy configuration as well as scanning your system on demand.  The software should also automatically check for updates.

A good antivirus program will also be able to remove dangerous viruses, trojans, and worms and prevent new ones from infecting your computer.  If the program cannot completely remove these viruses, it should at the minimum be able to keep the virus from spreading.

It is also important to ask if the software is a system hog.  Many antivirus programs can use up a lot of your computer's resources slowing down your system.  This can cause problems if you plan on running your antivirus software in the background while you continue to work.  There are many good programs available that use resources more effectively.  They run unnoticed in the background while you continue to work normally.

Some antivirus programs do include spyware prevention but in order to be fully protected, you may opt for purchasing separate spyware software as well.  A separate spyware program can help ensure that your computer is safe from spyware issues that a combo program may not be equipped to catch.


