Title: 
Apple Makes Partnership with Intel

Word Count:
308

Summary:
For years Apple computers has been pushing their own processors and operating systems but it seems the tides are turning. Apple recently announced their new range of desktops and notebooks sporting dual core Intel processors.


Keywords:
Intel, AMD


Article Body:
For years Apple computers has been pushing their own processors and operating systems but it seems the tides are turning. Apple recently announced their new range of desktops and notebooks sporting dual core Intel processors.

This is an interesting move on both the part of Intel and Apple. Apple has “made a deal with the devil” so to speak by opting to use the Intel dual core processors. For years they have been fighting it but it seems they have finally given in.

What’s more interesting is the fact that Intel are putting their dual core processors into the macs. This is to me is a sign of desperation on Intel’s part. For years they have been dominating the processor market with little threat from the other major processor manufacturer AMD.  But recently, with their 64 bit dual core and server processors, AMD has been clawing back the market. With big players like DELL and HP starting to offer Opteron process made by AMD it’s no wonder Intel feels threatened.

The new Apple computers will even be able to run Windows operating systems which further monopolizes the market for Microsoft. The macs are using the Pentium D dual core processors which were released a while after AMD released their dual core range. This jump AMD has on Intel is proving costly for them in terms of processor sales.

Who knows what the future will bring for this new partnership. Apple supporting Intel processors would not have even crossed my mind a year ago but here we are. Although the Intel dual core processors are a lot cheaper than the AMD dual core offerings, AMD sales still seem to be soaring while Intel processor sales are on a steady decline. If Intel doesn’t step up the game soon they will be where AMD was 3 years ago.


