Title: 
Are You Ready To Buy A Home Theater Audio System?

Word Count:
599

Summary:
Are you ready to buy a home theater audio system? Here are several tips to help you find the right audio system for you.

1. Spend some quality time with the room you are going to put your new home theater audio system. Believe it or not but the room is as much a component in your home theater system as any of the electronics you will ever buy. Ask yourself which room you will be putting your new system in. Consider whether or not this room is going to be used solely for yo...


Keywords:
audio mp3 music video books ipod apple media broadband internet digital panasonic


Article Body:
Are you ready to buy a home theater audio system? Here are several tips to help you find the right audio system for you.

1. Spend some quality time with the room you are going to put your new home theater audio system. Believe it or not but the room is as much a component in your home theater system as any of the electronics you will ever buy. Ask yourself which room you will be putting your new system in. Consider whether or not this room is going to be used solely for you system or will it be used for other activities. Will there be any size considerations for the components and speakers you plan on using with the dimensions of the room?

Consider drawing a map of your room and sketch the possible placements of your furniture, components and speakers. Measure the room’s dimensions and write them down. Make a list of all the inputs you currently have and will continue to use. Make a list of the inputs you intend to add to your new audio system. You should write down which components are going to need cables and wires. Also, write down the approximate lengths of those cables and wires. Once all of this is worked out carry this information and map with you when you go out to buy your new audio system.

It is important to arrange your room for optimal picture and sound by reducing screen and hard surface reflections. Do not forget the TV picture is not very pretty when light is reflecting off the screen. Also, audio is not so wonderful when sound waves are reflecting off hard surfaces like bare walls and windows.

2. Decide on what you want to experience when you settle down on your couch with your partner and a big bowl of popcorn. Ruminate on the experience you want before you ruminate on your budget. Is it stereo, surround sound, or primarily movies?

3. Spend a few hours looking around on key sites and forums and you will know more than most. Friends, family, trade and consumer magazines and inquiring jaunts to your favorite electronic store will help you gain customer leverage. Do not buy anything at this point. Get as much information stuffed into your brain that will help you when the time comes for you to buy your system.

4. Revisit the drawing of your room and your research. You will ultimately end up with two, possibly three choices. By now you should be a confident consumer. Decide what you absolutely want.

5. There are values out there the trick is to be an expert on home theater audio systems. Keep your eyes open for great deals. Big electronic stores offer promotions, online manufacturers can offer radically lower markup than retailers and online auctions offer access to deals all over the world.

6. Don’t get stuck with a mismatched TV size for your room. The key here is balance. If the TV is too big then you tend to see the details of the screen, not the image. If the TV is too small you might feel like you’re sitting in the nosebleed section. Here is an equation to help you decide the best screen size for your room.

2.5 x The size of you TV screen = Suggested viewing distance

For example: If your TV is 36” then according to the equation you should sit about 90” from your TV (36 x 2.5 = 90). Note that this chart in only a reference.

Good luck finding the home theater audio system to fit your needs. Enjoy shopping and make the experience fun.


