Title: 
Bless Your Ears And Feed Your Brain. Sony Headphones.

Word Count:
789

Summary:
Looking to bless your ears and feed your brain the sonic genius your favorite musician's recording engineer intended?

If you're sitting, strolling, painting...even mowing the lawn...and you require an Accurate, Un-Tinged reproduction of music as it was recorded, engineered and intended, a set of Sony MDR-7506 headphones are a must. Chances are...the music that you're listening to may have been recorded and mixed using these headphones.

The MDR-7506 boasts a frequency ra...


Keywords:
sony headphones, music, ipod headphones


Article Body:
Looking to bless your ears and feed your brain the sonic genius your favorite musician's recording engineer intended?

If you're sitting, strolling, painting...even mowing the lawn...and you require an Accurate, Un-Tinged reproduction of music as it was recorded, engineered and intended, a set of Sony MDR-7506 headphones are a must. Chances are...the music that you're listening to may have been recorded and mixed using these headphones.

The MDR-7506 boasts a frequency range from 10Hz to 20kHz. In other words, very low frequencies -ie. thumping bass drums, bass guitar, synth sub-sounds, etc. to whispy cymbals, tse-tse high hats, Kate Bush's trills, even the phlegm in someone's throat upon taking another breath can be recognized. Maybe even a problem!

I've owned these headphones for 7 years. Need I say more? Let me say it again. I've owned these headphones for 7 years after having used many other makes and models. If these ever burn out, are crushed under a truck, are thrown off of a bridge or stolen, I wouldn't think twice about replacing them with the same.

Our daughter was born almost 5 years ago, we would rock her to sleep, and then I was a rockstar in my own mind, er ah, in my headphones with

electric guitars, sampling/ rhythm sequencer, accoustic drums (mic'd), synthesizer, recorder/mixer, and assorted sweetened sonic noise toys. I would rock myself to sleep as well without waking anyone up through the night. The next day I could "unveil" the previous night's workout via the room monitors. "AAAhhhh..excellent! Just as I intended!"

These phones have treated me well with clear clean reproduction of what I've put into them. I have also punished myself, rattled my brain as it were.. But was able to recover without medical attention.

The foam padded 'closed ear cups' essentially focus what you're listening to where you want it. Right between your eyes. Close your eyes. . .Yes there it is. I can see it! No! now it's over there. Fans of Pink Floyd, Flaming Lips, Beck, Bjork...JUST TO NAME A FEW! Put down your beer, dim the lights, close your eyes and your mind WILL ride the stereo wave. Undistorted, Un-Colored.

The closed cups also help to prevent ambient (room, yard, gym) sounds from entering your sound-(e)scape. These are not, by the way, considered "Noise Cancelling Headphones". But with the closed cups, and dynamic range...you won't really be paying much attention to anything else.
Another point about volume vs. sound quality and aural health:

With quality sound transducers that are capable of accurately reproducing the complete frequency range of the recording, you will find that you don't have to 'blast' yer phones in order to click your brain into the groove that you know or think ought to be there. Listening through headphones is not like being at a show where you can stand in front of the subs and feel every beat of a kick drum bounce the shirt on your chest.

Headphones are more of a sound quality experience. An.."oh! I've never heard that before..or that way before" kind of experience. Ahhhh! The clarity.

The MDR-7506 phones fold up into about a palm sized package and go neatly into a supplied pouch with drawstring. I wondered about this when I got them. "is this gadgety or what? why do I need to fold these up? How soon before something starts falling apart?" I repeat. I've had these for 6 years...a lot of use..and now have two kids who find and 'play' with them sometimes. I haven't had to address any of my previous doubts or cynicism re: integrity of design.

The cord is an 8'-10' recoil cord with 'UniMatch' plug. Which means it has a 1/8" stereo plug end (for your iPod or video camera) and or a 1/4" stereo plug that screws on over the 1/8" end so you can plug into your home stereo, or your mixing board, synthesizer, or your stereo delay and/or chorus effects pedal for your guitar! Mucho enjoyable!

Not really intended for physical activities. Have lost these off the top of my head from time to time during a few power-chord rock-a-billy rants. Use of a tight knit hat on top of everything helps to prevent this. Whether you're riding a train to work downtown, shoveling your driveway or programming the next hit sensation video game. Built to boom, bop and bash..!

MDR-7506 headphones with pouch -
-unbeatable@under $100.

ps
Don't even mess with those little phones with foamy ear thingys that sort of sit over you ears (if you really want to hear...well..anything).

Ear buds are good if you're jogging or playing tennis. They shouldn't fall out, and won't fall off your head at love 15.


