Title: 
Choose New or Used Xerox Parts and Get the Famous Xerox Reliability

Word Count:
297

Summary:
You have a Xerox because you want a reliable machine that minimizes downtime.  Choose Xerox parts for the same reason.


Keywords:
xerox parts, printers, printing equipment, xerox copiers, 


Article Body:
It’s difficult to imagine running your business without a copier, printer or all-in-one machine.   From self-employed individuals to the largest multi-national corporations, we all need to manage documents.  If your business only uses the most reliable equipment, then it probably has a machine from a trusted manufacturer, like Xerox.

But, even print and copy machines from Xerox occasionally require maintenance.  When they do, it is important that you or your service provider use genuine Xerox parts to keep your machine operating reliably at peak performance levels.

You purchased, rented or leased a Xerox because you knew it was the most reliable machine on the market.  Down time is costly, especially when it means you can’t move certain documents when you need to, so you chose a machine that would have the least down time.  

You choose Xerox parts for the same reason.  You might be able to find cheaper parts, but are they really cheaper?  Not using Xerox parts might save money in the short-term, but you run the risk of increased down time, which could easily cost much more than the price of a part.  

But, why are Xerox parts better?  It’s not enough to assume that parts made by a manufacturer are automatically better for their machines.  Xerox achieved its reputation mainly due to its innovations and strict adherence to superior design and manufacturing standards.  Xerox manufactures every replacement part to those same standards – generic parts manufacturers do not.  

Xerox knows that their equipment and parts are highly sought after.  To keep their good reputation, they developed strict standards for reconditioned Xerox equipment and parts.  The result, you can trust used parts and equipment that have been reconditioned to Xerox’s standards to give like-new performance for a fraction of the cost.


