Title: 
Computer Ergonomics:  When A Rose Isn’t A Rose

Word Count:
402

Summary:
Shakespeare wrote something about a rose smelling as sweet no matter what the lovely bloom was called. Such is not the case when it comes to computer ergonomics. In fact, in the 21st century, merely because a computer, computer workstation, chair or other product is said to be ergonomically designed does not, in fact, mean that such a designation is in fact true.

At the present time in most countries around the world there simply are no laws or regulations determining how ...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Shakespeare wrote something about a rose smelling as sweet no matter what the lovely bloom was called. Such is not the case when it comes to computer ergonomics. In fact, in the 21st century, merely because a computer, computer workstation, chair or other product is said to be ergonomically designed does not, in fact, mean that such a designation is in fact true.

At the present time in most countries around the world there simply are no laws or regulations determining how the term “ergonomic” can be applied. As a consequence, the term “ergonomic” is now used on innumerable products -- whether or not these products have been designed with ergonomic concepts in mind.

Most industry experts believe that the term ergonomic has been so overused and misused in recent years that it really is of no consequence when it comes to its application to the label on a particular product. In other words, merely because a product is labeled that it has been designed with ergonomic considerations and practices in mind does not mean that has in fact occurred.

In point of fact, in order for a product to truly be ergonomically designed, it is absolutely necessary that the product be submitted to extensive testing before it ever is introduced onto the market. Minute adjustments to a particular product can render it ergonomically appropriate -- or, conversely, a slight adjust can render an otherwise proper product to be ergonomically inappropriate.

In the final analysis, you must take the selection of computers, workstation, chairs and related equipment and products very seriously. The bottom line is that your future and your health absolutely depend upon the choices and decisions that you make in regard to these types of products and equipment items. You cannot make decisions regarding these types of products and equipment pieces lightly or easily. You must approach these types of purchases with absolutely seriousness.

As an aside, when you go about considering equipment and products that you hope are ergonomically designed, you would be well served obtaining independent evaluations of a particular product. There are a number of different organizations that provide unbiased information about a particular product or piece of equipment. Armed with this independent, unbiased information you will be in a far better position to determine how a particular product or piece of equipment will best meet your needs in a healthy fashion both now and well into the future


