Title: 
Compact Flash Readers: Considerations Before Purchasing

Word Count:
305

Summary:
You may be on the market for a compact flash reader as you are a digital image editing enthusiast, a skilled photographer, or simply are looking for an alternative to slower models of media storage.


Keywords:
compact flash readers,cheap laptop memory,cheap sd memory cards,canon memory cards,1 gb flash drives


Article Body:
You may be on the market for a compact flash reader because you are a digital image editing enthusiast, a qualified professional photographer, or simply are looking for an another avenue to slower models of media storage.

Compact flash with out a doubt fits the bill with a large amount of of your high end media needs. But here are a few considerations before you go out and acquire a compact flash reader. You want make sure you have a clear idea of what you are looking for instead of saying "As much as possible".

For example, does the reader work with all standards of compact flash or just for a few? You should anticipate whether or not you may be using a flash media convention now or in the future that may not be compatible with a flash reader you are looking at.

If you do not care too much about that, then just get a compact flash reader that works with the format you use the most for example some may work with SmartMedia flash, while others could read Microdrive flash standards, but not both. And ignore the additional features.

If you are looking at an USB 2 reader, it should be reverse or backwards compatible with the 1.1 ports in both directions. The reader needs to quickly detect whether the card is an USB 2 or USB 1.1 port either by reviewing the built-in software in the card, or by reviewing the quantity of pins on the card.

Simple as 1, 2, 3. Make sure you get faster speeds, i.e. USB 2, with fast read and write speeds if you use larger more bandwidth heavy media such as high resolution film and photography. A good flash reader will last you at the very least a few years depending on your needs and your ability to keep up your reader.


