Title: 
Discount Toner Cartridges:Low Prices, High Quality

Word Count:
468

Summary:
Cheap Toner doesn't mean cheap quality. You can cut your printer budget in half without sacrificing quality or quantity of print.


Keywords:
cheap toner


Article Body:
Just because someone says cheap toner, that does not mean cheap quality. In fact, you can get toner at a much cheaper price without sacrificing the quality and quantity of print you've become accustomed to... It's not that hard.

Did you know most people pay seven times as much for their laser toner cartridges as they do for their laser printer? If you purchase name brand toner cartridges to replace your original toner cartridge, I'm talking about you. Either you do not know about discount toner cartridges ore you don't understand exactly how they can help you reduce your printing cost.

A discount toner cartridge is a cheap toner cartridge. Sometimes it's called a compatible toner cartridge. Whatever the case, they are cheap to buy, but they produce both quality and quantity of print pages.
A discount toner cartridge is made from all new parts. It is made to the very same specification for your laser printer. These toner cartridges are as good or better than your original cartridge. They will have the best warranty in the printer industry.

Many people think a cheap discount toner cartridge will void their printer warranty. It won't. Besides, it is against the law.

Others think a cheap toner cartridge will somehow damage their printer. In reality, there is very little a toner cartridge can do to damage your printer. Although it is very unlikely, a toner cartridge could leak. If so, simply clean the printer and replace the cartridge... By the way, a discount toner cartridge is normally guaranteed for at least one year. If you had a problem, which isn't likely, you would get a replacement toner cartridge at no cost to you.

Some printer owners feel the quality of print won't be as good. I've never had the problem in over fifteen years. The quality and quantity has been exceptional.

Still others feel that a cheap toner cartridge won't print as many pages. My experience has been the opposite. I've actually been able to print more pages per cartridge using discount toner cartridges than I could print with my original toner cartridge. (See the home page for details.)

Honestly, I was hesitant to buy a discount toner cartridge. I though it would be a lot of hassles. My experience is that reputable discount toner companies provide high quality printing. I have never sacrificed quality or quantity.

However, you need to learn for yourself. It only takes five minutes. Check out several reliable online printer companies. There are many listed on this site. Be sure to include the companies our Editors feel are the best suppliers of discount toner cartridges. 
Once you visit a few sites, compare a few prices, check the product warranty and money back guarantee, you’ll quickly learn that cheap toner doesn’t mean cheap quality.


