Title: 
Download free ipod music-the legal way

Word Count:
496

Summary:
A lot of people know where they can download free Ipod music, but the problem is that it is not legal.


Keywords:
free ipod downloads


Article Body:
A lot of people know where they can download free Ipod music, but the problem is that it is not legal. The world governments are becoming ever more efficient with tracing illegal downloads, so to avoid potentially serious consequences you will need to find out how to download free ipod music-the legal way!

Download Free Ipod Legal Music-Tip 1-
Use a download site that is genuine. Don't use a P2P site which is full of popups etc, Use a reliable site that gives you unlimited downloads at high speed. It is not easy to find a genuine site like this, so if you do come across one, make sure you stick with it! Later on in this article I will give you some help with finding reputable sites..

Download Free Ipod Legal Music Tip 2-
Never get sucked in by hype. Whenever a site seems too good to be true, you can be sure that it is too good to be true. You will find a lot of P2P sites which claim to offer a lot of “free” downloads, but when you actually go to download something, the site will be very slow, and the chances are the download won't be what you wanted. P2P sites are used by a lot of computer hackers who try and spread viruses. What they do is upload any  file, put the spyware or virus in it, and pretend that it is something in high demand, so that people download it. On top of this, some of them will still ask you to pay for a download, despite claiming that they were supposed to be free!

Download Free Ipod Legal Music Tip 3-
Never do anything illegal. It is getting easier all the time for law enforcement officers to trace exactly what people are downloading. Everybody likes to receive stuff for free, but you have to consider what is worth risking, just to get the last episode of the OC?

The good news is that we are starting to see sites appear which give you a fast, safe way to download a lot of films and videos, directly to your computer, so that you can transfer them to your Ipod.

The only small downside is that you will probably need to pay a small administration fee to access a site like this. It is only a small downside, as I think $20 to $50 is a reasonable amount to pay for unlimited downloads for the rest of your life. They need to charge this as it goes toward the upkeep of their servers, and this allows them to offer this range of high speed downloads in the first place.

I mentioned that I have done some research for you, and I've sourced a few of these amazing sites for you. You can see how to get to them from the blue links below. Pretty soon you'll realise that downloading free Ipod legal music is a lot easier than you might have thought!


