Title: 
Download free Ipod song

Word Count:
629

Summary:
Download free Ipod song. This is more involved than you may think! It is not hard to download stuff onto your Ipod.


Keywords:
free ipod downloads, download free ipod songs


Article Body:
Download free Ipod song. This is more involved than you may think! It is not hard to download stuff onto your Ipod. A simple search engine search will bring up a lot of free sites, but did you find doing so may brick your Ipod or land you in jail? In this article there is a list of tips to assist you in downloading free Ipod songs safely and legally!

Situation 1-
A lot of the free download sites can be very unsafe when it comes to  security. I'm sure you would not want to see your beloved Imac or Apple Macbook ruined by a virus, or have to put up with your Ipod becoming a non functioning brick? With your keenness to find free music downloads, it is easy to become over enthusiastic, which plays right into the hands of these unscrupulous sites. Their downloads are often corrupted with spyware and adware, or often something even worse! You will also often download something from one of these sites and then find that it in no way matches what it was supposed to be. The site is only interested in getting access to your computer, and they probably achieved this with your download. You would be well advised to check your computer if you have ever downloaded from these kind of sites!

Situation 2-
It’s against the law! If you look at these download sites, they don't look legitimate, and they try to offload spyware and malware onto peoples computers. Would legal and ethical sites behave like this? It has to be stated quite categorically that downloading from P2P sites is illegal. Period. The US government is making the law on this tighter on an ongoing basis, and people are going to prison for these offences! You have to decide whether it is worth risking being sent to jail just for downloading a free song or free film. 

Situation 3-
It is probably really easy to set up an illegal P2P download site. I say this because you certainly see enough of them. One of the biggest pitfalls with wanting to download a free Ipod song, is that it is not that easy to find the legitimate sites. None of the illegal sites are going to have that fact plastered all over their website. As their main source of revenue is people clicking ads, they try to attract as many visitors to the site as they can..

Don't let all of this put you off if you really want to download a free Ipod song, as it can be done safely.We are now seeing the emergence of a few legal download sites, which proves that Itunes does not have a monopoly. These are very useful sites. When you find one you like you can probably use it for life. I’ll show you where you can find the best ones in a second. There is one small downside, in that these sites have to charge a small membership fee. The proceeds from this go toward upkeep of their servers, and also help pay the music licenses etc. It’s usually around $20 to $50, and once you are a paid up member, you have unlimited access to high speed downloads. These include music, films, games, music videos and even TV shows. It is impressive value for the price, and there is no limit as it is a lifetime membership, so your $20 will get you thousands of downloads. Much cheaper than Itunes.



This article will have illustrated how dangerous it is to patronise the shady free download sites which are all too common on the internet. There is a better way to download free Ipod song! As I mentioned earlier, check out some links to the best free download sites below.


