Title: 
Download MP4 For Iphone

Word Count:
445

Summary:
If you're lucky enough to be one of the early Iphone owners, there's a good chance that you'll want to download some movies for it, which come in MP4 format.


Keywords:
iphone mp4, mp4 for iphone


Article Body:
If you're lucky enough to be one of the early Iphone owners, there's a good chance that you'll want to download some movies for it, which come in MP4 format. If that's the case there are a few things you will need-a computer, internet access, and obviously your Iphone. Check out the rest of this article to find out how to go about the rest.

In order to make sure you don't spend 3 months downloading each movie, there are a few prerequisites-firstly, you'll need a fairly modern computer-it doesn't have to be some big gaming powerhouse, but as long as it's not more than say 5 years old, and of course you will need the fastest internet connection you can find. It is possible to download the MP4s using dial up, but it will literally take you weeks. 

It's also worth noting that at this point there is no way to download stuff like this directly to the Iphone, so you will need to make sure you have the required space free on your computer, so you can save it there and transfer it to the Iphone.

The other essential you are going to need to have to download the MP4s for the Iphone is somewhere to download them from. This sounds obvious, but is often the hardest piece of the puzzle to crack.

You'll find the MP4 download sites on the net fall into 2 distinct categories- Sites that are unregulated and dangerous, letting people upload whatever they want with no regulation, so you have some losers there uploading viruses and stuff, and the other category which is just normal websites trying to make a living.

Traditionally, people get their downloads from torrent sites, but they fit directly into the first category. People have no idea how dangerous it can be to use those kinds of sites-not only because of the dangerous software, but because they are in fact illegal. People go to jail for this.

The newer and probably the safer kind of site are the ones that have started to appear over the last few months-they offer generally a wider selection of downloads than the torrent sites, and they are certainly safer for your computer. The way it works is that you would pay them a one off admin fee to secure your membership, and in return they would grant you unlimited access to their download library. The membership will usually last for lifetime, which will literally give you thousands and thousands of downloads for the price of that one off fee.

Hopefully you have found this article useful and will now be able to safely download MP4s for your Iphone.


