Title: 
Download Games Onto Iphone

Word Count:
537

Summary:
Most Iphone owners have no idea that they have 2 options if they want to use their Iphone to play games.


Keywords:
download iphone games, iphone movies, iphone music


Article Body:
Most Iphone owners have no idea that they have 2 options if they want to use their Iphone to play games. The first option is to use the inbuilt web browser to play some internet based java games. These can be great fun and get ever more advanced as technology and programming techniques advance. The other option is to actually download games onto the Iphone itself. We're going to explore both within this article.

Playing java games using the browser can really be a lot of fun, and is pretty convenient too, as there is no download needed or anything, so it's usually a case of just accessing the right web-page and going from there. On the downside though, you can only play such games if you are in an appropriate service area for your Iphone. If the phone can't get the internet signal at the quality it needs, the java games will be innaccessible. This is pretty frustrating, especially if you are on the move or your connection just disappears for no reasons, as sometimes happens with cellphones.

The other option, downloading the games themselves, is a little more complicated. It's not currently possible to download anything directly onto the Iphone using its own internet connection, so you will need to use a computer and an internet connection to download and then transfer the files to the Iphone.

The toughest thing about downloading the games like this is knowing where to get them from. There are thousands of sites all over the net claiming to offer free Iphone downloads of this or that, but if you've spent any time already looking you'll know that most of these sites are nowhere near as good as they first seem. Many people get their downloads from online file sharing sites, the kind which are sometimes in the news for copyright infringements, and these sites are illegal to use. If you download stuff from these guys you are breaking the law, and it's getting easier and easier for the law to see who is downloading what.

On the other hand, they aren't only illegal, they can be very damaging to your computer-most sites like this have no government over who uploads what, so you can find yourself downloading the latest game only to find that it's really the latest virus and your computer has just turned into an $800 hunk of irrepairable junk.

Thankfully, during the personal electronics boom of the last couple of years, a few sites have emerged which can offer you unlimited downloads of pretty much anything you may want, and for a pretty good price too.

Many of these sites offer you a membership for around the $30 to $50 mark, which seems steep, but when you take into account it provides you with unlimited downloads, in most cases for life, it soon looks like more of a bargain.

Also, sites like this are a whole lot safer than the file sharing sites many people use, as they use the administration fees to regulate what they have uploaded etc, so sites like this are definitely preferable.

Hopefully this article has shown you a little about downloading games for your Iphone, and you can now get games safely for your Iphone.


