Title: 
Download Free Iphone Movies

Word Count:
419

Summary:
If you are among the thousands of people looking to download free Iphone movies, hopefully this article will be of some use to you.


Keywords:
iphone movies, iphone download, iphone music


Article Body:
If you are among the thousands of people looking to download free Iphone movies, hopefully this article will be of some use to you. The Iphone's popularity already seems set to eclipse that of the Ipod. Apple cemented their place in history with the Ipod, and by all indications look like they will be even more popular due to their latest breakthrough, the Iphone.

For reasons as yet unknown, it's not currently possible to download movies or anything else directly onto the Iphone itself, instead, you will first need to download them to a computer and then transfer them across. This means you will of course need to have the use of a computer, and also an internet connection. Any fairly modern computer should be fine, and as far as the internet connections goes, the usual rule still applies – the faster the better!

The toughest thing about downloading Iphone movies is knowing where to get them from. True, you could get them from Itunes, and Apple are rumoured to be working on a native version of Itunes which will work on the Iphone itself and allow download of media while on the move. This will be pretty cool, but just like regular Itunes will probably cost you a fortune.

To combat this cost issue, many people currently use the file sharing or bit torrent sites to get their downloads from. This can seem good, as it's very cost effective, but unfortunately you are breaking the law when you use these sites. That's not even the worst part, torrent sites like this have no way of monitoring who uploads what, which makes them a real hacker's playground. This is bad news as it means that sites like this are often the first places to begin the spread of new viruses and malware etc – the hackers simply upload their latest virus and name it as something currently popular. The downloader has no way of knowing what they are getting until it's too late.

Not all sites are like this though, over the last year or so a far more healthy alternative has made itself known. There are now a few sites around where you can join their membership for a small fee and then get unlimited access to their downloads. These sites prove far safer and offer excellent value, and would definitely be recommended for their high speed and wide range.

This article should help you stay a little safer when looking for movie downloads for your new Iphone. Happy downloading!


