Title: 
Epson Printer- A Must Have Accessory

Word Count:
592

Summary:
Okay, you have purchased your new computer, and maybe some office furniture, now it is time to buy the PC accessories you need. One basic computer accessory that almost everyone will need at some point is a good printer. Epson printers offer good quality and a wide range to choose from.

Epson printers come as inkjet printers, photo printers, laser printers, point of sale printers, and all in one printers. Ink jet printers are probably the most widely purchased for home use...


Keywords:
epson printer


Article Body:
Okay, you have purchased your new computer, and maybe some office furniture, now it is time to buy the PC accessories you need. One basic computer accessory that almost everyone will need at some point is a good printer. Epson printers offer good quality and a wide range to choose from.

Epson printers come as inkjet printers, photo printers, laser printers, point of sale printers, and all in one printers. Ink jet printers are probably the most widely purchased for home use. Epson printers range in price from $59.99 to $850.00. Prices vary depending upon printing speed, photo capability, ink types, and dpi. For basic home use, the Epson Stylus c68 printer should cover all of your basic needs, and is priced at $59.99 on the Epson website. This Epson printer prints well on paper and photo paper, and has its own individual ink cartridges, which can be a plus budget wise. In standard black text, it prints at speeds up to 17ppm.

If your Epson printer will primarily be used for photos, you may want to consider some of the more expensive models, depending on the quality pictures you want. Some of the higher end Epson printers can actually use archival ink, which is guaranteed to last for a long time, usually even longer than your regular prints from the photo lab. Many of these printers also print on ink jet CD’s and DVD’s, giving you more options to store your memories.

Epson also features a photo printer called PictureMate, which gives you prints that are comparable or better than your local photo lab prints. The pictures on this printer are said to last up to four times longer, and are stated to be water and smudge proof. On average, your prints will cost you around twenty nine cents each with this printer. If you are a serious photo person, this printer would probably work well for you, assuming it fits into your budget.

Laser printers from Epson range in price from $600-$700, and are Ethernet compatible. If you are running a business, and need a lot of basic black and white documents, a laser printer is probably the best, most cost effective option for you. Laser printers also tend to be much faster than ink jet printers, because they focus more on speed and quantity than quality. Some Epson laser printers also have built in fax machines, letting them serve as two pieces of office equipment in one unit.

Point of sale printers are widely used in large business and retail stores, and Epson is a common preferred brand name.

Many people like the Epson line of all in one printers, as they can do many tasks without having to buy different equipment for each task. These all in one printers are priced from $89 on the low end, to $400 for top of the line. Many of these Epson printers are able to print straight from the memory card of your digital camera, making it much easier to get the prints you need. Some offer both black and white and color copying capabilities. Other models also come equipped to send and receive faxes as well.

Basically, when you are ready to buy your Epson printer, you should think about what its’ primary function will be, and buy the printer that is best suited for that task and meets your budget. Epson printers come with good warranties, and Epson offers great tech support and customer service, which is always good, especially if you are going to be purchasing one of the more expensive models.


