Title: 
Getting A Rack Mount Computer

Word Count:
289

Summary:
Who says that only professionals need rack mount computers? This is a very erroneous assumption that many people have about rack mount computers.

Anyone, including you who are confronted with the problem of how best to handle your computer, surely needs a rack mounted computer. One of the biggest mistakes people make is that they think they are far better off not buying one.

The argument that only professionals need rack mounted computers certainly springs from the cost...


Keywords:
rack mount,rack mount computer,rack mount server,lcd monitors,rack,computers


Article Body:
Who says that only professionals need rack mount computers? This is a very erroneous assumption that many people have about rack mount computers.

Anyone, including you who are confronted with the problem of how best to handle your computer, surely needs a rack mounted computer. One of the biggest mistakes people make is that they think they are far better off not buying one.

The argument that only professionals need rack mounted computers certainly springs from the cost of acquiring one. But what should be clear is that if you can afford it, why not go for it instead of the normal computer. A smart person would take a rack mount computer over a regular computer any day of the week.

You need a rack space for your computer. In other words, you need a rack mounted computer to ease your work with the computer, even if you are not a professional.

Before going into details on why you need a rack mounted computer, it is necessary to familiarize ourselves with what a rack mounted computer really is. 

Many people are not very clear on exactly what it is.

A rack mounted computer is simply computer that is mounted on a metal frame (other wise called a rack). 

To prevent use of inferior computer racks, the Electronics Industries Association (EIA) has provided standards for computer racks. This standard helps to ensure that you only get to use the best computer racks for your computer. 

Note that there is a big difference between a computer rack and a computer cabinet. The computer rack is the frame used for mounting the computer, while the computer cabinet is fitted with doors and usually side panels- and used to put in the computer.


