Title: 
Going Digital On Color Printing

Word Count:
394

Summary:
Digital color printing is an added value to all printing companies to their print offering, and widens their reach into profitable new markets.


Keywords:
color, printing, services, digital


Article Body:
If you are one of the many people who are looking for the best and new way of color print, look into digital color printing. Digital color printing offers the cleanest, best looking print. Nowadays, most commercial printing companies offer digital color printing. 

Digital color printing is clearly an added value to all printing companies to their print offering, and widens their reach into profitable new markets. Using digital color printing, you may be able to switch jobs very quickly, even without the stopping of your process, or maximizing your process. 

Because it is digital the variable data printing feature is particularly useful. You may be able to make changes and if for instance in the text, image, or date on a label by label basis. This feature is used for specially numbered, coded or personalized labels at full press production speed.

Full color printing is another area where digital printing offers a big advantage to flexo. (Flexo is Flexographic printing that was introduced to the printing industry during the 1980s.) The process for color printing is so much more complex with flexo due to its technical limitations. Multi-layered prints, for example, are extremely difficult to realize in flexo. With digital color printing, color labels are no longer a time and labor-consuming job.

Base from the testimony of digital color printing clients, they are pleased with the high quality of the printed label, the flexibility in designs and the virtually limitless finishing possibilities. So they keep on returning to the printing company with digital color printing services offer.

If you have this service in your printing company, perhaps your company will likely have a stronger selling position than other printing agencies. You can even always say ‘yes’ to your clients to all their designs, regardless of their complexity, because there are no limits anymore. No matter what your printing needs, somehow, digital color printing can be able to meet them.

The advantages of digital color printing are many and important. For instance, customized designs and printing arrangements are easily programmed, and as I’ve said earlier you can also make changes in your design with no hassle. Your project can be produced on a mass scale, even for coding and marking. Excellent workflow efficiency is another notable characteristic of digital systems. Businesses can have output on demand and great inventory control with digital technology.


