Title: 
Guide to Buying a PDA

Word Count:
441

Summary:
If you are considering buying your first PDA there are some important options you need to look at. This article will give you some guidelines.


Keywords:
PDA


Article Body:
Are you considering the purchase of your very first PDA? If so, what should you look for?  How much should you spend? What features should you get?

Before making the final decision to purchase a PDA, have you thoroughly researched what they can do, and if you really need one or are you just intrigued by having a new gadget like your friends?  Let's start with this question. One of the first and still major uses for a PDA is an appointment book or calendar. If you are currently using an appointment book like a Franklin Planner, the PDA can certainly replace this. One advantage of a PDA over an appointment book is that changes don't require constant erasing and re-writing. A PDA is usually backed up on your PC, so there is always a back-up.

A new PDA does not have to be purchased every year like a Franklin Planner, so in the long run it will be cheaper. This plus the previous mentioned advantages may be enough to make the switch. Of course there are many other features and uses for a PDA besides an appointment book, among which are:

Address book
Calculator
Internet Access
Notes and document management
Games
GPS

Given that you are ready to go forward with the purchase, your choice of a PDA model will depend on what you need it for-what you want it to do. Following are some of the important considerations:

Memory - If you plan to use your PDA for storing large documents and other reference works, then you'll need the corresponding amount of memory. Also check to see if the memory can be expanded. You'll need to consider the other software that you might want to run on your PDA. 

Size - All the features do you no good if you don't bother to bring the PDA with you due to its bulky size.

Input Options - If you plan on using the PDA to take notes with, a compact external keyboard is essential.  The built in stylus input is designed for small amounts of data only.

Battery Life - Again, dictated by your specific needs.

Finding the best place to purchase your PDA can be done easily with online shopping portals. Ebay of course always has offers. One thing to consider for a PDA is a buyers protection plan that is offered by many local retailers. Normally these end up costing more than they are worth, but just one drop of your PDA onto a hard surface can destroy it. If you are buying a high end PDA and will be running around with it daily, a buyers protection plan may be worthwhile.


