Title: 
Have You Seen LCD Projection TV?

Word Count:
392

Summary:
Have you seen LCD projection TV? No, really. I don’t just mean a picture online or in an advertisement on a normal tube television, but have you actually seen projection TV? It really is completely different that what even the hardest of hardcore couch potatoes have ever witnessed. It is impossible to properly describe the effect of LCD projection TV, but roughly it is to normal TV what the CD is to the cassette tape. Leagues of difference, I say. It is the bee’s knees, the c...


Keywords:
lcd tv, lcd, television, lcd television, plasma vs. lcd, liquid crystal display television


Article Body:
Have you seen LCD projection TV? No, really. I don’t just mean a picture online or in an advertisement on a normal tube television, but have you actually seen projection TV? It really is completely different that what even the hardest of hardcore couch potatoes have ever witnessed. It is impossible to properly describe the effect of LCD projection TV, but roughly it is to normal TV what the CD is to the cassette tape. Leagues of difference, I say. It is the bee’s knees, the cream in your coffee, the sprinkles on your donut, the…aw, enough. Let’s cut to the chase.

Big yet sleek and impressive without ostentatiousness, Toshiba has a pair of outstanding 42” LCD projection TV sets to draw the consumer’s eye. The featured Toshiba LCD TV, the 42” LCD projection TV, is but one representative of the “Diagonal Cinema Series” bunch. Just under thirty-five hundred dollars (see Toshiba.com for ordering information), this 42” LCD TV comes replete with Toshiba’s “adaptive LCD projection TV technology,” which makes feasible the addition of innumerable extensions to this LCD projection TV, thereby allowing all your favorite doodads all the benefits of it, up to and including Dolby-based sound systems. 

Speaking of sound systems, have you heard the Sony projection TV line? No, I mean have you really heard of it? Well, it’s Sony and that right there says a lot. Audio has been at the heart of Sony business since time immemorial (okay, the 1950s to be precise), thereby levering projection TV sets against the competition as in other audiovisual fields. 

Sony product information promises that their products will be at center of a complete audio “suite.” Stuff like Focus technology, TruBass and SRS 3-D dot the T’s and cross the I’s of the projection TV experience. It is said that good sound can save an average movie, but poor sound can ruin a great movie. If one of the prime selling points of LCD projection TV in general is the technology’s presentation of movies, Sony LCD projection TV should be a must on any serious TV shopper’s priority list. See Sonystyle.com for the entire LCD TV line, not to mention a tantalizing description of SRS WOW technology; you can rest well assured that this will warm the movie goer’s cockles.


