Title: 
Headset - No Longer Wired For Sound

Word Count:
439

Summary:
Plantronics with its GN Netcom wireless headset creates the next generation of wireless headset and other products such as wireless amplifiers, and wireless headset telephone.

You can get a wireless headset that is completely without wires or one that requires a belt pack. The ones that are completely wire free are made up of a headset worn on your head that talks to a base unit that is attached to your telephone with no wire connections between your headset and your phone...


Keywords:
wireless headsets, headphones, wireless headphones


Article Body:
Plantronics with its GN Netcom wireless headset creates the next generation of wireless headset and other products such as wireless amplifiers, and wireless headset telephone.

You can get a wireless headset that is completely without wires or one that requires a belt pack. The ones that are completely wire free are made up of a headset worn on your head that talks to a base unit that is attached to your telephone with no wire connections between your headset and your phone. These wireless headset products represent the latest in sophisticated technology for communication or listening. Examples of wireless headset models are the  Plantronics CS50, Plantronics CS55, the Plantronics 510S and the GN Netcom 9120.

Now everything you need to make your truly wireless headset a terrific piece of equipment is all combined in one package. This package is called the GN 9120. Completely wireless, this headset package gives you a range of up to 300 feet. It has a frequency of 2.4 GHz to deliver that much range. You can also purchase a lower priced GN9120 LR for a more limited but still quality wireless headset.

The Plantronics CT12 2.4GHz wireless headset is an example of a Plantronics products that offers a great combination of size, convenience and mobility with its hands-free concept.

Completely cordless, the The Plantronics CT12 is a one-line 2.4 GHz telephone system. Its ultra compact remote dialer unit makes it possible for you to make or receive calls more than one hundred feet from the wireless headset base unit with great digital sound and security.

This wireless headset telephone has a display for your caller ID, a speed dial feature as well as redial capability, a mute button and volume control.

Standard with your order of the Plantronics CT12 wireless headset phone is a two in one headset that is convertible so you can use it over the head for stability or over the ear for convenience. It has a microphone that is especially designed to cancel out background noises as well as top notch clarity of sound.

Firefly is part of this wireless headset phone package as well, so those who try to reach you will be able to tell you are on the phone.

Other wireless headset features of the Plantronics CT12 are a headset stand that is built into the base, a charger on the base, a remote pad for dialing with a battery pack that is rechargeable.

One thing that is important to note with this model of wireless headset phone is that it could interfere with a WiFi computer network, and if so you might prefer the CT10 model or the GN Netcom 7170 instead.


