Title: 
How To Put Music To Ipod

Word Count:
427

Summary:
Earlier the making of big banners required professional help. But now it is possible for anyone to create a beautiful banner.


Keywords:
download music to ipod


Article Body:
It is very easy to learn how to transfer music to your Ipod, and in this article I am going to show you exactly how to do it. Fasten your belts, because this is not going to take long!

If you want to transfer music to your iPod, you will first of all have to work out where the music is going to come from. Most of it will come from two places, CDs, and the internet, from downloads etc. The first step is to find out how to get music from your CD collection transferred to your Ipod.

Step 1-
Make sure your computer is connected to the internet, and then get hold of a copy of Itunes from the Apple website. You may already have Itunes on your computer, if you have, make sure it is the most recent version. The more recent versions operate quicker.

Step 2-Take the CDs that you want on your Ipod, and grab them into Itunes. This is a very simple process, so I won't go into it in detail here..

Step 3-
Use your USB cable to connect your Ipod to your computer. When you have done this, you will need to make sure that the two machines have recognised each other. When you are all set up, you can use the mouse to drag and drop the tracks you want from Itunes to your Ipod.

That really is how easy it is to transfer music from your CD collection to your Ipod. All you have to do now is listen!

The most difficult part of finding and downloading music frm the internet is actually finding a genuine website to obtain the downloads from. Once you have found a good, reputable site, the rest of the job is easy, because you can just transfer the music onto your Ipod as you did with the CD music. The genuine download sites will usually make you pay a one time membership fee, but for this one time charge, you will get lifetime access to unlimited downloads., The really good sites have very large libraries, so this will allow you to grow your music collection very cheaply. Also, these sites have downloads for other types of entertainment such as movies and Tv shows etc.

You have now just learned how to transfer music to your Ipod. I said it would be quick. You probably know other people who own Ipods? Why not pass this article on to them and help them out by clicking on the link on the top right of the page.


