Title: 
How to convert AVI to WMW?

Word Count:
390

Summary:
With so many different video files available today, there is going to be an instance when you need to convert one format to another in order to enjoy the presentation.


Keywords:
Convert AVI To WM


Article Body:
With so many different video files available today, there is going to be an instance when you need to convert one format to another in order to enjoy the presentation. AVI has been around for some time, while WMW is newer and not as well known. Here is some information you need to know.

What is AVI and WMW?

Both AVI and WMW are Microsoft formats. They are used to save audio and video clips into a specified format that can be shared and played. AVI is a format that will work on the Windows Media Player and many of the more popular plug-in media players on the market today. 

By contrast, WMW is not used as often and tends to work only on newer versions of the Windows Media Player. This means someone who is using a multimedia player that does not support WMW or has an older version of WMP will not be able to make use of a WMW file. 

Why Would I Want To Convert an AVI file to WMW?

The main reason may be that your player seems to like a WMW file better than other formats. Perhaps you just prefer to keep all your video clips in one format, and WMW is your format of choice.  However, unless there are some sort of technological restraints, there is really no value to using one format over the other, in terms of quality.

How Do I Go About Converting a File From AVI To WMW?

The easiest method for the novice is to purchase conversion software that will convert one multimedia format into a different one. As with all software, make sure that the product is compatible with the resources on your hard drive, and the operating system you use.  Also double check to make sure your media player will support viewing of a WMW file before you do anything else.   

Does Conversion Software Cost A Lot?

Actually, no. In fact, a quick look around the Internet may provide you with some basic downloadable software that will convert one media format to a different one. Make sure that the software will manage the conversion you have in mind before downloading. If you can't find free software that will convert AVI to WMW, then a trip to the local computer store will provide you with several options.


