Title: 
How To Put Music Onto Your Iphone

Word Count:
421

Summary:
If you're lucky enough to own an Iphone, it's just about guaranteed that one of the first things you will want to know once you got it is how to put some music on it.


Keywords:
iphone music, iphone movies, iphone downloads


Article Body:
If you're lucky enough to own an Iphone, it's just about guaranteed that one of the first things you will want to know once you got it is how to put some music on it. It's a valid question, as what could be cooler than having all your music and movies in one place, not to mention an internet connection. Check out the rest of this article to find out exactly how to get the music onto the Iphone

It's generally taken as a given that with any Apple portable entertainment system, there are two ways to get music onto it-the first being from your existing CDs or MP3s, and the second being to download them from the internet. It's a little easier to get the music from CDs at this point, as it doesn't require any kind of internet connection etc.

All you need to do is obtain some “ripping” software to take the music from the CD and store it onto your computer (you can get free ripping software quite easily, just Google it). It's a simple process, and once done, Itunes will happily transfer the music onto the Iphone. It's not a tough process, and it's pretty fast too as modern rippers are much faster than old ones.

Obtaining music from the internet is a little trickier, but it's still pretty simple. The most obvious way, and the way used by most people is to simply connect their computer to the internet and use the Itunes software to purchase and download whatever music takes their fancy. It's then possible to “sync” the software with your Iphone or Ipod, and it will be updated with whatever new downloads have arrived. This is pretty much the given way of doing things, and while efficient it can be expensive.

An altogether more cost effective idea is to try one of the newer download sites that are emerging. It seems that Apple no longer hold the monopoly on such things, as there are numerous sites emerging which offer you lifetime music downloads after a one off flat fee, of usually something like $50. It doesn't take a genius to work out where the best value is!

You should now have a much greater knowledge of how to put music on your Iphone. There are a few different options to you, and like most things in life, each method will suit different people. The best thing to do is make up your own mind about which method feels best to you. Good luck!


