Title: 
How To Choose Voice Recognition Software?

Word Count:
506

Summary:
Voice recognition software allows the user to use their voice as an input device so they can dictate text directly into the computer as well as give the computer commands such as open, save or close. Current software has come a long way from the first voice recognition software that was available.

The older software used discrete speech which meant distinct pauses had to occur between words. Current software uses continuous speech voice recognition and is capable of recogn...


Keywords:
voice recognition software


Article Body:
Voice recognition software allows the user to use their voice as an input device so they can dictate text directly into the computer as well as give the computer commands such as open, save or close. Current software has come a long way from the first voice recognition software that was available.

The older software used discrete speech which meant distinct pauses had to occur between words. Current software uses continuous speech voice recognition and is capable of recognizing speech up to 160 wpm. It uses what is called a neutral net to learn to recognize voices. Accuracy has improved a great deal in the past few years.

When shopping for voice recognition software be sure to have the answers to these questions:

1. What operating system is the software compatible with?
2. What amount of memory is required?
3. What speed of processor is required?
4. What type of learning curve does the software have?
5. Will it work with existing word processing software?
6. Does it come with a microphone?
7. How fast is it?
8. Will you need a USB microphone?
9. Is it macro capable?

There is quite a variety of Voice Recognition Software packages currently on the market. Here are just a few to check out.

1. Conversa Messenger – A desktop messaging system for small businesses that allows you to access your voicemail, e-mail, and faxes by voice. It’s easy to use and has continuous speech recognition.

2. Dragon Naturally Speaking Essentials – For ages 9 and up; it provides an introduction to continuous speech recognition with a vocabulary of more than 250,000 terms and 160,000 active words.

3. Dragon Naturally Speaking Professional – Allows you to dictate up to 160 words per minute, launch applications, complete forms, and do other complex tasks. Dragon also has specialty programs such as Medical Suite and Legal Suite.

4. Eloquently Started – Designed for physicians for producing medical records. It comes complete with a sophisticated database and is designed for producing detailed medical reports quickly.

5. Realize Voice – Uses the Whisper speech recognition engine that requires no training, although you can train it to improve its vocabulary. It can open and close windows and carry out basic task functions.

6. Interactive Voice Assistant IVA – This assistant will not only let you talk to it, it will talk to you; and you can tell your assistant what to do in English. It is capable of dictating email, sending, replying, searching the Internet and carrying out other basic computer tasks.

7. Micro Intro Voice II – A complete voice input and output system with an accuracy rate of more than 98%. This is a powerful piece of software and it’s available for large or small networks.

8. ViaVoice Millennium Pro – It uses continuous speech and is capable of desktop navigation; inputting, editing, and formatting text; proofreading; and direct dictation. There are also legal and medical dictionaries available.

These are eight of the voice recognition software choices, but there are many other excellent programs. Do a quick search online and you’ll have lots to choose from. Do your research and ensure the voice recognition software you choose will meet your needs.


