Title: 
How To Find The Best Laptop Deals

Word Count:
746

Summary:
There are some great Laptop Deals out there, you just have to know where to find them! Read this article for some simple suggestions to where these laptop deals may be hiding...


Keywords:
best laptop deals,dell coupons,dell coupon,


Article Body:
Copyright 2006 Titus Hoskins

Finding a special laptop deal or price is within every shopper's reach. It's mainly knowing where to look!

Simple as that statement may sound, many people in the market for a new or used laptop don't know where to look for that special laptop or notebook deal. They simply don't know how to proceed or what steps they should take to find the laptop deals that do exist, sometimes right in they very own neighborhood.

Simple shopping tips or advice that may take 100s off the price of a new or used laptop. Most of these shopping tips or guidelines fall within the realm of common sense. Common procedures that will reduce the price tag on your next laptop purchase.

Here's a short run down on some shopping tips you can try:

Use The Internet

Your neighborhood is the whole world. We are no longer confined to a small shopping location or area. We have the whole world at our disposal because of the Internet. Use it!

Use the Internet to find online stores, information, special deals or offers. Use Froogle! Its a great starting point. Use online notebook guides to find the top rated laptops, many of these sites will also have special deals or links. These sites know their laptops - use their knowledge and expertise to find the right notebook computer for you.

Comparison Shop

Perhaps, one of the best ways to get a great bargain, is to Comparison Shop to compare different products and prices. Again, the Internet is ideally designed to give you mass amounts of data and information. It makes comparison shopping a real breeze. Use online sites like Pricerunner.com, PriceGrabber.com, NextTag.com, Shopping.com and don't forget Google's Froogle.com!

These comparison shopping sites will list the best laptop deals and prices for you. More importantly, they will also rate the service and support given by each of these online stores. Very important when you're buying online. Make sure you check out the store's warranties, return policies, service records and customer ratings.

Refurbished Laptops

The real special deals are reserved for refurbished laptops. Many times you can get a great laptop at a very reduced price by purchasing a refurbished laptop. Make sure you get a warranty or buy extra warranty - even then the price will still be worth your while. You can buy a refurbished laptop for a fraction of its original price. Check online for sites selling refurbished laptops or check your local dealer.

Make sure the dealer is legitimate, and watch out for stolen laptops. Be extra careful to get the needed warranties, bill of sales, etc. when buying a refurbished laptop.

Close-out Sales, Liquidation

Keep your eyes peeled for close-out, fire, and liquidation sales. Laptop technology is changing at a fast pace, many lines are discontinued to make room for newer inventory with the latest technology. Many of these close-out sales will offer great laptops at reduced prices.

Don't Forget eBay

The shopping Mecca of the modern era - don't forget to check out eBay. You may find some very special deals. Again, make sure you check out the seller's past history.

Coupons

Mail-in rebates, coupons, online special deals - all these offer great savings to the observant shopper. Don't buy a laptop until your have searched for coupons or discounts, special deals and the like. Dell is famous for its coupons. Don't buy a Dell Laptop without using one of these coupons. You will save 100s off the price of your laptop.

Other notebook makers such as Toshiba, Apple, Sony... offer great online deals and discounts... search for these before you purchase your laptop.

Don't Forget To Haggle

If you're buying a laptop from your local dealer, don't always take the sticker price as gospel. Ask for a special deal, you may be pleasantly surprised at the savings. This works best with independent dealers who can offer you a special deal. If you're a regular customer, the better the deal you should demand!



In conclusion, just use some common sense before you buy your laptop. Use the Internet to check out and comparison shop for the best laptop deals. Use coupons and mail-in rebates whenever possible. Watch out for great close-out, or liquidation sales and don't forget to check out refurbished laptops. Last, but not least, if you get the chance, don't forget to haggle. It's a centuries old technique that still works. It may just get you the best laptop deal.


