Title: 
iGen Xerox- Invading the New Trend in Producing Digital Prints

Word Count:
449

Summary:
The new iGen Xerox printers are now invading the new trend in producing digital prints.


Keywords:
digital, printing, services, igen xerox


Article Body:
Are you looking for the best print out? If yes then perhaps you can look into Xerox printing equipments. Xerox is one of the printing companies that offer the cleanest, best looking print available today. Most of us know that Xerox is the world's leading manufacturer of copy machines, color printers, fax machines and scanners. And they continuously present new and latest models of printing machines in the market.

As a business owner you can to stand out in the market by using high-impact, full-color, personalized print ads such as brochure, fliers, invitations and catalogs among others. The new iGen Xerox printers are now invading the new trend in producing digital prints. All print outs of this iGen Xerox will much likely  look very unique and different because you will have a virtual inventory of designs to pick from. You can even select colors of your choice, fonts, backgrounds and even pictures of you, your family, your office, your home, your city, or landmarks in your area.

The iGen Xerox has become synonymous with the custom publishing world as commercial printers look to its ability to generate large print runs with minimal operator intervention. In addition, it’s been a profit generator for everything from variable data marketing to flipbooks.

Xerox is expanding its flagship, iGen Xerox is a 90 page-per-minute model that has the same image quality, application flexibility and reliability as the industry-leading Xerox digital press. Requiring a lower capital investment than any other machines, the iGen Xerox can make it easier for print providers who have lower print volumes to enter the high-end digital printing market.

If you have the right equipment in producing good marketing tools chances are you will sell more than your competition. The iGen Xerox is a major reason why sales of toner and services for digital office and production machines grew by 3% for the first quarter. iGen Xerox will allow Tri-Ad to produce full color, personalized and customized printed materials for its clients needing a fast turnaround for short run jobs. So, take advantage of this new technology.

According to iGen Program Manager, the printing industry is experiencing a transition from traditional mass production to flexible shorter and customized digital production and iGen Xerox is at the forefront of benefiting from that change.

Compared to any competitive machines, the iGen Xerox is faster, more reliable and offers superior paper handling. It is also modular, making it easy to expand its capabilities so that customers can maximize their initial investment. So it may be to your advantage to experience this latest technique that is widely used in the direct marketing industry that can help you generate more sales and increase your customer base.


