Title: 
Inkjet Cartridges - How They Work

Word Count:
409

Summary:
The Inkjet Cartridges used in the Inkjet Printers were first introduced in 1980s to print images on papers. The Ink from the Inkjet Cartridges is emitted through the hairbreadth fine nozzles as they pass over a printing media. The cost of Inkjet Cartridges is higher than any other ink cartridges. The Inkjet Cartridges can also be refilled successfully.

The operation of Inkjet Cartridges

The Inkjet printing is basically a non-impact process. It is very easy to visualize ...


Keywords:
inkjet cartridges


Article Body:
The Inkjet Cartridges used in the Inkjet Printers were first introduced in 1980s to print images on papers. The Ink from the Inkjet Cartridges is emitted through the hairbreadth fine nozzles as they pass over a printing media. The cost of Inkjet Cartridges is higher than any other ink cartridges. The Inkjet Cartridges can also be refilled successfully.

The operation of Inkjet Cartridges

The Inkjet printing is basically a non-impact process. It is very easy to visualize the operation of Inkjet Cartridges along with an inkjet printer. The Inkjet Printers with the help of Inkjet Cartridges place extremely small droplets of ink onto the printing paper through tiny hairbreadth fine nozzles to create an image. The amount of ink from the cartridges to propel onto the page is mainly determined by the printer driver software that controls when and which nozzles to shoot droplets.

The liquid ink in the cartridges has various colors which are squirted onto the printing paper. The Inkjet printers are capable of printing on a variety of printing media such as plastic film, canvas, labels or stickers. It can even print an image and put it on a T-shirt. At first the print head scans the whole page in horizontal strips. Then while the paper is rolled up in vertical steps, the page is moved from left to right and back again by using the inkjet printer's motor assembly. In this way a row or strip of the image is printed and the paper moves on for the next strip to be printed. The paper used in an inkjet printer greatly determines the quality of the image.

With the help of Inkjet Cartridges the printer can print a vertical row of pixels at a time instead of printing just a single row of pixels in each pass. The dots of ink from the Inkjet Cartridges are very small and are usually between 50 and 60 microns in diameter. These ink dots are very precisely positioned with resolutions of up to 1440 x 720 dots per inch. The ink dots emitted from the Inkjet Cartridges can also have different colour combinations to create bright and high quality photo images. A typical Inkjet Cartridge has cyan (blue), magenta (pink or red) and yellow inks in separate reservoirs. There is a problem with the inkjet cartridges that they have a tendency for the ink to smudge immediately after printing. But this problem has been overcome with the development of new ink compositions.


