Title: 
iPods – The King Of MP3’s

Word Count:
428

Summary:
Do you remember the days when if you wanted to listen to music, you had to plug in your stereo and hope that the power didn’t go out? Those days are long gone and there are now tons of devices that make it easy to take your music with you. I’m sure that some people still prefer their portable CD players, but almost everyone nowadays either already owns or has their eye on those spanking new mp3 players that are all the rage.

Mp3 players are much more lightweight than CD pl...


Keywords:
ipods,ipod,ipod accessories,nano ipod,nano ipods


Article Body:
Do you remember the days when if you wanted to listen to music, you had to plug in your stereo and hope that the power didn’t go out? Those days are long gone and there are now tons of devices that make it easy to take your music with you. I’m sure that some people still prefer their portable CD players, but almost everyone nowadays either already owns or has their eye on those spanking new mp3 players that are all the rage.

Mp3 players are much more lightweight than CD players, because they don’t require CDs. In fact, most of the top mp3 players allow you to download music directly to your mp3 players’ hard drive. This has drastically reduced the space requirements and today’s mp3 players can easily fit into a shirt or pants pocket. While many brands have their own versions of mp3 players, by far the most popular is undoubtedly the Apple iPod. Here’s why the iPod is so much ahead.

Mp3 players can be put into two categories; those which use flash memory and those which have a hard drive. The iPod Nano boasts an amazing 2GB of storage space, which translates to over 500 songs. The accompanying software is upgradeable so you don’t need to change mp3 players to keep up. You can fine tune the sound quality by using a number of equalizer presets and the device is compatible with both Windows and Mac operating systems.

You really see the iPod’s popularity though when you consider hard drive mp3 players. These typically have a much higher storage capacity than flash memory mp3 players and the iPod is no exception. Although much of the features are the same as its flash memory counterparts, iPod hard drive mp3 players top the scale with a whopping 30 GB of storage and the ability to recognize and play video files as well.

The amount of space offered, and the accompanying features, have put Apple’s mp3 players at the top of many consumers’ wish lists and the iPod continues to hold off challengers. High sales of Ipods have led to a jump in the associated market of iPod accessories. Think of a possible accessory, and it’s probable been made. Today’s iPod accessories comprise the typical headphones and rechargeable adapters, but there is some more creative fare. These iPod accessories include docking stations, speakers and LCD displays. Even the garment industry has jumped on the bandwagon and created iPod accessories in the form of special pockets for your iPod.


