Title: 
Is The Computer Repair Business Dead?

Word Count:
384

Summary:
Computer repairs are being done by computer novices at a higher rate than ever before. More and more people do their own computer repairs. Whether it is installing a hard drive or installing an operating system. Is the computer repair business dead?

The computer industry is evolving. It is always changing. In fact, if there is one thing that is sure in the computer repair industry it's that change is going to happen. Companies like Microsoft have gone out of their way to m...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Computer repairs are being done by computer novices at a higher rate than ever before. More and more people do their own computer repairs. Whether it is installing a hard drive or installing an operating system. Is the computer repair business dead?

The computer industry is evolving. It is always changing. In fact, if there is one thing that is sure in the computer repair industry it's that change is going to happen. Companies like Microsoft have gone out of their way to make their products as easy to use as possible. Where does that leave the computer repair business? What can you do to stay in business and be competitive?

Offer outstanding customer service. Look for different ways to package your services. Take the time to research your competition. What could you offer that no one else is offering? One area that matters to your customer is time. Are you in a position to guarantee fast computer repairs? Maybe a same day repair service? Think about how you can take care of your customer while they wait. You could create a comfortable waiting area for them with good reading material, free coffee, computers with internet access or something similar. Don't be afraid to get creative. Think outside the box.

Keep your prices reasonable without under or overcharging. When pricing your services, it is generally a good idea to go with the industry average for your area. If you offer something unusual like same day repairs, you could charge more money. On the other hand, if you charge the same as everyone else but get the computer repair done quickly, this can easily result in an increase in business.

Don't overcharge for computer parts. Most customers are price savvy. If you are charging a premium for the computer parts you install over what other places are charging, you will most likely find your customer base dwindling. Here again, the industry average is your friend. Find out what your competitors are charging for general computer parts and look to stick around that. Getting known as the most expensive place in town won't exactly help business.

Whatever you do, treat your customer with respect and you'll have more business than you can handle. Is the computer repair business dead? I don't think so. It's simply evolving.


