Title: 
Laptop Computer-Where To Buy A Quality Laptop Computer or Notebook Computer At The Lowest Price.

Word Count:
619

Summary:
How can someone get to buy a laptop or notebook computer at the lowest price, and irregardless of whether it is a new, used or a refurbished laptop computer? Above all , how can his purchased be securely conducted from the comfort of his own home, without hassle and at the price he would like to bid?


Keywords:
buy quality laptop at cheapest price, Laptops Bargain Finder software, buy laptop, buy notebook computer online, mobile computing


Article Body:
With the fast disappearing gap between desktop computers and laptops or notebook computers in terms of computing power, more people are aiming to purchase a laptop or notebook computer to replace the less portable desktop computer.

The question that looms large is how can someone get to buy a laptop or notebook computer at the lowest price, and irregardless of whether it is a new, used or a refurbished laptop computer?

The answer is you can buy a laptop or notebook computer at the lowest price by removing the middleman in the transaction, where you actually buy direct from the seller without the traditional middleman. This simple solution suggests that buying the laptop online...and the largest marketplace where you can buy online is eBay!


To get down to the real facts about buying a laptop computer from ebay, I personally logged into ebay to conduct a research.

The first place to look up for if you are buying a laptop through ebay is to search through the category 51148 which is marked "Laptops, Notebook Computers". There you can see a large range of branded laptop computers which are being listed for selling under the auction format. Bear in mind, not all laptops are used or second hand laptops, brand new laptops are also listed for selling at the same time. Also many used laptops still carry a remaining portion of a guarantee or warranty that comes when it was first purchased new.

On the day of my research into the Laptops, Notebook Computers category, I wanted to find what was the hottest laptop item listed for auction. So I began to look for laptops that were in the process of being auctioned off and which had attracted more than 20 bids. Out of 140 pages of listings containing the keyword "laptops", I searched the bids out of the first 5 pages of the listings, and discovered 20 different laptops being listed had more than the minimum 20 bids to make it a hot item or favorite. The lowest number of bids was 21 bids for a Dell X300, and the highest number of bids was 38 bids for a Dell C600 laptop. Out of the 20 different laptops being bidded with more than 20 bids, 12 were from the Dell brand, with the Dell Latitude being the most common hottest laptop being sold through ebay auctions. Second was Toshiba, with Sony being the third hottest item.

While the price of the laptop being sold is dependent on many other factors such as age of the computer and the physical robustness of the laptop after physical use ( if it is aged and used before ), and specific features that came with it, generally most of the Dell laptops were within the range of $160 to $295 for a used-before Dell Latitude laptop with the Dell Inspiton 9400 bidded at $825.00

With these facts, one can start to make some preliminary decisions on his or her laptop potential purchase. By going to the ebay category 51148, on any typical day, we can find out what is the hottest brand of laptop computer being sold and at what range of prices, and whether those laptops are within out means for purchase. In my particular example, I found the hottest laptop on offer was a Dell laptop which will cost me around $160 to around $295 for a used laptop computer. 

Shopping online means  huge savings in terms of time and money, as the auction format allows for a dynamic environment to bid for your intended purchase and allowing you to set a limit on your budgeted price. More importantly, most items , especially pre-loved and used before items can be purchased at vastly discounted price making it possible for you to buy a laptop at great discount than their inherent value.


