Title: 
Live chat software – Online Call Center Solution

Word Count:
465

Summary:
Live chat is instant-messaging-based software that gives customers and potential customers the opportunity to contact businesses at the exact moment that they have a question – without having to email and then wait maybe 24 hours for a response. Live chat software for online call centers allows your customers to forward feedback about their service experience, which will help your business in determining their needs and requirements.


Keywords:
live chat software, live chat tool, live chat solution, live help, live help software, live help tool, live help solution, online customer support, online sales support, LiveHelp Support, Live Chat Service, live support, Customer Support Product, Online Customer Service, Live Customer Support Software, Free Live chat Software, Visitors tracking tool, customer service and support, live chat support, real time visitor monitoring, Real Time Help


Article Body:
There are many software options in the market for live chat.  Some of those software packages are specifically designed for call center formats.

Call centers are centralized offices in which incoming and outgoing communications are routed and managed.  Most commonly known are telephone call centers, but more and more businesses (specifically online businesses) are using online call centers to field email communications from potential purchasers and end-users who need technical support.  And email is not even the newest part of online call centers – live chat is the most effective way to communicate with customers.  

Live chat is an instant-messaging-based software that gives customers and potential customers the opportunity to contact businesses at the exact moment that they have a question – without having to email and then wait maybe 24 hours for a response.  Live chat takes a request for contact into queue and will generally pass it along to the next available representative.  So, when that rep closes one communication window with a customer, a notice will appear that the next person in line is ready, and so on.  

By using live chat in a call center setting – with multiple representatives in one office location – the chances of the question being solved immediately greatly increases.  This leads to satisfied customers and/or increased sales.

Additional benefits to live chat call centers are that while you have them in chat, they are able to view and browse your website.  So if they are pleased with the service they are receiving, it will go a long way to increasing their confidence and future sales.  

People access the Internet 24 hours a day, 7 days a week all year long.  If your customer service hours are 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Eastern Standard Time, Monday through Friday; then you will likely have many lost sales and dissatisfied customers.  Even if you can’t staff your call center around the clock, the live chat program can still be activated in order to let your customers know that they can leave a message and someone will get back to them as soon as possible.

Live chat software for online call centers allows your customers to forward feedback about their service experience, which will help your business in determining their needs and requirements.  This feedback can also be used for training purposes.

The software also allows representatives to proactively initiate a live chat session with visitors to the site – much like a department store sales person who checks to see if you need any help.  This can help to increase sales and customer satisfaction.

People are too quick to associate call centers with telemarketers, but when used for the purpose of customer service and support – particularly when combined with a live chat feature – they can actually be a beneficial step in furthering your business.


