Title: 
Live Chat Software makes Online Customer Support & Online selling easier.

Word Count:
490

Summary:
Live chat gives the web site a human touch wherein real time communication and one to one communication with the customer is possible. The best function of this add on software is however the one to one communication with the customer and the instant feedback.


Keywords:
live chat software, live chat tool, live chat solution, live help, live help software, live help tool, live help solution, online customer support, online sales support, LiveHelp Support, Live Chat Service, live support, Customer Support Product, Online Customer Service, Live Customer Support Software, Free Live chat Software, Visitors tracking tool, customer service and support, live chat support, real time visitor monitoring, Real Time Help


Article Body:
Live chat software is a standard communication feature adopted to serve customers through the internet LIVE. The live chat software is popular and is being recognized as a powerful add on to the web site as it not only brings the customers closer but also increases the sales and helps in improving sales. The satisfied clients using this live chat software in their web sites are very grateful and are happy about this great feature through which expert customer staff can improve sales by more than 20%. 

Many companies even boast that their over sales volume increased three times because of this wonder live chat software. The best function of this add on software is however the one to one communication with the customer and the instant feedback. Customers can get a product counseling or information before making the purchase and they need just blindly get a product and then complain. Whether good or bad the feedback is instant and therefore lots of scope to be rectified then and there. 

The atmosphere and the ambiance of the web site changes and looks like real time buyers in touch with real staff waiting to clarify any customer query. Tracking real time visitor helps in better understanding of customer behavior and their buying pattern. Many online business organizations receive a great sales boom because of this wonderful live chat added to their sites. Some of the most popular organizations using this software belong to real estate, insurance, e-commerce, law firms, eBay, tours and travel related sites etc. 

Many customers might be doubtful about the security features when using live chat. There is no transfer of personal information and customers can start chatting by filling out a form with minimum information. There is no need to give away any personal details and most of the entire customer database is safely guarded and there is no fear at all regarding the security of the customer. The software is easy to install and maintain and very little technical problems encounter during the usage. 

Using this software you can view the URL used by the visitor to find your web site, their nationality, state, city and their browser and other system information etc. you can trace their movements in your site and the time they spend in your site can also be viewed. Using the above information the customer care live chat personal can easily identify the possible buyer using his demography and the pages or products he is browsing through in the site. Then he starts up a live chat and offers live help in choosing the right product or in receiving the right service. 

Live chat gives the web site a human touch wherein real time communication and one to one communication with the customer is possible. The person who handles the live chat must be well trained with good communication and marketing skills to make the first time user a possible long term customer.


