Title: 
Make the Myspace page interactive for all visitors

Word Count:
506

Summary:
Myspace page is meant for people of all ages. Unless, the page is made to look attractive, people seeking friends for networking and social life may not visit the page.


Keywords:
Myspace Layouts, Myspace Backgrounds, Myspace Codes, Myspace Graphics


Article Body:
Myspace page is meant for people of all ages. Unless, the page is made to look attractive, people seeking friends for networking and social life may not visit the page. Eventually, the aim of having the page for social networking will be defeated. The best thing to do with a myspace page is to have an attractive background of varied colors and schemes. However, make sure the color scheme and the combination goes well with the person's age. There are no specific colors for each age group. But make sure the color combinations are in accordance with those generally accepted. For instance, the color meant for youngsters come in trendy colors that may attract the attention of the youngsters. Therefore, while pasting the images on the background, make sure that the colors are trendy and in synchronization with the times. The background can also have many trendy designs spread all over the place. It could be anything relating to objects or designs that may be of personal interest. It could be wild animals all over the background if you are somebody liking the wild life. It could also be stars, clouds and heavenly objects if you are a star gazer. Similarly, it could be of landscape and art work if you like nature and surroundings.

Also, you can opt for design based background themes. For instance, the color combination can be interspersed with designs. In case, you are a person with a feel for nature, the flowers, such as wild lilies or orchids can be spread in the background in a masked manner. The flowers can also be highlighted effectively to ensure that they are present prominently on the background. But make sure that the size of the flowers on the background are not too large that can hinder the beauty of the background, The problem of the background is such that it should not only meet the aspirations of the Myspace member, but at the same time, maintain the aesthetics.

The trendy design is the most preferred these days, since it is the youngsters who are on Myspace these days in huge number. Unless, the number of people on Myspace is spread across multiple age groups, having people with common interests could be a problem. Therefore, make sure that the features on Myspace are common to other users. The background plays a critical role in ensuring that there is some amount of commonality among the Myspace users. All it needs is sprucing up the Myspace page with attractive backgrounds. If you are an elderly person, not keen on multiple colors, then opt for serene colors that can go along with your age.

There are plenty of backgrounds that convey a meaning of peace and tranquility. For instance, there are images that depict the goodness such as nature's bounty, stars, heaven, paradise and much more. Such images provide a feel good factor to not only to the account holders of Myspace but also the visitors. However, the background should match the profile of the account holder.


