Title: 
New Computer? What To Do With the Old One

Word Count:
286

Summary:
Did you get a new computer? Everyone loves a shiny new tech toy, but the question comes not long after the box is opened: What to do with the old one and all the information stored on it?


Keywords:
New Computer? What To Do With the Old One


Article Body:
Did you get a new computer? Everyone loves a shiny new tech toy, but the question comes not long after the box is opened: What to do with the old one and all the information stored on it? Consider the following options:

* Re-use. With all the music files, photos and other digital stuff we accumulate on our computers, why not use the old one as a place to store it all? This frees up the new computer for new content and things like business and home files. If someone accidentally downloads a virus or some other problem arises on the new computer, all those MP3s and JPEGs will be safe.

* Transfer. Even though you have your music and photos stored on the old system, you will probably want regular access to them to load onto your MP3 player.

It's ideal for telecommuters linking to their offices from home, travelers using the Web browser on their hotel TV or serious mobile workers living off their laptops.

* Recycle. Most retailers and electronics manufacturers have a recycling program in place. Charities are also getting on the re-use bandwagon by refurbishing old computers for schools or collecting used cell phones for fundraising purposes. 

* Sell. Of course, there's always a yard sale. Whether you sell it online, to a pawn shop, to a friend or donate it to a charity, make sure you completely remove any personal information, like bank account numbers and passwords, before handing it over to the new owner.

With these choices, don't feel remorseful about replacing that "perfectly good" technology anymore. Dig into that brand new box and start enjoying your new computer today, knowing there might be plenty of life left in the old one.


