Title: 
Online Survey: Gamers Prefer Roulette

Word Count:
562

Summary:
Gamers worldwide prefer playing roulette than any other game according to an online survey conducted by Gambling Portal, and we details the reasons why.


Keywords:
roulette,online survey,casinos 


Article Body:
Out of a survey conducted by Gambling Portal, 64% of all gamers prefer to play roulette and not poker, blackjack or even slots. Why?

One of the truly worthy games to play at a casino is roulette. It is not just the spinning of the wheel that gives it its class, but the fact that roulette is a game for true champions. Amateurs steer away from roulette leaving it only to the true gaming enthusiasts. 

1) Excitement:
Gamers state that no other game they have played can match the thrill they feel after they have placed their individual bets and the wheel starts to spin and ball flies and jumps from one slot to another. They say that your heart jumps each time the ball collides with the wheel.. 

2) Simplicity:
In comparison to other games, roulette is simple to learn and simple to play. All you have to do is guess where the ball will come to rest when the wheel stops spinning. Even placing your bet is simple. You can either bet on a number, a row, a couple of rows, a column, a row of columns, a colour: black or red or even on odd or even numbers. To do this you do not need to memorize different hand systems like in poker, or calculate whether they will reach twenty-one like in blackjack. You pick a number or a section of numbers and if ball rests on the numbers you picked, you win.

3) Availability of Game Tables:
Unlike other table games where you sometimes have to wait for hours till a seat opens up for you, roulette table seat up to seven or nine players. There are even some larger tables that seat up to ten. In addition, since roulette is a fast action game, players rotate more often than say at a Texas Holdem match.

4) The Croupier:
Unlike other game tables, at roulette the croupier is an active component of the game. When they state out aloud, No More Bets, everyone sits back and waits. The croupier spins the wheel and he waits along with everyone else for the ball to roll down into the inside track and rest on a particular colour and number. Then, the croupier announces the number and hands out the winnings.

5) Coloured Chips:
To make it easier for you to track your chips amidst all the other chips, your chips are of a different colour than all the rest of the players. There is no other game that allows you this option. This means that you can track your chips super easily even if they are at the other end of the table.

6) No Cheating:
People try and cheat at all games. But in roulette, no one is allowed to keep his hands over the table until the croupier finishes handing out all the money won. Even the croupier himself keeps his hands away and uses a long stick to distribute the chips.

Conclusion:
Out of all the different games, those you can bet on at a regular or <a href="http://www.gambling-portal.com">online casino</a> or at home and those you can play for fun on your home computer, gamers seek out and play roulette for all the of the above reasons. They think it is the game that has everything in all one package. They must know what they are talking about.


