Title: 
Poster-Forge – Click, Create and Celebrate

Word Count:
493

Summary:
Poster-Forge is a new design tool for rapid creation of posters. It provides you with a number of templates that let you create posters in several styles: Motivational, Movie and Wanted.


Keywords:
wanted poster, motivational poster, inspirational poster


Article Body:
It is always fun to take pictures of any family occasion or during our travel sojourns and glance through them reminiscing about the good times.  Imagine if there was software that would allow us to create posters with these pictures? Poster Forge is the answer to the prayers of millions of people around the world. It allows people to upload pictures they have and create movie posters, or motivational posters or maybe a wanted poster. An interesting way of exhibiting hidden talent and showing off your vivid imagination is what Poster Forge offers its users.

All you need to do is download the software from Poster Forge Homepage, install it in your computer and start the process of churning out innovative motivational posters and wanted posters. They simply need to follow the motivational poster creator templates and voila, they have a one of a kind poster. Children and adults like will enjoy using this tool as it gives them the ability to put in a picture of their choice, give it a title or maybe add quotes to make it an inspirational poster. The user can choose colours based on their preferences, add borders, or maybe make a collage of pictures in one poster. Or maybe insert a unique quote contrasting the picture thereby converting it into a demotivational poster. There are many companies who like to display motivational posters around the office, and they can make use of this software to create customized posters. These posters can be printed out into small or big size depending on where it will be placed. You can even upload them on your websites, or on other sites showing off your creative skills.

With no prior knowledge of designing or graphics, one can use Poster Forge and it’s easy to follow instructions to create interesting movie posters. With a few colorful photographs, and a unique title and create your own film posters. You don’t need any additional movie poster software but this offers all services in a concise manner. Blow up the posters you have created and put them up in your room adds to the fun element of your personality. To go a step further, you can take pictures from various other film posters, and make one big movie poster with all your favorite movie clippings.

When there is a group of boys, they always enjoy pulling pranks on each other, and what better way to do it than to create a wanted poster with your friends’ picture on it. You can do away with other expensive movie poster software, and use Poster Forge. Simply incorporate your friend’s picture and add a few interesting lines and make your personalized wanted poster that you can surprise your friend with. The latest version of Poster Forge is absolutely free. This gives you the option to create nice posters and take print outs in big size and frame them for personal use or as gifts.


