Title: 
Remanufacturing Toner Cartridges Saves Big Money And Landfills

Word Count:
428

Summary:
General Information & Background

Toner cartridges are used in laser printers, photocopiers, fax machines, and microphotographic printers. When the toner cartridge is spent, it can be returned to a remanufacturer or the manufacturer to be refilled, refurbished, and cleaned for resale. Popular Cartridges such as the 92298A (LJ4, 4+, 5, 5M), and the C4127X (LJ4000 or LJ4050), are as low as $15.00. These cartridges new from HP are as high as $125.00. The cost savings literally...


Keywords:
printer,printing, toner, toner cartridges, OEM, HP 92298A, HP C4127X, HP C8061X, C4096A, 92298A, L50


Article Body:
General Information & Background

Toner cartridges are used in laser printers, photocopiers, fax machines, and microphotographic printers. When the toner cartridge is spent, it can be returned to a remanufacturer or the manufacturer to be refilled, refurbished, and cleaned for resale. Popular Cartridges such as the 92298A (LJ4, 4+, 5, 5M), and the C4127X (LJ4000 or LJ4050), are as low as $15.00. These cartridges new from HP are as high as $125.00. The cost savings literally speaks for itself.

The quality of remanufactured and/or recharged laser printer toner cartridges has improved dramatically since these products were first introduced more than ten years ago. High quality remanufactured cartridges now undergo a process that renders cartridges equivalent in performance, print quality and page yield to new models and that meet all original equipment manufacturer (OEM) standards and specifications.

Moving away from the original "drill and fill" method that created the industry's initial problems, the current remanufacturing process now requires that the cartridges be disassembled and inspected to determine any problem areas. Worn components are replaced with new parts, all sections are completely cleaned, and a fresh supply of toner is added before the cartridge is resealed.

Purchasers should also be aware that using remanufactured products will not affect the laser printers warranty. For example, the industry warranty for Hewlett Packard reads: "For HP printer products, the use of a non-HP toner cartridge or a refilled toner cartridge does not affect either the warranty to the customer or any HP support with the customer."

The Moss Magnuson Act created in the 1970's helps to protect those that feel their warranty will be voided. It states that a manufacturer of any product cannot monopolize its product by requiring them to purchase their supplies. It was created mainly for the car dealers, but for those who want to use another cartridge brand it gives them the freedom to do so.

Product Benefits

The recovery and reuse of toner cartridges diverts millions of cubic feet of non-biodegradable material from landfills. In addition, each recycled laser cartridge conserves the equivalent of 3 quarts of oil. They also offer dramatic cost savings (as much as 60 percent) over OEM cartridges.

To get yourself loaded with incredible deals on toner cartridges, come and visit http://www.tonerdealers.com. HP, Brother, Lexmark, Sharp, Xerox Compatibles and more! They carrry a FULL line of remanufactured cartridges called 'The Economy', your higest cost savings for your money. They also carry 'The Eclipse' which is made with brand new components. The components that are in 'The Eclipse' are then taken and put into 'The Economy' cartridge.


