Title: 
Spyware is Watching You

Word Count:
599

Summary:
Installing an Adware SpyWare Removal Tool is a vital part of being on the internet. If you believe your computer is infected you need to read this…


Keywords:
adware, spyware. adaware, adware spyware removal tool, malware


Article Body:
Adware or Spyware as it is also known by is a malicious program or should I say programs that infect your computer with adware. As currently there are thousands of variations of adware / spyware waiting to attack your PC. 

Some of these adware programs are harmless and are really only a minor annoyance and can be cleaned from your system easily with nearly all adware remover programs. However some more infectious adware programs can be potentially damaging to your system, your life and your bank account. 

Symantec states that currently 85% of all internet users have some form of adware / spyware on there PC today. And the most frightening fact of all was that in this study those computers had a least 24 instances of adware spyware hiding on their computer system and causing problems not only for the user but the system its self. 

Invest in a Adware Removal Tool Today!

How can I tell if Adware or Spyware has been installed on my computer.Firstly by installing a Adawre Spyware Removal Tool but if you havn't here are some things to look out for.
 
Are you constantly receiving annoying pop-up windows from sites you have never visited. 

Is your home page constantly changing from what you have set it to. If so your browser has been hijacked by adware. 

Is your operating system slow to load and you notice it getting slower each week this is adware. Again you will no whether it is adware or not especially if you haven’t installed any software that could be slowing your system down. 

Do you have any strange software loading at start-up this is another trait of adware / spyware programs. 

Internet explorer hang when trying to open it chances are you have adware spyware affecting your browser. 

Are you constantly receiving error messages and registry errors on your home PC this is another symptom of adware spyware. 

If you are an internet user you need to understand the growing concern that adware poses to your rights and freedoms. Don’t get caught napping on the internet make sure your computer is equipped with a adware removal tool, 

Basically adware is a parasite that is just waiting to infect your computer and in some cases even your friends computers. 

This adware parasite can potentially steal your identity by following your internet movements, obtaining your passwords, accessing your bank details and anything you type on your computer commonly known as a keylogger. 

Remember if your child users your computer these pop-ups or browser hijackers could be sending any kind of undesirable information to your children. Protect your children with an adware spyware removal tool. 

Even though some adware is harmless and even some webmasters install programs that track there movements such as alexa, don't you think it is your right to decide who knows your business and not have it stolen from you by some malicious anti spyware adware program. 

These adware spyware programs search the internet looking for unprotected computers—just like yours or mine — to call home and steal your information. Once they’ve found a spot to hide, they go right to work doing all kinds of malicious things to your system—from attacking you with pop-ups, hijacking your web browser, to installing more adware spyware parasites, or finding and distributing your personal information.

Make sure you are protected from this growing threat with a good adware removal tool. Best of all you can download most of these adware removal tools for free. What is 5 minutes of your time worth when your personal details could be compromised right now.


