Title: 
The Advanced Technology Of The Toshiba Tablet Pc

Word Count:
507

Summary:
Product Overview: The Toshiba Tablet PC

Featuring the latest advances in computer technology, the Toshiba Tablet PC is a notebook style computer designed to allow interactive writing on the screen. Touch-screen technology enables users to write with either a stylus or a digital pen. Eliminating the need for a standard mouse and keyboard makes the Toshiba Tablet PC a real asset for executives on the go. For easy access and presentation capability, the Toshiba Tablet PC incl...


Keywords:
tablet pc, toshiba


Article Body:
Product Overview: The Toshiba Tablet PC

Featuring the latest advances in computer technology, the Toshiba Tablet PC is a notebook style computer designed to allow interactive writing on the screen. Touch-screen technology enables users to write with either a stylus or a digital pen. Eliminating the need for a standard mouse and keyboard makes the Toshiba Tablet PC a real asset for executives on the go. For easy access and presentation capability, the Toshiba Tablet PC includes a swivel screen that can be turned out or in depending on the needs of the user. With all the power of a regular notebook PC and the advanced touch-screen capabilities, it represents the future of computer technology.

Features Available on the Toshiba Tablet PC

Just as with standard notebooks, the Toshiba Tablet PC can be customized to include the features that will be most applicable to each user. Selecting the options that will provide the most benefit allows for greater overall value. In addition to the normal applications available, the Toshiba Tablet PC can include:

* Versatile RAM Memory – Original and expansion memory can be added as necessary.
* Wi-Fi Capability – Get connected to the internet anywhere without the hassle of wires and dial-ups.
* Bluetooth Connectivity – Allows for optimum use of Bluetooth devices and synchronization.
* Flash Memory Drive – Increases the amount of mobile memory in your PC.
* Toshiba Custom Utilities – Created specifically for Toshiba PCs, utility software enables you to monitor and repair your system.
* Dual-Axis Accelerometer – Automatically detects the screen position and adjusts the visual accordingly.
* Docking Capability – Makes working with a Toshiba Tablet PC as simple to operate as any desktop PC.

Toshiba Tablet PC Models

Toshiba offers several models of their popular tablet PCs. Finding the right Toshiba Tablet PC is a matter of determining the power and utilities you most need. Tablet PCs range in price depending on the model and accompanying features. Some of the most popular models include:

* Toshiba Portege M200 Series - One of the most desired tablet PCs on the market, the Portege M200 series contains everything you from a notebook and tablet PC. Features on the Portege series:

+ 1.5GHz Pentium Processor

+ 256MB Expandable RAM Memory

+ 40GB Hard Drive

+ 12.1” Display Screen

+ 2 USB 2.0 and VGA ports

+ Network Connectivity: 10/100 Ethernet, Modem or Wi-Fi

+ Storage: PC Card Type 1, SD Slot

+ Weight: 4.4Lbs

* Toshiba Satellite R15 Series - A step up from the Portege model, the Toshiba Satellite R15 Series gives you even more power for your applications. Features on the Satellite R15 Series:

+ 1.7GHz Pentium Processor

+ 256MB Expandable RAM Memory

+ 40-80GB Hard Drive

+ 14.1” Display Screen

+ 3 USB 2.0 and VGA, FireWire

+ Network Connectivity: 10/100 Ethernet or Modem

+ Storage: DVD Double Layer Drive

+ Weight: 6.1Lbs

* Toshiba Tecra M4 Series - The top-of-the-line in tablet PCs, the Toshiba Tecra M4 Series supplies advanced power, memory and application capabilities for a complete tablet PC package. Features of the Tecra M4 Series:

+ 1.73Hz Pentium Processor

+ 256MB Expandable RAM Memory

+ 80GB Hard Drive

+ 14.1” Display Screen

+ 2 USB 2.0 and VGA, FireWire, S Video Ports

+ Network Connectivity: Gigabit Ethernet, Modem or Fast IR

+ Storage: DVD Double Layer Drive

+ Weight: 6.2Lbs


