Title: 
Unmatched Toner Cartridge Quality 20% Less Than OEM Price!

Word Count:
395

Summary:
For business professionals caught between high OEM price and mediocre print and graphic output, there's a solution: Business Express's Eclipse line of compatible laser toner cartridges that meet or exceed OEM quality for 20% less than typical OEM price. While even brand name OEMs display "This cartridge may contain recycled components" on packaging, only Business Express, a leading U.S.-based toner cartridge remanufacturer, uses all new internal components on its Eclipse line...


Keywords:
printer,printing, toner, toner cartridges, OEM


Article Body:
For business professionals caught between high OEM price and mediocre print and graphic output, there's a solution: Business Express's Eclipse line of compatible laser toner cartridges that meet or exceed OEM quality for 20% less than typical OEM price. While even brand name OEMs display "This cartridge may contain recycled components" on packaging, only Business Express, a leading U.S.-based toner cartridge remanufacturer, uses all new internal components on its Eclipse line of compatible toner cartridges, and offers a guaranty on the cartridge and printer.

To ensure the blackest blacks and sharpest colors on every print job, the Eclipse OEM-compatible toner cartridges use just premium toner and all new internal components on every remanufactured toner cartridge.

Because this includes a brand new photoelectric drum, primary charge roller, magnetic rollers, wiper and doctor blades, as well as seals and end foams to prevent leaking, each toner cartridge prints at optimum quality to the end of is life cycle. In contrast, lower quality toner cartridges and even some OEM brands may reuse internal components over and over, diminishing print quality and reliability.

Before Business Express ships any Eclipse toner cartridge, rigorous print tests are conducted to ensure quality. This includes a solid page of black and a series of halftones to make certain that text prints crisp and clear. Color tests of cyan, magenta, yellow, and black, including full solid prints and gradations, further ensure that up to 256,000 shades of color appear their best for photos, graphs, and other graphics.

"It's untrue that remanufactured toner cartridges can't as good as OEM or will void the warranty," says Business Express owner Dean Gutch. "By law OEMs can't force you to buy their brand any more than a car dealer can force you to buy their oil filter. We're so certain that Eclipse toner cartridges will meet or exceed OEM print quality that we guaranty not only the cartridge but also the printer."

Business Express remanufactures OEM-compatible laser toner cartridges for most major brands including Hewlett Packard, Minolta, Lexmark, and others. In addition to color and black and white toner cartridges, the company offers Magnetic Ink Character Recognition (MICR) toner cartridges, suitable by banks to print checks. They also build custom cartridges for those with special needs.

In addition to remanufacturing to satisfy the latest OEM microchip requirements, they ship nationally with next day delivery as well as internationally.


