Title: 
Want Nice CD – DVD Packaging?

Word Count:
579

Summary:
You guys always want to keep you favorite CDs & DVDs top notch. You never want your dear CDs & DVDs getting scratched or damaged, and thus you often look for the strong cd – dvd packaging to keep you CDs & DVDs immaculate and intact. Your cd – dvd packaging cases are generally designed to provide strong protection to your CDs & DVDs.


Keywords:
dvd packaging


Article Body:
You guys always want to keep you favorite CDs & DVDs top notch. You never want your dear CDs & DVDs getting scratched or damaged, and thus you often look for the strong cd – dvd packaging to keep you CDs & DVDs immaculate and intact. Your cd – dvd packaging cases are generally designed to provide strong protection to your CDs & DVDs. 

Your cd – dvd packaging cases are often made of rigid or semi-rigid material for keeping your CDs & DVDs safe. Your cd – dvd packaging cases protect your CDs & DVDs from scratches and other types of exposure damages. You can find a myriad of cd – dvd packaging cases and boxes on the market. Your cd – dvd packaging cases may include single disc and multi disc CD – DVD cases, and you can also find standard width and slim profile cd – dvd packaging cases.

CD – DVD packaging sleeves offer nice protection to your DVDs. Your cd – dvd packaging sleeves may include paper sleeves, plastic sleeves and tyvec sleeves. Additionally, you may also find CD – DVD sleeves available with or without windows and flaps.

Jewel cases are the cd – dvd packaging cases, generally measuring 142 mm × 125 mm × 10 mm. These cd – dvd packaging cases are usually made of injection-molded polystyrene. You can also use jewel cd – dvd packaging cases for the packaging of BDs (Blu Ray Discs), and HD DVDs. 

Digipacks are the cd – dvd packaging cases made of cardboards. Actually, digipack cd – dvd packaging cases are the jewel-case-style plastic cd packaging trays glued inside a folding cardboard cases. Your digipacks offer nice protection to your CDs and DVDs, and are nice for keeping your CD movies and DVD movies.   

Jakeboxes are patented cd & dvd packaging systems from Sweden. Your CDs & DVDs, in Jakebox cd – dvd packaging, are held in a folded 'claw' that opens up and presents your discs in wonderful fashion. Your cd – dvd packaging Jakeboxes are generally made of paper or carton, with or without pocket for a booklet.

CD – DVD mailers are virtually designed to meet all of your cd – dvd packaging needs. Your CD – DVD mailers may include single disc and multi disc CD – DVD mailers. You can also find paperboard and cardboard CD & DVD mailers. 

Plastic cases and clamshells offer nice cd – dvd packaging solutions. You can find rounded c-shells and square plastic cases for your CDs & DVDs. You can also find plastic CD & DVD cases for use in 3 ring binders.

Keep Cases are the most common type of dvd packaging systems. Slightly taller than Jewel cases, DVD Keep Cases are made of much softer, less brittle plastic – polypropylene rather than polystyrene.  DVD Keep Cases are durable and do not break easily. DVD Keep Cases come can usually hold one or two discs. DVD slimmer keep cases are called "Slim-paks" or "Thinpaks." 

Spindles or, less formally, cake boxes are often used for blank cd – dvd packaging. These cd – dvd packaging cases are round, clear plastic cups that have central posts to hold stacks of discs. These cylindrical cd – dvd packaging boxes are designed for bulk cd – dvd packaging, anywhere from ten up to 100 discs.

Besides, you can also find CD/ DVD Trigger Cases, J-card cases, Clamshell, Mini CD/ DVD cardboard sleeve, CD/ DVD mailer, Digital Booklet for CDs and DVDs, Mini CD Clear Slick, Double and Single Cases, Double Cardboard CD wallet, Multi Case DVDs, Bizcard CD/ DVD cardboard sleeve, Premium Tray Packaging, and several other single & bulk cd – dvd packaging cases & boxes. You can find your cd – dvd packaging cases online.


