Title: 
Wonderful DVD – CD Packaging Boxes & Cases!

Word Count:
599

Summary:
Your CDs & DVDs are the greatest of your assets, if you are optical media buff. Certainly, you always want to keep your CDs & DVDs in the ace form, and thus you are always out to grab the nicest dvd – cd packaging systems on the market. Often, dvd – cd packaging cases or boxes are made of the rigid or semi-rigid materials in which your CDs & DVDs usually come packed in. You can find a number of dvd – cd packaging systems generally designed to protect your CDs & DVDs from scratches and other types of exposure damages.


Keywords:
cd packaging


Article Body:
Your CDs & DVDs are the greatest of your assets, if you are optical media buff. Certainly, you always want to keep your CDs & DVDs in the ace form, and thus you are always out to grab the nicest dvd – cd packaging systems on the market. Often, dvd – cd packaging cases or boxes are made of the rigid or semi-rigid materials in which your CDs & DVDs usually come packed in. You can find a number of dvd – cd packaging systems generally designed to protect your CDs & DVDs from scratches and other types of exposure damages. 

Paper envelopes, also known as sleeves, are often used as the simplest and the least expensive form of dvd – cd packaging systems. Your paper envelopes with transparent window, making your CD or DVD label visible are bit expensive versions of paper envelopes. Your dvd – cd packaging envelopes or sleeves may include paper sleeves, plastic sleeves and tyvec sleeves.

Jewel cases are dvd – cd packaging cases, measuring 142 mm × 125 mm × 10 mm, that usually contain compact discs along with the liner notes and back cards. Jewel dvd – cd packaging cases are three-piece plastic cases made of injection-molded polystyrene that has been used since the compact discs was first released in 1982. Your Jewel case dvd – cd packaging system is formed by two opposing hinged transparent halves; the back half holds a media tray that grips the disc by its hole. Jewel cases are also used for BDs, and HD DVDs. 

Slimline jewel cases are common space-saving cd packaging options. Slimline jewel case cd packaging systems were popularized by European-made CD singles. Typically having dimensions of 142 mm × 125 mm × 5 mm, these cd packaging cases are generally made from the same fragile polystyrene as used in full-sized jewel cases. You can also find semi-opaque or semi-flexible polypropylene slimline jewel cd packaging cases. These cd packaging cases are strong enough to protect your CDs and flexible enough not to break easily.

Digipacks are cardboard case dvd – cd packaging systems. These dvd – cd packaging cases are jewel-case-style plastic trays glued inside folding cardboard cases. Digipacks are one of the popular dvd – cd packaging cases, which are often used for storing CD movies and DVD movies. 

Discbox Sliders, also known as DBS, are cd packaging cases made of 100% carton board. Your DBS cd packaging cases open up from the side by moving the slider part from the sleeves where your CD rests. These cd packaging cases are often considered as the most environmental friendly cd packaging systems. 

Jakeboxs are patented dvd – cd packaging cases from Sweden. In Jakebox dvd – cd packaging cases, your discs are held in a folded 'claw', which opens up and presents the disc in an eye-catching way. Jakebox dvd – cd packaging cases are generally made out of paper or carton, with or without pocket for a booklet.

LP style cases are the recent cd packaging systems in sleeves comparable to LP. LP-style dvd – cd packaging cases have grown popular in Japan and America in recent times. Many of the albums, such as Morrissey's live album Live at Earls Court, The Who's compilation Then and Now, and R.E.M.'s 2-disc version of their greatest hit came in LP style packaging. 

Additionally, you can also find keep cases, snap cases, cake boxes or spindles, CD/ DVD Trigger Cases, J-card cases, Clamshell, Mini CD/ DVD cardboard sleeve, CD/ DVD mailer, Digital Booklet for CDs and DVDs, Mini CD Clear Slick, Double and Single Cases, Double Cardboard CD wallet, Multi Case DVDs, Bizcard CD/ DVD cardboard sleeve, CD Spindle 50 or 100, Premium Tray Packaging, and several other single & bulk dvd – cd packaging cases designs.


