Title: 
Writing Articles On Computer Related Subjects

Word Count:
794

Summary:
The problem arises in trying to get the results of that research, knowledge and experience into the hands of those searching for answers.


Keywords:
remote helpdesk, outsourced help desk, remote computer repair, computer articles


Article Body:
Writing Articles On Computer Related Subjects

27 Sep 07

Having titled this article I need to issue a Mia Copa so I might as well get it out right up front. The truth is, this 

editorial probably applies not only to the fields of website design and remote and outsourced ' IT '  services and computer 

sales and repair like that offered by Remote Help desk 1 at http://www.remotehelpdesk1.com, but also to most writers and 

technical subjects covered on the web.

Computer Man's background in the educational, legal, intelligence and law enforcement communities qualifies him more than 

most "computer gurus" for research to bring his audience not only beneficial data but quality links allowing access to and 

use of the information and sources shared.

The First Issue:  Restricted Embedded Links...

The problem arises in trying to get the results of that research, knowledge and experience into the hands of those searching 

for answers. Most hosts restrict submissions to one or two embedded links if they allow any at all.  That is a real issue 

when the author is actually concerned about providing quality referenced content.

These articles on the super slab run the gamut from the frivolous to the technical.  Most computer and internet related 

articles are probably of the technical variety at least to some extent, and it is understood there are those who game the 

system and abuse their privilege. So, restrict the number of links back to the author and his or her web sites, not to 

legitimate referenced sources. That will make more work for the hosts who read all these articles before they are published, 

but most of them get paid well for editing what you see and read on their sites.

The Second Issue:  Article Lengths...

Each hosts has his or her minimum length requirements normally in the 600 word range.  Such a minimum often causes one of 

necessity to be much too verbose instead of succinct as we have always been taught.  Professors say keep cutting the article 

down.  Don't use five words when one will suffice.  On the article hosting sites, the rule seems to be don't use one word 

when you can write a paragraph. 

For example, an article on the subject should explain what can be done to speed up Windows Vista (EXPENSIVE!) Computers, how 

to properly tune up Windows XP (EXPENSIVE!) Computers, and why Linux Ubuntu (FREE...DOWNLOADABLE) runs better, faster, and 

with less virus and crash problems on most computers than any Microsoft Windows operating system and then shut up. Note:  

"Ubuntu's biggest problem may be a shortage of compatible wireless drivers".
 
Why have a two year old babbling on forever just to meet some arbitrary word count? It does not matter what moo moo makers 

say, One size does not fit all! So, if it is an article on the history of computers or computer techs and sciences there 

needs to be considerably more than 600 words especially with limited embedded reference links. On the other hand if it is a 

simple complete steps 1, 2, 3 to fix a specific issue it may need to be considerably less.

The Third Issue:  Emphasis...

Writing on computer and internet based subjects does not easily lend itself to the old standard of who, what, when, where and 

why. No font setting!!!! When writing about these computer and internet related issues it is often almost obligatory to 

stress and emphasize.  That can be done with much less verbiage with just a little tweaking of typesetting and a well placed 

link.

Many of these hosts are owned and operated by men.  They should understand we (especially we men) need the salient points to 

stand out from the rest of the document.  We want to know where the graphics card is located not necessarily how it 

functions. If we fail the first time (ok maybe the tenth), we will go back and read the directions.

Finally...
  
This article got a lot off my chest and over 700 words too so if it don't show up on your favorite server or host it will be 

for some other reason...probably just as subjective.
 
In the final analysis one needs to not only publish articles but a Blog and maybe even a Twitter as well to cover all the 

bases especially where there are these restrictions.  That means the surfers need to search and read both article hosts and 

the blogosphere to find the data they seek especially if they want to make sure the author is not blowing smoke or if they 

need their data well referenced and linked. Such documentation is especially important in Computer Related Articles where 

peoples precious and often nonreplacable photographs, documents, music, videos, and work related materials involving subjects 

like remote and outsourced "IT"  service, helpdesk, and repair facility.

tmm


