


Bipolar II Disorder:  A Brain Disorder That Can Make Your Life Difficult To Live


The most important organ in the human body is the brain, without it, the human body cannot function at all. The brain is like the microprocessor of a computer that is responsible for controlling everything. From your basic motor skills to making your body organs function to making decisions, everything is controlled by the brain.

This is why it is important that you should also be aware of your mental health and not just your physical health.

Today, there are now a lot of known facts about the different kinds of brain disorder that can affect the way you live your daily life. Some affects your motor skills, while other kinds of brain disorders can affect your decision making skills. There are also different causes for brain disorders. Some are caused by accidents while there are also brain disorders that are acquired since birth.

One such brain disorder is called bipolar II. Bipolar II affects your mood and with this kind of brain disorder, it can make you feel constantly depressed at no reason at all. Bipolar II is also associated with at least one hypomanic episode. Unlike bipolar disorder where manic and depressive moods are always associated, bipolar II makes a person experience one or more depressive episodes and is accompanied by one hypomanic episode at the least.

During the hypomanic episode, the person with bipolar II will feel a constant elevated, irritable or expansive mood. This particular feeling will usually last up to 4 days or more. During this phase, you will see that the behavior is entirely different from a normal non-depressed mood. The symptoms associated with bipolar II hypomanic episodes are quite similar to bipolar disorder during manic episodes but is less severe.

The major depression episodes associated with bipolar II can make a person feel excessively depressed and can make him or her feel that they are useless. The person suffering from this illness will also make them pessimistic and make them feel helpless. In severe cases of bipolar II disorder, the person may even think of death or suicide and even makes suicide attempts.

The hypomanic episodes associated with bipolar II is usually not severe enough that it can affect a person suffering from this disorder with their social activities, performance at work or school and there are no psychotic features. It is considered that if a person experiences four of more hyponamic and depressive episodes in a single year, the person has a rapid-cycling bipolar disorder. The particular cycling period will develop during the course of the illness. This means that the longer that the illness is left untreated, the more frequent the person will suffer from the illness.

You have to consider that bipolar II is a version of bipolar disorder. However, the depressive episodes are more obvious than the manic episodes. Bipolar II is not classified as manic-depression, but only large mood and energy swings. However, there are also severe forms of bipolar II where the person suffering from it can make him prone to commit suicide.

As you can see, bipolar II is a very serious illness that should not be left unchecked. As soon as you notice the signs and symptoms for bipolar II, it is important that you should seek help immediately. You have to consider that bipolar II has treatments that can minimize the effect of the illness in your daily life. The treatment will consist of psychotherapy, and medications that can normalize your mood. It is also important that your family and friends should fully support you in order to help you fully recover.

The therapy will also include helping you to cope up with the illness. It will include different methods that you can use to minimize the effect of the illness.

Bipolar II, like the bipolar disorder, is a long term illness that needs constant long term care and management. With patience, you will be able to take control of your life again and minimize the negative effects of bipolar II.

Be aware of bipolar II and live a more normal and productive lifestyle. Never be a slave of this illness again by detecting it early on and getting it treated.
