


Bipolar Disorder for Dummy: Simplified Explanation of What Bipolar Disorder Is and How You Can Cope With It


The brain is one of the most important parts of the body. Think of the brain as the part of your body that controls everything you do in your daily life. It controls everything from walking, talking, and other motor skills that you do. However, you should also consider that the brain also controls your emotions and your mood. This means that the brain is also responsible for you being happy or angry.

The brain is the most active part of the brain and even while you sleep, the brain continues to function. Since the brain controls everything about your body, you should consider that getting it damaged can cause some irregularities in your daily function. In some cases, some brain disorder is present since birth. One brain disorder is called bipolar disorder or also called manic depressive illness. This particular disorder affects the person's mood and emotions.

You will notice when a person is suffering from bipolar disorder when they constantly change their behavior. You will see that one moment they will be extremely happy and the next minute, they will feel depressed and back again to being happy. Although mood changes happen to everyone, you have to consider that normal mood change will take some time to happen. The abnormal mood change suggests that this person has a bipolar disorder.

Depending on the severity of the disorder, unusual and extreme mood change can last for a few minutes to as long as a month. Because of this unusual behavior, it can dramatically affect their social life as well as their performance at work or at school. You should consider that this is a very serious condition where it has to be managed carefully in order for a person with bipolar disorder lead a normal life.

There are cases where bipolar disorder is left untreated and results in dangerous situation, such as suicide attempts and substance abuse. This is why you should be careful when someone in your family or your circle of friends have this particular condition as it can be dangerous for the people around them and also for themselves as well.

Bipolar disorder has no cure but there are treatments available in order for people with this disorder lead a more normal life. Psychotherapy is one of the best treatments for bipolar disorder where a person with this condition can learn how to control their unstable emotions and also know when there is an attack of mood changes happening. With psychotherapy, people with bipolar disorder can distinguish between what's normal and what's not.

There are also medications available that can stabilize the mood changes to normal levels and prevents it from getting out of control. It is important that once you notice something unusual about a family member or a friend's behavior, you should seek help for them immediately as people with bipolar disorder are very unpredictable and can think and attempt to commit of suicide anytime.

If it is possible, you should recommend that they should see a psychiatrist. You have to be insistent because people with bipolar disorder often deny that there is something wrong with them and they will be aggressive.

Bipolar disorder is a serious long term condition that requires long term treatment with psychotherapy and medications. There is no cure for it but there are treatments for it that will enable people with bipolar disorder lead a healthier and more normal life.

Carefully managing this condition can result in a more productive life for the person with bipolar disorder. It is also important that the family of the person with this condition should continually support him or her.

Early detection can result in a much more productive lifestyle for the person suffering from this disorder. So, you noticed some irregular change in a person's behavior or mood, you should immediately refer to a psychiatrist about the symptoms. They will be able to conduct a diagnosis about the condition and will recommend therapy and medication that can help them lead a normal and more productive life.

Bipolar disorder is a disabling medical condition that can result in unproductive and abnormal lifestyle. They will suffer from social problems, and their physical health will also deteriorate if not treated.

These are some of the things you should know about bipolar disorder in order for you to know how you can cope up with it.
