


Bipolar II Disorder: The Signs, Symptoms and Treatment to Cope Up With This Brain Disorder


In order to live a normal and productive life, you should have a healthy body. This is what most people often say and believe. However, what most people don’t know is that they should also consider that their brain should also function normally. Besides, having a brain that doesn’t function properly can affect the way you live your daily life.

Today, recent advances and research in psychiatry have found different kinds of brain disorders that can affect almost everyone. One such brain disorder is called bipolar disorder. This particular disorder can affect the way you control your mood or your emotion. Normally, there are some instances where you feel some ups and downs, depending on your environment. This means that when something happens that you like, you will feel happy or when something happens that you don’t like, you will feel depressed. This is a normal reaction of your body.

However, a person suffering from bipolar disorder cannot control their mood. There will be a constant cycle of depressive and manic episodes where a person will feel excessively happy and excessively depressed at no reason at all. People suffering from bipolar disorder can seem unusually happy or sad at some intervals. Severe cases of bipolar disorder have been known to cause several noticeable mood swings in a single day.

As mentioned before, there are two episodes that a person suffering from bipolar disorder experiences. The first one is the manic episode where a person will feel extremely happy, feels that they have a lot of energy, feels that they don’t need sleep and others. The person in the manic episode will usually talk very fast with racing thoughts that results in jumping from one idea to another. He or she will also be irritable and will not accept that there is something wrong.

In the depressive episode, the person will feel depressed and excessively sad. They will feel that they are useless, they will be irritable, they feel restless, they feel that they need to sleep, and in severe cases of bipolar disorder, they think about death and suicide where they can attempt to commit suicide.

As you can see, bipolar disorder is a very serious illness.

Another kind of bipolar disorder is called bipolar II. The symptoms are very much the same but the manic episode in bipolar II are not as severe as bipolar disorder. However, the depressive episode is the same or even worse in bipolar II. In the manic episode, the symptoms are not so severe that it can never really affect their daily life. They will still be able to function in their daily activities with no problem at all only that they will feel more energetic than normal.

However, the depressive episode in bipolar II is very much the same as bipolar disorder where the person suffering from bipolar II can suffer from the same symptoms as bipolar disorder. There are some cases where bipolar II is very severe that people with this condition attempted to commit suicide.

You have to consider that bipolar II is also a serious mental condition that needs attention in order for it to become stable and not get any worse.

First of all, bipolar and bipolar II cannot be cured. The technology to cure bipolar and bipolar II is not yet available. However, there are treatments that people should consider in order to help them cope up with bipolar disorder as well as bipolar II. The treatment will consist of psychotherapy, and medication. During the psychotherapy sessions, the family should get involved in order to let them understand about bipolar II and help them learn how to cope with it. The patient is also taught several methods to minimize the effects of the episodes associated with bipolar II mainly the depressive episode.

The psychotherapy can be strengthened by prescribing some medications that can normalize the mood of the patient. This means that the medication can help the patient prevent their brains to reach a depressive state or manic state.

These are some of the things that you should know about bipolar disorder and bipolar II. Always remember that it is essential that this condition should be detected early on by basing on the signs and symptoms in order to treat it as early as possible and prevent it from becoming worse.
