


Enraged Kid: Common Symptoms of Bipolar Disorder in a Child  


No one will imagine that a healthy, active and intelligent child will have a series of unexplainable tantrums and mood swings. Some would think that such type of child is inflicted with Attention Deficit Disorder while others may think that the child is bratty and undisciplined by his parents.  

Before you jump into different conclusions, take a look at one aspect such as Bipolar Disorder. Bipolar disorder is a condition wherein an individual undergoes persistent incidents of combined depression and mania. The common term for bipolar disorder is "manic depression." 

You can gauge if your child has bipolar disorder with the following symptoms: 

Noticeable mood and energy changes 

A child with bipolar disorder usually has a constant and incessant mood interruption. The mood swings usually lasts for hours or it can last for days. Some psychologists say that the mood disorder is commonly a combination of depression and mania.  

Separation anxiety 

A child with this type of disorder also experiences "separation anxiety." Separation anxiety is a condition wherein a child is apprehensive being left from the individual taking good care of him. 

Defiance to authority 

Severe disobedience is another symptom that should be taken into account. No figure of authority especially the parents or caregiver is being respected by a child with dipolar disorder. 

Hyperactivity 

A child with dipolar disorder is usually agitated by different things around him. You should be on the look out when your child is strangely overactive. He seems to struggle in concentrating at a specified activity such as sitting still, eating, and doing school work.  

Sleeping Problems 

Your child may experience difficulty in sleeping. He may sleep too much or too little. During his slumber, "night terrors" can occur. Night terror is sometimes referred to as "pavor nocturnus" wherein a child usually is abruptly awakened during his sleep yet cannot retain information from his dream. Along with night terror that can occur is bed wetting wherein your child spontaneously urinates.  

Another sleeping problem which can be encountered by your child is not being able to easily wake up in the morning. You must have a "waking-up strategy" so that your child will not be late for classes or any appointment in the morning. 

Food cravings

Foods high in carbohydrates and sugar are the most craved by children with dipolar disorder. The cravings are somewhat strange since it is usually robust and repeated. 

Ill behavior 

Mischievous sprite behavior is another common symptom of dipolar disorder. Your child will usually do strange things such as getting out of a moving vehicle, fighting with the caregiver with no apparent reason or to some, bullying other kids.  

Unhealthy sexual behavior 

It is common for a child with dipolar disorder to have unacceptable sexual behavior. Studies show that there are healthy and unhealthy sexual behaviors for children. Children are not commonly openly sexual since in their age they are more likely to explore and be playful. Additionally, they are not preoccupied with interactions concerning sex. 

Hallucination

Hallucinations can be experienced by a child with dipolar disorder. Hallucination is defined as unusual "sensory perceptions" which happen when your child is wide awake and aware of the things happening around him. When your child is telling you that he is hearing voices but he is not speaking with anyone, then you must be alert and extend help as soon as possible.  

Grandiosity 

A sign of grandiosity is present for children with dipolar disorder. Grandiosity is referred to as exaggerated assessment of one's value, authority, understanding, significance and individuality. 

In your child's belief, he is magnificent and all-knowing. With this attitude, you will have difficulty in competing with him. Most of the time, you will end up having a fight with him.  

Speedy and strained speech 

There are kids who really talk fast, however when "speedy and strained speech" is a continuous incident with your child then he may be experiencing dipolar disorder. It is not normal for a kid to talk fast yet talking with so much anxiety.  

Indeed, a child undergoes tantrums and mood swings. However, you as the parent or caregiver should be cautious about these things. There is what you call a "healthy tantrums and mood swings." When these things begin to become unhealthy, then it is time to closely examine your child and his actions.
