


Trastorno Bipolar: You and Your Mental Health


Your mental health is an important factor that affects the way you live your daily life. You have to realize that the brain is one of the most important organs of the human body and it is needed in order to live a normal and productive life. However, there are some cases where the brain suffers from disorders and in turn, it can affect some aspects of your daily activity, such as your motor skills.

One kind of brain disorder is called Trastorno bipolar or bipolar disorder. Bipolar disorder is a mental illness that can affect your way of thinking, your emotions and your different moods. What bipolar disorder does is it cycles your manic and depressive moods. Normally people experience moments of mania and depression because of their environment. It is a normal body behavior and reaction to their environment. However, bipolar disorder is a form of mental illness that will render your moods out of control. A person suffering from bipolar disorder will experience excessive mania where they feel that they are very powerful and energetic and they will also feel excessive depression, where in some cases, some thinks about death and suicide.

The manic and depressive cycles occur at intervals and one affected will feel energetic or depressed for no reason at all. During the manic episodes of bipolar disorder, the person affected will feel as if they are on top of the world, they have ideas popping out of their head and they will often experience racing thoughts. The racing thoughts is not just all about thinking very fast, but it is also comprised of not stopping to think. You will your own voice repeating something you said in the past, you will hear fragments of music, see fragments of movies you saw, and you will also hear conversations you had over and over again.

One will also feel very energetic and thinks that they don’t need sleep at all.

When the depressive episode occurs in bipolar disorder, the person affected will experience a depressive mood. They will feel excessively sad, and they will also feel loneliness and hopelessness. They will also feel tired and constantly in need of sleep and in severe cases of bipolar disorder, some people will even think about death and suicide and often attempts the latter.

Because of the symptoms associated with this mental disorder, the person affected cannot concentrate on their daily activities. It can negatively affect performance at work or at school and can cause relationship problems. People with bipolar disorder find it hard to make and keep friends and relationships because of their unusual behavior.

As you can see, bipolar disorder is a very serious illness that needs to be carefully managed and treated. You have to consider that there is no known cure for this disorder and the theories regarding the causes of bipolar disorder are not entirely solid. Some theories suggest that bipolar disorder is genetic while others have claimed that it is caused by drug and alcohol abuse. This is a lifetime illness that needs long term treatment.

The treatment will include psychotherapy combined with special medications that can reduce the signs and symptoms of bipolar disorder.  During therapy, the psychiatrist will teach the person affected with the disorder ways to control their emotions and moods. The family members of the affected individual will also be informed about the disorder and will be taught on how to cope with it. Usually, there are certain drugs prescribed that can help in reducing the signs and symptoms of bipolar disorder.

As you can see, the treatment for bipolar disorder will also require the family members of the affected individual to participate. They will be able to contribute a lot on the treatment process and family support is often the key to controlling the illness.

In time, with the patient as well as the family actively participating in the treatment process, the individual affected with bipolar disorder can cope with the illness effectively. They will be able to lead a normal and productive life where they can control their emotions and moods effectively.

Always remember that treatment for bipolar disorder is not often easy. It requires patience and dedication in order for the person affected to effectively manage their mental disorder.
