Title: 
Currency Trading or Dogs-of-the-Dow.

Word Count:
396

Summary:
article about foreign currency trading


Keywords:
Forex, trading, Dogs-of-the-Dow, stocks, dividend, currency, niche-market


Article Body:
Have you ever heard of the Dogs-of-the-Dow system. It’s a well known system in the stock and trading business.  There are several stock brokers who have earned a lot of money by working with this system. They are using at for several years now. They think it’s a safe way to let your money grow slowly but consistently.  

If you know the Dogs-of-the-Dow system you know that the system makes yearly a better percentage then the index. 

If you have started using the system several years ago and used it properly for those years you would have earned a nice percentage each year.  Double figures are more then ones made.  A high yield income of 17.7 % average annual return since 1973 has been made.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average overall return was 11.9 % during that same periode. 
So you would have made almost 6 % more each year. Not bad at all.


If you never heard about it let me explain how that system works.
At some point in the year, mostly early January, you take a look at all the companies that gives you the highest dividend payment.

You make a basket (several companies added together) then you decide how much percentage you will spent on each company. Next you buy stocks of each company to a curtain amount of money you have available and wait until the year passes.
When the year has passed you make op the balance and see how much you have earned.

If you don’t want to trade frequently the Dogs-of-the-Dow system is a very relaxing and defensive and profitable way of money investment.

If you want to make a higher profit, trading is a better and faster way. Foreign currency trading in particular. Foreign currency trading requires little more than just knowing the currency course rate. 
You have to understand some basics techniques of how the market trades those currencies.  


With the right  knowledge and techniques you can easily turn $ 50 into $ 1000.
Trading then isn’t just making money it’s also fun.
The fun is that it can be done 24 hours a day. When one market closes the other opens up. So you go from New York to Amsterdam to Tokyo to Sydney and back to  New York.

Want to hear about the benefits of trading foreign currency instead of other money investment products.

Find out and http://www.powerfulltradingcourse.com


