Title: 
Forex Trading, Fast and Exciting

Word Count:
488

Summary:
Imagine waking up in the morning turning on your computer and spotting a good trading opportunity. You decide to enter the trade, and then go for your morning coffee. By the time you get back to your computer 15 minutes later you have made $1500.00 dollars.


Keywords:
trade money,currency trading,forex trading


Article Body:
Imagine waking up in the morning turning on your computer and spotting a good trading opportunity. You decide to enter the trade, and then go for your morning coffee. By the time you get back to your computer 15 minutes later you have made $1500.00 dollars. This is just a sample of what trading on the Forex is like. It’s nothing to work part time and be able to earn more then you presently earn working full time.

You will be hard pressed to find a job with this much excitement too. You have the potential to make $300.00 to $3000.00 inside of 10 minutes. You can do this from the comfort of your home, and don’t need a large investment to get started. You can start with just $300.00. Once you’ve entered the world of Foreign exchange trading you’ll be hooked. 

This market is not for the weak at heart though. If you don’t have nerves of steel, then you should stop reading and find a more conservative means to earn money.  But if you’re the type who loves adventure, can make quick decisions, and you know how to win, then trading the Forex is for you.

Initially at first glance the charts look the same as any stock chart, but you’ll quickly notice the momentum, and the volatility creating trading opportunities every minute. Trading the Forex has potential for higher earnings percentages than any other investment. This is because you are leveraging money. Leveraging ratios as high as 200:1 are available from some brokers. You won’t find that kind of ratio in the stock market, or real estate. The brokers don’t charge a commission although their making money on what is commonly referred to as the spread. This is the price difference between what you buy the currency pair for and what you can sell it back for. The spread is depicted in PIP’s, (Price Index Points). For every pip the currency pair moves you can make ten dollars trading one lot with a regular account. It’s not unusual for a currency pair to swing 30-50 pips in a very short period. A 50 pip swing with 1 regular lot traded yields $500.00. 

Don’t be fooled, this is not a way to get rich without doing research. You need training, and an understanding of the Forex market. There are a great number of people claiming to be experts selling their systems and seminars. Do your due diligence; there is no replacement for good training. Don’t be fooled into believing that you have to spend a lot of money to receive the necessary tools and knowledge to succeed as a Forex trader. In fact some of the lower cost courses have more to offer than the $3000.00 software. There are even free charting packages available along with demo accounts so you can practice without risking real money. Take time to research the Foreign Exchange Currency Market.


