Title: 
FOREX Trading-Not Just for the Big Boys

Word Count:
457

Summary:
FOREX trading - the new explosion!


Keywords:
forex trading


Article Body:
It seems that almost everyone is familiar with the stock market and many employees are actually invested in it because of their company’s 401k.  Everyday as part of the news report, we are always given the latest report on the Dow Jones or New York Stock Exchange.  Yes, it has its ups and downs and we all know someone who has made large profits as well as devastating losses.  The stock market can be very volatile.  If there was a market you could trade in without as much of this volatility, had easy access and low cost, what would it be?  FOREX.  

FOREX (Foreign Exchange market) is the largest financial market in the world with almost $1.5 trillion traded daily.  Compare that to $200 billion in the equity market.  Basically, FOREX is the exchange where you can sell one country’s currency for another.  Let’s say that you purchase British pounds and then after the pounds/dollar ratio goes up, you sell the pounds and buy more dollars.  Until recently this market was only accessible by the major banks, large corporations and those with very large investments.  Due to federal regulations, the Foreign Exchange market is no longer a monopoly which means you and I can also profit in this huge market.

Let’s look at some of the benefits of FOREX trading.  

Accessibility.  24 hours a day, 5.5 days a week.  The currency exchange market is an over the counter market which means that there is not one specific location where buyers and sellers meet to exchange currencies.  Transactions can be easily handled through websites designed for this purpose.  

No exchange or commission fees.  Unlike other markets where brokerage fees are incurred, the FOREX market is a worldwide inter-bank market.  Trades can be made between the buyer and seller in an instant.

Low minimum Investment.  For an initial investment of $300, you can start your FOREX account.  This market requires less money to begin trading than any other market.  This keeps your risk low.

These are just a few of the many advantages of the FOREX trading.  Are you ready to jump into an exciting new adventure that can be very profitable?  Can you imagine getting into this market and having someone train you for free?   There is a free course currently being offered that will teach both beginners and experienced currency traders how to profit in this market.  “FOREX Freedom” is the course you should check out if any of this sounds like the opportunity that you have been waiting for.  It will guide you every step of the way.  

Good luck with your currency trading,

Karen Kelley

For more information and your free downloadable copy of “FOREX Freedom”, please visit our web site.  
http://www.fxtradingtoday.com


