Title: 
Others Vs Forex Trading

Word Count:
472

Summary:
Forex Trading can be risky and the general rule for investing is: When the return is high the risk is high, but with correct planning and strategy combined with a certain amount of self discipline you can bring the risk factor down to a level that is quite low.


Keywords:
Forex,forex trading,investing,invest,investment,online,trade,capitol,risk,return,profit,profits,profiting,market,marketing,earn,earning,make,making,money,investor,work,home


Article Body:
What are the advantages of Forex over other types of investments?

LOW RISK - HIGH YIELD is the first thing that comes to mind.
Forex Trading can be risky and the general rule for investing is: When the return is high the risk is high, but with correct planning and strategy combined with a certain amount of self discipline you can bring the risk factor down to a level that is quite low. It is even possible to strategically plan your market entry and exit levels and control exactly how much you profit or lose.
This can be done in a way that allows the investor to still profit even when they misjudge the market 50% of the time! Compare that to other types of investments.

GEARING, is another area that stands out as a major advantage; this also substantially reduces the risk to you the investor. When you trade 1 forex “Mini lot” you will be trading a parcel of money valued at $10,000 USD
And you only need $100 USD of your own money!
If you trade a regular “Lot” you only need $1,000 USD to trade $100,000 USD.
How’s that for gearing? Try and do that with other kinds of investments!

LOW CAPITAL REQUIRED, many investments require a substantial amount of capital before you can take advantage of a particular investment opportunity, with Forex You only need $300 USD to “get into the market”, and only need to have $100 USD in order to trade your $10,000 “Mini Lot”.

CONVIENIENCE, if you have a laptop and an internet connection you can make a trade in 5- 10 minutes! Depending on how long your computer takes to start up, and the speed of your connection. 

LIQUIDITY, many other forms of investing require tying your money up for long periods of time, and if you need to use the capital it can be difficult or impossible to access to it without taking a huge loss (Real Estate).
Not so with Forex trading. With Forex Trading you have full control of your capital.

CAN PROFIT IN BULLISH OR BEARISH MARKETS,
Stock market traders need stock prices to rise in order to take a profit, Real Estate prices must go up in order to make a capital gain. 
However, The Forex investor can make a profit in both situations, a rising or falling market.

The Forex Market is open 24 hrs a day.

Can anyone do it or do you need to be some kind of super genius? 
Forex Trading isn’t for the faint hearted so be warned, while you can get yourself a “Demo Account” and practice as you learn in real time in the real market. 
You can’t experience the emotions that come with putting your real money on the line.

You can however prepare yourself well by using one of the many Forex Trading courses that are available online today.


