Title: 
Why You Should Trade FOREX Over Other Investments

Word Count:
528

Summary:
Find out why the FOREX (foreign currency exchange) market has so many advantages over other more conventional financial markets, and why astute internet entrepreneurs are finding it highly profitable!


Keywords:
currency trading, day trading, FOREX, FX, forex, online business, foreign currency exchange, make money online


Article Body:
Everyone has heard of stocks and shares, probably even the futures market, but trading the FOREX (Foreign Currency Exchange, or FX) market is a relatively new phenomenon. Until recently, FOREX was the domain of the banking fraternity (large banks can trade billions of dollars daily), and the elite in financial and business circles. But now it is possible for the average person to be a part of this incredible – and very profitable – way of making a living, thanks to the personal computer and an internet connection. All done electronically and considered an over-the-counter (OTC) market, trading is far easier and less risky than either the futures or the stock markets. Money can be made both on a rising and falling market, unlike the stock market, which relies on shares increasing in price to create profit.

<b>More and more astute internet entrepreneurs are shunning the traditional financial markets and turning to FOREX trading</b>. They know that it is possible to earn a full-time income from part-time effort – if you’d like to make $200 to $3,000 for as little as ten minutes’ work, and with minimal risk, then FOREX is for you.

FOREX, the spot (cash) market for buying and selling currency, is the largest financial market in the world. Every day more than $1.5 trillion (yes, <b>trillion</b>) is traded globally and, unlike the stock market, which has fixed hours, it is a market that never sleeps. Somewhere in the world, at any time of day or night, FOREX is open for business, six days a week. The market starts each day in Sydney and moves around the globe as other FOREX financial centers open: first to Tokyo, then London and New York.

In simple terms, currencies are traded in pairs, for example the Euro and the US dollar (EUR/USD). The first currency – in this case the Euro – is known as the base currency; the second currency (here, the US dollar), is the counter-currency. All trades result in the simultaneous buying of one currency and the selling of the other. Thus, in this example, if you place an order to buy the EUR/USD, you are buying the Euro and selling the US dollar. If you were to sell the pair, you would be selling the Euro and buying the US dollar. There are many other currency pairs, such as USD/JPY, GBP/USD, EUR/GBP, USD/CHF and so on.

What makes trading FOREX an incredible way to make money online, is that price movements are highly predictable, creating trends that can be anticipated when it comes to decide when to buy and sell. Contrasting with stocks and shares, FOREX trading through brokers is commission free. It is also possible – and definitely recommended – to open a demo (practice) account with a broker first, where you can learn to trade and gain experience before you part with a cent of your own money.

<b>Do you want financial freedom?</b> With huge advantages over other more conventional money markets, why not experience the excitement of pips, rollovers, leverage, lots, long and short positions, limit orders etc. and <b>start to trade FOREX</b>. Good luck!

Penelope Housden.


