Title: 
Working The FOREX Market-The Basics

Word Count:
334

Summary:
What Does FOREX Stand For ? 
FOREX stands for Foreign Currency Exchange Market. It is gaining more and more interest 
in the investing world, and for good reason. The FOREX Market is the largest market in the world
and can be accessed anywhere in the world. The FOREX Market's volume is over 1.5 Trillion, providing 
almost infinate liquidity and flexability.


Keywords:
trading, forex, making money, money, business


Article Body:
What Does FOREX Stand For ? 
FOREX stands for Foreign Currency Exchange Market. It is gaining more and more interest 
in the investing world, and for good reason. The FOREX Market is the largest market in the world
and can be accessed anywhere in the world. The FOREX Market's volume is over 1.5 Trillion, providing 
almost infinate liquidity and flexability.

 How do you trade? 
Instead of trading "stocks" where there is thousands to choose from, you are trading pairs 
of currency against eachother. This gives you an advantage because you can focus on just 2
pairs of currencies instead of countless stocks.  You can trade from your home computer, or any computer
with an internet connection from anywhere in the world.
 
 When do you trade? 
The FOREX Market is open 24 hours a day so you can trade whenever you want! You just need a computer, 
a Demo or Real Money account and a willingness to learn, research, and trade!

Why Should I Trade? 
You should only trade if you are ready to change your mind about how much money you 
CAN make and reach your full potential. 
You should trade forex because its a great tool to leverage your time and replace your income.
Here are the benifits of Trading Forex:
You can work anytime you want 24 hours a day, 6 days a week. Its a continuous onine (electronic) that 
never closess. Work at home, on the beach, or anywhere in the world!
You can trade foreign currencies on a high leveraged basis, sometimes up to 200 times your investment! 
This is made possible by the higher levels of liquidity in the market.
Price movements are highly predictable! Fx Market trends generally repeat themselves, creating trends 
that are easily predictable!
With all these benifits and tons of others, you can easily make $200 to $3000 dollars a day trading! 
Too good to be true ? Let us prove you wrong for FREE! 

There are many other AWESOME reasons to trade FOREX and you can learn them all by downloading our FREE E-Book!


