California Wine Country:  A Perfect Wedding Venue

Are you currently engaged?  If you are, congratulations!  This is an exciting time in your life and you may want to get started with planning your wedding right away.  One of the first decisions that you will have to make is deciding where to have your wedding.  If you do not already have a set venue in mind, you are urged to examine California wine country.  After a close examination, you may be surprised exactly just how much the area has to offer.

As nice as it is to hear that you should get married in California wine country, you may be curious as to why.   For starters, you may live in New York State.  If you live clear across the country, it can sometimes be inconvenient to travel and get married in California.  With that said, it can also be fun, exciting, adventurous, and romantic.  With long distance travel like this, your wedding in California, should you choose to get married there, would now become a destination wedding.  Over the past few years, destination weddings have increased in popularity, especially in wine country.

Despite the fact that destination weddings are increasing in popularity and that many individuals choose California wine country as their destination, locals are also urged to examine wine country.  As a local, you likely already know that there are over four hundred wineries in the state of California.  Many are not only open to the general public, but many also have banquet rooms or other options for hosting wedding ceremonies and wedding receptions, as well as other private events. 

Wineries and vineyards are known for their picture perfect looks and feels.  There are many that are just breathtaking.  When getting married, this is the type of backdrop and scenery that you will want to have.  Most wineries and vineyards in California wine country have a beautiful, yet natural look and feel to them.  This type of environment created is sought after by many brides and grooms.  Most want to have a picture prefect wedding, but most also don’t want to have a “forced,” environment and setting.  With wine country in California, this isn’t an issue.

When examining why wine country makes for the perfect wedding venue, it is also important to touch on other features.  For starters, you have a number of different options when looking to plan a wedding reception and a wedding ceremony.  Of course, you have the option of getting married in a church, but many choose to have their wedding and wedding reception in the same place.  It is not uncommon for vineyards and wineries, who are set up to host wedding receptions, to have private and beautiful areas set aside for wedding ceremonies as well.  In wine country, it should be easy for you to find a minister who would be willing to travel to your destination.

As for other aspects of planning a wedding, wine country has all that you need.  In the wine country area of California, you will find a number of professional photographers, DJs, catering companies, and so forth.  In fact, by carefully choosing which winery you choose to have your wedding reception at, you may be provided with a meal options for an affordable price.  Some will actually have wedding packages for you to choose from.  While you will find some variations, wine country wedding packages, should they exist, are likely to include food and wine.

Finally, overnight accommodations need to be examined.  Since California wine country is a well known and popular vacation destination, you will find no shortage of overnight accommodations.  Still, with that being said, it is important to plan ahead.  During peak travel times, such as on Saturdays or from May to October, many hotels and vacation resorts quickly fill up with reservations.  For private and romantic overnight accommodations, you will want to examine bed and breakfasts, as well as private vacation rentals, such a vacation homes and cottages.

As highlighted above, there are a number of reasons why you should at least consider wine country as a destination for your upcoming wedding.  Whether you already live in the great state of California or if you are looking to plan a destination wedding, wine country has everything that you could ever want or need on your special day.

PPPPP

Word Count 716
