How to Make the Most Out of Your Trip to California Wine Country

Are you interested in visiting California wine country?  If you are, you may be unsure as to how you should proceed, in terms of what you should see and do.  With over four hundred wineries and vineyards in the area, as well as an unlimited number of fun activities, perfect for just about every trip, you may be wondering how you can make the most out of your time.  For tips on how you can do so, please continue reading on.

The best way to make the most and get the most out of your next trip to California wine country is to plan ahead. You will want to know what each and every one of your options are.  This should include everything from guided wine tours to overnight accommodations.  Proper planning and preparation are key to having the vacation or trip of your dreams.

In terms of overnight accommodations, you will find a large number of options.  Popular options in wine country for tourists include hotels, vacation resorts, vacation rentals, bed and breakfasts, as well as inns.  For starters, you will want to ensure that you make your reservations well in advance, to help ensure that your first choices, like a vacation home rental, aren’t all filled up with reservations.  Secondly, it is important to stay at a place that is conveniently located.  This can help you get most out of your wine country trip by eliminating unnecessary travel.

A big staple of visiting wine country is taking a wine country tour.  When looking to do so, you will find that you have a number of options.  If you are looking to take your own independent tour, be sure to arrange for a designated driver.  You will want to stay safe.  If you everyone in your traveling party wants to drink, a guided wine tour may be in your best interest.  Yes, a guided wine tour will cost extra money, but you are usually provided with travel, either by small bus or van.  This makes is so that you don’t have to worry about ruining your fun or the fun of someone else in your group by requiring that just one person doesn’t get the opportunity to wine taste.

As previously stated, wine tours are a good idea for those who all want to be able to wine taste and without worry.  Before choosing a guided wine tour company, be sure to examine all of your options first.  Many will outline on their online websites which wineries and vineyards their tours stops at, for how long, and the costs of doing so.  The best way to make the most out of your next wine country trip is to get the most value for your money. 

If you would like to tour local wineries independently and have arrangements for a designated driver, be sure to examine all of your options, in terms of wineries and vineyards in the area.  Since you have hundreds to choose from, you will want to prioritize.  Which are must sees for you?  Most vineyards have open doors, tours of their grounds, and wine tasting available on a daily basis; however, you may also want to examine other planned events.  For example, if a winery is having an educational class on the making of wine during your trip dates, it may be worth making plans to attend.

In keeping with independent wine tours, you will want to create a map for yourself.  Once you have an idea of which wineries and vineyards you would like to visit, mark them on a map.  Then, what you will want to do is decide on a method of travel.  Try to visit all of the wineries you checked off on your map in an order that allows you to maximize your time.  The best way to do this is to create a set path to follow, namely one that does not result in you backtracking.

PPPPP

Word Count 656
