Long Distance Wine Country Trips:  Your Travel Options

Are you interested in taking a trip to California’s wine country?  If you are, you may be required to travel a long distance.  Whether you are coming from Ohio, New York, or Florida, you will want to examine your long distance travel arrangements.  When you need to travel farther, there are even more travel arrangements that you need to make.

The first step in making your long distance California wine country travel arrangements involves examining all of your options.  You will need to decide how you want to get to wine country before you make all of your travel arrangements.  For that reason, a few of your options are highlighted below.  

Air travel is one of the most common ways to get to California’s wine country.  As previously stated, California wine country is popular, but it is somewhat considered isolated for many parts of the United States.  For many individuals, they prefer hopping on a flight that may last six hours as opposed to spending four or more days in the car.  

If you are interested flying to California wine country, you will find that you have a number of different options.  There are many airports in California for you to choose from, but be sure to choose one that is located close to wine country or at least your intended vacation destination.  Also, be sure to examine vacation packages, as many enable you to receive a discount for airline reservations and hotel accommodations.  You will also want to make arrangements to get a car rental, once you arrive in the area.

As previously stated, you also have the option of driving to wine country yourself.  This is an ideal option if you live only a few hours away.  With that said, since most of wine country cannot be explored in just a day, you are encouraged to make a weekend trip out of it.  If so, you will also need to make your overnight accommodation reservations as well.  For many who do not need vacation packages, inns and bed and breakfasts come highly rated and recommended.

Even if you live a relatively long distance away form California wine country, you may still be interested in driving yourself, especially if you are a motor home owner.  Even if you are not a motor home owner, you may still have rental options.  For many individuals visiting wine country, traveling by RV is a great option for those on extended trips or large families.  Depending on your own personal situation, you may be able to save yourself a considerable amount of money when traveling to wine country by RV.

Speaking of traveling by RV, you may be pleased to know that the wine country area of California has a number of RV parks and public campgrounds with motor home accommodations to choose from.  Anyone traveling by RV is encouraged to examine these overnight accommodation options, as they are affordable.  In wine country, you can camp at public campgrounds, as well as many national or state parks.

As you can see, there are a number of different ways that you can get to California wine country, no matter where you are coming from, as well as a number of different places to stay.  As a recap, vacation resorts, vacation rentals, hotels, inns, bed and breakfasts, public campgrounds and RV parks all come highly rated and recommended. 

PPPPP

Word Count 563
