Planning a Napa Valley Wine Tour

Are you in the process of planning a trip to Northern California?  If you are, you will want to take the time to examine Napa Valley, especially if you are wine drinker.  Napa Valley is in California’s wine country.  If you are going to be in the area, you may want to stop by for a day or two and take a Napa Valley wine tour or two.

If you are already going to be in the Northern California area, you will not need to make any additional travel arrangements.  However, if you are interested in spending a day or two in wine country, namely Napa Valley, you may want to checkout a few of the inns and bed and breakfasts in the area.  Many come highly rated and recommended and most are also conveniently located for those on wine tours.

Should you wish to take a Napa Valley wine tour, you will find that you have a number of different options.  For example, you can drive yourself in your own vehicle or in a car rental or you can make reservations for a guided wine tour.  Guided wines are popular in wine county, but you don’t have as much freedom as you would traveling through the area touring local wineries on your own. 

If you are interested in stopping by local wineries and vineyards for tours and wine tasting on your own, without a guided tour group, you will want to start examining all of your options as soon as possible.  Wine country is filled with hundreds of wineries and vineyards and most of them are open to the public.  Since you will not be able to visit all of the wineries in the area, you will want to handpick the ones that you do stop at.  When doing so, examine admission fees, wine tasting costs, hours, and events that may be occurring, such as an educational class on the history of wine making.

As it was previously stated, you will want examine cost when deciding which wineries and vineyards you should visit in the area.  Not all charge an admission fee, but some do.  That is why you will want to try and research local wineries online first. There are a number of online travel guides that can help you do so.  As for wine tasting, you should be prepared to pay a small fee. While you will find some variances, average wine tasting fees are typically between ten and twenty dollars.  As for any special events, like an hour long educational class, rates will vary significantly.

As mentioned above, you can use the internet to learn more about local wineries and vineyards in the Napa Valley area.  What you may also want to do is search for printable wine country maps.  Once you have a printed map, you can then circle each winery you would like to stop at along the way.  Printable wine California country maps can easily be found with a standard internet search.  You may also be able to find similar maps available for pickup at wineries and other establishments throughout Napa Valley.

In conclusion, you have a number of different options when looking to take a Napa Valley wine tour.  As reminder, if you will be drinking, be sure to display caution.  Many large groups make the decision to choose a designated driver and your traveling party may want to do the same as well.

PPPPP

Word Count 572
