Pros and Cons of Guided Wine Country Tours

Are you interested in visiting wine country?  Whether you choose to visit the wine countries in California, New York, or Washington, you may be pleased with all of the options that you have, especially where wine tours are concerned.  One of those options is making reservations for a guided wine tour, as compared to touring local wineries yourself.

When it comes to deciding how you should tour wine country, you may be unsure which option is best for you and the rest of your traveling party.  To help assist you in the decision making process, a few pros and cons to guided wine tours are outlined below.  By examining these pros and cons and then applying them to your own personal wants and needs, you can determine if a guided wine tour is the right choice for you and your next wine country trip.

As for the pros or plus sides to making reservations for a guided wine tour, you will find that there are a number of them. Perhaps, the most influential one is that you automatically have a designated driver.  This is an important factor that many do not take into consideration right away.  For many individuals, a few sips of wine here and there can quickly add up.  This is not an issue that you will have to worry about with a guided wine tour, as most companies will provide travel arrangements for you, like in a small bus or van.
 
Another one of the many pros or plus sides to seeing wine country with a guided tour is the discounts that you may receive.  Did you know that some companies include admission and wine tasting fees in their prices?  Many do so because it is not uncommon for local wineries to work with wine tour companies to offer discounts and other savings, which can benefit tourists just like you.  If a wine country tour company provides you with discounts or other special savings, they will likely outline so on their online websites.

Another pro or plus side to guided wine tours is the options that you have.  As wine tours continue to increase in popularity, so do the number of tours that are offered in the area.  This means that you should have a number of wine tour companies to choose from, especially if you travel to California wine country.  When examining all of your options, which is easy to do online, be sure to examine rates, stops, length, and company reputation.

Although there are a number of benefits to booking reservations for a guided wine tour, there are also a number of cons or downsides to doing so as well.  One of those is the added expense.  Should you choose a guided wine tour company that doesn’t provide you with any deals or discounts for wine tasting, the cost should be looked at from an added expense.  If you are on a budget, this is an important factor that needs to be taken into consideration.

Another drawback to guided wine tours is that you don’t have much freedom.  Many wine tour companies and their winery stops are predetermined.  This, however, does allow you to do research online, as many companies will outline specific tours that they have available on their websites.  You will want to research and compare wine companies to ensure that are able to visit at least a couple of popular and well known wineries.  You will also want to take quality into consideration; make sure that you are getting a good value for your money.

The above mentioned pros and cons are just a few of the many that you will want to take into consideration, when trying to determine how you should tour wine country.  As a reminder, examine your own personal wants and needs.  For example, does everyone in your traveling party want to drink and enjoy wine tasting?  If so, a guided tour may be in your best interest.

PPPPP

Word Count 660
