Tips for Planning a Last Minute Wine Country Tour

Were you recently given unexpected free time, namely a few days?  Whether you received some vacation time at work or if your previous plans fell through, you may be looking for something fun and exciting to do.  In fact, you even may be looking to take a last minute mini vacation.  If you are, you may want to examine the wine country of California.

Should you decide to take a last minute trip to California’s wine country, the first thing that you will want to do is make your travel arrangements.  Even if you simply just have to get in car and drive an hour, it is still nice to have a plan.  On the other hand, long distance travelers will need to make important travel arrangements, such as those for airline reservations or a car rental.  If your last minute trip to California’s wine country requires a drive of more than two hours, be sure to map out your intended route before you leave.

If you need to stay overnight, when visiting wine country, be sure to make your overnight accommodation reservations right away.  This is important for all last minute travelers, as their options may be limited.  With that said, it is vital that you make your reservations at a local hotel or inn in advance if you are visiting wine country during peak travel season.  Many California wineries report that their peak seasons are May through October and that Saturdays are the busiest days.  

Next, it is important to decide which type of wine country tour you would like to take.  As a visitor to California’s wine country, you should know that you have a number of options. Guided California wine country tours are popular options.  Even when taking a last minute trip, you should still have a number of guided wine country tour companies to choose from.  You can easily research your options online before you even leave for your trip.  When doing so, be sure to pick those with affordable rates.  With that said, also be sure to get the most value for your money.  Generally speaking, the more wineries you are able to visit for the lowest price is the best deal.

Even if you would like to take your own independent California wine country tours, it is still important that you do the proper amount of research before you leave.  This is important as you have over four hundred options when visiting California’s wine country.  Even if you have a week to spend, you still likely will not be able to visit them all.  Since many last minute trips are short, you should decide which wineries you want to visit first.  You can get a good idea of which ones are rated must sees by other tourists online, with a standard internet search.  Once you have an idea, make sure you map out your intended stops.  Try and create a path that works in a way that you can maximize your time.

The above mentioned steps are just a few of the many that you will want to take, should you decide to take a last minute trip to California’s wine country.  As a reminder, it is important to do even a little bit of preparation for last minute trips, especially if your travel distance is quite long.

PPPPP

Word Count 555
