Tips for Planning a Trip to Finger Lakes Wine Country

Are you a wine enthusiast?  If you are, you may be interested in taking a trip to wine country.  If so, you may want to take the time to examine the Finger Lakes Region of New York State.  When doing so, you will find that it is a great vacation destination, especially for wine enthusiasts.

As previously stated, the Finger Lakes Region of New York State is commonly referred to as wine country.  When many hear this, some are confused.  This is mostly due in part to the fact that many associate wine country with Northern California, namely Napa Valley.  Yes, many consider this area to be the “true,” wine country, but other areas that are known for their wine production are slowly emerging as “wine countries,” too.

As for why you should consider visiting the Finger Lakes Region of New York State, you will want to keep location in mind.  If you live in the northeast or even along the east coast in general, traveling to California wine country may not be possible, either because of costs or travel time.  With that said, just because you cannot make it California wine country doesn’t mean that you still don’t want to take a wine themed trip or vacation.  It does, however, mean that you should examine your other options, like the Finger Lakes Region of New York State.

Before planning a trip to the Finger Lakes wine country, there are a number of important factors that you will first want to take into consideration.  One of those factors is the weather.  Unlike California, where the weather is almost always bright, sunny, and attractive, New York State is known for its sometimes wild weather.  Typically, you will find that the best times to visit the Finger Lakes wine country area is in late spring, summer, or early fall.  Winter is one of the worst times to visit the area.  Although many activities, like wine tasting are still available in the winter, many more activities, like ground tours, are available in the peak wine months.

Should you decide to visit the Finger Lakes wine country area of New York State, you may want to do a little bit of research first.  This is particularly true if you are limited on time.  In this area, you will have a number wine trails to choose from. These trails include the Seneca, Keuka Lake, Cayuga wine trails.  With over one hundred wineries to choose from, you may want to first prioritize. This will enable you to see all of wineries that you wanted to visit, as well as maximize your time to its fullest potential.  

In addition to touring local wineries in the Finger Lakes Region of New York State, there is so much more than this wine country area has to offer.  As previously stated, you will want to do a little bit of research when planning your trip.  This will allow you to examine events, activities, and festivals that you may want to attend.  Many wineries offer wine tasting and ground tours, many times on a daily basis, there are other events, such an educational segment on the history of wine, that take place throughout the year.  In terms of wine related events, the Finger Lakes Wine Festival, which takes place every year in July, is a big draw.

Should you decide to visit the Finger Lakes wine country, be sure to make your overnight accommodation reservations as soon as possible.  Along many wine trails, you will find a number of small inns and bed and breakfasts which are perfect for many tourists.  With that being said, their small size often limits the number of reservations accepted.  Although a little bit off the beaten path, many nearby cities have hotels and vacation rentals are popular along the lakes.

As previously stated, visiting the Finger Lakes wine country area of New York State is a nice alterative for many who are unable to visit California wine country.  

PPPPP

Word Count 663
