Tips for Planning a Trip to Woodinville Wine Country

Do you enjoy drinking wine?  Would you even go as far to say that you a wine enthusiast?  If you so, you may be interested in taking a trip to wine country.  If a trip to wine country interests you, you will want to examine the Woodinville wine country, which is located in the state of Washington.  After a close look, you will see that it is a great vacation destination, especially for those who enjoy wine.

As previously mentioned, the Woodinville area of Washington state is commonly known as and referred to as wine country.  For some individuals, this may cause some confusion.  When many of us hear of wine country, Northern California is the first destination that comes to mind.  Yes, Northern California is the destination most commonly referred to as wine country, but that is slowly changing.  There are many more areas in the United States, including Woodinville, that are being noticed for their production of fine wine.  For many, it is a better option to visit Washington than to travel to California.

Before you make travel arrangements to visit the Woodinville area of Washington, there are a number of important points that you will first want to take into consideration.  The weather should be one of those points.  The weather in Washington state can sometimes be unpredictable, especially in late fall to winter.  For that reason, you will want to carefully plan your travel dates.  Yes, you will find that some wineries are open all year round and some may even have fun activities and events planned in winter, but you may have the best luck traveling to the Woodinville wine country area during the summertime.

Once you have decided that you would like to visit the Woodinville wine country area of Washington, you will want to start doing a little bit of research.  This research is easy to do online.  When examining Woodinville wine country, you will see that you have a number of wineries to choose from; however, not all are open to the public and many more have limited hours.  Examining a few of the local wineries will allow you to map out your intended location, which is ideal for prioritizing your time and making the most out of your trip.

Although taking a Woodinville wine country tour is a great activity, it is important to note that there are many more wine related activities and events that the area has to offer.  For example, you may be able to go behind the scenes and see how wine is made, wine taste, as well as learn about the history of wine in a small educational class or seminar.  If you are planning your wine country trip well in advance, you may want to request free vacation guides, namely those that have a focus on local wineries and wine themed events, festivals, and activities.

Although the Woodinville wine country isn’t as large as California’s wine country, there is still plenty for you to and see in the area.  That is just one of the many reasons why Woodinville is a big tourism draw.  Since it is emerging as a popular destination for tourists, you will want to try to make your travel plans, including your overnight accommodation reservations, well in advance of your trip.  When doing so, you will have hotels, inns, and bed and breakfasts to choose from.

PPPPP

Word Count 565
