Wine Country Travel Tips

Are you interested in planning a trip to California’s wine country?  If you are and if this is your first time looking to do so, you may be searching for some guidance.  After all, there is so much for you to do and see in wine country.  To get you started, some helpful tips are outlined below.

One of the best ways to have a fun and memorable trip to California wine country is by examining all of your options.  This is particularly true where wine tours are concerned.  Do you want to visit wineries on your own or would you like to take a guided tour?  If you would like to be a part of a guided tour, you will want to make your plans well in advance, especially if you will be visiting during peak tourism times.  

Even if you would like to independently visit wineries in California’s wine country, you will still want to examine all of your options ahead of time.  This is easy to do with the internet, as you can find many online travel guides for wine country.  Knowing which wineries you have the option of visiting can help you decide on a plan, which can allow you to develop a map yourself to follow.  With over 400 wineries and vineyards to choose from in California, research enables you to prioritize.

In terms of getting there, you will want to make your travel arrangements well in advance of your trip date.  For starters, examine vacation packages. Vacation packages are offered for California wine country and many are not only convenient to purchase, but money saving as well.  You may be able to get standard vacation packages, which include hotel accommodations, airline reservations, and a car rental.  With that said, many local inns partner with wineries so that they are able to offer packages and other discounts.

As for touring wine country, if you decide to tour the area on your own, you may want to mix it up a little bit.  Many recommend visiting a combination of wineries that are both large and small in size. When doing so, you often learn and see different things, as well as taste wines that differ in both style and taste.  Unfortunately, as convenient as guided wine country tours are, you don’t have much freedom or say, if any, in the wineries you stop at along the way.

Another great tip to help you enjoy your next trip to wine country involves your stay time.  Of course, you can enjoy a single day of touring and wine tasting in California wine country, but you may want to stay longer.  In fact, many wineries recommend spending at least two days touring local wineries and participating in wine tasting events.  The longer that you stay, the more you will be able to see, taste, and learn.

Since wine tours and wine in general has increased in popularity, you may be concerned with the crowds.  If you would like to enjoy calm and relaxing wine tours, you will want to avoid Saturdays, as they are the busiest day of the week.  Many wineries in California also report high visitor levels between the months of May and October. For the best luck, mid-week tours are your best option.

As previously stated, you have the option of touring wineries in California wine country on your own.  Should you choose this option, be sure to have a designated driver.  Although you will likely only have a few sips here and there, it can add up quickly.  And, it is always better to be safe than sorry.  As previously stated, many wineries recommend staying in the area at least two days.  If you do so, you can work out an arrangement with someone in your traveling party.  For example, you can be the designated driver one day and they can be the next.  

When planning a trip to California wine country, the above mentioned tips are just a few of the many that you will want to keep in mind.

PPPPP

Word Count 676
