Title: 
Celebrate American Freedom Won 225 Years Ago

Word Count:
334

Summary:
A series of stirring events and exhibits will mark the 225th anniversary of America's Victory at Yorktown.


Keywords:
Celebrate American Freedom Won 225 Years Ago


Article Body:
With the decisive Battle of Yorktown in Virginia in 1781, America freed itself from the shackles of tyranny. Now, Virginia-the first, permanent English-speaking colony in the New World-is celebrating the 225th anniversary of the historic battle. 

The National Park Service's Yorktown Battlefield and Jamestown-Yorktown Foundation's Yorktown Victory Center, together with the town of Yorktown, are hosting stirring events and exhibits to bring clarity to America's most important military victory-George Washington's triumph of allied forces over the British at Yorktown in October 1781. 

This year in Yorktown-along the sandy shores of the tidal York River near the Chesapeake Bay-will be special, beginning with timeless attractions, such as: 

&#8226; The Victory Center, where visitors can "meet" Revolutionary soldiers, try on their uniforms and view artifacts from the sunken British ship "Betsy," one of many British ships resting on the bottom of the York River; and 

&#8226; The Yorktown Battlefield, where you can walk the fields and fortifications where General Washington forced the surrender of more than 8,000 British soldiers, effectively ending the American Revolution. 

Then amid a backdrop of spectacular autumn foliage, Yorktown will host a four-day commemoration of the decisive battle beginning Thursday, Oct. 19. A small-town parade, traditional military Pass in Review ceremony, tactical field demonstrations and a live-action orchestral and choral event called "We Salute You-An American Symphony" will honor American military service. 

Fireworks over the York River, an assembly of fife and drum corps from across the U.S., military bands and a naturalization ceremony will remind spectators and participants of the basic freedoms achieved 225 years ago in Virginia. Culminating with a ceremonial surrender of the British army at Yorktown's Colonial National Historical Park, more than 2,000 reenactors will mobilize in a brilliant show of British redcoats marching to the actual field of surrender. 

In addition, a new exhibit at the Victory Center depicts how different cultures helped shape American society. And the new Riverwalk Landing in Yorktown-a retail center with unique shopping and dining options-is another reason to return to Virginia for "Jamestown 2007: America's 400th Anniversary" next year.


