Title: 
Cultism And Immorality: An America Envisioned By Secret Societies

Word Count:
1048

Summary:
I hate to be one of the Nay Sayers who predict doom and gloom for our glorious nation. I believe in our system of government and have great respect for the members of the military that daily lay down their lives for the pursuit of freedom. However, fear has entered my soul. It’s a fear brought on by the knowledge that many of our leaders have lost their love for liberty and sold their souls for wealth and status.

Abraham Lincoln has said:

“What constitutes the bulwark o...


Keywords:
bohemian, grove, alex, jones, masons, bilderburgers


Article Body:
I hate to be one of the Nay Sayers who predict doom and gloom for our glorious nation. I believe in our system of government and have great respect for the members of the military that daily lay down their lives for the pursuit of freedom. However, fear has entered my soul. It’s a fear brought on by the knowledge that many of our leaders have lost their love for liberty and sold their souls for wealth and status.

Abraham Lincoln has said:

“What constitutes the bulwark of our liberty and independence? It is not our frowning battlements, our bristling seacoasts — these are not our reliance against tyranny. Our reliance is in the love of liberty, which God has planted in our bosom. Our defense is in the preservation of the spirit which prizes liberty as the heritage of all men in all lands, everywhere. Destroy this spirit and you have planted the seeds of despotism around your own door.”

I first heard those powerful words in 1964 after visiting the New York World’s Fair with my parents. I was just eight years old when we entered the Illinois Pavilion at the fair and experienced “Great Moments with Mister Lincoln.” The exhibit was created by Walt Disney and featured animatronics in the form of a robotic President Lincoln that spoke, stood up and moved around like a living human. Those that visit the Hall of Presidents at various Disney Parks can enjoy an expanded version.

The Lincoln presentation was powerful and inspiring. My parents purchased a packet for me that contained a book and record of the presentation. I enjoyed listening to spoken word and speech recordings and had a decent collection of them. I listened to the Lincoln presentation over and over again. I knew the words were important and wanted to comprehend what they meant.

After a discussion about the speech with my father, I suddenly understood the message that Lincoln was passing on to the ages. The spirit of Liberty is not a fragile thing, but it requires people that believe in and act on the principle to keep it strong. Acting on the principle sometimes means helping others to obtain the freedom that we have. However, it doesn’t using freedom as a come on or a gimmick to further some other agenda.

It has become painfully obvious to me that many of the leaders of this nation and our world have sold their souls to a dark power that does not love and, in fact, loathes freedom. They have betrayed the American People and the very concept of liberty. That betrayal takes the form of membership in cult-like secret societies like the Bilderburgers and the Bohemian Grove group.

My knowledge of and concern about secret societies and their influence over government officials began with my introduction to the John Birch Society years ago. As a member, I took part in a number of campaigns to help reduce big government and the influence of outside agencies, groups, other governments and secret societies on America. I attended meetings and heard a number of lectures at yearly gatherings including two by the late Robert Welch, a founding member.

One reason that I eventually left the JBS was because it was simply hard for me to believe that the entire power structure of our government had been taken over by cultists and members of various secret societies. I guess I was just too young to believe that betrayal on such a massive scale could exist in what seemed like a free society.

My opinion on these issues changed in the late 1980s. I was booked as a guest on a talk radio program in Austin, Texas, where I was presenting a seminar. Two members of the U.S. House of Representatives from opposite sides of the aisle were in-studio guests just before me. They were in town for some big political event and seemed roundly annoyed with each other during the program.

As their segment ended the two seemed thoroughly disgusted with each other‘s point of view, or so it appeared. Once the microphones were turned off, they settled down and retreated to the lobby. Taking a bathroom break just before my segment, I went out to the lobby to find a restroom and saw the two politicians talking with each other and laughing. It bothered me. That same situation repeated itself several more times in different places as I observed politicians with opposing views leaving radio or television studios congratulating each other on a job well done. A job well done for WHO or WHAT?

It eventually sunk into my head that I was nothing more than a pawn for powerful people to play with and that my vote was a joke. No matter who I voted for, the winner would be someone that belonged to some horrendous cult. My realization explained many things including why politicians from both major parties wanted the few remaining freedoms I had to vanish. They were creating the perfect Orwellian Society of people enslaved to unnatural standards and false values.

I recently viewed a copy of a DVD produced by Alex Jones entitled, Dark Secrets: Inside Bohemian Grove. The presentation sickened me. Like most people that hear about various secret societies, I just assumed that the ceremonies involved were harmless and even a bit silly. In fact, I became very upset with a fellow JBS member years ago when he gave a speech that claimed influential members of the Masonic Lodge (including U.S. Presidents) were actually worshipping the devil and various demons. I may owe him an apology.

I believe in freedom of religion, however, my tolerance does not extend to accepting the fact that elected male politicians are running around ancient California redwood trees worshipping a demon called Moloch and taking part in nothing less than immoral acts that mock the very idea of marriage or commitment to a monogamous relationship of any kind.

You cannot love liberty and commit to its principles while serving a group or entity that teaches physical, emotional and spiritual slavery. I urge all freedom-loving people to investigate these matters and draw their own conclusions. I urge you to stop by http://conspiracy.canyoustandthetruth.com/ and learn more about these matters.


