Title: 
How The Chinese Communist Party Exerts and Maintains Control

Word Count:
388

Summary:
In order to exert its totalitarian control, the CCP must have complete access to personal information. To do business in China, foreign corporations will help the CCP by turning over information from private email accounts, chat room conversations and other information. The CCP will use this information to make an 'arrest'. The victim disappears either temporarily or permanently. Whether anyone hears what happens next is a dice roll.


Keywords:
Chinese, communist, party, labor, camp, torture, death, fear, control. 


Article Body:
The Chinese government is currently a one party system ruled by the Chinese Communist Party. There will never be another party in control under the current system. The people have no options for a governing body. Having one choice is having no choice.

When a single group controls the executive, judicial and legislative branches of a government, there are no checks and balances. Without checks and balances, the CCP may act with impunity.

As truly courageous lawyers in China have pointed out, the CCP dictates verdicts and rulings to the judiciary. This is not a valid mechanism for justice.

Torture is a method of control. The Clearwisdom website does an outstanding job of covering the ongoing persecution of Falun Gong practitioners in China. Some of the torture methods utilized by law enforcement and security agents under the CCP include beatings, hanging by wires that cut to the bone, electric shock torture with electric batons, and exposure to extreme temperatures.

Many other forms of torture have also been documented. Groups like Freedom House, Amnesty International and even the United States government also report on the practices utilized by those working for the Chinese Communist Party.

Just as those brave lawyers have pointed to the CCP's control of the judiciary, it is hard to believe the CCP isn't behind the torture utilized by its employees. Yet, they vehemently deny anything is happening to the rest of the world.

In order to exert its totalitarian control, the CCP must have complete access to personal information. To do business in China, foreign corporations will help the CCP by turning over information from private email accounts, chat room conversations and other information. The CCP will use this information to make an 'arrest'. The victim disappears either temporarily or permanently. Whether anyone hears what happens next is a dice roll.

It is becoming increasingly difficult for the CCP to hide from the world what they do to people who speak out in favor of justice, democracy and basic freedoms. The Chinese Communist Party's secrets cannot always remain hidden.

History has shown us time and time again that those who commit or permit extreme evil will be called to task, even if it takes decades. The long arm of universal justice will not be thwarted forever. Exposing this information may help the atrocities end sooner.


