Title: 
Integration In European Union

Word Count:
319

Summary:
Romania will join the European Union next year, among with Bulgaria, their neighbours. After 10 years of hard work, this success come after a long period of politic instability and blocked projects.

Taking into account our country's present circumstances, all business sectors have to get in the line with the European community's requests. Small and large business owners should pay more attention to the market's demand and make all the arrangements necessary to provide a qu...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Romania will join the European Union next year, among with Bulgaria, their neighbours. After 10 years of hard work, this success come after a long period of politic instability and blocked projects.

Taking into account our country's present circumstances, all business sectors have to get in the line with the European community's requests. Small and large business owners should pay more attention to the market's demand and make all the arrangements necessary to provide a qualitative product for us all. They are now trying to obtain all the certificates needed to enter the new, extended, market; first of all they have to make the proof that they are producing a competitive product, similar to the one aur "new brothers" deliver. Besides that, for a Romanian successful company, logistics has to become an important issue starting the 1st of January 2007; new problems arise now: they need new means of transportation, new machines and qualified personnel to make sure they fulfill all the contract's demands they have already signed and established with the new clients.

So, we have to do more than starting using a new "language" ( the one of profitability), we should assume the liability of thinking and performing by certain rules (European, in this case) to achieve the desired effect by all of us. It is not enough to become an European community member, we have to work to fulfill the objectives stated when we applied for this membership and stick to our goal until the end.

Many people are waiting for this integration for many years now, hoping they will have a better life and that things will be changing for the good in Romania. This only remains to be seen as the proffesionals predictions are not that good. A thing is certain, some things will be better, for example the possiblility of travelling abroad without the need of a passaport visa.

We have big hopes for next year!


