Title: 
Political Promotional Products: An Effective Use Of Campaign Dollars

Word Count:
350

Summary:
According to a recent article by Jim Kuhnhenn, presidential candidates are planning to spend more than ever before on advertising. For instance, Kuhnhenn says Barack Obama has spent more than “$2.7 million in ad spending in Iowa alone, according to data compiled by other presidential campaigns.” He added that most of the candidates’ advertising dollars will be spent on television and radio ads, especially in Iowa and New Hampshire. Perhaps these candidates and their campaign ...


Keywords:
political campaign, marketing, political products


Article Body:
According to a recent article by Jim Kuhnhenn, presidential candidates are planning to spend more than ever before on advertising. For instance, Kuhnhenn says Barack Obama has spent more than “$2.7 million in ad spending in Iowa alone, according to data compiled by other presidential campaigns.” He added that most of the candidates’ advertising dollars will be spent on television and radio ads, especially in Iowa and New Hampshire. Perhaps these candidates and their campaign organizers should also consider spending money on political promotional products.

Of course there will be the typical bumper sticker and hand fan campaigns, as well as yard signs to promote the candidates. However, there is a new trend in campaign advertising, unique political promotional products. There are many unique political products that take the campaign off the beaten path into uncharted and highly effective territory.

Political promotional products range from the typical signs and buttons to things like stress balls and awareness bracelets. These political promotional products can be even more effective in raising awareness of the candidate’s political views, and all can be imprinted with the name of the candidate along with their slogan or personal message. Voters will be highly impressed to see that the candidate is creative and takes extra time in thinking about his or her voting public.

Political promotional products are often overlooked when discussing how a candidate will spend money on advertising, but are usually the most memorable of advertisements. Commercials are great, but often don’t leave a lasting impression. Political promotional products are useful because they stick around longer than the typical 30-second ad Political promotional products are seen by just as many people and can generate a lot of interest in a candidate. Especially if the political promotional product is unique and ties in with what the candidate has to say. There is a myriad of products available that can achieve this objective.

Candidates should consider investing in a variety of political promotional products as well as the well-known staples. There is a political promotional product out there for any campaign and on any campaign budget.


