Title: 
President Searching With A Fine Tooth Comb

Word Count:
416

Summary:
With the race for the President's post heating up, the question on everybody's mind is "Who will be the next President of the United States?" And this is not merely a question that remains limited to the minds of its citizens. The size of the United States of America, in terms of both geography and economy, as well as the power it wields over the international affairs, makes its Presidential elections a matter of global concern.

So will the 2008 elections herald a change i...


Keywords:
US President, Barack Obama


Article Body:
With the race for the President's post heating up, the question on everybody's mind is "Who will be the next President of the United States?" And this is not merely a question that remains limited to the minds of its citizens. The size of the United States of America, in terms of both geography and economy, as well as the power it wields over the international affairs, makes its Presidential elections a matter of global concern.

So will the 2008 elections herald a change in command for the U S of A? Will the Democrats once again take center-stage after losing out in the last two elections? Or will this be yet another victory for the Republican party? Perhaps, that is a question that should be fielded to the American voters... Who will they be voting for?

After the two terms of Republican President George Bush, it seems likely that there will be a change in the party at the center. But if this were to be true, who would the likely Democratic candidate be? Currently, Hillary Clinton appears to be the favorite candidate of the Democratic Party. However, she will be getting some decent competition from Barack Obama.

So will the 2008 elections usher in a new era? Will there be a woman president at the helm? Or will a black man enter the White House? Both would be firsts in the history of the American democratic system. But who would win this race?

The charismatic Obama is currently the only African American in the American Senate, and he is only the fifth African American senator in the history of the United States. Sure, he is hugely popular among a vast cross-section of American society, but would he be able to stomach a hard campaign?

Hillary Clinton has been the favorite for the 2008 elections for a long time now. Currently, the likelihood of her getting the candidature is very high. But in the rough and tumble of politics, who knows when the tide might turn, and in whose favor.

Perhaps it is time that one of the greatest democracies of the world and the current superpower, made a deviation from the usual President type -- a white male. Both, women and African-Americans have made their presence felt in the society and political system of the great nation. It is time that a new attitude is allowed to pervade the White House.

Who will it be? Who will the American nation vote for? Let us just wait and watch.


