Title: 
The United States Navy: A Legacy Of Power

Word Count:
305

Summary:
The U.S. Navy was started in an era when the true measure of a country was the size and strength of its naval forces. A strong fleet of ships could mean the difference between losing and winning a war. The Revolutionary War was just getting started, and the matter of a navy began to become more pressing as imminent battle drew near. Some argued that it would be impossible to challenge the British navy, since they had the most powerful of the time. However, in a move to protec...


Keywords:



Article Body:
The U.S. Navy was started in an era when the true measure of a country was the size and strength of its naval forces. A strong fleet of ships could mean the difference between losing and winning a war. The Revolutionary War was just getting started, and the matter of a navy began to become more pressing as imminent battle drew near. Some argued that it would be impossible to challenge the British navy, since they had the most powerful of the time. However, in a move to protect shipments and defend the new country, Congress began to build a fleet.

However, this first navy didn’t last for long, and the ships were decommissioned soon. But later, the Naval Act of 1794 was established, which called for six frigates to be constructed and turned into a naval fleet. Fortunately, they didn’t see too much action, though they did fight in a few wars, including the undeclared war with France, and the War of 1812.  During this time, the USA began to see the benefit of having strong ships around, and steadily added more to the fleet. The Navy played huge roles in the Mexican-American war, and the Civil War.

Since then, the U.S. Navy has continued to grow and grow. In 1880, a program was started to modernize the ships. Since then, technology has progressed at such a fast rate, that this program has, in effect, never stopped. Now, in the 21st century, the U.S. Navy is made up of huge metal battleships that are always being updated with new technology, weapons, and abilities. The Navy a huge force, protecting America and carrying out missions. It has been like this for hundreds of years, and with modern technology it appears that the importance of the U.S. Navy will not lessen anytime soon.


