Title: 
The Blackpool Tower

Word Count:
419

Summary:
This article discusses the Blackpool tower. It talks about the history and construction of the structure as well as its’ many features and attractions.


Keywords:
blackpool,lancashire,tower,england,united kingdom,uk


Article Body:
The Blackpool Tower has stood over the seaside town of Blackpool, Lancashire in England for over a century since its completion in 1984. It has become one of the major tourist attractions that Blackpool has to offer. The tower stands 158 meters or 518 feet tall. Its’ shape and form was inspired by the great Eiffel Tower in France, but unlike the Parisian masterpiece, The Blackpool Tower is not freestanding. Though it was originally built to be an observation vantage point, the tower also holds numerous establishments including a Ballroom and the Tower Circus arena, which is located at the base of the structure. 
Sad as it may seem, the Blackpool tower nearly reached its’ end around the 1920s. The reason for this is the fact that the original paintjob on the structure was so poor that the tower had started to corrode. This caused the discussion on whether the tower should be taken down or not, the engineers then came to conclusion that they would repair and rebuild the damage instead of taking the entire piece down. The tower has also had its’ share of tragic events – of note is when a ship mistook the tower for a lighthouse, turned around, drifted away and was wrecked. 

A great feature of the Blackpool tower is the glass floor that has been built into the top level. This allows those above to look straight down onto the road below. This feature of the Blackpool Tower is popular with almost every tourist that came to visit. The Blackpool Tower ballroom is the venue or a lot of great events and functions and has even been voted as one of the most magnificent ballrooms in the entire world. The tower also holds the ‘Blackpool Tower Circus’ arena and the circus has never missed one season since the day that it opened. Another interesting feature about the Blackpool tower is its’ Aquarium that has been known to hold numerous species of fish and marine life.

Something that not everyone knows about the Blackpool Tower is that the structure has been constructed so that if it ever collapses – the greater mass of it would fall into the sea. Another thing is the fact that the Blackpool Tower base is stealthily concealed by the different buildings that surrounds it. 

The city of Blackpool will always attract visitors who have a fine taste for performing arts, the splendid culture of the place and the architectural wonder of the Blackpool tower adds up to the “must visit” reason of everyone.


