Title: 
The U.S. Navy: Much More Than A Bunch Of Ships

Word Count:
398

Summary:
The United States Navy is a very integral part of the United States Armed Forces. The U.S. Navy has played many crucial parts in our nation’s history. The U.S. Navy has been the master of the seas for a very long time. Ever since World War I there has not been a navy in the world that can compete with us.

However the U.S. Navy was dealt a tremendous blow during World War II when a naval base was attacked at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii on December 8th, 1941. This was a very brutal...


Keywords:



Article Body:
The United States Navy is a very integral part of the United States Armed Forces. The U.S. Navy has played many crucial parts in our nation’s history. The U.S. Navy has been the master of the seas for a very long time. Ever since World War I there has not been a navy in the world that can compete with us.

However the U.S. Navy was dealt a tremendous blow during World War II when a naval base was attacked at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii on December 8th, 1941. This was a very brutal attack that the Japanese made on the U.S. Navy, but they did not cripple our forces. The U.S. Navy rebounded from that attack and went on to help defeat Japan, Germany, and Italy to end World War II. Many people think of the U.S. Navy as just a bunch of ships that wait off shore and stop the other country’s ships from doing anything. However this is not the case, the U.S. Navy has a wide array of equipment that help to support the Armed Forces carry out the attack plan designed by our country.

The U.S. Navy does have many different types of ships that are used during wartime. Some of these ships are used to carry men, vehicles, and planes, like aircraft carriers, and amphibious assault ships. Other ships are used to attack warships, and can even be used to launch attacks on land targets as well. These types of ships include battleships, cruisers, destroyers, and frigates. The U.S. Navy also has submarines which can be used to carry out underwater missions that include research, rescue, and other specific wartime missions.

Many people realize that these ships are part of the U.S. Navy, but quite a few people do not realize that the Navy also has over 4,000 airplanes that it can deploy. Probably the most famous squadron of airplanes in the world is the U.S. Navy’s flight demonstration squadron known as the Blue Angels. I remember seeing the Blue Angels when I was a kid and being amazed that they could fly in a formation so close to one another without crashing. The next time someone tells you that the U.S. Navy is just a bunch of ships; you can tell them the Navy is much more than that.


