Title: 
Vote For Mike Gravel In 2008

Word Count:
508

Summary:
Former Alaskan Senator Mike Gravel is running for President in 2008.  If you are a progressive person who is looking for real change in 2008 then I believe that you must look past the front runners such as Hillary Clinton, John Edwards, and Barack Obama and look towards Mike Gravel. 

While Clinton, Edwards, and Obama will all make much better presidents than George W. Bush (or John McCain or Rudy Giuliani for that matter) they will also offer "politics as usual" and they a...


Keywords:
presidential election, politics, 2008 election, mike gravel, election


Article Body:
Former Alaskan Senator Mike Gravel is running for President in 2008.  If you are a progressive person who is looking for real change in 2008 then I believe that you must look past the front runners such as Hillary Clinton, John Edwards, and Barack Obama and look towards Mike Gravel. 

While Clinton, Edwards, and Obama will all make much better presidents than George W. Bush (or John McCain or Rudy Giuliani for that matter) they will also offer "politics as usual" and they are unlikely to make any major changes when it comes to our unjust tax system or our unjust drug laws.  They are also unlikely to completely remove all soldiers from Iraq.  This is where Mike Gravel differs greatly.

Mike Gravel wants to completely change our tax system.  Our current tax system involves so many loopholes (fought for by lobbyists) that people with the right know how can easily game the system and thus the very rich often pay a much lower percentage of taxes than they are supposed to.  If you look into the history of the income tax then you will see that it has been corrupt from the beginning.  It is time to do away with the income tax and the IRS altogether.  Mike Gravel wants to replace the income tax with a national sales tax.  This system of taxation will be much more simple without any loopholes so it cannot be gamed by anyone.  Millions of dollars will be saved by this simplified tax code.  Sound impossible?  It's not.  Things change if we really want them to.  The income tax has not been around forever.  There was no income tax for the first 127 years of this country's life.  Gravel estimates that we can replace our current tax system with the new Fair Tax in less than one year.

Mike Gravel wants to decriminalize drugs and end "The War on Drugs."  Prohibition of alcohol didn't work in the 1920s and prohibition of drugs does not work now.  In what is supposed to be a free society there should be no law against what one puts into their own body.  It is unjust.  Furthermore it's a waste of government time and money.  The money wasted on the "War on Drugs" could be spent on education and health care. 

Mike Gravel was against the Iraq war from the start.  Gravel came out against the Iraq war in 2002 and stated then what everyone knows now.  George W Bush was lying about WMD.  This a man who can see through the lies.  This is a man that can tell the truth.  This is a man who as president would never take our country into a war unless it was absolutely necessary.  How many innocent people must die?  Mike Gravel has a plan to end the Iraq war immediately.  And unlike others who say they will end the war, Gravel wants to remove all of our soldiers from Iraq.  We should not have a permanent residency in Iraq. 

It's time for a real change.  It is time for Mike Gravel.


