Title: 
Why visit St. Petersburg

Word Count:
449

Summary:
There are many great countries in the world, but some are truly special. One of the least travelled destinations is St. Petersburg. Why should you travel to St. Petersburg?


Keywords:
Russia travel, travel to Russia, travel in Russia, tours to Russia, tours to Moscow, tours to St. Petersburg, visit Russia,  Russian visa, Russia vacation, Russia River Cruises, flights to Russia, Russia hotels, Russia tourist visa, visa support,  Russian


Article Body:
Recently when I was in Africa, someone asked me - why should one visit  Moscow? I immediately answered - because it is one of the most amazing destinations on in the world! However, then I realized that not everyone would instantly get it and that I need to explain what would travelers find were they to have a trip to Russia. 

St. Petersburg has so much to offer the guests. The two greatest cities of Russia, Moscow and St. Petersburg, are some of the most historically rich cities on our planet.

St Petersburg boasts amazing churches, ancient streets and beautiful canals. Some people refer to this city as the Venice of the North. So many great artists, writers and musicians like Pushkin had lived and worked here and loved their every moment. The Mariinsky theatre is home to world famous ballet. If you could only visit the city for a weekend you would remember it for all of your life. There is so much to see here. You could take a boat ride out to the amazing fountains at the Peterhof palace. 

Moscow is much bigger than St. Petersburg, but it is equally great place to visit. The Kremlin and Red Square with the glorious quintessentially Russian onion-domed St Basils cathedral. Russia’s largest city does not have a concentrated historic centre like St Petersburg, but there are historic treasures spread out across this vast city like the Tetriakov gallery. It is also an incredibly vibrant modern city that is now really buzzing with the new wealth and culture that has sprung up in the last decade. Moscow also has some of the best restaurants and clubs in the world.

Those two cities alone are enough of a reason to explore Russia, the largest country in the world. Yet there is much, much more to Russia than this. Outside Moscow and St Petersburg there is an amazing country that even us, the Russians, just begin to discover. Russia is a enormous country, and features amazing scenery and a wealth of historical monuments. There is nowhere in the world a lake so deep, so mysterious and beautiful, and so blessed by an absolutely unique range of wildlife as Lake Baikal. There is nothing like Siberia. 

When in Russia, there are so many things that you could do. You could take a boat trip down the Volga. 

These are just some of the reasons why you should visit Russia. Sometimes I wish I could keep Russia all to myself, just like Catherine the Great kept Hermitage closed to everyone. But I know it is time to share Russia to the West. Be among the first to discover the wonders of Russia.


