Title: 
You Just Might Be A Liberal

Word Count:
381

Summary:
Like a duck who doesn’t know he’s wet, some reasonably bright people have no idea that they are knee-jerk liberals. Now there is a blog – You Just Might be a Liberal -- to help them decide. There are a number of helpful tips which can help you reveal your true political colors. For example, “If you spend more time at “Peace” rallies than at church…You Just Might be a liberal”

Here’s a few more.

“If you believe the Dixie Chicks got all those Grammys because of their sing...


Keywords:
political, humor


Article Body:
Like a duck who doesn’t know he’s wet, some reasonably bright people have no idea that they are knee-jerk liberals. Now there is a blog – You Just Might be a Liberal -- to help them decide. There are a number of helpful tips which can help you reveal your true political colors. For example, “If you spend more time at “Peace” rallies than at church…You Just Might be a liberal”

Here’s a few more.

“If you believe the Dixie Chicks got all those Grammys because of their singing ability instead of their politics....You Just Might be a Liberal.”

“If you think Charlie Sheen is a better role model than George W. Bush...You Just Might be a Liberal.”

“If you believe Bill Clinton "Never had sex with that woman, Miss Lewinski." You Just Might be a Liberal.”

“If you didn't find "Brokeback Mountain" the least bit creepy...You Just Might be a Liberal”

“If you've never been north of 125th Street or west of the Hudson River but think you know how Alaska should drill for oil...You Just Might be a Liberal.”

“If you think Al Franken is funny....You Just Might be a Liberal.”

“If you feel the UN should have control over America's foreign policy....You Just Might be a Liberal.”

“If you think Michael Moore is incredibly sexy....You Just Might be a Liberal.”

“If you hate the military, big oil and Halliburton but "Support Our Troops"...You Just Might be a Liberal.”

“If you've ever called Forbes magazine a "Capitalist Tool" and meant it in a bad way...You Just Might be a Liberal.”

“If you "teach" in any of the Humanities Departments of any major college...You Just Might be a Liberal.”

‘If you feel anyone who disagrees with you is brain damaged....You Just Might be a Liberal.”

By and large the humor is sharply pointed and could draw blood from a few thin skinned liberals. Written by Rod Pennington – who also has the “You Might be a Conservative” Blog -- that is just as brutal to the folks on the right as “You Just Might be a Liberal” is to the people on the left.

If you’re looking for your daily chuckle, this is a great place to start.


