Title: 
01 What can lanzarote offer you on your next holiday ?

Word Count:
340

Summary:
The short answer is "It can offer you anything and everything", but surely you want to know more ?


Keywords:
Lanzarote, holiday, Canaries, Private Heated Pool, Luxury, Quality


Article Body:
Where is Lanzarote ? - 

It is located on the eastern side of the Canary Islands and is a mere 13 miles wide and 40 miles long, so you can travel to each and every part of the island and spend the whole day not having to worry about lengthy journeys to and from excursions and one of the most appealing aspects is the climate as it offers warm temperatures and scarce rains all year around, turning it into a great place for those who wish to spend time at the beach and enjoy as many outdoor activities as possible. 

Whether you are in to Land, Sea or Air sports there is plenty of everything here : 

Cycling, Go-Karting, Golf, Horse-riding, Jeep Safari, Quad-Bike Safari, Rancho Texas & The Tropical Park 

Boat Cruises, Catamaran, Fishing, Submarine or perhaps you just want to go to an aquapark. 

Flight Tours, Hand-Gliding & Parasailing 

If you prefer the more cultural aspects of a location, then you have to come to 'heaven'. This side of Lanzarote is best summed by the mere mention of one mans name - Cesar Manrique, a man whose influence can be seen all over the island at places like Castillo de San Jose, Ceuva de los Verdes, Fundacion Manrique, Jameous Del Aqua, Jardin De Cactus, Mirador Del Rio, Museo Campesino and the fantasic Timanfaya ("Fire Mountain") and in future articles I will write about each of these. 

Lanzarote is the only place in the world where you have your lunch in a cafeteria that is built on top of an active volcano, where the heat to cook your food comes from the volcano itself ? 
- See my article 21 on Timafaya 

and where else can you go deep into a cavern in the middle of nowhere and find a huge ampitheatre used for live concerts, aplace that doubles as a nightclub two evening a week ? 
- See my article 22 on the Northern Attractions 

If you want a great beach, then again Lanzarote has one to compare with the very best.
- See my article 11 on Yaiza Beaches and Punta de Papagayo


