Title: 
10 Things To Do While In Ireland

Word Count:
526

Summary:
The variety and charm of Ireland makes it the best get-a-way for your whole family, or just for two.  Come and enjoy!


Keywords:
st pats, st patricks day, st patrick's day, dublin, ireland, holidays, travel, belfast


Article Body:
Ireland has become a secret hide-a-way for vacationers in the past 20 years, and there is plenty to do while in Ireland.  In the early 1990’s, Ireland took an economic turn upwards, and the country began to establish itself with economic success.  Since then immigration has increased from the European countries, Russia, and even Australia and the U.S.  The well-hidden secret of the wealth that Ireland has to offer has begun to slip out.  

Today, vacationers and those who just want a quick get-a way for a weekend or so, are coming to Ireland to experience the old town charm mixed with what the thriving metropolis has to offer.  There is something to do for everyone between the ages of 1 and 101, and there’s always more to come back to.

Dublin, with almost 500,000 people, is the capital of Ireland.  

Belfast, again close to 500,00 is the capital of Northern Ireland.  Both of these huge cities began as shipping ports, through the Irish Sea, way back around 488AD, so they are filled with the charm and character of an old town, while being able to offer you all the comforts of a bustling city.  

There are many cultural villages strewn throughout the country that offer experience, culture and very wonderful foods!

Museums, theaters, and sporting events

Plenty of shopping are available as well.  And, it is some of the best that you will do anywhere.

With the mass transit system you and your family can easily reach any destination, or tour the town.  The system itself is a thing to see and experience.

Restaurants and outdoor pubs spring up everywhere so you can always stop into one of these friendly taverns and get refreshment.  Children are welcome almost everywhere and casual attire is accepted.  

Of course, if you want to go out to a fine restaurant for dinner, and then go dancing till dawn, there is plenty of nightlife for you as well.

Ireland has the most beautiful beaches of anywhere, and Galway County on Galway Bay is a great place to enjoy some of the surf.  Since Ireland is an island, there are a lot of sandy shores to see, but remember that the summer season is only from June to August, and then a light jacket might be necessary as you walk the shoreline.  The waves, sun and the sand are enticing though, and the kids will just love to just go and have fun! So be certain to make at least one of your days in Ireland a beach day! 

Then at the end of the day, what could be better than a fresh seafood dinner prepared specially for you, in any one of the many oceanside restaurants that line the coastal towns.  You could drive from Dublin to Galway City in a matter of a couple of hours, and with the Atlantic ocean on the west side of Ireland, and the Irish Sea bordering the east side, you had better believe that the best in North Atlantic seafood is available for you!

The variety and charm of Ireland makes it the best get-a-way for your whole family, or just for two.  Come and enjoy!


