Title: 
13 Lanzarote Beaches  - Tinajo

Word Count:
495

Summary:
Lanzarote Beach Reviews


Keywords:
Villa Rentals, Quality Villas, Luxury Villas, Private Pools, Villas with Pools, Lanzarote, Playa Blanca, Faro Park


Article Body:
Tinajo is located in the central north part of Lanzarote and considered by many to have the best surfing conditions in Europe.  

Elements of the coastline have become synonymous with the term “The Hawaii of Europe”. 

The first of two beaches takes us to La Santa, in a village by the same name and developed around a natural lagoon that borders a little peninsula.  This relatively quiet area is dominated by the internationally famous hotel and sports complex, known as Club La Santa, a ‘winter’ training ground for international sports stars.  

If you are into active sports or simply want to maintain your fitness regime whilst on holiday or if you want to pamper yourself whilst your partner ‘does his own thing’, then this is the place to go.  Club La Santa offers just about everything you could want in terms of active sports and everything you’d find in the very best gyms or fitness centres ‘at home’.

Another article I’ve written “31 Lanzarote Sports – Club La Santa” provides detailed information that might help you decide whether this is the place to stay, so I will only briefly cover it in this article.

Activities include Tennis (10 courts), Squash (5 Courts), Badminton (6 Courts), Beach Volleyball (2 courts), Indoor & Outdoor Basketball courts, Golf (Mini Golf and short game training),  5-a-side football, Full sized Football, Aerobics, Leisure Pool, Olympic size Swimming Pool, Children’s Swimming Pool, Boxing, Weight Lifting and a fully equipped fitness centre with 6 Rowing Machines.  

There are lots of beach/water sports on a beach measuring 910m long and consisting of fine white sand.

If you are an experienced diver and want to go on a snorkel safari, an ‘intermediate’ or simply a beginner keen to learn then checkout the diving centre programme (by the leisure pool) as it caters for all three levels.  Equally, if you are into surfing then you’ve come to surfers paradise as this areas has some of the best surfing waves in Europe. 

If you’re more into the pampering side of a sports centre at home, then why not consider the Hydrotherapy bath/ Jacuzzi, Cold Dip and Shower, Steam bath/ Saunas, Hydro-massage bath with essential oils, in private room (additional payment required), Hydro-jet massage, in private room (additional payment required), Manual treatments (additional/ seperate payment required), Physiotherapy, Massage (Sports-, Relax-, Lymphatic Drainage-, Shiatsu Massage and Foot Reflexology).

After a hectic day, there is a range of entertainment on hand from Karaoke to guest appearances from semi-professional artists.  As you’d expect, there is excellent parking on site, although it can be accessed just as easily by guaguas (autobus) and most equipment can be hired on the day at the club.
Our second beach in this area is the neighbouring beach known as Tenaza (it is actually 2km. away from Tenaza itself), located in a rural area and measuring 90m long by 6m wide and consisting of sand mixed with fine grained black gravel.  There is a parking available locally.


