Title: 
15 Lanzarote Beaches  - Arrecife

Word Count:
399

Summary:
Lanzarote Beach Reviews


Keywords:
Villa Rentals, Quality Villas, Luxury Villas, Private Pools, Villas with Pools, Lanzarote, Playa Blanca, Faro Park


Article Body:
Arrecife is the smallest of the islands seven municipalities and house the islands new capital (having taken over the mantel from Teguise at the end of the 18th century).  Like neighbouring San Bartholme, there are relatively few beaches in this area, although the two that follow are well a visit.

Arrecife (the name originates from the abundance of reefs and islets along its short coast), has a skyline totally dominated by the islands tallest building (the Grand Hotel) which you may have seen during your approach to the airport.  The first beach is known as El Reducto, a picturesque European Union, ‘Blue Flag’ beach set in an almost enclosed bay and measuring half a kilometre by 45m wide with calm waters and fine golden sands.  
To one end of the beach you will find a park with palm trees and benches designed as a monument of a ship wreck.   If you’re looking to get away from the crowds, this beach is for you as it is frequented only by locals rather than tourists.

As you would expect from a ‘city beach’, El Reducto boasts excellent services from its coastal promenade including showers, public telephones, bar/restaurants, wheelchair access , parking and is easily reached by guaguas (autobus).  One of the major attractions of this beach is the "Charco de San Gines” lagoon, a natural pond formed by sea water housing a collection of small boats belonging to inshore fishermen, who live around the lagoon. 

The beach was landscaped in conjunction with the Cesar Manrique who grew up in this area  and who held his first exhibition in the San gines Lagoon area.
If you’re planning a trip here or to neighbouring El Cable Beach (below), check to find out if there are any festivals going on at the time as these offer a unique authentic insight into canarian life on the island.
The second and final beach in Arrecife is just along the costs and is known as El Cable.  It measures 315m.long and 18m wide and consists of fine golden sand.  El Cable is windy with moderate waves which makes it good for windsurfing and be found next to the development of the same name. 
The beach can be prone to local pollution which puts it off limits from time to time. Services include showers, public telephones and bars/restaurants.  It is easy to park locally.


