Title: 
16 Lanzarote Beaches  - Teguise

Word Count:
578

Summary:
Lanzarote Beach Reviews


Keywords:
Villa Rentals, Quality Villas, Luxury Villas, Private Pools, Villas with Pools, Lanzarote, Playa Blanca, Faro Park


Article Body:
Teguise is one of the largest and most popular of Lanzarotes seven municipalities.  It includes Famara (in the north) and Costa Teguise, (in the south).  

If your mathematical formula for fun on the beach is “Water=Waves”, then you should be heading for the northern coastline that takes in Famara (and neighbouring La Santa – See article “13 Lanzarote beaches – Tinajo”).
Our first of six beaches being reviewed in this area is known as Famara, measuring 6 kilometres long by 100 m (the biggest beach in Lanzarote). Fine golden sand, a constant wind and ever present strong swells against a backdrop of mountains makes this worth visiting, but the strong currents in this area can be a problem, so keep small children well within your reach.

The surf in this part of the island is world famous (so it’s hardly surprising that Famara is often referred to as the Hawaii of Europe).  Large waves crash into the beach, and roll up the fine white sand towards the beach road, making it a surfers paradise.  Behind the road you’ll find a large area of sand dunes, a perfect sheltered base from which to view proceedings. 

The village nearby has a few restaurants and cafe bars where you can enjoy a quiet drink – but it’s all very laid back and has a UK/Sunday feel about the whole place.

Close to the village of La Caleta, it can be reached by guaguas (autobus). 
Our second beach takes us to a semi-developed area known as Ensenada de la Calleta, 400m long by 12 m wide and fine white sand.  This beach is located alongside Arrecife and the port area of Mármoles. This beach is much visited, for its calm waters despite the wind that blows constantly. You can reach this beach by guaguas (autobus) and there are several services available including hammocks/parasols, restaurants/bars, parking and showers.

Our third beach is known as Las Cucharas and is in the main holiday resort of Costa Teguise.  This sheltered beach is 640m long consisting of fine sand and placid waters., surrounded by big hotels and apartments where architecture and landscape have been harmoniously integrated. The beach is nevertheless ideal for windsurfing and offers a full range of services from hammocks/parasols to bars/restaurants along its promenade to telephones, parking, good wheelchair access, bus stop and rental of a wide range of sports equipment.

Our fourth beach, another Costa Teguise favourite,  is known as Los Charcos.  At 250 m long and 30m wide and consisting  of fine white sand, clear water and cooling winds, it’s hardly surprising.  This beach is is on the coastline alongside Puerto del Carmen (covered in another article of mine entitled “12 Lanzarote Beaches – Tias”). The tranquillity of the sea in this area is due to the breakwater which shelters it from the strong waves and currents. There is a docking area and seaside boardwalk, together with services including hammocks/parasols, parking, quaquas (autobus).

Our fifth beach is known as Bastián, 375m long, 15m wide, consisting of fine white sand mixed with gravel and clear water.  This beach is situated in a semi-developed zone of Costa Teguise and offers a complete range of services that include hammocks/parasols, parking, guaguas (autobus) and finally, our sixth beach is El Jablillo, 350m.long, 20m wide, fine white sand mixed with gravel with quiet waters in a relatively windy area.   Services include telephones, parking, guaguas (autobus) and a range of bars & restaurants.


