Title: 
"No! We're Not There Yet!"- Surviving the Family Road Trip

Word Count:
405

Summary:
According to the U.S. Department of Energy, travel is increasing every year and it is predicted that even more people will be on the road this year.


Keywords:
"No! We're Not There Yet!"- Surviving the Family Road Trip


Article Body:
According to the U.S. Department of Energy, travel is increasing every year and it is predicted that even more people will be on the road this year. Traveling with the family can be a great way to spend quality time together but it can also be stressful. Increase your chances of a fun, stress-free and safe vacation by following these simple tips:

&#8226; Beat boredom with child's play. "Are we there yet?" What is it about these words that go straight to a parent's spine? Keep kids entertained with some great car games that make getting where you're going half the fun. Magnetic board games, portable video games and classics such as the license plate game, "I Spy" and the alphabet game will keep energetic kids in good spirits and actively engaged no matter how long the journey.

&#8226; Stop smart. When stopping at rest stops, make sure it's just your kids getting back in the car and not the bacteria and germs they pick up in the bathroom. Bring products that keep your family healthy, such as hand sanitizer and Lysol Disinfectant Spray, to kill rest stop germs that can be transferred from the rest room to the surfaces in your car. To prepare for those inevitable spills and "oops" moments, keep paper towels or wet wipes handy.

&#8226; Eat right. Sure, you can stop at the rest stop for food-along with the thousands of other people on the road. But roadside dining doesn't always offer the healthiest choices. Instead, keep your family's bellies full with snacks that you can eat right in the car, such as trail mix, string cheese, fruit roll-ups, bottles of water, and fruit. These easy, convenient snacks are yummy (for them) and healthy (for you).

&#8226; Keep everyone happy. Pick a destination that has fun activities for all ages. While it's tempting to head for the place that the kids will love, make sure there's something for mom, dad and grandma to do as well. Some top family vacation spots that offer something for everyone include Orlando, Fla., Anaheim, Calif., Williamsburg, Va., Hershey, Pa. and Yellowstone National Park. 

Family vacations can be chaotic but immensely rewarding. And if you keep these tips in mind, you can help ensure safe and happy travels-at least until you get there.

When stopping at rest stops, make sure it's just your kids getting back in the car and not germs they pick up in the bathroom.


