Title: 
A Day At Koh Larn

Word Count:
530

Summary:
A short boat ride from Pattaya is the Coral Island – Koh Larn.


Keywords:
boat, trip, small, koh, ride, bigger boat, small boat, koh larn, pattaya, thailand


Article Body:
Visiting Koh Larn, or the coral island is a great change of pace from Pattaya.

My first trip to Koh Larn was a spur of the moment mini-adventure.  I was talking with a young lady in a bar and she asked me where I had visited in Thailand.  I rattled off a bunch of cities from north to south and then she asked if I had ever been to Koh Larn.  I told her no and she said she had never been either.

It was decided then and there that we would take the short trip the next day.  We spent the night together and made arrangements for the boat ride and tour at one of the many street vendor tour ladies.

We booked for a 10 AM boat ride and we were told we would be back at about 4 PM.  The price was a whopping 10 US dollars each and this included lunch.

We walked down from Second Road to Beach Road and met out small, longboat that would take us out to the bigger boat for the trip to Koh Larn.

But first, we stopped at a square dock and were offered a kite-flying ride for an additional ten dollars.  We declined but watched a couple of the others from our boat get the short round the dock ride.

We then boarded a bigger boat and chugged on out to the island.  The ride took about 45 minutes and we were met by another small, long boat to get us to shore.  This boat had a glass bottom to observe the coral, but the water was too murky to see anything.

We got ashore and since this was a spur of the moment trip, I bought my girl a swimsuit.  We staked out a patch of beach and got 2 lounge chairs for about one dollar for the day for both and just kicked back and relaxed.

The water was clean and refreshing and we just splashed about and lay around on the chairs.  We were offered a variety of sea activities from underwater walking to banana boat rides.  We declined and just took it easy.

We were served lunch with the rest of the group and it was OK but nothing special.  Rice, pork, French fries and a cold drink.

There were a handful of vendors trying to sell their wares but they were not pests.  They came by once and left with a smile when I declined.

At about 3 PM it was time to head back.  We took the small boat to the bigger boat and relaxed and listened to some music on the way back.  The boat moved at a snail's pace and there was just enough of a breeze to keep things cool.

We met the small boat and were taken back to Pattaya Beach.  I dropped my smart card off at the photo processing place and showered, changed, picked up the photos and went back to her bar.

I gave her a set of the pictures to show her friends and to keep for herself.  All in all a very nice day that set me back $20 for the trip and another $10 to get her a bathing suit.


