Title: 
About Pet Friendly Motels And Pet Hotels

Word Count:
279

Summary:
An informative article providing solutions to travelling with your pets. How and where to find pet friendly motels, pet hotels and accommodations no matter where you go. What to expect when travelling with your pet.


Keywords:
pet friendly motels, pet hotels, dog friendly hotels


Article Body:
Pet friendly motels and dog friendly hotels are not as difficult to find as you might think. Although many hotels still don't allow pets of any kind in their rooms, there are a substantial amount that do. Most of the time there will be no extra charge for accommodating your furry critter, but sometimes you will be asked to pay a small fee usually ranging anywhere from 5 dollars to 50 dollars. Pet hotels and pet friendly motels are very convenient for people who like to travel and not have to go through the hassle of leaving their pet to the care of friends, family or expensive pet care establishments.

There are a variety of options of pet accommodations you can choose from when travelling, such as pet friendly motels, pet hotels, bed and breakfasts', resorts and vacation rentals. Sometimes you can be charged a small fee, and other times you may be charged a deposit, which would be returned if your pet causes no apparent damage. It is also possible to find a number of dog friendly hotels that will provide veterinary services and pet care facilities such as beds and blankets.

We have put this together to provide pet owners with useful information in hopes of facilitating travel with your pet. Pet friendly motels and dog friendly hotels all have different rules and policies concerning pet accommodation, so it is a good idea to familiarize yourself with them before checking into any pet hotels. It is sometimes hard to ask friends and family to take care of your pet while travelling, as it can be an added responsibility. We hope we have provided you with a simple stress-free solution.


