Title: 
Accommodations are a Vital Aspect of Vacation Planning

Word Count:
344

Summary:
When making travel plan, one of the most important details is going to be your accommodation


Keywords:
accommodation, hotels, guesthouses


Article Body:
When making travel plan, one of the most important details is going to be your accommodation. Most people worry and fret over flight plans or rental cars and breeze right through the accommodations and choose the very first room they find available within a reasonable distance from the local airport. 

This is very rarely a wise course of action unless you are doing a one-night stay in town and desire to be very close to the airport for the sake of convenience. There are several reasons why this is true. First of all, not all airports are located in the safest area of town. Families tend to prefer nice quiet areas in which to raise their children, airports are generally anything but a quiet area in which to live. While most airport accommodations are reasonably clean, this doesn’t really guarantee that they are equally secure. 

Second, these hotels and motels often charge a premium rate in exchange for the convenience of their location. In this day and age, we pay for perks and location is most definitely considered a perk in the realm of travel, if in doubt, check the prices for hotels on the Disney property vs. those on the outskirts of town.

Third, and perhaps most importantly, those hotels located closest to airports generally are further away from the area attractions. If you are vacationing with your family you will enjoy much better use of your time by limiting your travel time between destinations and attractions. 

The final reason that it isn’t always best to choose accommodations close to the airport is that you may find the amenities designed for families to be somewhat lacking. Hotel airports tend to cater to the single in and out business crowd rather than family entertainment. These accommodations will be sparse and the quarters a little closer than the average family would probably appreciate. 

Take care when making travel arrangements for your accommodations that you consider all of these things. This will make for a much more enjoyable vacation for you and your children.


