Title: 
After the Game: A Guide to Manchester’s Best Hotels

Word Count:
415

Summary:
Manchester is a bustling city known for its lively sporting culture. It is for this same reason why the city is a common spot for travel.


Keywords:
manchester stadium,Travelodge,holiday inn,sportscity


Article Body:
Manchester is a bustling city known for its lively sporting culture. It is for this same reason why the city is a common spot for travel. Thousands of people, locals and foreigners alike fill the city each year all for the sake of experiencing the thrills of football matches and other sporting events. 

The City of Manchester Stadium or Sportscity, as it is famously known is one of the biggest sporting venues where several sporting events including football, are held each year. The stadium was then adopted as the home of the city’s football club. 

Another sporting venue is the Manchester Velodrome. It is an internationally known sporting facility where most track cycling events take place each year. The center was developed through the joint efforts of the English Sports Council of Manchester City and the British Cycling Federation. 

Other sporting facilities or venues like the regional athletics track are also located in this area. The residents here are blessed to be conveniently living in an excitement filled area. Being one would guarantee you to a comfortable seat on match days. For most sports enthusiasts who don’t live in this city however, staying in nearby hotels is a common convenient choice. 

Manchester boasts of quality and affordable hotels. These hotels are perfectly situated near the above mentioned sporting venues, making them an ideal place for people to stay in during the events. 

The Travelodge Sportscity is one of these hotels. It is only 1.5 miles from Sportscity. You don’t have to worry about being late for any scheduled game or football matches of your favorite team. 

Express by Holiday Inn is a modern hotel located about 3 miles from the city of Manchester and a mile off the M60 and M67. Express offers facilities and services that are relatively affordable and satisfying. A newly opened fitness club is located next to it. 

Holiday Inn Manchester Central Park is a 4 star hotel. It is located near the City of Manchester Stadium. It offers a wide range of hotel facilities including 83 well appointed rooms, all of them spacious and air-conditioned.

Lastly, is the Citi Place. A cozy hotel located just minutes away from Sportscity. It offers rooms that have a free wireless internet access, digital televisions and shared bathrooms. 

There is no reason for you to miss any sporting events in the city of Manchester with all these hotels around. Take your pick now and enjoy all the fun and games this city has to offer.


