Title: 
Air Traveling Safety Tips

Word Count:
550

Summary:
Air traveling can be an exciting experience for many but it does have its own challenges and risks. Moreover, the aircraft ambience and different factors associated with air traveling can cause anxiety among the passengers. The article throws a light on a number of safety issues thereby helping you to make your trip safer.


Keywords:
Air Traveling Safety Tips, Flight safety, Travel tips, Air travelling


Article Body:
Air traveling can be an exciting experience for many but it does have its own challenges and risks. Moreover, the aircraft ambience and different factors associated with air traveling can cause anxiety among the passengers. The article throws a light on a number of safety issues thereby helping you to make your trip safer. 

Most accidents generally take place during the take off and landing phase of flight. For that reason, it is always suggested to fly nonstop routings on larger aircraft. It can bring a great drop in exposure to the major accident-prone phases of flight. 

Seatbelts are the best protection against a crash or collision. They hold you in place in so preventing your body and head from being thrown away if the plane encounters unexpected turbulences. Therefore, always keep your seat belts fastened for that extra protection. 

Ensuring the safety of passengers and aiding them in an hour of emergency is undeniably the chief responsibility of the flight attendants. Thus, always listen to your flight attendants. Avoid handling the hot drinks by yourself. You may ask your flight attendant to help you with the servings. They are fully trained in handling drinks like tea and coffee in a busy aisle on a moving plane. And of course, you are required to follow the instructions outlined by your flight crew especially in an emergency situation like precautionary emergency evacuation. 

The atmosphere within the aircraft cabins is generally pressurized. Since, the air is thin at altitude, it results in lack of oxygen and the gas present in our body cavities begins to expand. At such times, excess drinking can be quite dangerous on flight. Further, it can encourage you to act in ways that are considered as out of character and may lead to significant stress. Use rules of moderations when planning to consume alcohol. 

Traveling along with the kids puts extra demands on guardians to ensure their security. Always have those things on hand that are necessitating meeting special needs of your child. You may use a child restraint system for your precious one. Suggested by the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration, these designed systems are apt for children less than 40 pounds. Finally yet importantly, never allow your child to wander way into the restricted areas like galleys. It is always recommendable to keep supervising your child all the time on flight. 

Paying thought to baggage restrictions will be helpful regarding to your safety. No passenger is allowed to bring any kind of hazardous material into the flight unless allowed by the airline authority. When traveling by air, wear the clothes that allow freedom of movement. Nearly all the airlines are pretty good in taking care of the passengers’ standard dietary preferences. But, if you have any food allergies, you are perhaps the safest carrying your own food. 
Be cautious of the kinds of electronic devices you are and are not allowed to use during the flight. In case, you are not certain about the rules, consult either your crew member or flight attendants. Although, there are several attendants present on the aircraft that could do to remedy a situation but you have to help them out. After all, your safety is in your hands!!! 

Author:-  Somya Aggarwal
<a href="http://www.cheapoair.com">www.cheapoair.com</a>


