Title: 
Air Mattresses - Convenience and Comfort in One Package

Word Count:
413

Summary:
Air mattresses are extremely convenient and flexible on the road, or for a guests room. Find out the ins and outs of air mattresses.


Keywords:
mattress brands comparison, mattress cleaners, how to clean mattress stains, powered air mattress, latex mattress comparison


Article Body:
Air mattresses are traditionally used for short duration situations such as vacationing, or crashing at your friends house after being kicked out by your girlfriend for forgetting your anniversary. Actually, they are not necessarily judged to be to be the ideal of comfort and health- but in a few cases they certainly do provide a lot of benefit.

Higher education students who are short on finances may select for air mattresses for an extended time period because they provide affordability with a relatively healthful night's rest. The challenge is air mattresses tend to be fragile, so while you are lugging it around be careful not to scrape the sides of the air mattress, otherwise it will not remain a bed but rather covers for the ground you will be sleeping on.

Perhaps you are going on a road trip and/or orienteering. Air mattresses are certainly a nice choice to have when you are on the road in general so that at least you will have a nice place to rest on after a long day's walk.

If you are looking to buy an air mattress (it's good to have one in your supplies in case you need it), there are different online sites that will allow you to compare prices, and read other people's assessments based on their own purchase history. 

Typically speaking, these types of mattresses can fit into a minute area (probably the size of a medium to large-sized duffel bag), and are very light (once the air is released of course). Even with the air utterly pumped into the air mattress, it's still rather easy to carry. Just don't jump on it or allow your pet to play around or near it.

The more low-cost air mattresses maybe don't come with their own electric pump. In which case you will need to use a separate air pump such as the one you use for your tire or recreational sports balls like basketballs and soccer balls. Usually it takes 2 minutes to 7 minutes depending on the mattress brand, and your own power levels. 

Taking good care of your air mattress is crucial if you want to increase it's lifetime value to you. However you will find that after using most to any air mattress for a while, they will eventually wear out and become unusable. The everyday air mattress should last you at least 6 months to a year and much longer depending on how well you take good care of it.


