Title: 
Airplane Comfort Tips

Word Count:
416

Summary:
Who else wants to get comfortable during those long flights, squished in a coach seat?   Here are some tips that make that possible.


Keywords:
Travel, Airplane, Comfort, Airplane Comfort Tips, Travel Adventure, Cheap flights, airlines


Article Body:
Airplane Comfort Tips: Mental and Physical Comfort

The most important Airplane Comfort Tip that will make you feel very comfortable while flying is if you know that you have struck the best deal and managed to save a lot of money. Whether you are flying on a business trip or a pleasure trip, you can make it less expensive with little extra effort. 

Here are some airplane comfort tips that will make your journey comfortable through some lesser-known methods of using air transport. Interestingly, the famous airfare price wars and the travel agents are not at the top of the list of our best airplane comfort tips. 

When Should You Call Airlines?
The first airplane comfort tip suggests that you may get air tickets at a lower price if you call the airlines after 12 midnight and before 1:00 A.M.  This is the best time because computers are updated at this time. Alternatively, you may make inquiries at other nearby airports. To your surprise, the difference in fare at the two airports can be several hundred dollars. You can also save some money if you book your ticket well in advance.   On the other hand, booking at the last minute may also give you some extra benefit. 

How to Counter Airplane Dryness
Now that you are mentally comfortable, because you feel that you have done your best to pay minimum for your airline ticket,  here are some other airplane comfort tips to keep you physically comfortable while flying: 1.) You should take very light meals and get a good night's sleep before you start traveling. 2.) To counter the dryness caused by the atmosphere in the cabin, it will be better if you avoid drinking tea, coffee and alcohol. However, consume as much water and fresh fruit juices as you can. If you wear contact lenses, remove them if it is possible. Use moisturizer for the exposed skin and lip balm for the dry lips. If you have history of any kind of respiratory disease, it is advisable to consult your doctor before flying in the airplane. 

Do Not Sit Idle for a Long Time
My next airplane comfort tip is that you should not remain sitting idle for the whole duration of the flight. It may cause obstructions in blood circulation resulting in muscle cramps, tiredness and worst of all, Deep Vein Thrombosis (DVT). Whenever you get a chance, try moving in the aisle. If you find it difficult, try to stretch your arms, neck, feet and legs.


