Title: 
Altinkum Turkey

Word Count:
521

Summary:
Altinkum is a friendly resort and you will find the locals 'laid back' and relaxed in their attitude towards tourists.


Keywords:
Turkey Holidays, Altinkum Turkey


Article Body:
Turkey has many beautiful resorts along the Aegean coast. Altinkum is one such small resort town on the shores of the Aegean Sea; it is only 90 minutes transfer from Bodrum Airport. The town has got its name after the golden sand on its beaches. Altinkum means “golden sands”. The magnificent beaches of golden sand gently shelving into the shimmering turquoise blue water of the Aegean Sea is an enchanting sight. Altinkum resort has three beaches. The main beach has plenty of sunbeds and umbrellas for basking on the beach. Or you can go swimming in the nice, clear blue water of the Aegean Sea. Plenty of water sports are also available; children enjoy going on the pedal boats. There are enjoyable boat trips that take you around the bay and the Castle. The second beach has many bars and restaurants facing the sea. The third beach is a smaller more secluded beach. 

Apart from swimming and basking on the beach, there is plenty of sight seeing you can do. There are many interesting ancient sites you can visit near Altinkum. A short ten minutes journey from the resort center is the Temple of Apollo where you will see the famous head of Medusa adorned with snakes; and you will be astonished with the size of the columns here. 
For a longer day-out visit, go to see one of the seven wonders of the ancient world, the ruins of Ephesus. It is a well-preserved classical city on the Mediterranean, and gives you a feeling of what life was like in Roman times. It is said that the Virgin Mary, at the end of her life, came to Ephesus accompanied by St. Paul. Also St. John is said to have lived the last years of his life here and after his death, a shrine, the Basilica of St. John was located over his grave.

You can take a boat trip to the Greek island of Samos. Samos lies at the north-eastern part of the Aegean Sea. Visitors are enchanted to see the charming mountainous landscape of Samos with the essential beauty of the nature and the historical spread all over the island. It is a unique experience.

Or perhaps you will enjoy a walk around the beautiful Bafa Lake nearby; it has a magnificent mountain backdrop. Visit the Didim Aqua Park, just outside of Altinkum resort; the Aqua Park was built in 2004 and is very popular. 

For relaxation and entertainment, there are a large number of restaurants and waterfront bars open until around midnight; later the party atmosphere moves to nightclubs. It can get lively in high season when the holiday spirit is in full swing. 

There are many good hotels at Altinkum resort. The Didim Beach Resort, one of them, has its own golden sand beach situated in one of the beautiful bays of the Aegean coast. The hotel has facilities for games such as tennis, table tennis, basketball, etc.; it also has swimming pool, Turkish bath & sauna as well as fitness center. The hotel has its own shopping centre and disco within the complex. The hotel is 90km from Bodrum Airport.


