Title: 
Amsterdam the Greatest Small City

Word Count:
698

Summary:
Europe has many beautiful tourist destinations. However, it is absolutely undeniable that by far, Amsterdam is one of the best.


Keywords:
amsterdam,europe,netherlands,city


Article Body:
Europe has many beautiful tourist destinations. However, it is absolutely undeniable that by far, Amsterdam is one of the best. The population of 735000 is proud of this ‘greatest of small cities in the world’. There is the world famous canal system to explore and the fantastic personification of tolerance and diversity that is synonymous with the romantic and beautiful city of Amsterdam. A trip along the canals is a must for every lover of architecture. The city is also known for soft drugs and prostitution. Amsterdam ably competes with cities like London, Paris and Milan. However, in comparison, the city has more to offer for less.


Amsterdam caters to every tourist’s needs. There is the presence of a unique culture, exquisite nightlife, amazing lodging options for every budget, great transport connectivity and the authentic bike experience. The beautiful weather all year round has made this jewel of The Netherlands a popular tourist destination for travelers from all over the world. Among the popular tourist attractions in the city are the museums, canals, coffee-shops and the water taxis.


Tourist attractions -  The Rijksmuseum, Stedelijk and the Van Gogh Museums are very popular. Amsterdam has over fifty museums! The coffee shops in Holland or The Netherlands are an amusing sight because they not only sell small amounts of cannabis, but are also regulated! The coffee shops are not allowed to cater to anyone under-18 and beyond 5g. The city flaunts over three hundred options in accommodation that have been categorized as the best money can buy.


Amsterdam travel routes - Amsterdam offers good provisions for dedicated cyclists, such as bike paths and racks. There are an estimated one million bicycles in the city. Public transport in Amsterdam is available in the form of bus and tram lines. There are also water taxis and a water bus. There are dedicated canal cruises that enable tourists to explore the Amsterdam's waterways.


Visitors come to the beautiful city of Amsterdam for its reputation of being a liberal city. The city offers visitors a charm that is emphasised by elegant houses and the ever-enchanting canals. The popular Anne Frankd House is a ‘must-see’ in Amsterdam. The people are known to be very warm and welcoming and very accommodating.


Amsterdam lodging options - Amsterdam has a number of lodging options for tourists. There are luxurious hotels and budgeted ones too, to cater to the need of both, leisure and business travelers. There are popular youth hostels all over the city. These offer single accommodation at very cost effective prices. The lodging in Amsterdam includes meals and sight seeing options, depending on whether you are a walk-in customer or a guest with prior booking and arrangements.


Some of the lodging options worth considering in Amsterdam include:

The Park Plaza Victoria Hotel: Across the Amsterdam Central Sation, very near Dam Square, this fantastic lodging options offers double rooms from 66 pounds onwards. The hotel is known to offer discounts as much as 63%. The hotel keeps offering special rates to attract tourists and list among the favorite options offered by travel agents, the world over.


Hotel City Garden: Located in the heart of this beautiful city, the hotel offers double rooms from 39 pounds onwards. The amentities are among the best and it is conveniently located for business travellers. The warm and cozy hotel promises tourists a near-home experience.


NH Center Amsterdam: This stately lodging option is next to the Vondel Park, near Leidse Square and Museum Square. The tariff offers double rooms from 71 pounds onwards.


Amsterdam hotels and accommodation can be accessed via the dedicated websites of the hotels and travel agents. You can choose from luxurious accommodation in Amsterdam, to a cheap and cost effective budget hotel or even a Schiphol or airport hotel.

The best approach:

This "Venice of the North" attracts travelers from all over the world. Amsterdam has evolved into a meeting ground for various cultures and sub-cultures. The city has people from different backgrounds living together within a distinct urban environment. The lodging options at Amsterdam can be accessed online via dedicated online resources, however, a little prior research and comparison helps a lot. It pays to reserve and plan your holiday in this beautiful city.


