Title: 
Antalya Turkey Holidays

Word Count:
499

Summary:
Antalya one of the most known holiday destination in Turkey. The Antalya Region, offering all the mysticism of past in our day, is now called the "Turkish Riviera" due to its archaeological and natural beauties.


Keywords:
Turkey, Antalya, Holidays, Travel


Article Body:
Antalya is Turkey's major and charming holiday resort in the Mediterranean region which is called the ancient Pamphylia.  This is a beautiful city with endowing palm-lines alley.  A superb marina is present on the Mediterranean which makes the Antalya different.  This is a fascinating place in Turkey which is moreover good for natural beauty rather than anything artificial.
There are some grand and awesome historical remains that astonish the viewers.  Antalya contains various waterfalls and cascades than can be felt thoroughly.  The bewitching beauty of the cascades tends to captivate the tourists and thus leaves a permanent impression about the holiday.

The upper Duden waterfalls can be seen about 14 km north east of Antalya.  The tourists who come here try to capture the beauty by walking rather than hiring a taxi.  Feeling each step of beauty is different from just passing bye.  The Duden waterfalls ultimately descend into the sea.  The sounds of the waterfalls and serene atmosphere tranquilize the minds of the viewers. 
The Duden waterfalls in Antalya can also be viewed from the sea.  Other great waterfalls that can be noticed here are the Kursunlu Waterfalls and Nilufer Lake.  Both of these beauty icons are 18 km away from Antalya which are the epitome of beauty.  The Lara beach is scattered with sandy spread is the archetype of a white bed spread. 

Closer to Antalya lies the pebbled Konyaalti Beach which presents a panorama of the majestic mountain range.  Little far away is Bey Dagi called the Olympos that is the National Park along with the Topcam Beach equipping more lavish scenery.  There are bivouac grounds at the north end of the park.  This shelter, moreover, enables to withstand the beauty of the nature.

For a picturesque view of the neighborhood of Antalya, it is essential to make a drive to the holiday complex which is situated heavenly on top of the Tunektepe Hill.  Antalya is an ideal winter resort in Turkey.  There are enormous snowed mountains that can be skied.  March and April are the best months for enjoying this.  Savory lunch is offered here including fresh fish at the Marina.  In the afternoons, sunbath along with wind surf can be enjoyed.

Duzlercami Park that is positioned in the north of Antalya is under a conservation program.  The trip towards this wild life gets eventually interrupted with the marvelous 115 meter deep Guver Canyon.  There is small museum in Antalya.  Majority of the artifacts are being displayed in other museums that are spread all over Turkey.  An Archaeological Museum that has the remnants of the Paleolithic Age to Ottoman times gifts a coup d'oeil of the area's rich history.

Antalya thus becomes a natural expedition by feeling nature’s beauty.  Shopping is not major exhibition here.  People come here due to the immense cosmos of beauty and life.  However, there is no tiredness or boredom as it happens in other resorts.  There is enough and more things to be captivated slowly and reaching the heavenly beauty of Antalya.


