Title: 
Antwerp Hotel Guide

Word Count:
416

Summary:
Antwerp is a city in Belgium, which is a center of commerce. It has a population of just under half a million people and is the capital of Antwerpen province, one of the three areas of Belgium. The city is situated on the right side of the Scheldt River.


Keywords:
Antwerp Hotels, hotel in Antwerp


Article Body:
Antwerp is a city in Belgium, which is a center of commerce. It has a population of just under half a million people and is the capital of Antwerpen province, one of the three areas of Belgium. The city is situated on the right side of the Scheldt River. 


The city is quite old, its name being mentioned as far back as the 4th century. It was the headquarters of Edward III, and the golden age of the city is closely related to the Age of Exploration. The city has had three economic booms in its history, the first being the result of the pepper industry and later silver.


When it comes to tourism, Antwerp is gravely underrated. This can be considered bad or good depending on the tastes of the traveler. If you want to travel off the beaten track to a city, which isn't as well known as Brussels, Antwerp is a great place for you.


Antwerp is one of the most important cities in Belgium when it comes to culture and economy. Along with New York and South Africa, Antwerp is one of the most important centers for the diamond industry. The city also has a large seaport and is an important area for oil refineries.


Very few cities perfectly mix the medieval with the modern, but Antwerp does this well. You will be amazed by the castles and Renaissance villas as you eat and drink at the local cafes. The city is well known for its museums and galleries which demonstrate artistically the different moods of the city.


Included in the art galleries are the works of the 15th century Flemish Master Jan Van Eyck, and 17th century Baroque artists such as Antoon Van Dyck. The city has also been given international recognition as a city known for its fashion design. Many students who have graduated from the Royal Academy of Fine Arts have went on to become world famous designers.


Thos who enjoy wildlife will want to visit the Antwerp Zoo, which is world famous and is located in the center of the city. Next door to the Antwerp Zoo is the Central Sation, which visitors will also want to see. Like Brussels, Antwerp is fairly expensive, and visitors will want to bring ample sums of money when touring this city.


If you are looking for a tourist spot where you can avoid the large crowds and head off the beaten track, Antwerp is a city you will want to visit


