Title: 
Applying Mineral Makeup Correctly For the Best Effect

Word Count:
633

Summary:
Learn how to apply mineral makeup to get the perfect look for you


Keywords:
mineral makeup, applying mineral makeup, how to apply mineral makeup


Article Body:
Mineral makeup is something which you should invest your money in, although its application does need more attention and time. You can get that perfect look you want by following some simple tips. 

Mineral makeup is here and it looks like it is going to remain popular for quite a while. Whether you are going to be a first-time user of mineral makeup, or you're a regular user, you need to know how to apply it. It might seem difficult at first and you might need to practice it for some time till you can be perfect at it. You need to know the correct tips and techniques to get the unblemished complexion you dream of. 

Several mineral makeup brands will provide video or step-by-step instructions when you buy their products. If you are buying mineral makeup from a makeup counter or a store, you should ask for instructions from the salesperson on the way you should apply it. You should pay attention to the instructions given and learn the tips properly. Then you'll notice the difference between mineral and normal makeup. 

The Tools: Brushes
Based on whether you will be using mineral makeup as foundation or concealer, you will require a different brush to apply it. 

A brush, usually referred to as the Kabuki brush, is what will give you the best results when it comes to applying mineral makeup as foundation. These are like the blush or powder brushes but have short and stubby handles and full and firm bristles. Mineral makeup is applied with a buffing movement so that the stubby short handle is easier to hold and move around while the full short bristles enable a coverage which is even. 

In order to apply mineral makeup as a concealer, you can use your fingers to apply it (for areas which need more coverage or for under eye circles) or a concealer brush (narrow and firm bristles which have a rounded tip) in the under eye region or a lip brush (short bristles which taper at the tip) for blemishes around the nose. 

There are brushes which are used for applying mineral makeup sold with the makeup itself, but the quality of the brushes can vary. You might have to try different Kabuki-style brushes to find out which one you like best. Brands such as L'Oreal and Neutrogena sell their mineral makeup products with built-in brushes so that it is easier to carry around and apply.

The Technique

As mineral makeup has a loose powder texture, you might want to just dab it on your face like you would with loose powder, but you should not do that. Mineral makeup is a lot less translucent than loose powder and it is meant to be applied as foundation, so you have to apply it in moderation and build it in stages in order to have the prefect flawless look. 

These tips will help you to apply it properly:

1.Take a small amount of the makeup on a tissue. You won't need much and you can always add more to it.
2.Dab the Kabuki brush in the powder. Rotate the bristles into the powder, taking the product into the brush. The powder should get into the bristles, not just sit on the tip. When there is no powder on the bristles' tips, you are ready to apply it.
3.Buff the brush against your skin by first holding the brush to the center of your forehead in a circular motion, moving towards the edge of your face.
Continue to do this till you have to add more of the product. You should not add more then once or twice.
The buffing motion is necessary for a flawless complexion. 

Following these simple rules will help you to get the perfect skin you wish for.


