Title: 
Are you ready?

Word Count:
548

Summary:
When you are planning your trip there are some things you can fail to remember. Usually they are very useful things and their absence can cause some inconveniences. Depending on the length of your trip and the place you are going to the list of the necessary items will differ.


Keywords:
hotels


Article Body:
When you are planning your trip there are some things you can fail to remember. Usually they are very useful things and their absence can cause some inconveniences. Depending on the length of your trip and the place you are going to the list of the necessary items will differ. 

In any case, if you are going abroad you must have all the necessary documents. 

1)	your foreign passport with visa (if necessary)
2)	your tickets (plane, train, bus – just any)
3)	your hotel voucher (if you stay in a hotel)
4)	your insurance (if you have one)

If you are traveling with a travel agency, you’d better have their telephone numbers and other contacts both in your country and in a country of your destination.

So, when you plan to spend away from home only a couple of days you should only take your documents and a sufficient sum of money. There are hardly such things you can’t live without for several days. Of course, if you do prefer not waste your money, you should not forget your toothbrush ad other item of the personal hygiene. However if you stay in a prestigious hotel these things won’t be a problem. 

Some people live their city with a strong desire to forget about all that they have left in their motherland, but if you still want to be in touch with your relatives and friends you’d better to take your mobile. Of course, you can call from the reception in the hotel, but mobile is much more convenient and cheaper.  

In any foreign country if you don’t speak its language, the phrase-book can become almost indispensable thing. 

No matter for how long your trip will last – you will be safer if you take your medicines with you. If you route lays far from the big cities you simply couldn’t manage to find what you need. Even if you are going to New York or Paris, are you sure you would like to waste your time and money looking for your salvation? It’s good if the foreign pharmacists know the name of your medicine – and if they don’t? 

Continuing about healthcare – it’s highly recommended to make all the vaccinations you can need in the country you are going to. It’s especially urgent if you go to the tropical countries of in the country where the epidemic can spoil your plans. The list of the vaccinations you may need can be easily found in your travel agency, in the embassy of this country and even in Internet. 
Don’t forget also to take the clothes for you rest. Swimsuit, T-shirts and shorts on resort and a couple of the warm sweaters and blazers in mountains. Anyway, don’t forget your running shoes – barely you will like to make long walks on high heels or in uncomfortable shoes. 

If you expect long trip in bus or train, or long flight – take some books, magazines or something else to entertain yourself. Some people always take their talismans in their journeys. So, if you feel uncomfortable without your old toy – don’t forget to take it too, especially if you plan a long stay abroad. 
Anyway, when you have cash or credit card you won’t be in trouble – now you can buy almost everything, almost everywhere.


