Title: 
Are There Any Good Restaurants On Walking Street?

Word Count:
441

Summary:
Most single guys know that Pattaya's Walking Street is a haven of go-go bars but many don’t know about the great restaurants.


Keywords:
street, food, favorite, seafood, vendors, bars, street vendors, walking street, meal, walking, chicken, thai food, lobster


Article Body:
There are a bunch of great places to eat that will suit every budget.  You can choose from local street vendors or you can splurge on a fantastic seafood dinner.

The street vendors are mostly located just off of Walking Street down the small lanes or sois.  They sell everything from bar-b-que on a stick to rice and noodle dishes.  Prices are very cheap and you can get a meal or a snack for les than 2 dollars.

If you want Thai food in a nicer setting, there are many restaurants up and down the street.  You can get western or Thai food at reasonable prices.

Some of the bars also offer food or provide menus that you can easily order from.  You can order any item on the menu and have your full course meal while enjoying your favorite adult beverage.

If you are in the mood for seafood, there are 3 or 4 restaurants that have your favorite fish, lobster or crab on ice or still swimming around.  Your meal will be excellent and cost about 25% of what you would pay at home.  And the view of Pattaya Bay is magnificent.  King Seafood is my favorite.

If seafood isn’t your favorite, you can always get Italian.  Don Joe's is right on Walking Street and overlooks the bay.  You can get pizza, pasta or lasagna in a great location with superb service.  Many of the bars located near Don Joe's can provide a menu and will let you eat in the bar while you have a cold beer.

Another favorite of mine are the kebab sandwiches that some of the vendors sell.  You will see chicken, pork or lamb on a vertical spit and you can get a sandwich with all the trimmings for about 50 Baht – or $1.50 US.  The meat will be trimmed and put into pita bread and then you can add cucumbers, tomatoes, and onions.  Catsup and other sauces are also available. Chicken kebabs are my favorite and the girls in the bars will be happy to grab one for you.

Probably the best part of Walking Street is that you can get food any time of day or night.  Whether eating local style at one of the many street vendors, or going for the crab or lobster at King Seafood it is entirely up to you.  You can even get a burger and fries if you want.  And dessert is available too – you can get an Italian ice or some fresh fruit.

Walking Street is a fun place to go to for the bars and the girls but it is also a super place to get some excellent food.


