Title: 
Asian Love Story: A Honeymoon destination in India

Word Count:
559

Summary:
An Asian wedding? Probably. An Asian honeymoon? Why not? If you’ve already explored the streets of Venice, taken pictures of the Eiffel Tower, visited the numerous museums and art galleries in Italy and wined and dined on tempting Italian and French cuisine, perhaps you may want to explore a different culture and different taste on your first time together as a married couple.


Keywords:
honeymoon destinations, honeymoons


Article Body:
An Asian wedding? Probably. An Asian honeymoon? Why not? If you’ve already explored the streets of Venice, taken pictures of the Eiffel Tower, visited the numerous museums and art galleries in Italy and wined and dined on tempting Italian and French cuisine, perhaps you may want to explore a different culture and different taste on your first time together as a married couple. This is an experience that would definitely leave a lasting impression on both of you.
 
 Asia offers as much richness and romantic mood as the West. And one place you can explore is India, one of the oldest birthplaces of world civilization. It’s a cultural experience you both would never forget, with the colorful muslins, the dark-skinned complexion of its people, the million temples, mosques, churches and palaces you can explore. This will be a honeymoon that would never leave you bored.
 
 Ooty is one of the best destinations of honeymooners in India. From the fragrant wind to the silence punctuated by the rustling of trees and the enchanting scenery, this place spells romance, romance, and more romance. Visit the botanical gardens and the Doddabetta peak with it view of the Nilgiri hill ranges. Seven-hours away from Ooty, there’s the Kodaikanal tucked among the hills of Tamil Nadu. Take a boat ride in the Kodai Lake with your loved one and enjoy the trees, the water and the solitude.
 
 If you’re looking for something tropical and sunny, plus sand and water in India, there’s Goa and Kerala, two of India’s most famous beach get-aways. Goa also boasts of wooden carvings and furniture, coir mats, straw hats, artifacts, brassware, and junk jewelry you might want to stash away as honeymoon souvenir. Bask under the sun and experience the calm and soothing natural beauty of India.
 
 Don’t fail to visit the Taj Mahal, one of the Seven Wonders of the World. Made from white marble, this edifice was built by Emperor Shahjahan in memory of his wife, Mumtaz Mahal. This is considered as one of the Orient’s greatest testimonies of love. Here you can feel the warmth and security of being loved greatly.
 
 For some taste of Indian royalty, there’s Rajasthan, one of the most colorful regions in India. Visit the Palace on wheels, Hawa Mahal, Amber Fort, Lalgarh Palace.
 
 Located in North India and covering the states of Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Uttaranchal, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh, don’t miss the ultimate experience of exploring the Himalayas. The peaks in Kashmir are perfect for mountain climbing and trekking, while the Himalayan peaks in Uttaranchal are pilgrimage sites.
 
 India is also known as one of the spiritual centers of many religions in the world. Khajuraho offers a tour at its temples constructed by the Chandela rulers during the 9th and 10th century B.C.
 
 Nature lovers can also consider staying at Darjeeling, Kodaikanal, Srinagar, Shimla and Manali, among others for an aesthetic experience with nature. Take pictures of the forest-covered hills and stroll through orchards and enjoy the sight of endemic Indian flora.
 
 It’s a paradise to be explored, boasting of pristine beaches, snow-capped mountains and a peaceful scenery. The hub of the Oriental culture, one of the melting pot of the world’s oldest traditions, religions and civilizations, India is the place to experience on your romantic sojourn.


