Title: 
Asia Safety Travel Tips

Word Count:
602

Summary:
Asia occupies a quarter of the earth's land mass, it spans a lot of time zones. Having a single travel guide for all of Asia is virtually impossible. Asia like any other continent, here are basic travel tips for a few of the most happening countries in Asia.


Keywords:
asia travel, hongkong traveling, china traveling, bali vacation


Article Body:
Asia occupies a quarter of the earth's land mass, it spans a lot of time zones. Having a single travel guide for all of Asia is virtually impossible. Asia like any other continent, here are basic travel tips for a few of the most happening countries in Asia.

Vietnam
The country's recommended tourist spots are Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City, which are both modernized. All tourists in Vietnam, except Thai and Philippine Nationals need a tourist Visa before entering the Country. Health wise, Malaria is prevalent in Vietnam, it would be best to bring with you anti-mosquito lotions to prevent being bit.

Indonesia
Aside from the usual prohibition of narcotics and deadly weapons, Radio cassette Players are banned in the Island of Bali, which is a prime tourist spot in Indonesia. Any object with Chinese characters written on it, are also prohibited in Bali.

Thailand
Thai people are very religious and very loyal to the monarchy. You would often see pictures of the king around the cities, never make fun of him. The Thai also consider the head as the highest part of the body, whether spiritual or physical. Refrain from touching anybody in the head, and try not to point at anything with your foot.

Malaysia
It's best to bring light and cool clothing in Malaysia. You would usually find food stands in the cities selling the local delicacies, "teh tarik" a creamed tea, and "roti canai" a type of pancake, are a must try when you do encounter them. Malaysia has many religions, you would usually see, a variety of Christian churches, Muslim Mosques and Buddhist and Hindu temples may be present in each city.

Philippines
The Philippine has 7,107 islands and islets; beaches are the main tourist spots in the country. There are several museums and Historical Landmarks in Manila, the country's capital.  Boracay Island is the boast of the country which has white sand beaches. 

Hongkong
Hong Kong is a key destination for many travelers. It is located in Eastern Asia, near China and the South China Sea. Formerly, leased to Great Britain, Hong Kong was officially returned to China in 1997.  Hong Kong offers diversity in: culture, religion, and lifestyles.
 
Chinese, (Cantonese) and English are both the official language here. So foreigners, who are planning to visit, should not have any problems exploring, and experiencing the culture of this vibrant place; since English is widely spoken here.

Hong Kong dollar is the currency in use here. One American dollar roughly equals around 7 Hong Kong dollars.  
Hong Kong is known for: its unique energetic vibe, its wonderful food, and beautiful skylines. Hong Kong offers many great upscale shopping districts that rival the high end streets of: Shanghai, London and Paris. But the best places to shop here are the unique shops, and street markets that exhibit the charm and uniqueness of the locality.

General Tips
Each country in Asia has its own currency, although up-end establishments will accept dollars, there are very few of these around. It is best to have your money changed at the local bank. Some hotels also offer money changing, but usually at a lower exchange rate. 
Like any kind of decisions people have to make, it is always important to know the area they will be visiting so as to familiarize themselves with the laws, locations of best tourist spots, and the kind of people they have to deal with.
Going to a place without having the slightest idea what it is all about is just as bad as going to the wilderness with beasts lurking everywhere and there's no gadget to protect them.


