Title: 
Australian Visa - Business Visits

Word Count:
435

Summary:
If you need to visit Australia on business, even for a very short period of time, you will need to apply for an Australian visa.  This article gives some basic details of the three types of business visa available.


Keywords:
a


Article Body:
If you need to visit Australia on business, even for a very short period of time, you will need to apply for an Australian visa.  This article gives some basic details of the three types of business visa available.

There are three types of visa available for business visits to Australia.  It should be noted that a business visit is NOT the same as "working" in the context of applying for an Australian visa.

The first is a Short Stay Business Visa which is suitable for a visit of less than three months.  This will cover a business person for normal business meetings, negotiations and conferences and may be applied for through their chosen airline or via the internet.  This is a Business Electronic Travel Authority (ETA).  Alternatively, applications may be made in writing.

The second type of business visa is a Sponsored Business Visitor (short stay) Visa.  In order to quality for this type of visa, a business person will need to be sponsored by a member of an Australian parliament, an authorised government agency, local mayor or other authorised organisation and the sponsor will need to guarantee that their visitor will abide by all the visa conditions including that which specifies the date by which they must leave the country.

The third business visa is a Temporary Business (Long Stay) visa.  To apply for one of these, an applicant must have an approved employer as a sponsor who has an eligible position available.  The employer can be an Australian or overseas company and the employee must be a foreign national with the applicable skills to fill the position.  The eligible position must have been approved as a skilled occupation suitable for this program, must be full time and of a minimum salary as well as meeting various Australian laws and award requirements.  However, before the employee can apply for a visa, the employer will need to apply to be a sponsor of overseas employees and nominate the job vacancies to be filled.  The nomination period will be 12 months or until all the vacancies are filled, whichever is the shorter.  The sponsorship will be for a period of 2 years and the visa period may be anything from 3 months to 4 years.  However, if the employee wishes to change employment, he will need to find a new approved sponsor with an eligible position and re-apply for a visa.

Full details of all the above can be found on the Australian Government Department of Immigration and Multicultural Affairs website.

In our next article, we will look at working in Australia as opposed to being a business visitor.


