Title: 
Top 5 Las Vegas Hotels

Word Count:
522

Summary:
It is no secret that Las Vegas is a magical place.  Millions flock to the city each year.  Some of those have hopes of fame and fortune while others just wish to have a wonderful vacation.


Keywords:
las vegas hotel, las vegas


Article Body:
It is no secret that Las Vegas is a magical place.  Millions flock to the city each year.  Some of those have hopes of fame and fortune while others just wish to have a wonderful vacation.  All in all it is hard to not have a good time in a place like Las Vegas.  There is so much to do and it seems that it is hard to fit it all into the limited time that a vacation allows for.  Even people who have lived in Las Vegas their entire life have yet to see all that this city has to offer and that means many great things for those that visit.  Of course you will need a place to stay when you are in Las Vegas and there are many fine choices.

Mandalay Bay Las Vegas Hotel is one of the most popular spots in the entire city.  Besides the beautiful rooms that this place offers, there is exciting casino gaming and some of the best food that you will find anywhere.  There are five restaurants inside the hotel itself, including an award winning buffet that runs twenty four hours a day.  The pool is the best in the business and the service is incredible.

Paris Las Vegas Hotel is a true bright spot in the sometimes less than colorful strip area.  Making its way by the foreign theme, the Paris is first class all the way.  Their service has won so many awards that it is hard to find a wall without some sort of plaque attached to it.  The gaming is great and you can find some great food with a little money inside the hotel.  There is twenty four hour room service available and there is always the shows that light up the night.

MGM Grand Las Vegas Hotel is a site where your breath will literally shoot from your lungs.  The sight of this magnificent hotel will take your breath away and leaving you standing there in awe.  There are live lions in the lobby, over one hundred thousand square feet of casino space and the rooms are to die for.  This is the best there is when it comes to Las Vegas and they play the part well.  You will find some of the finest dining without having to leave the hotel and the shows that are put on will knock your socks off.

Bellagio Las Vegas Hotel is one of those places that cater to the whales.  The money that is required to stay here is tough to raise and the gambling is not the cheapest either.  You will find that the food is a bit pricey as well.  But, it is all worth the expense if you can raise the funds to stay as they do everything better in this hotel.

Monte Carlo Las Vegas Hotel is one of those places that is popular with the families in Las Vegas.  The rooms are cheap and decent and the gambling is even cheaper.  You can play a lot of poker in the rooms and there is more than enough to do for the young ones.


