Title: 
Travel in Italy - Free guide of Perugia city for families

Word Count:
560

Summary:
In the Perugia City guide students, families and backpackers can get a large selection of cheap or low cost accommodation with plenty of low cost solutions in budget youth hostels, Bed and Breakfast, guesthouses, cheap hotel deals in Italy.


Keywords:
travel,italy,perugia,hotel,hostel


Article Body:
Perugia is the capital city of the region of Umbria in central Italy, near the Tiber river, and the capital of the province of Perugia.

Those who love travelling light, those with a sense for adventure, those who love flexibility in their trips, those who like meeting locals and travelling slow and low... those are Flashbooking happy travellers!

Perugia is a notable artistic center of Italy. The town gave his nickname to the famous painter Pietro Vannucci, called Perugino, who decorated with a beautiful series of frescos the local Sala del Cambio; eight of his pictures can also be admired in the National Gallery of Umbria.

Flashbooking chose to provide backpackers, students and families with a list of budget selected and independent accommodations worldwide, mostly run by locals,  in order to promote an alternative tourism respectful of cultures and different societies. For this and other reasons Flashbooking is becoming a recognized source of information and services for who loves creating a trip by him/herself and book bed nights securely online.

Perugino was the teacher of Raphael, the great artist of the Renaissance who produced in Perugia five paintings (today no longer in the city) and one fresco. Another famous painter, Pinturicchio, lived in Perugia. In Galeazzo Alessi Perugia found its most famous architect.

Flashbooking cheap lodging solutions are all available for online bookings and divided by Countries. Travellers have free access to the updated list of Europe hostels and budget hotels, North and South America hostels, Caribbean and Central America hostels as well as for Asia cheap accommodations, Oceania youth hostels and Africa hostels.

Perugia has become famous for chocolate, mostly because of a single firm, Perugina, whose Baci are widely exported. Perugia chocolate is very popular in Italy, and the city hosts a chocolate festival in October of every year.

Flashbooking's happy travellers can book their rooms and beds not only in cheap hotels or cheap hostel Budapest but also consider other budget accommodations in Bed and Breakfast, Guesthouses, Campsites, apartments, farm houses and much more. 

Perugia today hosts two main universities, the ancient Università degli Studi and the Foreigners University (Università per Stranieri). Stranieri serves as an Italian language and culture school for students from all over the world.

Flashbooking accommodation database is easily available online and comes completed with all relevant information about youth hostel and hotel location and map, description, services, hostel contacts, customer ratings, six pictures and updated prices inclusive of taxes and services together with instant real availability.

Perugia is renown for its open and friendly international people, art museums and Art Galleries, the sea, the movida and cheap lodgings, classic itineraries and a lot more to make a visit worth wise.

Having the reservation final price is also convenient as it does give the transparency our users pretend while booking. Having the final total amount of your booking means you do not have to worry about other extra surprises!

In general, Flashbooking guides have been written for giving the essential information about the most visited cities in the world and in particular for any traveller or first-time visitor.

Last but not least, if you wish to help us, you can either give your personal ratings of some accommodations, lodgings, cheap hotel Perugia, youth hostels and budget small hotels where you stayed, or enlarging the hostel offer by reporting some new hostel contacts!


