Title: 
What Is Holiday Home Exchange?

Word Count:
710

Summary:
Anyone who has a home can participate in the holiday home exchange. You don’t have to compare values of the house, or find a swapping partner with a home just likes yours; you just need to find a home that you and your family would be most comfortable in and in the area you are looking to visit. You just have to find an individual or family that you feel comfortable working with to exchange your home with their home for a short period of time.


Keywords:
holiday, home exchange, vacation


Article Body:
Anyone who has a home can participate in the holiday home exchange. You don’t have to compare values of the house, or find a swapping partner with a home just likes yours; you just need to find a home that you and your family would be most comfortable in and in the area you are looking to visit. You just have to find an individual or family that you feel comfortable working with to exchange your home with their home for a short period of time. It’s basically like house sitting for each other. While you are taking care of the other families home and enjoying another country, the other family is caring for your home and enjoying your country. 

Anyone that has ever gone on vacation can testify that the most expensive part of traveling is paying for hotels and other accommodations. Some vacations may even last longer if the expenses were not so high. The solution is simple: exchange your home. Most people are not aware of home exchanges and how they can benefit from them. If you wanted to travel to the United Kingdom, but have found the hotels and accommodation to be quite expensive, now you can. You can find a British family who would swap homes with you, rent free. An equal trade on both sides for both families to enjoy the benefits of a home while traveling. 

Home exchanges are becoming increasingly popular in major cities in the United Kingdom. The participants in home exchanging often have their friends and neighbors take a part in entertaining their visitors by providing the home exchange visitors with information on local sightseeing and attractions. The home exchange is an attractive idea to many families and individual travelers. The families with children can arrange to swap houses with another family with children of similar ages. This way there is no need to cart around a lot of child toys and equipment. The individual traveler finds swapping houses as a great way to relax in the comforts of a home after a day of sightseeing and to have more time to get to know an area better. 

Some retired travelers make a great home exchanger because they can be more flexible with dates and the length of the home exchange period. The only major expense on a vacation, when swapping homes, is basically the airfare. An arrangement can also be made to exchange the use of vehicles as well; this can save in renting a car and other traveling expenses, so all you have to pay for is gas. If pets are involved, you may be able to make an arrangement to keep the pet at home and save on boarding fees, if your home exchange partner is willing to take the responsibility. 

Even more home insurance companies are more in favor of home exchanges because it’s much safer than leaving your home unoccupied for an extended amount of time and therefore vulnerable to thieves and vandalism. When agreeing to a home exchange, it’s important to make sure that your insurance policy will cover your visitors during their stay in your home. If you’re worried about letting strangers into your home, get to know them before hand. You can exchange pictures, phone or email your intended partners and share information of area attractions with each other. Be sure to ask questions and clarify any agreements in your communication, so all things are clear. If you need further reassurance, ask for references. You will need to feel comfortable in exchanging homes so that you can enjoy your vacation and not have to worry about leaving your home and all its possessions in the hands of total strangers. 

Numerous families have had wonderful experiences with home exchanges, but sometimes problems to arise by a swapping partner who have not met with the others expectations or a family is unhappy with how the swapping partner had treated their house. Although home exchanges are a great chance to enjoy an entire house with the benefits of a full kitchen and laundry facilities for free, you need to be comfortable to those you do the swapping with. Get to know your swapping partner before any permanent arrangements are made.


