Title: 
Wide Touristy offer at Ibiza Balearic Islands

Word Count:
532

Summary:
Maybe not everybody knows that the official name for the Balearic Island of Ibiza is Eivissa. It has always been an ideal destination for young people looking for the so called ‘noche latina’ or ‘movida’.


Keywords:
hotel, ibiza, islands


Article Body:
And in fact not only Ibiza, but also Majorca, Minorca together with the pine-covered Formentera are very hot destinations during summer. 

Although the official language of the Balearic Islands is mainly  Catalan, the Castellan Spanish is spoken by the major of the inhabitants and residents. In any case, whether you do not know any word in Spanish nor Catalan, English is very widely understood throughout the Balearic islands.

In Ibiza there are plenty of things to see and to do, whereas cherishing the see and the warm weather is the widely beloved activity. For a nice daily trip there is Es Vedra, a mystical island rock off Ibiza's west coast, or yo can take the chance to visit nearby Formentera by boat or indulge with your friends in a treasure hunting of new isolated beaches all a long the coast. 

If you prefer go shopping there’s a famous Hippy Market held only on Wednesdays on the east coast of the island ( it’s only 42 km at its maximum length). If you rather miss some cultural venues or spots for sure a walk in San Antonio village is a must especially along its renown Passeig de ses Fonts or a visit to Ibiza Town itself. Ibiza is famous for its nightlife but do not expect to find people in pubs and clubs in Ibiza town or San Antonio before 7pm. All people is still indulging in the beach soaking up even the last rays or sleeping off the past night's drinks. There’s to say that Ibiza’s hotels offer a lot of water sports and activities in their gardens and beaches. 

There are many standard hotels along the beaches with green gardens. You will certainly see them with a nice walk along the beach exhibiting their fancy exotic names related to the sea and sun as: Mare nostrum hotel, Lux Mar Hotel, Playa Sol hotel, Sol Bay hotel, Playa Grande hotel, Maritimo hotel, Nautilus hotel, Bossa park hotel or to some Latin male figures from Poseidon hotel, Don Juan hotel to Marco Polo hotel.

As long as tour operators know the clientele of the Balearic, and especially of Ibiza Island, where usually group of friends book their vacation, the hotels have reconsider their accommodation and lodging typology. In fact, they do not only offer standard private rooms but also and more often, family apartments, residence formula with all inclusive or the access to a private kitchen. 

They are family friendly and accept children providing families with a lot of services for kids form baby sitting, to mini club , to sport activities with instructors and so on. On last tasty note, we can’t forget to mention some of the typical dishes of Balearic Islands. Usually hotels offer an international cuisine, but don’t forget that part of the travel is also to discover new dishes, to taste a new culture that passes also through some local specialties; ensaimada, a sort of flat, soft pastry coil something like a doughnut - and flao, a sweet cheese and mint flan. Most pastelerias and many bars sell ensaimada whilst flao is a bit more difficult to track down. But you may ask your hotel chef!


