Title: 
World festival of puppet art in prague 2008

Word Count:
384

Summary:
June is a very special month for Prague cultural life! Right after the Spring International Music Festival, two other major events will be held in the Czech Capital streets, theatres and squares.


Keywords:
Cheap, hostels, youth, Prague


Article Body:
In fact, in June there is the famous Writers Festival and, during the same week, the World Festival of Puppet Art in Prague, more precisely from 1 to 8 of June 2008. There will be all kinds of theatre shows and puppet films, for children and adults, in competition with each other, from traditional Puppetry, to the new and more innovate works. Puppeteers, as every year, come from all over the world, included companies from the Far East, South America and Europe. 

An international Jury will award a prize for: Best performance, Best artistic creation, Best Scenery and Puppet Design, Best Animation, Best Director, Best Actor, Best original performance, Best scenario, Best puppet film and some other special awards. To get the complete program and any variation on the calendar, please check the official Festival website: puppetart.com. So do not miss spending a magnificent week in Prague in June. And if you love literature too, you can always immerse yourself at the International Writers Festival held in the same days and visit Kafkas’ House and museum!! Last but not least, if you are seriously thinking to visit Prague on those days, keep in mind that the city can be overbooked quite soon and it’s a good thing to book in advance. Nevertheless, there are plenty of accommodation options in Prague for different travellers, backpackers and families budgets! Depending on who are your travelling mates you can choose to stay in a private apartment, hotel, guest house or youth hostel. 

Concerning Prague apartments, the city is lately offering upper standards of comforts, services and atmosphere. In fact, apartments are usually very well refurbished and coloured on an ikea style, so to say. You can expect to pay something like 20-40 euros per night per person. It’s more or less what you would spend in a youth hostel. Some good apartments are located right in Prague historical centre: check by yourself the Old Town Apartment House, Apartments Magicka Zahrada ( magic Garden), Hotel Apartments Wenceslas Square or Amazing Prague Apartments. 

In terms of hostels or youth hostels, Prague has a lot to offer too with prices starting from 14 euros per person! Some of the best located and beloved hostels in Prague are the Chilli Hostel, the Manhattan hostel, hostel le Papillon, Leon Hostel, Plus Prague hostel, Hostel Spoas.


