Title: 
21 Classic Pontiacs!

Word Count:
543

Summary:
GM's Pontiac division, founded in 1926 by the Oakland Automobile Company, has produced numerous models of distinction as well as disappointment through the years. Are you familiar with Pontiac? If not, this article will introduce you to 21 classic and not so classic cars that have worn the Pontiac moniker.


Keywords:
Pontiac accessories, Pontiac Parts, GTO, Aztek, Bonneville, GM, Tempest, Vibe, Sunbird, Firebird


Article Body:
So, you think you know your cars now, do you? Well, consider this to be a test of your knowledge of Pontiac history. 21 Pontiacs are featured here: some are current models while others are truly classic in every sense of the word, dating back to the early 1960s. 

6000 – Full sized [or almost] front wheel drive sedan of the 1980s.

Aztec – Ugly is as ugly does. This crossover vehicle ashamed the Pontiac fleet for two years during the early 00s.

Bonneville – Full sized Pontiac sedan excitement retired in 2005 after more than 40 years of service. Part of GM’s massive restructuring and retiring of top model names.

Catalina – This model hearkens back to the mid 60s when two door hard tops ruled the day. Discontinued during the late 70s during GM’s “down sizing” shell game days.

Fiero – Mid-engine sport two-seater built for Pontiac during the go-go 80s. GM reached into their parts bin and took out Chevette and other components to create this little roadster.

Firebird – It goes without saying that this “pony” car is sorely missed. The good news is that it may be back by the time the 2009 model year rolls around.

Firefly – Twin to the Geo Metro, the Firefly was Pontiac’s 3 cylinder captive import of the late eighties to mid nineties.

G6 – Current compact model in Pontiac’s arsenal available in rakish coupe or sporty sedan.

Grand Am -- With its 1973 debut, the Grand Am quickly became the division’s mid-range performance car. Retired in 2005 with a host of other Pontiac model names.

Grand Prix – Hidden tail lights and a concave rear window marked the Grand Prix’s 1963 debut. The car has survived GM’s model name shake out and today’s car is a mid-sized, front wheel drive sports sedan.

GTO – Introduced in 1967, the GTO was a true coupe turned sports car. Eliminated in the 1970s, the GTO is back thanks to GM’s Australian division, Holden. Rear wheel drive and a big V8 too.

LeMans – Originally a Tempest model, the LeMans became its own model once the Tempest name was retired in the 1970s. Retired in the mid 1990s after a cheap Korean car was allowed to carry its name. Sheesh!

Montana -- A minivan for Pontiac, if not for the ages.

Parisienne – During the 1980s Pontiac needed a version of the Chevrolet Caprice. This full sized, rear wheel drive sedan filled the bill.

Phoenix – Part of GM’s “X cars” of compact import fighting vehicles introduced during 1979 as a 1980 model.

Sunbird – Nothing but a rebadged Chevy Cavalier. 

Sunfire – Compact coupe retired in 2005 as part of, you guessed, GM’s model restructuring.

Sunrunner – Nothing but a rebadged Geo/Chevy Tracker.

Tempest – From the early sixties until the early seventies, the term “muscle car” befit this hot coupe. Especially nice as a convertible!

Trans Sport – Hideous looking minivan that debuted in the early 1990s. Mercifully replaced years later by the Montana.

Vibe – A currently produced compact five door sport wagon; cousin to the Toyota Matrix. 

So, there you have it. At least another half dozen models were left out from this time period plus many models that dated back to the division’s founding as part of the Oakland Automobile Company in 1926. Pontiac excitement…have you caught it yet?


