Title: 
3 Tips To Buying The Right Radar Detector

Word Count:
476

Summary:
There are many radar detectors on the market right now. Each one of them claims to have a single best feature. Some detect from the longest distance, while others claim to detect the most radar bands. Others claim to have the highest degree of accuracy and can tell the distance and direction of the radar gun.

With all these different features on the market, which one is right for you? What model of radar detector should you buy? How do you know it will actually work in you...


Keywords:
car,truck,automotive,auto,buy,radar,detector,free,review,information,info,ticket,police,speed,limit


Article Body:
There are many radar detectors on the market right now. Each one of them claims to have a single best feature. Some detect from the longest distance, while others claim to detect the most radar bands. Others claim to have the highest degree of accuracy and can tell the distance and direction of the radar gun.

With all these different features on the market, which one is right for you? What model of radar detector should you buy? How do you know it will actually work in your state? Is it legal in your state? These and other pressing questions are frequently asked. Here are 3 ways to know you are buying the right radar detector.

1. It detects the right bands for you state.

Some states use different types of radar guns, and unless your radar detector can pick up their signal, it isn't any use. There is a whole slew of different bands of radar guns, X, K, Ka, POP3 K, POP3 Ka, Laser, etc.

First you need to find out which bands that your states uses. Then you need to find a radar detector that can pick up those bands. Not every radar detector can pick up every band.

2. Find the model you want.

There are hundreds, if not thousands, of reviews for nearly ever radar detector ever made on the internet. Now that you know what bands you need to detect, you need to find the right mix of price and features. Some people don't mind paying $500 for a radar detector, some people want to pay under 100 bucks. Obiviously the more you spend, the more features you will get. And the amount you spend will usually determine the range that your radar detector can detect to.

There are many different websites that will allow you to compare different radar detector models. Once you have found the right model for your needs, find the right price. This usually involves going to a few comparison sites, and searching for that model of radar detector.

3. Make your purchase and install.

Some radar detector installations are as simple as plugging your radar detector into your cigarette lighter socket. Others are more complex and need to have wiring run throughout your car or truck. Depending on the complexity of the product, and your knowledge, you may or may not need to have your radar detector professionally installed. A great place to get a radar detector installed is a car audio store. These shops are experienced with running wire throughout cars, and have probably installed many radar detectors.

Keep in mind that radar detectors are illegal in some states, you should check with local law enforcement before purchasing and installing a radar detector.

A radar detector doesn't make you invincible to radar guns, and it doesnt't mean that you won't get a ticket. You should always obey the speed limit.


