Title: 
4 Reasons Why You Need A Tonneau Cover

Word Count:
407

Summary:
A tonneau cover looks great on any pick up truck and can be a worthwhile investment, protect your assets, and help you save on fuel.


Keywords:
truck tonneau cover, Truxedo, Extang, truck parts, car parts, auto accessories, bed liners, liftgate


Article Body:
Installing a quality tonneau cover on your pick up truck is a great idea that can only enhance your truck’s look and value. You can shell out a little bit of money and get a cover that looks no better than a tarp or you can pay a lot of money and get a tonneau cover that really makes a statement. In the middle area -- where most consumers shop -- you can find more than a few sensibly priced designs that are sturdy, long lasting, and eye-catching. Some covers look cut-rate -- and they are, while others look costly -- but they really are not. For the most part you will pay less for a soft-top tonneau cover than for a hard-top cover, therefore it becomes a matter of personal taste as to which cover you select.

<b>Simple to maintain</b> The way you wash your truck is the way you will clean your tonneau cover: just be careful not to use a car tire or dashboard cleaning agent on it. Simply follow the manufacturer’s recommendation on how best to maintain your cover. Most any auto supply retailer should stock products expressly developed for maintaining a tonneau cover.

<b>Secure for your stuff</b> If you regularly carry valuable merchandise in your truck bed, consider purchasing a locking, hard shell tonneau cover. Covers such as those made by Truxedo or Extang are designed with your security requirements in mind and will keep probing eyes from seeing what is in the back of your truck.

<b>Enhance your truck’s overall value</b> If you keep your truck looking and running its best, a premium tonneau cover will only boost your truck’s value. When it comes time to sell you truck, you should be able to command a better selling price.

<b>Save on gas</b> Today’s high gas prices mean you must think of innovative ways to save on fuel consumption. One way you can achieve decent savings -- as much as 10-15% -- is to have a tonneau cover installed. With a tonneau cover in place, wind drag is significantly reduced: the less drag on your truck, the better your fuel economy will be.

Most tonneau covers come with a one year limited warranty which should be sufficient for you. A reputable online auto parts wholesaler can give you detailed information about the various product offerings, care and maintenance instructions, prices, shipping and handling information, and more.


