Title: 
5 Tips On Making Your Car More Fuel Efficient

Word Count:
382

Summary:
With gas prices sky high most individuals who drive are interested in ways they can make their car more fuel efficient and save as much money as possible. While there are no fuel saving tips that will keep your car full of gas without filling up, there are some tips that really can help you save money on fuel over the long run. All of these tips focus on making your car more fuel efficient. 

Fuel Efficiency Tip #1 Drive When You Crank Up 
This might seem obvious, but as s...


Keywords:
autos, gas, cars, car, automotive, truck, fuel, fuel efficiency


Article Body:
With gas prices sky high most individuals who drive are interested in ways they can make their car more fuel efficient and save as much money as possible. While there are no fuel saving tips that will keep your car full of gas without filling up, there are some tips that really can help you save money on fuel over the long run. All of these tips focus on making your car more fuel efficient. 

Fuel Efficiency Tip #1 Drive When You Crank Up 
This might seem obvious, but as soon as you crank up your car you should drive off. However, many people crank up and leave the car idling for a while. Instead of this, when you crank up drive off and only keep your car running when it is absolutely necessary. 

Fuel Efficiency Tip #2 Don’t Ride the Break 
Many drivers hit the break more often than is necessary. Additionally there are quite a few drivers that slow down for a braking car when they could easily switch lanes. Not riding the break can increase your fuel efficiency by up to 30%, so this is a great tip you should follow. 

Fuel Efficiency Tip #3 Turn Off Your Car 
If you are going to be stopping for more than 10 minutes you should switch off your car to keep fuel efficiency at its peak and not burn more gas than is necessary. 

Fuel Efficiency Tip #4 Don’t Turn Off Your Car 
If you are only stopping for a brief moment or less than 5 minutes then don’t turn off your car because the amount of gas used to crank up is more than you would burn in that short period of time. 

Fuel Efficiency Tip #5 Inflate Tires Properly 
Too many drivers never think of their tires, unless one goes flat. However, having tires that are properly inflated can save fuel and make your car more fuel efficient, saving you money. Because of this, you should check your tire pressure on a regular basis. 

While gas prices don’t seem like they will be dipping considerably in the next few months every tip to help you make your car more fuel efficient is helpful. So, follow the above fuel tips and you will see that over time your car really is more fuel efficient.


