Title: 
6 Simple Steps To Avoiding Expensive Car Repairs

Word Count:
412

Summary:
Quite often, a visit to the car repair shop can be even more painful than a visit to your dentist.  Perhaps physical pain it’s involved, but some car repairs can leave your wallet feeling pretty empty and you with a bad taste in your mouth.  The best way to avoid costly repairs is to take preventative steps that will keep your car in the best condition possible.


Keywords:
auto, automotive, car, cars, value, buying, shopping, vehicle, vehicles, repairs


Article Body:
Quite often, a visit to the car repair shop can be even more painful than a visit to your dentist.  Perhaps physical pain it’s involved, but some car repairs can leave your wallet feeling pretty empty and you with a bad taste in your mouth.  The best way to avoid costly repairs is to take preventative steps that will keep your car in the best condition possible.  

The first thing to do is to follow the maintenance schedule as outlined in your owner’s manual.  The best one is always that recommended by the manufacturer and if you fail to follow those guidelines, your warranty may be voided for future repairs.  Always be sure to change fluids, filters and spark plugs as the car’s manufacturer recommends.

Upgrade your motor oil to a high performance synthetic oil, which can help to prevent certain problems and can also improve your car’s performance.  

Always be sure that your tires are properly inflated.  This is especially important because tires with too little air, or too much, can result in excessive wear and may cause a blow out.  It is often recommended that tire pressure be checked during every visit to the gas pump.  While this may seem like a lot, you won’t be sorry that you have kept your tires in the best shape possible.  For reasons of both safety and the expense of new tires, this exercise is well worth it.

If you notice unusual noises on your car, check with your owner’s manual for information.  Quite often, noises are perfectly normal and there is no need for concern.  Your owner’s manual will let you know whether or not a visit to the car repair shop is necessary.

If you do have to take your car in for repairs, be sure that you are dealing with a reputable company.  Check with the local Better Business Bureau and ask your family or friends for recommendations.

When it comes time to begin the repairs, get an estimate in writing.  A quality repair shop will be able to provide this information and should also be able to assure you that the repairs will not exceed 10% of a specific dollar amount as outlined in the estimate.

The aforementioned steps will help to keep your car running smoothly and may also keep some extra bucks in your wallet.  With the cost of gasoline prices these days, a few extra dollars can go along way.


