Title: 
7 Tips For Saving Gas And Money

Word Count:
307

Summary:
The U.S. Department of Transportation reports that Americans drive an average of 29 miles each day, and spend almost 60 minutes a day in their cars. With the price of gas at the pumps skyrocketing, it just makes sense to do everything you can to save your hard-earned money. It doesn’t seem like gas prices will return to ‘normal’ any time soon. You need all the ammunition you can get to fight back; here are 7 tips to help.

1. Some credit cards are offering great gas savings...


Keywords:



Article Body:
The U.S. Department of Transportation reports that Americans drive an average of 29 miles each day, and spend almost 60 minutes a day in their cars. With the price of gas at the pumps skyrocketing, it just makes sense to do everything you can to save your hard-earned money. It doesn’t seem like gas prices will return to ‘normal’ any time soon. You need all the ammunition you can get to fight back; here are 7 tips to help.

1. Some credit cards are offering great gas savings. It works the same way that frequent flyer miles do- you get a bonus every time you fill up. You’re going to fill up anyway, so take advantage of the bonus!

2. Join the ‘club’. Gas stations are starting to offer great, money saving membership programs. Some grocery and department stores are also giving huge discounts at the gas pump when you use their store card. It’s worth checking into.

3. Regular tune-ups and oil changes will save you gas in the long run.

4. Check out gas prices on the internet. There are websites that will let you find the best deals on gas in your area, without having to drive around looking for them.

5. If you are in the market for a new car, check out the hybrid models. Not only will you save on gas, but you will also be eligible for great tax rebates from both the state and federal government.

6. Use the cheapest gas possible. Most modern cars run just as well on regular unleaded as on the more expensive premium gas.

7. Turn off the air conditioner. Running the a/c makes your car’s engine work harder, causing it to burn more gas.

Use these tips to squeeze the most miles out of each gallon of gas, and start saving money at the gas pumps today.


