Title: 
Advantages Of Professional Drivers' Instruction

Word Count:
559

Summary:
Having a driver's license is one of the major status symbols among high school students and teenagers, in general. Aside from being a "coolness" asset, a driver's license also provides kids with a sense of independence by providing them with the right to drive on their own. Though most kids can't wait to get behind the wheel, some schools do not offer drivers education. As a result, most kids learn to drive on their own, through peers, or other unqualified instructors. This p...


Keywords:
driving schools, drivers education, road safety


Article Body:
Having a driver's license is one of the major status symbols among high school students and teenagers, in general. Aside from being a "coolness" asset, a driver's license also provides kids with a sense of independence by providing them with the right to drive on their own. Though most kids can't wait to get behind the wheel, some schools do not offer drivers education. As a result, most kids learn to drive on their own, through peers, or other unqualified instructors. This puts the kids' safety at risk because they are at the phase when they are most impressionable. They are prone to picking up unsafe driving habits, wrong information, and false confidence from these instructors. This is extremely risky, as most teen accidents are traced from this equation. The American Automobile Association or the AAA actually states that although the teen driving population is relatively small (7%), they account for at least 14% of all fatal motor accidents. These figures make the need for competent driving schools and drivers education urgent.

There are many advantages in enrolling in a drivers course handled by a professional instructors. Instructors from driving schools and drivers education provides objective observations and instructions about the students' driving abilities. Students are not saddled with instructions that are full of vague notions about driving, or about how a certain maneuver is done. Professional instructors are also able to give valuable and useful advice how to handle practice sessions with qualified supervisors. Furthermore, instructors address and discuss issues about the student's driving techniques to the supervisors which make for a comprehensive and coordinated training. Aside from teaching maneuvers and gear shifting, instructors also teach updated road safety precautions and traffic laws. They help students understand how certain laws apply to in-road situations. In short, professional instructors prepare you both for safe driving and road responsibility.

Another advantage in enrolling at driving schools and drivers education courses is the opportunity to receive honest assessment of driving skills from the professionals. They identify areas and skills which need improvement and constantly call students' attention to the problems they spotted. As a result, bad habits are eradicated before they actually start. Plus, professional instructors usually give summaries and written reviews of the students' skills that are useful for private practice time with qualified supervisors. Driving schools and drivers courses provide structured and systematic training which builds and develops the students' skills bit by bit. There is no rush to learn one maneuver to another before the first move is mastered. The students actually learn and understand driving basics before tackling more complicated lessons. Exposure to other lecturers and providers of road safety is a bonus from professional drivers education. Visiting lecturers usually include firemen, the local mechanic, paramedic, police, and towing service personnel. They provide seminars wherein students learn what to do in accidents and driving emergencies.

Lastly, an advantage often sought at driving schools and drivers education courses are the mock drivers' exams. These prepare the students for taking that all-important test and refresh their driving knowledge. Aside from this, there are also new policies that allow only students who have professional training to take driving tests and apply for driver's licenses. The purveyors of the laws see this as an extra measure needed to ensure the safety of the teen drivers, other motorists, and the pedestrians from irresponsible driving.


