Title: 
Advantage Of Disc Brakes

Word Count:
508

Summary:
Whether you drive a Mercedes, a motorbike or a pickup truck, you probably have disc brakes on your vehicle. And even though you probably never think about their function, they are the single most important function on your vehicle. Though there are several types of motor brakes, the drum and the disk, the disk brakes are more commonly used. Disc brakes are far better than drum brakes because of their powerful stopping ability. Disc brakes handle substantially better in wet we...


Keywords:
brakes,cars,auto,trucks,motorbikes


Article Body:
Whether you drive a Mercedes, a motorbike or a pickup truck, you probably have disc brakes on your vehicle. And even though you probably never think about their function, they are the single most important function on your vehicle. Though there are several types of motor brakes, the drum and the disk, the disk brakes are more commonly used. Disc brakes are far better than drum brakes because of their powerful stopping ability. Disc brakes handle substantially better in wet weather conditions. Why chance anything but the best?


What are Disc Brakes?

Put simply, disc brakes consist of two pads that grasp a rotating disk. The disk, or rotor, connects to the wheels by an axle. You control the grasping power. When you pull on the brake, the clamps come together on the disk, forcing it to stop spinning and causing your vehicle to slow down and eventually stop.


How Do You Control Disk Breaks?

In a car, controlling your disk brakes is as simple as pressing the brake pedal or pulling up on the emergency brake. For motorbikes, however, there are two ways to slow it down. You can use the right hand lever or the rear left foot lever. They actually work better when you use them together to better the efficiency and lengthen the life of the disc brakes and pads.


How To Maintain Disk Brakes?

Regardless of the type of vehicle you drive, you will probably need to consider break maintenance or replacement at some point. It is important to check the thickness of your brake pads. If these pads are bare they can cause pricey damage to your disc brakes. 

You should also keep an eye on your vehicle’s brake fluid. Your vehicle will run more efficiently with the occasional dose of fresh break fluid.

Replacing the break pads and the disc brakes fairly easily on your own. Don’t hesitate to get help if you are unsure though. A simple mistake like a poorly fitted brake pad can cause scarring to your disk brake.


What Type of Damage is Possible To Your Disc Brakes? 

There are several ways your break disks can show damage. They can warp, scar or crack. It’s best if you can catch these signs of damage early on and repair them as quickly as possible to limit further damage to your disk breaks. Unfortunately, once they crack, the disc brakes are not repairable. It also helps to get the help of a certified professional when it comes to making repairs to your disc brakes.


How Are Disc Brakes Designed?

These days, the designs of the disc brakes vary greatly. Some are made in classic solid steel, but others have special hallowed out sections that allow the extra built up heat to escape. These slotted steel wheels may help prolong the life of the discs because they reduce built-up heat and cut back on the possibility of warping. The creative designs are endless and each design has a different effect on the performance of your braking system.


