Title: 
All You Need To Know About Trailer Hitch Covers

Word Count:
509

Summary:
Most of you will probably already know something about trailer hitches but for others it could be something you have no idea about so I will explain a little here. Many vehicles have the capability to tow other vehicles, such as a trailer, caravan or boat. In order to attach these items to the vehicle you require a trailer hitch, or tow-bar. There is more than one type of hitch but the most common is the ball type hitch. These are welded directly on to the vehicle and are ren...


Keywords:
hitches, hitch covers


Article Body:
Most of you will probably already know something about trailer hitches but for others it could be something you have no idea about so I will explain a little here. Many vehicles have the capability to tow other vehicles, such as a trailer, caravan or boat. In order to attach these items to the vehicle you require a trailer hitch, or tow-bar. There is more than one type of hitch but the most common is the ball type hitch. These are welded directly on to the vehicle and are renowned for having a ball-like rounded lump of metal on the top of them. 

The ball on the hitch is removable but it is there to cover the actual workings of the receiver, parts of which are sharp, dangerous pieces of metal. Without the ball on top, these hitches could cause damage to people walking around the back of the vehicle and so it is a bad idea to remove the ball unless it is vitally necessary. The workings can also be covered with general dirt from the roads if the cover is not on and this can prevent trailers from being attached without good cleaning being done prior to it. 

As mentioned previously, the ball is the most common type of hitch cover. However, it isn’t the most exciting design and so somebody came up with the idea of customised and personal hitch covers. Now you can almost certainly find a hitch cover which represents you individually but if you can’t there are numerous places which will custom make one for you with the design of your choice on it.

Many small business owners have their company details on their hitch cover. This is a great idea as it provides them with free advertising whenever they drive or park their vehicle in a place where others will see it. Another common theme for a hitch cover is that of sporting teams or colleges. Showing your allegiance has never been easier and die-hard fans can add a hitch cover to the plethora of bumper stickers which are readily available.

Collectible and iconic designs are also popular choices, such as the Harley Davidson logo. You can also find iconic characters such as Scooby Doo, Superman or any number of Disney characters on hitch covers. Many use their hitch cover to pass on a message, perhaps regarding their faith or offering support to the nation’s armed forces, or to reveal their hobby to the world, such as surfing or skateboarding.

The Internet is a great way to find unique and individual hitch covers. Search engines offer a multitude of sites selling these items and you could spend hours searching for the perfect design. One website I use to find hitch covers is www.hitchadvice.info as it has a huge number of designs in one place and they are divided into categories, making it easy to narrow down your search area somewhat. The prices for these items are also very reasonable and they offer great customer service options too.


