Title: 
Are You Giving Gas Back To The Gas Station?

Word Count:
557

Summary:
Easy and cheap ways to save fuel and money while 

driving and buying gas.
https://paydotcom.com/r/15410/johnbeck/1148255/


Keywords:
fuel, economy, gas, saving


Article Body:
Are You Giving Gas Back To The Gas Station?

You May Be Paying For Gas, And Leaving It Behind.

That's right; you could be losing a fortune by trying to get that extra bit 

in because it is pennies cheaper at this gas station.

If you try to overfill your gas tank by squeezing that extra bit of gas in 

after the pump has clicked off it could be going back into their tanks.

Let me explain.

The fuel pump at the gas station has a venting system which takes the fumes 

out of the air as you fill up you tank.  If this did not happen you would get 

a face full of noxious fumes every time you fill up.

If you try to get more in after the pump has clicked off, it may suck some of 

the fuel into the venting system instead and back into their tank.

Also, when you put the gas in your tank it is coming from buried storage 

tanks and is colder than if it was stored above ground.  What this means is 

that as the gas warms up to the temperature of the day it expands.

If you overfill you tank and then park your car up, the fuel may go into the 

cars fuel tank breather system and cause unknown damage or even leak from the 

breather onto the floor.  Now along with the wasted fuel you also have a fire 

hazard.  (Is you insurance up to date?)

For you pocket and you safety I recommend that you stop filling when the gas 

pump clicks.

If you are going away on holiday, or business, early in the morning and think 

it would be quicker to fill up the night before it may be wise to think again.

  There are many 24 hour gas stations.

As fuel is sold by volume it will be colder, early in the morning and as the 

day gets warmer it expands and you get less for your money.

It will only take minutes to fill up in the morning and gives you enough time 

to remember things you forgot to pack (where's the kids?) before travelling 

to far.

If you are driving for a long distance it would be a good idea to use your 

cruise control as often as possible.  A smoother speed will be more 

economical.

What about all the clutter in your car.  It all adds weight and means more 

gas used.  If you need to carry a full toolkit around in your trunk then it 

is time to think about replacing your car.  Clear out the stuff you don't 

need (Compact discs, half empty pop bottles, Kylie tapes, those old papers 

you were going to take to recycling).  A tidy car makes you feel good too.

More...........  
https://paydotcom.com/r/15410/johnbeck/1148255/

When you are driving does your steering wheel pull to one side or the other.  

The wheel alignment may need checking.  If the alignment is out it will cause 

the tires to drag on the road and you will use more gas.

Also the tires will wear out extremely fast, usually on one side.  The 

handling of the vehicle will also be affected.

So for safety and economy get your alignment checked regularly.

For more tips I recommend you see this e-book.
https://paydotcom.com/r/15410/johnbeck/1148255/


