Title: 
Vehicle Extended Warranty - Protect Your Purchase

Word Count:
379

Summary:
A couple weeks ago, on a Sunday morning, I was running late. My morning coffee didn’t wake me up like it should have, and I was dragging. As a result, I was going to be late for church, and as a teacher, that wasn’t going to be good!

I finally got my stuff together and ran outside to my car. It was raining. As I put the key in the ignition, I knew something wasn’t right. I turned the key…nothing. The car wouldn’t start. I hoped the problem was only with the battery, so I r...


Keywords:
vehicle extended warranty


Article Body:
A couple weeks ago, on a Sunday morning, I was running late. My morning coffee didn’t wake me up like it should have, and I was dragging. As a result, I was going to be late for church, and as a teacher, that wasn’t going to be good!

I finally got my stuff together and ran outside to my car. It was raining. As I put the key in the ignition, I knew something wasn’t right. I turned the key…nothing. The car wouldn’t start. I hoped the problem was only with the battery, so I rolled the car onto the street, pulled my wife’s car out, and jumped the battery. It worked!

After church was over, I took my car to a garage, where I found out the problem was the battery, and I replaced it.

But what if the problem wasn’t the battery? What if it was some kind of engine failure? The car was only five years old, but there could be an engine problem at any time. Before I found out definitively what the problem was, the only thing that ran through my mind was dollar signs—what would this cost me if it was an engine problem?

It turns out I didn’t have to worried at all. When I bought the car, I could have bought a vehicle extended warranty that would have covered engine repairs (and some other things), but I was too cheap to do it. I decided to gamble on the car working properly until I wanted to get rid of it, and I got lucky that something major didn’t happen to it.

What about you? Have you considered getting a vehicle extended warranty? For the small monthly cost, it would certainly give you peace-of mind. Knowing that your car was covered for repairs even that much longer will help you feel better when your car overheats in the fourth year of your vehicle extended warranty—especially if your original warranty expired after three years.

Many insurance companies and dealers will offer a vehicle extended warranty. You should look into it, and get several free quotes to compare. Then, you can make the best decision you can to get a vehicle extended warranty.


