Title: 
You Can Save Money On Car Expenses

Word Count:
475

Summary:
You can save money by trimming back on car expenditures. The following tips can help you achieve big savings.


Keywords:
car accessories, car parts, car insurance, oil change, auto parts, floor mats, brake dust shields


Article Body:
Gas prices remain at historically high levels and the long term trend is indicating that they will stay high. If you own one or more cars, you understand that saving cash somewhere, somehow is important to helping you preserve your budget. The following are some important tips to help you manage your car expenses.

Look over your insurance. If your car is between two and three thousand dollars, consider canceling your collision coverage. The money you save could then be set aside by you toward a down payment on your next vehicle.

Keep your tires suitably inflated. Your gas mileage will fall if your tires are under inflated. Keep your tires at the suggested pressure amounts and your gas mileage should stay stable.

Do not change your oil too often. Unless you drive entirely in the city you do not need to change your oil every 3000 miles. Most cars can last up to 7500 miles between changes. You will, however, still need to change your oil twice yearly even if you drive infrequently.

Do some minor maintenance yourself. You can change your wipers, the air filter, battery, and replace a tire yourself. If you rely on others, your costs will climb considerably.

Use regular gas. If your car requires regular gas, do not indulge in premium. Your car probably will not run any better and you will have paid as much as 25 cents extra per gallon extra.

Don't purchase an comprehensive warranty. The amount of money you pay for an extended warranty is usually more than what the warranty is worth. If you feel that a particular car model requires an extended warranty, perhaps you should consider shopping for a vehicle that is much more dependable.

You can save plenty of money by washing and waxing your car yourself. Treat yourself to the services of a car wash no more than 2-3 times per year.

Follow the manufacturer's recommendations. The manufacturer of your vehicle will know how long parts should last. Change your timing belt before it becomes a problem, your fuel filter as required, and keep an eye on your brakes, tires, and shocks. Most cars built today do not need a complete tune up for as long as one hundred thousand miles, so do not put down the $250 for a tune up before one becomes a necessity.

Use a private garage. No, you do not have to take your Chevy to the Chevrolet dealership for service. If you have a decent, local garage that knows your make and model you can typically save money by using them instead.

We aren’t likely to see gas prices below $2 per gallon again, while $3 per gallon may soon be the rule. Supply and demand cannot be controlled, but you can take the above steps to make certain that your car does not cost you more than it should.


