Cancer Information

A diagnosis of cancer can be very frightening, and the best way is conquer fear is through greater knowledge of the topic. To find reputable health related resources online including cancer information like early detection, prevention, treatment, new research advances and more visit the American Cancer Society at www.cancer.org, dedicated to “eliminating cancer as a major health problem by preventing cancer, saving lives, and diminishing suffering.” This site is educational and easy to navigate; there is plenty of comprehensive information on specific cancer topics discussing common types of cancer including bladder cancer, breast cancer, colon and rectal cancer, endometrial cancer, kidney cancer, leukemia, lung cancer, melanoma, Non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma, pancreatic cancer, prostate cancer, skin cancer (non-melanoma), and thyroid cancer, in addition to causes, treatments, coping, drug information, and clinical trials. 

The National Cancer Institute of the United States National Institutes of Health located online at www.cancer.gov features accurate, up-to-date, comprehensive cancer information from the United State government’s principal agency for cancer research. Find common types of cancer listed by types in A-Z format, by body location and system, childhood cancers, women's cancers, clinical trial results, educational materials, and other cancer topics including treatment, prevention, genetics, causes, screening and testing, coping with cancer, smoking and cancer, cancer health disparities, fact sheets, and more. This site discusses types of cancer treatment, and cancer drugs including specific drugs approved to treat cancer or conditions related to cancer, and updates on new drug development and approval. Complementary and alternative medicine, like healing philosophies, approaches, and therapies are popular options, and can be used in addition to or instead of conventional cancer treatment as well.  

Learn about cancer treatment trials that are of potential benefit to you or a loved one and use this information to help decide whether or not to participate. Also find good suggestions for choosing a physician and cancer treatment facility, national Cancer Institute supported cancer centers, after care treatment like follow-up medical care, physical and emotional changes, changes in social relationships, and workplace issues. You can also access breast cancer information, lung cancer information, and more general information on cancer online at www.cancer-info.com, an extensive cancer website offering unbiased support and information regarding all types of cancer and chemotherapy options, cancer research advances, continuing medical education and more. Take this new found knowledge and use it to beat cancer; get a new perspective and a new outlook on life. 
