Branson, Missouri is well known as a vacation destination and home to live entertainment. The smart waterfront along Lake Taneycomo is the location for downtown attractions. Restaurants are all part of the scene and the Candlestick Inn is one of the best, offering first class service with great food and wine. The restaurant overlooks the lake, giving splendid views for its patrons. It opened in 1962 and soon became a favorite with families and with couples, who enjoy the romantic candlelight.

It's a place for all seasons and diners can sit next to the wood-burning fireplace on chilly evenings or relax on a shaded deck when the conditions are hot. There is live entertainment at the Candlestick Inn and groups can book a private room for functions with a choice of three differently priced group menus for the occasion. The menus are flexible however, and can be customized to the needs of the function. There is a meeting room that holds up to 100 people.

The inn is open for lunch and dinner and has separate menus for each. The lunch menu has tasty starters that include Goat's Cheese and Roasted Garlic or Seafood Bisque, a cream soup made from lobster stock. There is a selection of filling and delicious sandwiches, including Bacon Cheddar Burger with French Fries and Potato Salad and Prime Rib Sandwich, served with Fries, Horseradish Sauce and melted Swiss Cheese. Customers can also order side orders of Steamed Asparagus and Sautéed Wild Mushrooms and there is a choice of entrees.

The dinner menu is just as mouthwatering and reservations are recommended at the Candlestick Inn. Appetizers include Crab Cake with Fried Spinach and Tuna Carpacchio with Grapefruit Wasabi Sauce. There is also a soup of the day, entrees and a selection of salads, including the classic Caesar Salad and the House Salad. Seafood is the specialty for the main courses. Grilled salmon, trout, lobster and shrimp dishes are all prepared to the highest standard at the Candlestick Inn. Diners, who are fortunate enough to have room for dessert, often choose the signature pudding at the inn. Named the Candlestick Cupcake, it is a gorgeous Chocolate Lava Cake.

The Wine List is most impressive and caters for every taste. White wines have been selected from Australia, California, Columbia, France, Germany and Italy. The red wine list has Cabernet Sauvignon, Merlot, Zinfandel, Shiraz and Pinot Noir. There are also some vintage red bottles and a choice of champagne and sparkling wine, including Dom Perignon and Moet and Chandon White Star. The Candlestick Inn management has opened an establishment at the Pointe Royale Golf Course, called Hogan's Bistro and Pub.
