Car Safety Features

It’s important for consumers to spend time when shopping for a new or used car, to know what car safety features to look for in making sure that the vehicle is safe. There are quite a few online car safety guides where car owners and buyers can go to learn more about the safety features of a particular vehicle. Guides offer an overview of the features that most affect the safety of a vehicle. Kelly Blue Book, located online at www.kbb.com, provides unbiased and accurate information to consumers, including pricing for new, used, and trade-in values. This guide to car safety outlines what consumers should consider before making a vehicle purchase. Adjustability and comfort are important features, as are handling and stability, the restraint system, front/side air bags, audible warning devices, anti-lock brakes, front and side impact protection, traction control, and other factors including whether it’s four wheel drive, front wheel drive, or rear wheel drive.

According to CNN Money at www.money.cnn.com, cruise control is more important to some consumers than side air bags, a safety feature people need but don't want to pay for. Many buyers overlook car safety features, and auto companies tout their crash test ratings and advanced safety features because they think safety sells. According to a recent survey by Consumer Reports, anti-lock brakes came in fourth in desirability after air conditioning, a radio and a CD player. More focus should be emphasized on finding out which cars have which safety features, instead of color and cruise control when shopping for a new or used vehicle. With rising gas prices, consumers also may want to keep in mind economy and gas usage in addition to the car’s safety features. 

It’s a good idea to test drive a vehicle at night to check visibility of headlights, as well as to make sure the seat belts fit well, are comfortable, and that head restraints, roof structures, and windshield designs don’t interfere with the driver’s ability to see clearly.
Other important car safety features that buyer should pay particular attention to are front/side air bags, anti-lock brakes, traction control, all-wheel drive, and electronic stability control, which is designed to assist drivers in maintaining control of their vehicles during extreme steering maneuvers. New car safety features are ever increasing, and many are included as standard equipment or available for purchase as an option. To learn more about available car safety features, visit www.auto.msn.com, www.carsdirect.com, www.kbb.com, or www.travelers.com for reliable consumer car buying information.
    

  
