Career Options

The ultimate road trip to career success is to start exploring career options that are in demand. It's important to acquire a good education and discover jobs that meet your skills, personality, and aptitude. If you're just not sure in which direction to go, start with a free online career test, such as www.projectcareer.com or www.careerpath.com to find your dream job. The Riley Guide, at www.rileyguide.com, is also a good resource which guides you through various steps to evaluating yourself and your career options, in addition to career and occupational guides, what to do with a major in any given area, choosing a career path, changing careers, and planning and managing your career. Lots of great information is featured from the federal government and its agencies, including the Department of Education and the Bureau of Labor Statistics. 

If you're a nurse, nurse practitioner, physician assistant, respiratory therapist, pharmacist, medical imager, physical therapist, occupational therapist, or speech-language pathologist, visit Career Options at www.careeroptions.com, which features links to healthcare related positions across the country. For instance, www.nurseoptions.com provides services to the nursing industry placing registered nurse and nurse management candidates in permanent, temporary, and travel positions throughout the United States. Nurse Options offers free information on advertised and unadvertised employment opportunities, and this service is available to new graduates as well as experienced registered nurses. A link to Absolutely Health Care at www.healthjobsusa.com is another resource for job postings in one hundred different health care categories.

For the ultimate road trip to career success, check out the career options featured by USA.Gov's Career Voyages at www.careervoyages.com, for good jobs, better pay, and a brighter future. This site has lots of good information on what careers are in demand, high growth industries, emerging industries, and much more. Whether you're a student, a parent, a career advisor, or looking to change careers, this is a good place to start. As you can see, career options are vast with endless possibilities that can put you on the path to professional success. Take your time and do your research; choose a career that you can not only make money at, but that you will enjoy as well. Not everyone can say they love their job, but this is more than a job, it’s your career, your future. It may be a bit overwhelming at first, but once you get going, everything will fall into place, and all you'll be able to think about is what the future may hold! 
