Most people love to get houses and special beds for their dogs, but they often forget that cats need some of the same things to be comfortable in the home. Though there really are no cat houses to keep cats outdoors, there are plenty of things you can buy for them in your home that they will love, and even though you won’t think so, they will appreciate and use them once they realize they can use these things for play or warmth. One thing that owners should always have are cat baskets so that their cats have a warm place to lie down.

Most cats love to lie down on your bed or perhaps on the furniture. This is always nice for them, but might not be as nice for you. Some can get sick, and when they do, they won’t go much further than where they are lying to do so. That means you may end up with some unwanted goodies on your bed or your couch. If they have cat baskets in which to lay, they may end up making such a mess on the floor. Not ideal, but better than on your new comforter or your leather couch.

What is great about cat baskets as apposed to your furniture -besides the issue of vomiting- is that you don’t have to have a lot of pet hair where you sleep, and even when they might shed in their cat baskets, they are rather easy to clean. Some come with a cushion that you can remove and throw right into the washer when you think it needs to be cleaned. You shouldn’t clean it too often, as cats like to find their own scent where they lie down, but you can clean it when it needs it the most without having to go through a lot of trouble to do so.

You can find great cat baskets almost anywhere you would normally shop for your pet needs. You can even find great ones online, and many of the larger sizes might be online as well. Though most cats are about the same size, some like to sleep together in the same basket. That means you won’t have to buy two cat baskets, but instead you could find a larger size that would fit both of your cats comfortably, if in fact you have more than one. You can even find baskets that will go well with your home style and décor if that is something you wish to find.