Cheap hotel rooms

In planning a vacation, there are lots of things to think about. You don’t mind splurging on some things but you know that you might have to be conservative on other things. One of the things that I am always more conservative about is my choices of hotels. I’d much rather spend my precious vacation time and money on things outside of the hotel than getting some lavish hotel room that will take up all of my vacation funds. Instead, I try to find cheap hotel rooms. Don’t get me wrong, I don’t settle for unsafe neighborhoods or rooms that I’ll be sharing with some resident roaches, but I try to find some good bargains. And, it isn’t that difficult to find cheap hotel rooms that will allow you to feel safe and get a good night of sleep. 

If you’re trying to find a cheap hotel room, your best bet is to find it on your own. Calling the hotel directly won’t get you any discounts or bargains. Unless you are on their website and they tell you to call them for discounts, check around before calling them. And if they claim that they are giving you the lowest price around, don’t always take their word for it. Find out all the facts before you commit to giving out your credit card information. Cheap hotel rooms don’t exist for people who are willing to pay full price and take the hotel reservationists at their word. Check for some cheap hotel rooms online. There are lots of travel sites that will have everything from the most lavish hotels where rooms will cost more than you want to spend to cheap hotel rooms that are in the worst possible neighborhoods. If you’re lucky enough to find a great travel site, see if there are reviews written by others who have already been lucky enough or unfortunate enough to have stayed in that particular hotel. 
Sometimes, you will find that travel sites don’t vary in price too much. However, saving a few dollars here and there allows you to spend a few extra dollars on things you really want to do on your vacation. Getting a cheap hotel room may allow you to see and do more things than you would be able to do if you were spending a fortune on hotel rooms that are out of your league.

If there are no other reviews on a particular place with cheap hotel rooms, google the name of the hotel. Perhaps there are some articles or interest or other sites that have some information on the location and quality that will save you some grief. Once you do some research on the cheap hotel rooms that you’ve found and know that you’ll feel safe and secure, enjoy your vacation!
