Chocolate cake recipe

When it comes to baking, everyone has a different way of going about it. Some people follow a recipe exactly while others take a recipe and make it their own. As long as the end result turns out incredibly scrumptious, what does it really matter? Experimenting and finding new ingredients and ways of baking is all part of people having their own tastes and creativity. Plus, it is the way that new recipes are put into publication. There’s one thing that is, in my opinion, incredibly hard to mess up – a chocolate cake recipe. There isn’t a chocolate cake recipe in existence that hasn’t turned into something that I’ve thought to be terrible. Sure, some of them could use some improvement, but chocolate is my weakness. As long as it turns out fluffy and moist, I’m in heaven. 

No matter what cookbook you read through, you will find a chocolate cake recipe, or several, that will tempt you beyond belief. There will be different toppings, ingredients or icings that will be suggested. You can pick the chocolate cake recipe that fits the amount of work that you are comfortable with making.

My grandmother used to make the best cakes. Every year, for my birthday, she would make me a chocolate cake with peanut butter icing. In my opinion, there is nothing better. She never shared her recipe with anyone, she simply enjoyed all of us drooling over it and praising her skills. Her birthday cakes were the main reason I looked forward to my birthdays. In her final year of life, she was rather sick. My birthday was a week away and she called me to tell me that she was incredibly sorry but she wouldn’t be able to bake my cake. She didn’t feel that she had the strength or energy. But, she wanted to pass along her secret chocolate cake recipe that we all longed to have. Within a day, it was in my hands. I read over it, noticing that the last ingredient listed was “love”. My eyes welled up and I decided that I would be baking my own birthday cake that year. I did exactly that, following her chocolate cake recipe to the exact details. On the night of my birthday, I took my grandmother a piece of cake. She ate it very slowly, telling me how wonderful it was. I saw the look of happiness in her eyes.

No matter how many chocolate cake recipes you will come across in your lifetime, you will always have one that you’re attached to. Perhaps it simply tastes the best, or maybe it has sentimental meaning.
