cleaning floor

I know that many will agree with me when I say cleaning floor messes is one of the worst parts of house cleaning. It is hard to find a mop that really works well, no matter what the commercials try to tell you. I think that I may have found and tried just about every type of ‘wonder’ mop on the market, and nothing works well enough for my tastes. In the end, I always find myself on the floor on my hands and knees doing it the old fashioned way.

I think my problem with cleaning floor is that I don’t have enough time. I don’t do it as often as I should, so it’s more of a mess by the time I get to it. I try to sweep every day, but that is just not enough. The problems I have when cleaning floor are not just about getting up the spots, but also with keeping the floor in my kitchen looking white and sparkling. Unless I’m scrubbing with my hands, they tend to look dingy.

While working as a maid when going through college, we were expected to go about cleaning floor on our hands and knees. When we did this, we knew that we were getting everything, and we could better see what we were trying to clean up. One tip that I have always used it to make sure you vacuum every single floor space you intend to mop or wipe down. Loose dirt rarely is picked up by a mop, and when the floor is done, it’s not really done. If you vacuum first, you are sure you don’t have to deal with crumbs on top of everything else.

In order to keep my floor white, I have to resort to a scrub brush on occasion. I try to do this once a month, but it is hard work and sometimes I wimp out. When cleaning floor this way, you are sure you are getting into every single nook and cranny in your flooring, and most types have this to come extent, usually for purposes of traction. Your mop will never get all of this up when cleaning floor no matter how hard you try. Unless you can afford a maid service, you might want to invest in a good pair of knee pads if you want to keep your floors as clean as they can be.