Craftspeople and artisans always welcome the opportunity to show off their wares and craft shows are ideal events. They are sociable affairs and a good source of income. Many towns and cities hold these events annually, drawing visitors from a wide radius. 

The Annual Craft Expo takes place on the Guildford Green and is organized by the Guildford Art Center. Beginning in 1957, it is one of the oldest craft shows with a jury in Connecticut. Craftspeople come from all over the country to display ceramics, glass, leather and metal goods. Jewelry makers, printmakers, wood workers and artists with paintings and drawings also attend. There is a food court and children can participate in activities. Bids can be placed for handcrafted items at a silent auction.

The Weston Craft Show is a popular event in Vermont and is held in the Weston Playhouse on the Green. The small village is host to about 50 artisans, many of whom have won awards. Crafts include jewelry, woodwork, ceramics, fiber arts and hand woven baskets. There is also fine art, photography, handblown glass, clay sculpture and hand made maple pens. There is a café and expert speakers give talks at the Craft Education Seminars.

One of the biggest shows in Ontario is the Southampton one, a gathering of around 150 crafters from across the state. This show is in a terrific setting as the town is situated along the Lake Huron shoreline. Proceeds from the show go to the PRANCE charity, which helps people with disabilities to have the opportunity to go horseback riding.

The Annual Fall Locust Quilt and Craft Show is held in Columbia, Maryland and is run by a non-profit organization. It's an excellent display of finely crafted quilts and needlework pieces of traditional and contemporary design. In addition, there is jewelry, photography, fine art and floral displays. Other exhibits include hand made clothing, paper crafts, ceramics and mixed media. This is one of the craft shows that have a competitive element and there is a Quilt and Needlework Contest.

The American Craft Council is a non-profit organization, set up in 1943, to promote the interests of craftspeople. The Council organizes craft shows, workshops and seminars and publishes the bi-monthly magazine, American Craft. Members include artisans, artists, teachers and gallery owners. The organization does a lot of good work in keeping American hand made crafts at the forefront of functional art work and folk art.



