A lot of people assume that custom computers are less affordable than other systems, but this is not usually the case. You see, while a company like Dell or IBM has the name recognition to charge a lot of money for a new computer, most custom built computers are made by small companies trying to get as many customers as they can just to make ends meet. This means that you can get some great deals on custom desktop computers if you are willing to trust small businesses over the big PC factories. There are definitely advantages and disadvantages to getting your computer custom made, so you should consider both the pros and the cons.

One of the biggest drawbacks to custom computers is that they often do not have the support that the bigger companies have. The first time I bought a custom personal computer, it was defective. It was a big hassle, because it was hard to get ahold of anyone. It actually took me a few months to get my money back, because the people at the shop seemed to be trying to avoid me. The best way to avoid having something like that happen to you is to make sure to research the custom computer seller that you buy from. There are many reputable names in the business. I made the mistake of buying my system from someone who was not well known and, as a result, I got a rotten deal. Since then, however, I have bought from companies that I know I can trust. This has made it easy for me to get someone to help me when things do go wrong.

One of the biggest advantages of custom computers is, of course, more bang for your buck. A lot of these machines are built with the cheapest parts that the builders can find, and the savings get passed on to you. You also have more options than with your average machine. Most personal computers come loaded with Windows Vista nowadays, but with custom computers, you can get Linux if you prefer, a better choice for many users. In addition, custom computer builders can listen to you and design a pc that is right for your needs. That way, you will not have to go back and upgrade as soon as you would otherwise. All in all, it is the best choice in my opinion.