People get involved in detoxification diet are all kinds of different reasons. A lot of people think of them as a spiritual thing as much as a physical thing. Other people do it to lose weight. Some people are even doing it because they want to defeat chronic conditions which haven't been effectively treated by medicine. Whatever the reason, a detox diet can work wonders for your health, but only if you go about it right.  If you go on detoxification diets without giving them careful thought and planning, or without consulting your doctor, they can do more harm than good. It is a powerful tool, and as with all powerful tools, it has to be used with caution.

The simplest detoxification diets involve no food at all. You should never diet without drinking liquids, but you can fast for quite a while on water alone. People go for three days, five days, or even up to two weeks on water only detox diets. This has some advantages and some disadvantages. One of the advantages, strangely enough, is that it is the easiest detox diet plan to follow. If you are on a juice only detoxification diet, it is hard to resist the lure of more substantial food. The juice that you drink during these kinds of detoxification diets just whets your appetite, making you crave more. With a total fast, however, after a day or two you stop being hungry. Your energy drops a lot, but at least it isn't hard to continue to refrain from eating.

Of course, many people recommend using a more specialized program than the water only diet. Juice diets have a lot of advantages to them. Of all the detoxification diets, they are probably the easiest to function on. Juice provides enough sugar and nutrients to keep your energy up, and even to provide a fair amount of sustenance. You can lose weight quicker too, because the juice keeps your metabolism from slowing down too much.

Of course, there are more extreme measures you can undergo. Colon cleansing diets have become pretty popular in this country. Although some doctors dispute their effectiveness, other people swear by them. Basically, they put the detox in detox diet. The whole point is to clear everything out of your colon and digestive tract. This can be exceedingly unpleasant, but many people swear by it. Some people even believe it has miraculous curing powers. I haven't had the stomach to try personally. If you give it a shot, won't you tell me how it works?