Most of us marry intending to stay that way for the rest of our lives. As you know, this doesn’t always mean much, as the divorce rates are rather high. Though there are some that just don’t take marriage seriously, others really try and they end up with a relationship that simply cannot be saved. If you have tried all that you can, and you find that you still can’t stay, you should find a great source for divorce advice. Be careful where you get it though, as the wrong advice can cost you plenty.

I have a friend who has spent the last four years trying to repair her marriage. I have never seen anyone try as hard as she to repair any type of relationship. Finally, just a few months ago, she and her husband mutually decided it was time to part. Luckily, they don’t have any children yet, so that part of the divorce should be easy. However, for everything else, I told her she must find someone to give her good divorce advice. In her case, because their finances were so complicated, I told her that her divorce advice should probably come for a lawyer, and the quicker the better.

She went out and found a lawyer quickly, and was relieved when she found someone as soon as she knew she would be divorcing. She had to put her source for divorce advice to work within a few days when she found out her husband had drained their retirement account without consulting her. She said that she never thought it would be so complicated, and that she needed all of the divorce advice that she could get. Now that she has someone watching out for her, she’s not as concerned as she was when they first parted ways.

Lawyers are great for divorce advice, but you also have to have people to talk to about other issues. Though my friend has no kids, many do, and that means finding the best way to get through the proceedings with minimal damage to the kids. There are many great support groups both in communities and online that are full of people who are divorcing or who have been divorced recently that all help each other out with divorce advice and a shoulder to cry one when things get tough. If you are one of the lucky ones, your divorce will go smoothly. However, as most will tell you, that is usually never the case.