If you have ever thought about modifying your diet to lose some weight, you have probably been overwhelmed with the different types of diets out there that the ads are urging you to try. It can be very confusing, especially since there are so many different ones, and they all have a different focus. Some want you to cut carbs, and others tell you that fat is the enemy. Some offer you meals in a package, and others want you to count points. When it came time for me to make a change, one thing on my mind, based on the food choices I had, was does the Atkins diet work?

What is great to many about the Atkins diet is the choice of foods. Fats are allowed, and are encouraged at the beginning of the diet. This is intriguing for most, as the no-fat and low-fat mantra has been drilled into our heads our entire lives. It sound great, but it is also a bit scary. Some think that the answer to the question ‘does the Atkins diet work’ is no because of what you can eat, but what they don’t know is that there is a lot of science behind this diet, and it has been around for decades with great success.

Does the Atkins diet work when you load up on proteins and fats? For many, it does. I know that this was something that I found suspicious, but in the end, the results of the diet spoke for themselves. It was the only diet in which I could eat when I wanted and I was never hungry. Something about this diet kills your appetite, and that is the biggest problem most have when trying to lose weight. I had to give up white foods, but many of the foods that were limited in the beginning are put back in the diet later while the amount of fats is reduce. It ends up being much of what many of us believe is the perfect, healthy diet.

You can think about the diet, but the answer to the question does the Atkins diet work is going to be something you find in the pages of the book on the diet, and in your results when you try it. If you can follow the program, and really commit to it, you are going to see results without feeling hungry all of the time. You may soon feel better than you have in years, and the feeling like you want to nap all of the time is going to go away. Does the Atkins diet work? It did for me. If you want to try it, you must read the book, and then talk with your doctor about your health and the scope of the diet so you know you are keeping your health your number one priority.