Eyebrow Regrowth

There are some women who are born with brows to die for, but many of us have to do a little work to keep them looking great. Many have a great natural shape, but they need a little work. I have very thick brows, so for me the ideal thing to do is to go in once every few weeks to get them waxed. Though I should probably do this once a week I just don’t have the time to do so. That means that in between visits I have to worry about eyebrow regrowth in order to keep things for getting to bushy up there.

There are a few common areas where eyebrow regrowth can cause you problems. All you need is tweezers to take care of things as they come in. You have to watch for eyebrow regrowth between your brows above your nose, along the bottom of your brow, and along the side of your outer eye were it might have grown back out after waxing. You can use your tweezers to pull these hairs out while you wait for your next appointment.

You can wax your eyebrows at home if you want to, but you may find that you have eyebrow regrowth coming back much faster than you would if you go to a salon to get your waxing done. This is because the stuff you can buy in the store is inferior to the wax they use in a salon, and it just doesn’t work as well. You may be tweezing the same day you wax because it missed a lot. It also missed the smaller hairs that may be hiding out, and you will have eyebrow regrowth in a matter of a few hours in some cases, but it does depend on how fast your hair grows.

You should take care of your eyebrow regrowth even if it doesn’t look bad. Some hairs grow in very fine, and they may not be very visible. They do, however, affect your makeup. When you have fine hairs below your brow the make up won’t adhere to your skin as it should, and you will find it wears off too fast. If you take care of this fine eyebrow regrowth in between visits, you won’t have to worry about this problem. It is almost impossible to have your brows stay perfect in between visits with doing a little extra work yourself, but if you just take a few seconds each morning to pluck stray hairs you should be ok.
