HEALTH FOOD STORE

In the last twenty-some years, we've all started to pay more attention to our health. We've come to realize that what we eat and some poor lifestyle habits, play a significant role in many conditions, such as obesity, diabetes, cancer and heart disease. The incidence of such diseases is on the rise, far more prevalent than they were 100 years ago, when medicine was far less advanced. 

These facts have sparked a renewed interest in healthy dietary habits as an alternative way to avoid disease. We hear about genetically engineered foods, food additives and trans-fatty acids. We can't help but wonder what might be lurking in our grocery carts. Improving our health through diet can add years to our lives. For all of these reasons, the modern health food store is worthy of a visit. 

If you've never shopped at a health food store, it's a new and fun experience. You'll find the produce section contains only organically-grown fruits and vegetables. Such produce comes from farms which must be federally certified and inspected to assure no pesticides are used on the crops and that pesticides have not been used on the land for the last ten years. Pesticides remain on the crops after harvesting, which is why we are told to wash all fruits and vegetables throughly. Ask a clerk in the health food store to explain why organically-grown produce is better for you. The conversation will be an eye-opener.

Most health food stores have a butcher's market. All meat sold at a health food store must meet a high standard of purity. The animals are not fed antibiotics, there are no additives or injected salt solutions in the meat and the animals are raised in a natural environment instead of small, restricted pens. This is usually referred to as "free range". You will be able to taste the difference in this meat when compared to the usual grocery store meats. The texture and taste are superior and worth the price.

The health food store boasts all the dairy products, grains and canned goods you'll find at the chain groceries. The difference? All of these products are produced naturally, without pesticides or additives.

Although shopping at the health food store is a bit more expensive, the food is far more nutritious and the taste is superior. This is especially true of meats and produce.

If you're put off by price concerns, buy just enough for one dinner and taste the difference. Make friends with the health food store clerks. Ask them questions and voice your concerns. They know their business and are delighted to share their knowledge with you.

Over time, you'll find that food purchased at the health food store can work wonders for  the overall health of everyone in your family. With food that's truly good for you, you're better equiped to fight off a cold, bring vibrancy to your complexion and add years to your life!



 








