For anyone interested in the movies, Hollywood is the place to go. There are studios to tour and celebrity homes to view. The famous sign in the hills welcomes visitors to the most significant entertainment complex in the world with world famous landmarks. There are many top class hotels in Hollywood, which make a stay even more pleasant.

The Hollywood Celebrity Hotel doesn't guarantee celebrities but it is in the entertainment district and is elegantly decorated in a 1930s art décor style. It is one of the older hotels in Hollywood and the building dates from 1935. The 40 rooms and suites all have a movie motif. Guests can enjoy their complimentary continental breakfast in their room or on the patio. There are family rooms available and a fitness center. The rooms are air conditioned and the amenities include a microwave, fridge and coffee maker. There is cable and satellite TV and guests receive a free newspaper.

The Magic Castle Hotel is close to the famous Grauman's Chinese Theatre and it's a short subway ride to the Hollywood Walk of Fame, the Kodak Theatre and Universal Studios. The hotel has a heated swimming pool and continental breakfast comes with the room. Guests can have freshly baked croissants, scones and muffins. Each suite provides cotton bathrobes, a DVD player and a CD stereo. There is also a kitchen, terrace and whirlpool. 

For those wanting to stay in touch with the office, there is free high speed wireless Internet access. Hotels in Hollywood have some terrific restaurants and this one runs an Asian restaurant in the hills, complete with shuttle service for guests. Business users can book a meeting room there. Guests also have access to the Magic Castle Club, where there is fine dining and magic shows.

The Renaissance Hollywood has been decorated in the style of the 1950s and the result is very sophisticated. There are several pieces of art work in the hotel and there is a shopping mall and a business center. This is one of the largest hotels in Hollywood, with 637 rooms and suites. Guests are provided with room service, a laundry valet and in room safe. There is also broadband Internet access, room mini bar, meeting room, rooftop swimming pool and health club. The private dining area can be reserved for up to 400 people and there is a lounge for cocktails and appetizers. The hotel has wheelchair access and there is a car rental facility.
