The River Hudson waterfront is an interesting place from a historical point of view. It has also seen the benefit of modern re-development and the Hyatt Regency hotel in New Jersey is a part of that. Built in 2002, the 350-room hotel has brought the respected name of the Hyatt chain to Jersey City. It is situated in the Harborside Financial Center on the South Pier, overlooking New York Harbor.

The Hyatt is a favorite base for tourists and business visitors. Wall Street is minutes away and the train is one stop from downtown New York. Newark International Airport is also a short distance away. Tourists all have the Statue of Liberty on their agenda and Ellis Island is another busy destination. There is a museum on Ellis Island that tells the story of the first point of entry for America's thousands of immigrants and the Hyatt hotel in New Jersey is nearby.

The rooms include eight suites and there are twenty rooms with access for the physically challenged. All rooms are air conditioned and contain satellite and cable TV, a coffeemaker, iron, hairdryer and refrigerator. There is an in room safe and dataport and the telephone has voicemail.

The hotel has a convenience store, gift shop and coffee shop. An ATM is convenient for cash withdrawal and there is a laundry service. The concierge assists guests to reserve restaurant tables, book tickets and arrange to go sightseeing. The car park includes facilities for handicapped access. Guests at this hotel in New Jersey can stay fit in the well equipped Fitness Room. Business users can arrange meetings in the meeting rooms and make use of the facilities in the business center. Guests can relax in their rooms with room service or have a meal at the Vu Restaurant.

The Vu Restaurant and lounge bar has excellent food and wine and guests can stay in this hotel in New Jersey for a great dining experience and views of Manhattan. It is open for breakfast, lunch and dinner and the menu includes chef's specials and a seasonal selection. 

Starters include Grilled Jumbo Shrimp with Panzanella, Slow Roasted Peaches in Red Wine Syrup and Creamless Corn Chowder with Polenta Crusted Oysters. Entrees are equally as tasty and include Ricotta Ravioli with Zucchini and Berkshire Pork Chop with Smoked Shallot Potatoes. There is a selection of side orders to complement the meals, including Grilled Asparagus, Creamed Spinach and Wild Sautéed Mushrooms. This hotel in New Jersey can compete with the finest restaurants in New York City.


