One of the great things about quilt making is that there are so many different ways to do it. When people ask me how to make a quilt, I always tell them that there is more than one way to go about it. It depends what kind of quilt you want. My favorite ones, especially for beginners, are patchwork quilts. If you want to know how to make a patchwork quilt, it is simple. You just have to make a lot of patches and sew them together.

Again, there are dozens of ways to do this. A friend of mine recently wanted to know how to make a baby quilt, so I showed her this method. In her case, I wanted to have the patches all made out of a soft, uniform material. If you want to know how to make a quilt for a baby, you should probably learn how to knit or crochet. If you make patchwork quilts out of more elaborate materials that can come apart, it can cause harm to babies. You do not want them choking on the patches! On the other hand, if you crochet the individual patches, you can make something that is safe for babies.  Another advantage to using this method as your first lesson in how to make a quilt is that it will give you a great place to learn crochet skills. After all, if you mess up on individual patches it is no big deal. You start over. The quilt itself is unharmed, because you do not sew the patches together until the very end.

Once you have learned how to make a baby quilt, you might want to go on to bigger and more ambitious projects. The principles to how to make a quilt remain the same no matter what you do. In my opinion, patchwork quilt are the most fun. When you get a little more advanced, you might want to use cloth patches. They can be painted on, died, or embroidered with different designs. One time, I taught my whole family how to make a quilt. We each made our own patch, then we all get together to sew them into one. By the time we were done, we had made a great quilt together. Not only did they learn a new skill – how to make a quilt – but it was a bonding experience for all of us. If your family does not do crafts together, I highly recommend that they take it up.