Ice Cube Tray

Sometimes I feel like I am the last person on earth with an ice cube tray in my freezer. This isn’t true, of course, but it seems like I am the only one in my family that has one or two of them. Everyone else has those fancy refrigerators that gives you ice when you press a button. I can’t really complain, because I don’t own a home yet, so the choices of appliances in my apartment are not mine. 

Though I use an ice cube tray for ice, there are many other things you can do with them. They are very inexpensive, and can morph into other useful items. I know someone who uses and ice cube tray to store her earrings and some of the pieces of jewelry that she wears quite often. The small cubbies are perfect to hold one or two pairs of earrings, and it is easy to swoop them out with your finger when you choose what you need. You might also want to put a necklace in each one, or you can even fit a watch in there if it has a loose band.

You don’t have to store jewelry in an ice cube tray; you can use the small compartment for just about anything you can think of. I have on in my bedroom cupboard that has small nails, tacks, and screws nestled in the little cups. If you have little items for any use, an ice cube tray can keep them contained as well as separated for easy access. I have also used them for paper clips, erasers, and rubber bands on my desk. If it is small and needs to be kept in place, this might be the way to go. The trays are much less expensive than the desk accessories you can buy in the store.

You can also use an ice cube tray to make frozen treats for your kids. You can use juice to make small ice pops, or even Kool-Aid if you don’t mind the kids having the sugar. You can also and ice cube tray when decorating cookies. You can put a small amount of each decoration in each cup and the kids can go nuts. You won’t have to worry about them shaking stuff everywhere if they can just pinch what they need out of the tray. For a fun experiment, they might even use each cup to plant a seed.
