How to Increase Your Metabolism
             
Do you find it hard to loose weight and keep it off?  As we get older it gets even harder, which is a sign that we need to increase our metabolism. The food that we eat converts into energy, and the word ‘metabolism’ refers to the process that the body uses to distribute the nutrients from the food. Our basal metabolism keeps us alive and provides basic energy for life support, which requires 60-65% of the calories eaten daily. An additional 25% of calories are used during physical activity and another 10% are spent processing the food we eat. Everyone’s rate of and ability to increase metabolism is different and is affected by many variables including general health, chronic health conditions, lack of physical activity, and age. We’ve all seen those people who can eat anything they want and never seem to gain an ounce, regardless of their level of physical activity; this is a prime example of a person with a relatively high metabolic rate. 

According to various sources, a winning formula to maintain weight is to take in a number of calories equal to the amount used on a daily basis. To lose weight and increase metabolism, simply reduce the number of calories taken in, increase calories expended, or do both for better, faster results. Muscle burns more calories than fat, which is why it’s important to include weight or resistance training with aerobic exercise. Increasing the heart rate can increase metabolism while exercising and also boosts resting metabolism for several hours afterward; that’s why is a good idea to exercise before the biggest meal of the day. Eating high-quality protein, fresh fruits and vegetables, and high-fiber grains will also give metabolism a boost. It is possible to maintain your ideal weight without dieting; just increase your metabolism and live healthy. 

Boost your metabolism and you will burn fat 24/7! People who exercise on a regular basis can eat more without gaining weight because they expend more calories throughout the day than someone who doesn’t. Eating three small meals every day in addition to exercise will keep metabolism up and your weight down. Skipping meals isn’t an option either, because this only lowers the metabolic rate. Everyone can benefit from a healthy diet and exercise, and it’s a proven fact that thinner people tend to metabolize food more quickly, so with each pound of body fat shed, subsequent pounds come off faster to increase metabolism. Age is also a factor that works against us, which is why it’s even more important to eat right and stay active. Take care of you body and it will return the favor. 
