Affordable Jewelry Making Supplies

I've been handcrafting necklaces, bracelets, rings, and earrings for myself for years now, and have developed my skills to the point where even complete strangers are stopping me on the street to ask about particular pieces I'm wearing. A few of my closest friends have told me that I can probably make a lot of money from this hobby, and have convinced me to set up a website in order to start selling my creations online. After giving this idea a lot of thought, I'm finally ready to take the plunge and move forward with this project.

I've got my web hosting and graphic design taken care of already, so now the most important thing left for me to do is find affordable jewelry making supplies. This will represent my largest investment, as I'll have to stockpile a bit of inventory before I begin selling. When I was just fashioning necklaces or whatever for myself, I simply bought everything I needed from a local crafts store. Prices weren't an issue before because I wasn't manufacturing huge quantities of products. However, now that I plan on selling my creations, I have to keep a close eye on the bottom line -- which means that buying discount jewelry making supplies will be critical to the success of my business.

In order to make things as simple as possible in the beginning, I'm going to sell pieces made up mostly of beads, crystal, black onyx, and quartz. These are among the most common jewelry making supplies provided by wholesalers, so I'm hoping that by sticking only to these items for the time being, I can limit my up-front production costs. Once I get a feel for sales volume and customer tastes, I can start buying a wider range of jewelry making supplies. 

I've been checking out some online distributors, and have found several promising leads already. I didn't realize that so many companies sell discount jewelry making supplies these days! I want to work with distributors or wholesalers that ship reliably, engage in trustworthy business practices, and offer the most competitive prices around. There are three such companies that I'm willing to try in the beginning here. If things work out with them, I hope to forge a lasting business relationship that could perhaps translate into even bigger savings for me in the long run.

Anyway, I am very excited about the prospect of selling my original creations online! All I have to do now is wait for my first order of jewelry making supplies to come in so I can get started in earnest.