Interested in Finding Jobs in Vancouver?

Have you had itch lately to move to Canada, specifically Vancouver, British Columbia, one of Canada’s most beautiful cities? If you have, you are certainly not alone. Not to say you want to live there permanently, but it’s a thought! Every year, over 90,000 foreign workers enter Canada to work temporarily in jobs that help Canadian employers address skill shortages, or as live-in caregivers. Most temporary jobs require a work permit and some do not. Some permits may be approved more quickly if there is a shortage in your area of expertise; the sort of work you will be doing in Canada will determine the requirements and processing time of your application. A certification of health may be requested if length of work time exceeds six month, or if job will be performed in a public health arena.

A great place to get started with jobs in Vancouver, if you’re not a Canadian citizen, is to visit Citizenship and Immigration Canada at www.cic.gc.ca. Find lots of comprehensive information on working temporarily in Canada, visiting, studying, immigrating, and how to apply for citizenship. You can find all the forms and information about application fees, etc. you need on this site to guide you in the right direction. If you are a United States citizen you may apply for a work permit when entering the country or before you go in the event you already have a job. Now, where do you start looking for jobs in Vancouver, B.C.? Start your search online at the site listed above, and then check out others like the Employment Paper Online at www.employmentinvancouver.com your online resource for jobs in Vancouver and the Fraser Valley, updated weekly.  Other online job sites worth visiting are www.vancouver.jobshark.ca, www.workopolis.com, www.bcjobs.ca, and www.vancouverjobs.com, just to name a few. 

Find the job you are looking for whether it is you first job, a new job, or you are re-entering the workforce. Browse latest jobs in Vancouver, including tech jobs, administrative support, and all career types. Then once you find your ideal you, you can stay however long your work permit allows you to stay; it can possibly be extended if the employer wants to keep you on longer, or if you’re in the process of applying for permanent residency. When you have a little time off, don’t forget to check out all that Vancouver and British Columbia has to offer. The ocean, sky, mountains, fresh seafood, fresh air, and a welcoming, bustling city await you.
