Juvenile Diabetes and School

The Juvenile Diabetes Foundation is an organization dedicated to helping children and teens who have diabetic conditions. This association offers many benefits to young people affected by these syndromes and their families as well. Now the organization has brought this disorder to the forefront in schools as well.

Many typical students have some difficulty understanding their fellow classmates’ diabetic conditions. Many teachers and administrators truly appreciate any efforts to educate the general public about these conditions especially in the school setting. The Juvenile Diabetes Foundation is a leading force in the education of students on this syndrome.

Part of the drive is to get the child affected by the health condition ready for the school setting. There are many temptations in front of these students in this environment especially when it comes to treats and lunchtime. There are also other considerations to be made in the school setting as far as academics are concerned.

For example, a diabetic student had very good grades in English during his entire school career. However, once he entered ninth grade, his grades in this particular class plummeted. His teacher and his parents were perplexed by his falling grades in his favorite class. 

Once they took his condition into consideration, it became clear that his diabetes actually interfered with his ability to concentrate in this class. The English class was scheduled directly after lunch, when the preteen was most vulnerable to fatigue. When he switched to an English class set earlier in the day, his grades skyrocketed.

The ideal class for this diabetic student after lunch would be gym or another course that offered some physical activity. He could also opt to take a brisk walk to help his insulin levels balance before hitting the books again. Little details like this make all the difference for a student with diabetes. 

There are many tools available for parents to use in the school setting. Some include a health plan and blood sugar level records that can be used on a daily basis. Knowing the facts is the first step to helping the diabetic student thrive in school both academically and socially.

It is important to note that parents should take the reins when it comes to helping their child communicate to the staff about his condition. Parents should never rely on the child to inform the administration, school nurse and teachers about being diabetic. The effort should be collaborative. 

Organizations like the Juvenile Diabetes Foundation work towards helping parents, administrators and teacher work together in helping students thrive in the school setting.



