If you are like me you know that change is good. However, change can be really expensive when you are talking about interior decorating. One great way to breathe now life into an old space is to invest in a new king comforter set. This is a wonderful approach to giving your bedroom a facelift for relatively little money.

While many of us have only one king comforter set, others invest in two or three of this bedding for their home. This is a good approach for making seasonal changes that make it seem as if you have completely redesigned the entire room. Making this significant change along with a handful of other tweaks here will make all the difference.

The first thing you want to do is decide which styles and patterns to use in your bedroom. A king comforter set will be available in a number of different colors, designs and patterns for you to consider. There are ways to narrow down your options to make the decision a little easier.

Color is one of the most important factors when it comes to interior design. Instead of investing in a lot of color on the walls, you can change the look of the room by changing the colors of you king comforter set. This is a great way to get a whole new style without making any long term commitment to a single color.

Here’s an example. I have a white and grey bedroom. Actually, the walls are white with soft grey accents. I own three bedding assortments for my room. One king comforter set is navy blue. I pair this with stark white sheets to provide contrast. I also add some nautical elements to the space as well as white and navy blue candles.

The nautical theme is perfect for summer but I begin to get restless when fall arrives. I pull out a king comforter set that has rich burgundy and gold accents for this festive time of year. I replace the nautical accents with some gold candle holders and burgundy vases. This look carries me through the entire winter. 

When spring arrives I am ready for a big change. I remove the burgundy and gold king comforter set and replace it with a buttery yellow set that has little blue flowers. Blue sheets are wonderful accents to this country look and I usually add some white, blue and yellow decorations to pull the theme together.

It’s wonderful that something like a king comforter set can change the look of an entire room. It’s even nicer that it can do this for very little money. 
