Kitchen Curtains

It may seem like a silly thing, but it always have problems when I want to buy kitchen curtains. The kitchen in every single place I have lived in has been a place where I love to be, even though my current one is too small to spend any time in. The windows in each kitchen have always been small, and therefore, the kitchen curtains that I choose had to be small as well. I don’t know if it’s just me, but I can never find curtains that I love.

I have spent more time than necessary looking for kitchen curtains. I find this to be utterly ridiculous but it is very true. I have searched high and low for the perfect set of kitchen curtains, and I have yet to find anything that I like. It should be a simple matter of choosing a color or pattern that will match what is in my kitchen, but I have not found anything that appeals to me. If I’m going to look at something everyday, I wanted to be something that I will enjoy. I have a hard time finding curtains and drapes for the rest of my house, but nothing is more frustrating than trying to find them for the kitchen.

I currently have kitchen curtains, but I do not like them very much. They are one solid color, and I was hoping to find something with a pattern. I guess it’s a stupid thing to complain about, but I feel glum every time I look at them. This is not just a problem for me either. I have noticed that my mother is continually changing her kitchen curtains because she cannot seem to find anything that she likes. Granted, my mother spent half of her life in her kitchen, so it makes sense that she is never satisfied.

Even know I am not much of a seamstress, I may have to give in and make my own kitchen curtains. Though I know these are famous last words, it cannot be that hard right? I know I can find a piece of material that I like, because I have seen many in a craft store that I had thought would make great kitchen curtains. If I don’t find something soon, I’m going to have to give in and sew. It’s not that I don’t like to so, it’s that I don’t have a sewing machine. This means my sewing will be done by hand. In the end, my kitchen curtains made end up looking like pillowcases, but at least they will be the pattern I want.