Going appliance shopping was a little bit stressful for me. After all, you buy kitchen appliances so rarely that you don't know what to expect. What is it – every decade or so? I had had the same old toaster oven for more than 15 years, and it was starting to show its age. It smoked, it did not get very hot, and it didn't dependably kick the toaster out – resulting in occasional bread fires. It wasn't the only kitchen appliance than was showing its age either. The refrigerator definitely had seen better days, I suspected that it bore the brunt of our high electricity bill. It was definitely time to do something about it.

We had already finished with kitchen remodeling. That had been the first priority. I've always been pretty thrifty, but enough is enough. We needed a new kitchen granite counters, new shelves, new cabinets – the works. It had taken a while and cost a lot of money, but it was worth it. Our kitchen was beautiful, but all of our kitchen appliances were horribly outdated. They barely worked at all.

The first time we went into the kitchen appliance store, we were kind of blown away. My wife and I don't really go shopping for electronics that often. Every time you look at electronic appliances, they look so high tech. I guess I'm pretty old-fashioned. I'd still barely adjusted to the LED displays, to say nothing of computers. So when I saw all of the kitchen appliance features on offer, I was pretty surprised.

For example, I was amazed that the modern refrigerators can make ice themselves. The clerk politely told me that they had had this kitchen appliance technology out for years, but I was still pretty impressed by it. Built-in water filters, energy saving features, and rolling casters were some of the other improvements in refrigerator design since I bought my old model. They were also just so quiet! Our fridge growled all night, but these new ones were almost silent.

We had made up our minds to buy only one kitchen appliance at a time. That way, the financial burden would not be too great. Nevertheless, it was difficult for us decide on which one. We wanted to have a working toaster oven, after all, but we needed a new fridge bad. Fortunately, there was a cheap appliance sale where we were able to buy a toaster for next to nothing. The refrigerator, on the other hand, cost us quite a bit. Still, it was worth it.