When most of us think about Las Vegas, campgrounds are not the first thing that comes to mind. With all of the top Las Vegas hotels available, all of the casinos and shows, most of us never think of this as a destination if we love the great outdoors. Yet, in addition to being one of the greatest destinations for tourists who like to live the high life, Las Vegas is also one of the best places to enjoy the great outdoors. Las Vegas camping is truly top-notch.

Of course, Las Vegas camp grounds very greatly in quality, so you have to do your research carefully. Las Vegas camping is only really good idea if you're there for some particular destination. The fact is, if you want good Las Vegas camping at an affordable price, you have to get well outside the city limits. Otherwise, all you will find will be drive-in camping at much higher prices than you really should have to pay. The best Las Vegas camping is along one of the rivers that flow through the state of Nevada. For example, you can kayak below the Hoover dam on the Colorado River. There are many campgrounds in Las Vegas, but unless you have a specific area in mind, there are much better places for you to take your vacation.

The reason for this is that Las Vegas camping is a bit rough. The weather can be exceedingly hot, and there is an absence of the cool shady forest areas that most people prefer on their camping trips. This isn't to say that you should give up Las Vegas camping. It can have its own rewards, but it is not for the faint of heart. You would do much better camping up in the Northwest if you're looking for a good first outdoor destination. 

Spending day after day in the desert can be a really trying experience for a novice camper. Las Vegas camping, after all, requires some of the most careful preparations that you can imagine. If you are going to go into the desert to camp, you need to bring plenty of water, the right food, and the right clothing. Keeping cool when doing Las Vegas camping is almost a matter of survival. If you don't manage to do it, you will lose your strength quickly. You can be stranded miles and miles from civilization. Things can get very bleak very quickly in the desert, so be forewarned and be prepared.