This year has been one bad thing on top of another. At first, I had to hire a medical malpractice attorney. You see, because of my doctor's sloppy handwriting, I was given the wrong dose of a drug when I was in the hospital. I was actually in a coma for six weeks, and nearly died. With all of the lost time, pain and suffering, as well as the considerable rehabilitation that I had to go through, I thought that consulting a medical malpractice lawyer was quite a reasonable thing for me to do. 

I found what I thought was a competent attorney – one who had been recommended to me by a friend. It turns out that my so-called friend was a personal friend of this lawyer and didn't know anything about his legal practice. He represented me so poorly that I lost a case that should have been easy. On top of all that I had already gone through, I had to hire legal malpractice attorneys after that. Let me tell you – it wasn't a fun year.

Hiring legal malpractice attorneys was a pretty nerve-wracking experience. The thing is, I had always trusted lawyers before. I know that sounds crazy, but what I mean by it is that I had always trusted lawyers to do their jobs competently. As long as you employ a lawyer and have a reasonable case, things should be open and shut – or so I had thought. How was I going to go about picking out legal malpractice attorneys when the last lawyer I hired had completely botched my case? I did not know anything about picking out lawyers, and I had had some very poor luck with it so far.

Fortunately, I was luckier in my choices hiring that legal malpractice attorney than I had been the first time I was pursuing the medical malpractice case. My previous attorney had not even showed a professional demeanor when he met with me, but the legal malpractice attorney gave me a good impression immediately. The fact that he did not make any money on the case unless he won served to further encourage me. I knew that if they were willing to take on my case, the legal malpractice attorneys firm must have a pretty good idea that we were going to win. I was not surprised when things turned out alright this time. 