What is Your List of Scary Movies 

If there's on thing I've learned about film, it's that movies are subjective for the most part. While your best friend may have a top ten list of scary movies that totally creep him/her out, your list of horror films may be totally different. No worries! This is to be expected. It stems from the fact that we all harbor different fears; therefore we're bound to be frightened of different creatures, maniacs, goblins, ghosts, monsters, aliens and ghouls. Do you know what your list of top scary movies consists of? 

Online you can always spot lists of top movies. Whether they fall into the romantic comedy, science fiction, horror, thriller, dram or adventure category, you're bound to encounter many in cyberspace. However, it's imperative to remember that a list of some film nut's top 50 scary movies of all time could totally contradict your opinion. The key is picking up on the top scary films that people just like yourself commonly recommend. It sounds funny, but I've seen numerous lists of scary movies all over the web. While they generally differ in regards to some titles, most of them offer a few of the same horror film suggestions every time. So if you're not too into scary movies, but are looking to test out a few for Halloween or some special occasion, let me offer a few that commonly get respect from everyone. First off you have "The Exorcist." I don't care what list of scary movies you gaze over, it more than likely has this 70s horror hit in it. Folks are simply terrified of demons related to the anti-Christ. Another one that always pops up is "Halloween." This is the epitome of the classic slasher film. Movie goers just love the idea of a maniac in a mask, who doesn't speak, but only kills with great fury. 

It's always a good idea to check out as many horror movies as you can before making your top ten list of scary movies ever made. You may be surprised at some you enjoy that other slasher fans despised and ranted poorly about online. The key to finding great horror films is viewing them yourself. While you're likely to go for the redundant classics appreciated by everyone, there are surely a few new ones you can add to your personal list of top scary movies. 