Missing money

Everyone has heard about the millions of dollars that go unclaimed each and every year. We all start thinking that perhaps we have a long lost relative who passed away and left millions to us, and we just never knew about it. While that very rarely happens, it can and does. However, it is a lot more common to find any missing money that is a lot smaller in value. It isn’t uncommon to find an insurance policy that paid out and we were never aware of. Perhaps we transferred banks and somehow some money was left behind and interest has accrued over time. There are lots of people across the country who are missing money and don’t even realize it. 

There are lots of websites, some national and some sponsored by your local towns, that are set up to help you find any missing money or property that you may have set aside just waiting to be found. Most sites are free to conduct a search. If you happen to find a site that wants you to pay in order to conduct a search, move on. You should never pay any fees for a site or someone else to conduct a search for you. Chances are, you’d end up spending more to find any missing money that belongs to you than you would get in return. It would also be wise to conduct searches on a few different sites. Not that the results will be any different but you certainly don’t have anything to lose by doing so. 

There have been some scams in which you’ll get an email or a letter stating that you have an inheritance of some sort waiting for you. In order to obtain it, you must first mail some money for taxes and any kind of transfers. Once you take the bait, the only missing money that you’ll find is the missing money that you just lose in some scam artist’s perfect plan. If you actually had some sort of large inheritance waiting for you, I can guarantee you that you wouldn’t be getting a generic email. An attorney would be tracking you down. The missing money and other items that you may locate on some websites are usually smaller amounts and that is why people don’t bother to try to locate the rightful owners. The chances of becoming rich from finding any missing money listed on these sites is incredibly low. You may find you have enough money for a grocery store visit or a trip to the mall, but not much more. However, it never hurts to search and have some hope.
