Video games have come a long way since they first gained huge popularity in the 80s. What happened was that newer and faster machines were built, and that meant they got smaller and smaller through the decades. After awhile, hand held models came out and people could play wherever they wanted, as long as their batteries held out. Gameboy was very popular for a long time, and many manufacturers still make handhelds. However, you can also find mobile games for your phone, and that means one less thing to carry with you.

You can get mobile games for your phone rather easily. Some come with one or two, but you may have to pay to download them. This is usually very easy to do, and generally the games are rather inexpensive. The downside is that the numbers of mobile games you can find are not very high, and you may not be able to find your favorite game. There are many good ones out there though, so you should be able to find something you would enjoy having on your phone. One of the most common games you can find on mobile phones is Tetris, but there are many more from which you can choose.

Though some don’t see the wisdom in having mobile games on a phone, there are plenty that understand why this can be very helpful. You obviously cannot play them while you are driving, or even walking down the street. However, if your commute involves any sort of public transportation, this is something that can help you pass the time. These can also be great when it is obvious that you are going to be waiting in line somewhere for a long time, but do remember to keep the noise level down when you are standing in a crowd.

Mobile games do not have to be on your phone, as you can still get the handheld game consoles that go anywhere you go. These have a higher price, and are often more expensive when it comes to buying games. However, these also have more options for games, and the graphics and game play are a lot smoother. Your battery life will depend on how much you play and what type of batteries you get, but when using one of these, you don’t have to worry about draining your battery on your cell phone. Either is great to have, just remember to use them responsibly.