Many people say that it is not the gift  but the thought that counts, but I say that if you put enough thought into a gift, the gift will be great. When I buy gifts for people, I don't mess around. I don't go out at the last minute and find something or other that will fit the bill. Instead, I search endlessly until I find the perfect item. To me, it is just a matter of basic consideration. Whether I'm buying birthday gifts, Christmas gifts, or gift for a wedding anniversary, I put a lot of thought into it. Mothers Day presents, however, have always been an unusual hassle.

For most moms, finding the appropriate Mothers Day gift is no problem at all. There are always normal mom things to get. A Mothers Day present could be a nice piece of jewelry, a beautiful sweater, or a gift certificates to the local mall. A lot of people also like to get books as Mothers Day presents, and some moms even like tools and gadgets that are more traditionally reserved for fathers. My mother, however, is a difficult woman. She is stubborn, hardheaded, and obtuse. She is impossible to shop for, and she will not give you any hints. She expects the best from her Mothers Day presents, but she won't tell you what that is.

When it comes to Mothers Day presents, us kids start looking months ahead of time. We can hardly do anything else. It is a day that all of us dread. If she doesn't like a Mothers Day present that she gets, she will not out and out tell us, but she will certainly hint at it. She remembers every one of the Mothers Day presents that she has received for the past 10 years, whether she likes it or not, and who gave it to her. If I didn't know better, I would even swear that her opinion of her children changes based on the Mothers Day presents that they buy. I think she has her favorites every year, and I think her favorites change based on who's gift she appreciates the most.

Basically, no matter how you go about it, buying Mothers Day presents for my mom is a bust. When I get her something extravagant, she thinks I am just trying too hard. If I get her something simple, she thinks I'm being stingy. I swear, there's no pleasing some people!