When I was growing up, we would usually dispense with Mothers Day gifts altogether. You see, my mother's birthday was only a few weeks before Mothers Day. Rather than getting her a birthday gift and then a Mothers Day gift, we would combine the two around her birthday. It wasn't simply a matter of expedience or even economics, but rather a matter of the spirit of the holiday. You see, for my mom, the Mother's Day card was all.

In our family, you see, birthdays were a time for getting extravagant and elaborate presents. We would always surprise her with something spectacular – something that all of the kids had gone in on, and put a lot of planning into. Mother's Day was different, however. It was a much more low-key holiday. We would go out to my mom's favorite restaurant for lunch, watch a movie, and spend the last of the afternoon together. The Mothers Day cards that we gave her in the evening were the high point.

I do not remember how old we were when we came up with the tradition, but I am sure my mother remembers. Whatever year it was, since then we have been making homemade Mothers Day cards. Making greeting cards can be about as easy or as difficult as you make it, and we definitely started off easy. I Remember that when I was in elementary school, I used to make Mothers Day cards in class. Moms, you see, will appreciate any Mother's Day card that you get them. As the years passed by, however, we had to make them more elaborate. The cute, artless greeting cards of childhood were passé.

We never get our mom Mothers Day e cards, Or Hallmark cards that you buy in the store. Although we are not master artisans ourselves, she still appreciates our hand made work better than anything that she could get in the store. And you know what? It is fun for us too! When I was a kid, I used to resent having to spend all the time it took for me to make good Mothers Day cards, but nowadays I relish it. It is always nice to have something to do with your hands, and when she gets the cards, the appreciation definitely shows on her face.  Giving gifts that you have made yourself is always much more touching, especially if you're giving them to your mother.