What are Movies Now Playing 

If you're like most human beings, you enjoy a good movie. At least once in a while. Virtually everyone likes to be entertained and movies now playing are always at your fingertips. That's what's so great about cyberspace. You can get the skinny any time you please regarding almost anything; including modern entertainment. So regardless if you prefer horror flicks, great dramas, romantic comedies, action films or a suspenseful thriller, you can always acquire the latest film news on what movies are play now in theaters near you. 

Remember back in the day when you wanted to know all the movies now playing in local theaters? It was a bit of a hassle. First you had to get out the phonebook and look up movie theaters. Then you had to call each of them to find out which films they were currently showing and listen carefully for the times that each movie played. Naturally this process was annoying for several reasons. First of all, the line was always busy on Friday nights and second of all, if you missed what the recording said in regards to a certain time, you had to listen to the entire spiel all over again. What a hassle and utter pain in the keyster. Anyway, in this modern day of Internet and computer convenience, that whole routine is out the window. Simply pop open a search engine and key in the phrase "movies now playing" or "current new releases." Suddenly you'll be flooded with movie trailers to watch and the times each film is showing at local theaters. Now that's awesome!

Aside for knowing which movies are now playing, you'll more than likely want to view a few trailers to better understand your film options. Since you're going to fork out the cash on theater tickets and concessions, you may as well get your money's worth. Try websites such as apple trailers. This is an outstanding place to begin reviewing current films playing now in theaters. Watch the preview and see if you're even interested in viewing the film. Furthermore, take a peek at how critics rated the movie overall. This can sometimes effect your decision to watch a certain new release film. 