The Munchausen By Proxy Syndrome

As a parent you learn a few things. One of these things is that children get sick. They sometimes fall ill with minor colds and viruses, and sometimes they get a nick on the chin or bump on the knee here and there. It's really no big deal. In fact, it's merely part of growing up. However, have you ever encountered a sickness that's not natural in any way? One that's actually inflicted on a child, who's otherwise healthy and normal. Whether you knew it or not, there's an illness known as Munchausen by proxy, which is actually a sickness parents have, rather than children. 

The Munchausen by proxy syndrome works in a way that most parents could never fathom. You basically have an emotionally/mentally sick adult, who purposely inflicts harm on his/her child in order to draw attention to him/herself. It's not directly about harming the child, but rather about always having a certain amount of attention. If someone's child is ill, you would probably feel sorry for them. In most cases with Munchausen by proxy, a mother is involved. On some level she doesn't intentionally harm her child, but in reality the kid is harmed and often killed by the mother. Furthermore, many fathers will never notice such a terrible situation simply because most people don't ever think a parent, especially a mother, could harm their child. 

If you think you know someone who suffers with the psychiatric disorder known as Munchausen by proxy syndrome, then it's imperative to take action. As an adult, you always must remember that children aren't supposed to take care of themselves. This is the parent's job, and if they're failing to do so properly, it's okay to step in and take action. Unfortunately those afflicted with Munchausen by proxy are more interested in getting sufficient sympathy than they are making certain their child is alright. Learn more about the devastating syndrome, Munchausen by proxy by checking out informative websites like kidshealth.org, mbpexpert.com and nlm.nih.gov. Even if you don't know anyone who may be suffering with this psychiatric illness, it's still important to get the scoop on what to look for. 

