Have you ever thought about changing careers? The growing trend is the establishment of home based businesses. This is not an area that I had any knowledge in, but I was getting exhausted commuting over one hundred miles a day to a job that I was no longer getting satisfaction from. I was getting paid a great salary, yet the amount of time I was spending away from home and my family was no longer worth it. I began looking around for a home based business that I could be involved in that would better my family life.

I do not have an experience in business and I was very new to the internet. I began looking around at different possibilities. I knew from talking with other business owners that I should find something that I could believe in and would be marketable in my area. I found a company that sold air and water purification systems as well as a line of high quality nutritional supplements. This seemed like the perfect company for me because it would help people have a healthier life and the company was stable and had been in business for over twenty years. I began retailing the products from my home and then started bringing other people into the business. In order to do this I needed to find quality network marketing leads. I worked with my sponsor to locate different companies that could supply me with the leads. There are a wide range of network marketing leads in a wide range of prices. My business was not generating a great deal of money yet so I did not want to buy expensive leads. It was explained to me that the more expensive network marketing leads were screened more thoroughly and were people that were ready to get started in a business, however it was not a guarantee. These network marketing leads were too expensive for me to begin with because I felt I needed to have practice in talking with people over the telephone. I went with more moderately priced leads. I found that I enjoyed talking with people from all over the United States. It is not like making cold calls because the people have opted in to hear about home based business opportunities. Many people chose not to get involved, but several wanted to hear more and try the different products, so even though in some cases I did not get business partners I was still able to retail products.

My home based business is a year old now. I have made enough to supplement our income and it is great to be home full time instead of on the road. I am able to work when it fits my schedule and I am able to participate in community events. It is a great way to live a slower paced life style.
