I am a knowledgeable confident woman. I have held a career for thirty years and have advanced to an upper management position. I have fourteen managers that work under me who supervise a total of two hundred and eighty workers. Our department is one of the largest in the corporation. I am responsible for managing twenty million dollars a year. There is not a lot that intimidates me with the exception of vehicles.

I am not afraid to drive, on the contrary I love to drive and I head over the open road as often as I can. I do hate to buy a new vehicle. I am always afraid that I am going to get a lemon or that the sales person is going to charge me too much. I am the kind of person that the new car search on the internet was created for. I love the fact that I can put in all my criteria and let the internet do the searching for me rather than driving from dealership to dealership looking for the right car.

To complete a new car search you put in the basic details that you are looking for in a vehicle. You choose the make, model, year (you can also do a search for used vehicles) color and the distance from your home that you are willing to travel to test drive the vehicle. You can specify what type of upholstery you want as well as the options you want on the car. You can even put in the price that you are willing to pay. Shopping by price comes in more readily when dealing with used cars. Once you have entered the information in the new car search you run your information and see how many matches you get. Once you find a vehicle with your specifications the program will indicate which dealerships have what you are looking for. It will also let you know how many of the vehicles that particular dealer has available. 

When I bought my last new car using the new car search engines I printed out the specifications as well as the amount of money I had to spend. I also researched the invoice amounts of the vehicle I was more interested in. I made copies of the invoice so I would be able to know if the dealership that I was shopping with was selling the car for a good price. Walking into the dealership already knowing that they had what I wanted and what a good price was gave me a great deal of confidence. Buying my last vehicle was exciting rather than anxiety producing.
