No one has really accurate figures about how much business online pharmacies are doing, but people know that it is a lot. Cheap drugs online are a regular thing for a lot of people. Although the press plays up the fact that many people go to an online pharmacy to buy prescription medications to abuse, the fact is that the vast majority of transactions are fairly legitimate. Online pharmacy drugs, after all, are made to treat a wide variety of symptoms. The price of health care in this country is staggering, and there are a lot of old people who buy drugs from Canada as a way to save money. Although this is technically illegal in some states, the authorities tend to look the other way. After all, none of them want to be the one to bust some 80-year-old grandmother for buying the pills to keep her heart murmurs under control

I have been using online pharmacy websites for years now. At first, I would use them simply to access local pharmacies. CVS, Walgreens, and many other pharmacy chains now have the ability to refill your prescription online. This can save a lot of time. The automated voice systems tend to be pretty slow and unreliable, so going to a pharmacy online is often the best way to do things – particularly if you have a high-speed Internet connection and are pretty comfortable with online transactions. Soon, however, I was drawn by the lure of overseas pharmacies.

Although people talk about the online pharmacy no prescription sites, they are not the sites that save you the most money. Generally, if a pharmacy can get you your pills without a prescription, they are going to charge a bit more money for the privilege. Therefore, if you do have a prescription, you should go to online Canadian pharmacies. They are legally allowed to fill your prescriptions provided you can fax them in and give doctor contact information. Because of this, they give you some of the cheapest medication available. Best of all, the quality is guaranteed. It is every bit as good as what you buy in this country.

Of course, if you do get a certain yearning for online pharmacy Xanax, you can get this even without a doctor's prescription. It might take a little bit of searching, but you're almost guaranteed to find someplace that will sell it to you for a reasonable price. You might have to pay more, but in the long run it will be worth it.