Like most people, I like to eat healthy food. With all the news about the harmful effects of pesticides, hormones used in the growth of beef, and genetic engineering, I would prefer to eat organic food all the time if possible. Although this isn't always a possibility, I do like eat healthy food when I can. The problem is that organic food can be so much more expensive. Take a trip to Safeway, or whatever grocery store you shop at, and you will see exactly what I'm talking about. You can find just about any standard vegetable or fruit that you want at a reasonable price, but if they do have an organic variation, it is always much more expensive. If you go to a place like Whole Foods, a store specializing in carrying a wide range of health foods and organic products, expect to pay much more!

Of course, buying organic wholesale food is one of the most obvious solutions. You'd be surprised how easy it is to get organic food wholesale. There are many organic wholesalers around the country, willing to sell you your food at substantial discounts. There are a few problems with this approach, however. One of the biggest problems is that if you want to buy at a real organic wholesale shop, you have to buy in bulk. Unless you have a family of 20 or more, this can be unrealistic! 

One of the best solutions is to get a buyers club together. With a food buyers club, you can all order organic wholesale food together. That way, you can get substantial discounts by buying in bulk. Not only will you be eating healthy, but you will pay less than you would at a grocery store! Of course, you might have a little bit less selection, but you'll be cooking your family safer, more nutritious food.

An even better solution than buying organic wholesale food is to try growing your own. In many countries, having small vegetable gardens is the norm. People will buy their staples, such as rice and potatoes, in the marketplace, but grow other vegetables are home. Not only will this save you money over buying organic wholesale food, but it will also allow you the joy of growing your own garden. You should also check out your local farmers market. You may be surprised to find out that locally grown, organic produce is often cheaper than conventionally grown food at your local grocer.