Summer comes and goes fairly quickly in some areas of the country and for those folks spending as much time outdoors as possible is a must. They not only work in their gardens, play golf and tennis but they are also usually sitting in their backyards just enjoying the sun. Although standard lawn chairs work just fine if you are only spending the occasional evening or afternoon in your yard, if you prefer to have dinner there and maybe even read a book before the sun sets, you’ll want something much more comfortable to lounge on. A great choice is a wooden chair or steel chair with an outdoor furniture cushion.

Just as you choose furnishings that match the décor of the interior of your home, you should do the same outside. Most people have a table that they use in the summer outdoors. If the table is constructed of wood, the furniture you choose for the area should be as well. Trying to find an exact match isn’t necessary, but something that complements the piece you already have is a great idea. Try and avoid chairs that are unusually shaped as you may find it more difficult to find an outdoor furniture cushion that fits properly.

If you are buying a new table and chair set for your yard, you may find that the cushions are included in the package. If they aren’t it’s a good idea to pick an outdoor furniture cushion at that time as you can ensure that it actually does suit the style of your new table and chairs, and also this gives you a chance to try it out and see how it feels to actually sit on it.

Even though in most cases you’ll only be using these for a few months of the year, you’ll want to take care of them. Leaving them out in the rain is fine, but depending on the material that the outdoor furniture cushion is crafted from, you’ll either want to wash it with the hose, or take it inside and run it through the washing machine. If they are made of fabric it’s not the best idea to put them in the dryer, as they are likely to shrink.

Store them away with the rest of the furniture in the winter inside if possible. If you don’t have room to put the furniture in a storage shed or garage, it’s still a good idea to put the outdoor chair cushion inside. This will help to keep it from fading or becoming damaged in the cold. 

These items can be expensive so a great money saving tip is to buy them in the fall or winter. Almost all outdoor furniture retailers want to sell all their stock before the cold weather hits. With new styles being introduced the next spring, the stock they have at the end of summer should be cleared out. This means low prices for consumers on every summer chair, table and outdoor furniture cushion.

 


