Have you ever bought a computer game, only to find out that it did not work on your computer. You may have a pretty up-to-date computer that still does not work as a PC gaming system. This happened to me once and it was pretty frustrating. I thought that my computer was almost top of the line. Of course, I got it is a deal, but it still seemed to be packed with features. I didn't anticipate having to buy any more PC hardware for a few years, but this is just what I had to do.

You see, unless you buy something that is specifically marketed as a PC gaming system, you have no idea whether or not it will play all of your games. Don't get me wrong – a lot of PC gaming systems are actually just normal computers. The difference is that they have top-of-the-line graphics cards, sound cards, and hard drives. Although in theory you should be able to install one of these yourself in a computer, in practice it is better to get one that already has all of the necessary hardware installed. If you buy PC gaming systems in the first place, you will not have to mess with installing your own hardware. 

A lot of computer experts say that installing your own hardware and customizing your computer is less expensive than buying PC gaming systems. In a sense they are right. Let's face it – gamers often have a lot of disposable income, and the companies know this. If you know what you're doing, you should install your own hardware yourself and design a custom built PC.

If you don't know what you're doing, however, building a gaming computer can be more trouble than it is worth. You might not have enough slots for the memory that a PC game system requires. You might run into trouble installing the new programs for the graphics card that you buy. You might get a defective piece of equipment and have to go right back to the store – assuming that they will take it back. The point is, if you have the money,  it can make a lot more sense to buy pc gaming systems than to upgrade an old one. After all, pc gaming systems usually come fully ready to play, and tend to have great warranties. It can be worth a few hundred extra dollars.