Personal Injury Lawsuit

If you visit other parts of the world, you will find that they are maybe a running joke about Americans. I have friends from Australia, and they often tell me that suing someone seems to be the American way. Even know I probably should have been insulted by this, I know there is a sliver of truth to that. The amount of personal injury lawsuit lawyers is enough to tell you that there is a lot more than a sliver of truth to this. So many people look for the easy way out, the hard work is beginning to be a thing of the past.

I once had a neighbor who funded his life by bringing personal injury lawsuit after lawsuit against anyone he could. The first victim was the city of Pittsburgh, and his next personal injury lawsuit was against my landlord. Quite honestly, both of these accidents were his own fault, but for some reason the court awarded him money. I am not sure about the second one, as I moved away before was settled, but I know his suit against the city of Pittsburgh kept him fed and sheltered for many, many years. He was very lazy, and I guess this was the only way he knew how to survive.

I’m not saying that there is no reason for the personal injury lawsuit. There are many times when people are hurt, and it is no fault of their own. When something like this happens, and an injury changes your life, there are times when you are entitled to damages. The sad fact is that many people will bring a personal injury lawsuit against someone who does not deserve it. Even sadder is that in many cases, the court will side with them. This means that there are a lot of people paying for other people’s laziness. For me, a person who has tried to work hard her whole life, this is somewhat discouraging.

Before you bring a personal injury lawsuit against someone, think about what you are doing. If they are truly at fault, and your injury has severely affected your way of life, then you should not think twice about it. However, if this is something that could have been avoided, and you know that you are partly responsible, you should think twice about what you are doing. There may come a day when someone brings a personal injury lawsuit against you, and then perhaps you will know how it feels. Don’t do it for vengeance, and don’t do it because you’re lazy, only do it if it is truly necessary.
