For my dad, the power tool was an end in itself. I'm not talking about cordless drills or hand tools either. He was of the old school. He used old power tools – clunky, powerful, and rugged. He did not build with them very often,  but had quite a few. For the most part they served as a collection more than a set of tools to use. Nonetheless, when he did build he had the tools to get things done. He had every kind of router bit you could imagine, As well as saws, drills, and all the other standard power tools.

I have a much more modern approach to the power tool. Although I don't really make my living with my hands, it does provide a very  lucrative sideline. I am always doing minor projects for friends, refinishing furniture, putting up shelves, and the like. For me, the most important thing is that a power tool gets the job done. I don't care if it is a modern design or something very simple and primitive. As long as it works for what I need it for, I am happy.

A lot of people have a favorite brand of power tools. I have a friend who uses Coleman power tools almost exclusively, and won't touch anything else. For me, however, it depends on the tool. Usually, you can see quality just by looking. Brand loyalty isn't really necessary. Good tools feel rugged and come with excellent warranties.

That is why I'm so reluctant to give recommendations when people ask what power tools they should buy. It really depends on what job you have to do, and what your personal preferences are. The very best thing to do is to borrow power tools from a friend. Not only will it save you money, but it will also give you a chance to experience some of the tools available. If you like them, you can get the same kind. If you don't, you will still probably have a better idea of what to buy. If you don't have a friend with a full power tool collection, you should try to buy them one at a time. This takes more time, but it stops you from making a lot of bad purchases before you know what to look for. A lot of cities even have tool lending libraries, and this will let you borrow instead of buy. This can save you thousands of dollars on a big project.