Pregnancy test

I remember walking into CVS several years ago, nervously stalking the aisles and wondering if people knew why I was there. I stood there, staring at all of the brands of pregnancy tests and wondering which one would be the best and most reliable. I finally settled on EPT since it promised to detect early pregnancy before any other brand would. So, it was the EPT manufacturers that changed my life in a single moment. The pregnancy test assured me that motherhood was in my near future. 

So, I did what most women do when they take a home pregnancy test and see the same results that I did – I made a doctor’s appointment. Ironically enough, the first thing that the nurse did when I arrived was make me take a pregnancy test. It wasn’t anything different than the same store bought pregnancy test that I had taken a week earlier. Why the need to make me repeat the same procedure and charge me a larger fee for my appointment? I mean, I had already confirmed that I was pregnant. But, apparently that is how things work. So, I had another pregnancy test confirm what I already knew. 

If you’re finding yourself walking into your local drug store and walking down the aisle of feminine products, trying to figure out what pregnancy test is the most accurate, you’re not alone. So many different companies have now developed pregnancy tests that they claim are more effective and provide faster results. The prices range greatly, so you’re more inclined to spend more thinking that a more expensive brand will definitely be better. However, they’re all based on the same factors and chemicals. They all require you to urinate on a stick. You’d think that they’d find a better way to give a woman good news other than making her drink several glasses of water just to have the urge to use the bathroom. Perhaps someday, the drugstores will have a different type of pregnancy test. Until then, you can walk up and down the aisle and rest assured that the many manufacturers who make pregnancy tests all use the same technology. You can make the decision as to how much you want to spend on purchasing a pregnancy test. Some women will spend massive amounts of money purchasing a variety of pregnancy tests, hoping that different brands will provide different answers. The facts will still remain the same – if you’re pregnant, that’s not going to change depending on a simple brand. 
