Whether you are looking for real estate for sale or trying to sell property yourself, knowing about the real estate agency you are dealing with is crucial. Anyone who can pass the real estate exam can become an agent, so as you can imagine, the quality varies greatly. Some real estate agencies are known for negotiating a fair deal, giving honest information, and using ethical business practices. Whether you are buying real estate for commercial purposes, for investment, or just for a place to live, it is always an extremely difficult and important decision who to go with. That is why it pays to know all you can about real estate agencies going into the deal.

It is amazing how few people bother to research a real estate agency before they look at a piece of commercial property. Most people trust their own instincts in figuring out whether or not a property is worth it. Generally, they do a little bit of research about the market, take a good look around the property, ask some questions, and then make a bid or go on their way. In reality, this is just not enough information! Without a real estate appraisal, it is difficult to know how much a particular piece of property is worth. Even an honest real estate agency will try to play up the value of a property and downplay its faults. It is up to you to know what you are getting into. Sometimes, it is impossible to do that without a real estate agent.

When I was selling my house, I initially wanted to go with the numbers. I wanted to find a real estate agency that could get me the most money for my property – not a bad way to go about making my decision. I talked to a friend before I picked out a real estate agent, however, and he told me that I wasn't thinking about it in the right way. Getting a good return from a real estate agency is important, but I hadn't factored in things like commission. The best real estate agents make a killing, charging a huge commission. Sometimes, it really make sense to go with second-best. The commission they take is so much less that you might end up with more money for your house in the long run. If you are a seller, after all, you want the real estate agency that you hired to get you as much money as possible. Money that you have to pay in commission is money that you don't get.