 If you find good real estate brokers, for gods sakes hold onto them. You can hear people talking about the possibilities and pitfalls of real estate investing all the time, but the importance of a good real estate company is never stated enough. Don't get me wrong – it is important to make the right decisions about your real estate investments. Buying and selling the right properties is a big part of the business. Nonetheless, it is a smaller part than you might think. Making shrewd decisions is only part of the deal. Having a good real estate broker is the thing that really makes or breaks you when you are buying and selling properties.

I've been working with the same real estate company for about 20 years now, so I know just what I'm talking about. I'm involved in all kinds of real estate investment, from commercial to residential. Sometimes I by damaged houses to fix, and resell to new homeowners. At other times, I will rent out rooms to medium income families. Still other times, I rent spaces to commercial businesses. For all these purposes, my real estate broker comes in handy. He is absolutely amazing at negotiating the best deal for me. He can really find clients who will benefit from the property and show them why it is in their interest to buy or rent. Everyone comes away happy, and I make a lot of money.

As a matter of fact, I bring my real estate broker along when I am buying houses too. Whenever you are looking at new property, it pays to get the opinion of an expert. No matter how long you are in the business, it is still hard to cultivate a truly objective perspective. Perhaps a house that might look rundown and damaged could still have a lot of potential depending on the area. The trick is to know someone who can spot those kind of possibilities and queue you in before you part with a good deal.

My real estate broker is less of a business partner than a friend. He actually encouraged me to take the real estate exam so that I would have some more expertise in buying and selling properties. Now I'm technically qualified to sell real estate professionally. Nonetheless, I still keep the broker in my employment. After all, you can't do better than having an expert working for you.