I had always wanted to buy Rolling Stones tickets, but it seemed like, whenever they came to town, I was busy with something else. The first time I ever wanted to go to a Rolling Stones concert was almost 10 years ago. One of my good friends was getting married, and it seem like a small sacrifice to skip a concert for the marriage. Nonetheless, when they didn't come around for a few years, I regretted missing a Rolling Stones show. I resolved to make sure to see them the next time they came around.

Unfortunately, when that happens, I just didn't have enough money for Rolling Stones ticket prices. I was going through hard times back then, and Rolling Stones tickets don't come cheap. There was just no way to justify spending more than 40 dollars just to see a concert. I went to the stadium and listened from outside, but it just wasn't the same. The music came through a little bit, but it was muddy. Besides that, I didn't get to see the stones in person. After all, isn't that the whole point of going to a concert?

That is why, when they came around last year, I resolved to get Rolling Stones tickets. All those guys are getting pretty old and, although they can still rock, it is unclear how long they will be rocking for. I put off seeing the Grateful Dead until it was too late. I wasn't going to make the same mistake with the Rolling Stones. 

I waited in line for hours for the Rolling Stones tickets. Back then, I wasn't as tech savvy as I am now. I thought that the best way to get tickets was to be right outside when the doors opened. Unfortunately, by that point a lot of them had already been sold to online buyers. Nonetheless, I still got good seats. I had a lot of money saved up, and was able to spring for the really premium viewing options. When I walked away with my Rolling Stones ticket, I was as happy as I could be.

The concert was a lot of fun. I went with a good friend of mine and had an absolute blast. I can't remember the last time I danced like that! All in all, it was definitely worth the wait. I can't wait until they come around on their next tour. I'll definitely be there to see that.