No matter how much you love someone, it is easy to lose track of some of the things that made your romance so compelling at first. Most people work a lot, have to deal with routine stresses all the time, and tend to forget some of the favorite things about a person they have chosen to spend their life with. This is why finding the right romantic place can be so important to making your romance work. Romantic places aren't just about taking a vacation and relaxing – they are about nourishing your love life and keeping it healthy and vibrant for years to come. Spending a week or two going to a romantic villa or a seaside hotel suite is often enough to make you remember all over again why you fell in love in the first place.

The key to finding romantic places is to remember that one person's idea of romance is not necessarily the others. For some people, there are no better romantic destinations than a luxury hotel on the ocean. These couples like to be catered to and pampered, having their every whim indulged by an attentive staff. Other people, however, have a much simpler idea of romantic places. For them, romance means really getting away from it all. They don't mind roughing it, preferring an isolated mountain lake to a developed stretch of beach front. Before planning a romantic getaway, talk with your partner about what he or she feels makes a romantic destination. After all, if your vacation doesn't make both of you happy, it doesn't fulfill its purpose.

Even if you have very different views of romantic places, there is no reason that you can't find someplace that fulfills everyone's wishes. I recently took a trip to the island of Kauai with my wife, and was more than satisfied with what we found there. She loves luxury, whereas I would rather be camped out in a tent in the middle of nowhere. We were both able to do what we wanted to. We got to stay in a nice hotel for some of the trip, and spend the rest of it hiking around in the interior and camping on an isolated beach. By compromising, we were able to both get what we wanted. It was a great occasion for both of us, and one that we won't soon forget. I can not wait for our next vacation!