Whenever we think of drug tests, we commonly think of blood or urine samples. However, a saliva drug test is a useful tool that employers and organization leaders can use. These tests are crucial to ensure safety for staff and members of various organizations. 

Basically, the saliva drug test is a tool designed to find certain substances. These substances may interfere with the individual’s ability to complete his job or operate machinery. Common elements include the following:

Cocaine and amphetamines are drugs commonly taken to energize the individual. The saliva drug test can detect these substances. A person who takes this type of substance may appear agitated and disoriented. 

Opiates and cannabinoids are quite different but they still interfere with the individual’s ability to function normally. These substances can be found with a saliva test as well. The individual who takes these types of drugs may seem sleepy and a little out of sorts.

Phencyclidine is also known as PCP. This element can be found with a saliva drug test, too. This drug may cause hallucinations and the user may be disoriented for several hours after taking a small dose of this substance. 

Any of these substances can wreak havoc on an individual’s ability to function safely in a normal environment. Considering the cost of healthcare and workman’s compensation, many employers choose to have their employees tested for drugs if there is an accident at work. This is a prudent choice.

Employees agree ahead of time that if there are any drugs found in their systems they will be ineligible for compensation. A saliva drug test may be the prime choice for employers who have this kind of policy. There are a few reasons that this type of drug testing is superior to other methods.

First and foremost, the saliva drug test is the least intrusive. The last thing an injured person wants to do is provide a urine sample or a blood sample at the physician’s office. The saliva drug test is quick, simple and painless. 

The saliva drug test is also better at determining recent use of a substance. Blood and urine tests detect substances that may have been in the person’s system a few days ago. The saliva drug test is useful in determining direct use within a few minutes. 

Drug testing whether it is random or specific to a certain event, is very common today. Choosing an approach that is reliable and unobtrusive is an excellent approach to dealing with this task. The saliva drug test is the ideal approach for many organizations.
