Have you ever noticed that family vacations more often turn out like the comedy rather than the hallmark cards? So often we place such high expectations about how the travel is going to go that we set ourselves up for disappointment. When we are making plans and are thinking about the trip we do not factor in someone getting a cold the day before we leave, or someone spraining their ankle as they step off the plane, or the fact that a freak rainstorm is going to hit in the middle of the dry season. There is no way these things can be anticipated or planned for, but they do take away from the fun that is experienced and the mood that family members are in.
 
Two years ago we decided to make a trip to Orlando Florida. Our two children were excited about going and everything seemed to fall into place perfectly. My sister was going to stay at our house and take care of the dogs and cats. Her apartment was being painted so the timing was perfect. We found great deals on flights and accommodations. Our package included half price passes to sea world Orlando. We had all been healthy all summer long so it was very disappointing when I woke up with filled sinuses, a scratchy throat and cough the morning before we were to leave. I drank tons of water and juice and kept telling myself it would be better. Our flight left on time and arrived on time. My husband stumbled over another passenger’s bag as we were leaving the plane and twisted his ankle. He hobbled to luggage claims and out to the rental car lot. By time we arrived at the hotel he could hardly manage to get to the room. The air pressure in the plane had caused my sinuses to really begin to hurt. We both needed to lie down. We rented the kids movies ordered room services and extra ice for my husband’s ankle and promised the kids we would be going to sea world Orlando the next day. After the ice and rest my husband’s ankle was better. We bought an ace bandage to wrap it with to keep the swelling down. My cold was also better after a good nights sleep. I woke up the kids promising we would have a great day at sea world Orlando, then I opened the drapes to the room and saw that there were torrential rains falling. We turned on the television and saw a number of warnings to stay off the roads due to flooding and stalled vehicles. We spent that day by the indoor portion of the pool area. By the next day we were able to get out. The extra day or rest improved by cold symptoms and my husband’s ankle. The sun was shining and the kids were anxious to get to sea world Orlando.

