Nowadays, everyone wants to eat healthy, but most of us do not want to have to sacrifice taste to do it. That is why seafood recipes are such an appealing option for the health-conscious gourmet. A good seafood recipe can absolutely send you, but you need to know how to prepare it. Cooking seafood is not like cooking meat. There is a lot more to it. The temperature has to be just right. If you overcook your seafood, it will be tough and rubbery. If you undercook it, it will not even be safe to eat. Every seafood recipe has to be done in just the right way, or else all you are doing is wasting delicious food to no good effect.

One of the best places to start is with seafood salad recipes. The great thing about a seafood salad is that it is so easy to make. For shrimp salad, for example, all you have to do is boil the shrimp, put it on some nice iceberg lettuce, add whatever vegetables you need, and you are ready for a delicious meal. A good tartar sauce and some lemon is the perfect way to do it in my opinion, but anything will work. It is just a matter of personal taste.

Another great seafood recipe is baked salmon. Baked fish is relatively easy to make. You have to watch the fish and make sure that the temperature is right, but there is not more to it than that. Most baked seafood recipes are really improved by the addition of some herb-infused olive oil. You can use basil, fennel, or whatever else you like. Sautee the herbs in oil on low heat while the fish is baking. Then all you have to do is drizzle it on top once the fish is done.

Of course, if you are a fan of pasta, seafood recipes are a great way to improve upon your favorite dish. There are dozens of seafood pasta recipes, and each one of them is a meal in itself. That is the beauty of pasta – you do not have to make any sides if you do not want to. One of my favorite things to put in seafood pasta is scallops. They are flavorful, and they have a texture that is simply out of this world. Getting scallops just right can be difficult, so this should not be one of your very first seafood recipes. Still, if you can do it right, you will love it.