It's not big secret that some possessions should not be left out in the open for all to see. This has been proven time and time again. Take the "Pamela and Tommy Lee tape" for instance. This is clearly an item that they should have kept locked-up in a security safe or vault of some kind. Hey, it's not like they couldn't afford one. Heavy-duty, bullet proof security safes are available to anyone these days. And I will say this from personal experience that they're well worth the price tag. Myself, and every one of my brothers have one to store our weapon collections in. Imagine what you could keep safe in yours. 

Jewelry is a big one. Any woman, who invests in expensive jewels, necklaces, bracelets, and rings, should look into security safes to protect her pricey items. Toss them in a 300 pound safe that only you know the code to. They'll never be stolen. First of all, if someone were to break in when you were out of town, they wouldn't have the access code. Furthermore, they would never waste so much time and effort struggling to drag the security safe from your home. My eldest brother keeps his steel safe in a hidden panic room. This way if he ever has to rush his family to the panic room, the safe will be waiting inside, and full of firearms. How cool can you get! Then not only can anyone get into the panic room, but they'd be screwed if they did, because my brother is waiting on the other side with an H&K MP5. 

Top of the line security safes are great for protecting your children from guns, knives and other weapons. If you are a collector, then you should be shopping around for security safes to stow your weapons in at all times. What ever you do, you don't want you 4 year old to get his hands on a gun or edged weapon. Keep those items on lock-down, away from the little ones.  Just to give you an idea where to look, there are several heavy-duty security safes on a website called securitysafesusa.com. But, plan on spending a chunk of dough. The one I ended up with cast me around 700 bucks. It's bullet proof and fire proof. You can't beat that protection! 