SELLING A CAR

When you're selling a car, you naturally want to get the best price from a buyer. However, the buyer is also looking for the best deal he can find, so when you decide on your asking price, be sure your car commands the price. Too many times, the person selling a car is frustrated by lost sales because the price is simply too high. On the other hand, you don't want to seem desperate, even if you are. Here are some tips to help you get what your car is worth.

If your asking price is substantial, the buyer will likely be getting a bank loan for the purchase. Consult the Kelly Blue Book(r) to establish the true fair market price. This is what the bank will be willing to loan on, so be realistic. If you're anxious for a quick sale, be willing to negotiate down a bit. Of  course, if the buyer is willing to pay cash, recognize the advantages of a cash sale and reciprocate with a better price for a cash deal. Selling a car can turn into a lengthy and frustrating process when potential buyers are turned down by their bank.

Selling a car in today's market requires that you be mindful of   gasoline costs. If your car gets good mileage, that's a selling point. If not, factor that in to your pricing.

Once you've established what you want for your car and before you place your ad, get that vehicle as clean and good looking as possible. Thoroughly clean and vacuum the vehicle. Check to be sure oil and water levels are topped off and that all your turn signals, brake lights and the like are in good working order. If the car is dirty, the buyer may get the impression that it's also not mechanically well-maintained. Selling a car is much like an interview. You only get once chance to make a good impression.

If you have your owner's manual and maintenance records, get them together. It's reassuring to a buyer to know you are meticulous with your paperwork. At the same time, it gives the buyer one less thing to pick on when bargaining.

If you're selling a car that's less-than-perfect, inspect for dents, tears in the upholstery and other minor flaws. If one or two damaged items can be readily fixed at little expense, the repairs will help you get the price you want.

Finally, if you smoke, clean out the ashtray and hang a freshener over the mirror! Non-smokers are turned off by cigarette odors. Selling a car can be as easy as you make it. Price it right. Both you and the new owner walk away happy!




