If you want to earn a living, you have to know what you are good at. This is something some learn early on, and they know what they want to do and who they want to be when they grow up. Others are not as lucky, as it seems there is nothing that sounds interesting to them, or they have so many interests that they can’t seem to narrow things down to just one passion. Whatever the case, those with selling skills can often make a great living in sales, but this is not something that everyone has or can even learn. If you aren’t quite there, but you do have some skills, there are some things you can do to boost your confidence.

One thing that helps with selling skills is being able to talk with anyone about anything. This is something that is hard for many, but a must when you want to work in sales. If you think you can do this, but you aren’t sure about how well you can do, all you have to do is go out and see how it goes. You can go just about anywhere and try to strike up a conversation with anyone you meet. See how favorably these go, and how long you can engage someone. If you are met with a lot of rolling eyes and disinterest, this is one part of your selling skills that you have to work on.

There are many things you can do to work on your confidence when speaking to strangers. If you have children in school, now might be a good time to join some groups like the PTA/PTO. Here you can come up with great ideas to help the school out, and you can present those ideas to the organization. This can help you sharpen your selling skills by seeing what you can do when it is not your livelihood that is at stake. Speaking and encouraging others to help out is something that can do well for you.

Selling skills have more to do with you selling yourself to someone than any product you may be offering. This means you must be confident in who you are (though never overly confident and snobby), and what you have to offer. If you feel a bit lacking, do some things to pick up your spirit and your self esteem. Join a gym, even if you think you are in good shape. Exercise is great for the body and the mind, and always makes a person feel better. Do any of the little things that you know have been pick ups in the past, and allow those things to help with your selling skills.