If someone close to you, who always has been on top of things, suddenly seems forgetful they may be suffering from short term memory loss. Although this temporary condition can be caused by a hit to the head there are many other possible causes. Being under extra stress or dealing with a devastating event such as a death can also cause this problem. The most important thing to do for those closest to the person who is stricken with it is try and understand how best to help them.
 
When a person first begins to show signs that they are losing their memory they often attribute it to just being too busy or thinking about too many things at once. This might be the case but if the symptoms worsen and the individual slips into forgetting names or birthdays it’s a problem that can’t be ignored. A trip to the doctor is warranted at this point mainly to determine that something more serious isn’t behind the short term memory loss such as a stroke. If the doctor feels it is indeed stress related it’s time to rethink a few things.

One thing to take note of is how much sleep you are getting. If you have found yourself sleeping less and less each night in recent months this can attribute to short term memory loss. Everyone’s body requires a different amount of sleep to function at its highest capacity. Some people only need six or seven hours while others need a full eight hours of sleep. Getting adequate sleep can really help with all aspects of proper brain function. It’s also a good idea to try and get to bed at the same time each night. Our brain’s love regularity, so trying to stick to an established bedtime is a great idea.

Your stress level should also be carefully looked at. If you are working in a very stressful position it might be contributing to your short term memory loss. Consider ways that you can relieve some of the pressure, perhaps by changing jobs, working less or taking on fewer projects. If you can cut back on the stress that you are feeling it’s likely your memory will begin to improve.

Doing small things can keep a person’s memory sharp as a tack. One fun way to stimulate your brain is through word or number puzzles. Crossword, find-a-word and Sudoku puzzles all help to keep a person thinking clearly. If you keep your mind focused, you are less likely to suffer from stress-related short term memory loss.

Remember that even if you do find yourself forgetting things that you can take steps to regain your lost thoughts. Getting enough sleep, exercising and eating properly all make for a healthier you. If you take care of yourself, your memory will be there when you need it.






