Simple will 
You know the old saying, "Nothing is certain but death and taxes"? Well, no one likes to think about taxes or death, but yes, both of them are inevitable. Of course, death is something people don't like to even talk about even though it is something everyone should think about at some point in time. If you have children, you definitely want to think about what will happen to your children if something tragic should happen to you. Unfortunately, death is a part of life and while no one really can be prepared for a tragic and untimely death, it happens to families every single day. Having a simple will can provide a great deal of ease and comfort to your family. There are lots of ways to go about having a simple will that can all be catered to your specific family and needs. If you have investments, savings and more money than the average citizen, you may want to do a will through your attorney. That way, nothing will be overlooked and all of the details will be taken care of smoothly and without any 
complications. However, if you don't have millions to leave to your family, you can make a simple will on your own without spending lots of fees on attorneys. All you have to do is spend a few moments in front of your computer and search the internet. You will find lots of companies and websites that are more than willing to sell you legal forms that can suit all of your needs. Most of them are very reasonably priced, just make sure that you are purchasing legal forms that will be valid in your particular state. There are some stores, such as Staples, that sells legal forms as well. Buying those forms locally is actually a good idea; at least you know that they are valid for your particular state. In a simple will, you simply need to verbalize your final wishes. Who will be the guardian of your children if you're no longer alive? Who will you leave your assets and earnings to? A simple will can even document your wishes for what will happen to your pets should the need arise to find them a new home. You can 
express your final wishes for almost anything you can imagine in your will. Also, in thinking about your final wishes, you may have the opportunity to create a living will. That is something that you want to put a great amount of thought into and tell others in your family as to what your wishes are in regards to that situation. And most importantly, make sure that someone in your family or circle of friends knows that you have a simple will and where to find it. Remember, a will is only valid if someone knows that it exists. As unpleasant as it may be, put some thought into what you want in your final simple will. After it is written, take some time to think about how precious your life truly is and enjoy it.