skin care ingredients

There is a lot a person has to think about when they are buying products to care for the skin. I went last week to find something for my husband, as he had been having problems with dry skin on his face. I stood there for almost a half an hour and still had no idea what I should buy, even though I do know a little about these products. I would guess that I am not the only one who has had this problem. Even worse, I know a little about the skin care ingredients that should be in a product and what can be done without. This did not make my choice any easier.

There are many claims made about what skin care products can do, and some of them are not true. Though collagen is indeed the key to healthy and smooth skin, you can’t get this by applying it to the surface of the skin. If one of the skin care ingredients listed is collagen, that’s all well and good, but it is not going to do much good. Collagen must come from within the body or it’s not going to benefit the skin. Many claim that this helps but you can’t get the benefits from a topical lotion.

Other skin care ingredients can help with dry and wrinkled skin, but the best they can do is moisturize. Even though many have vitamins, even that is iffy. The best skin care ingredients are the ones that moisturize the skin to help it remain moist and supple. Though this might not take care of wrinkles, there really isn’t much yet that can. The best way to avoid these its to take care of the skin from within with a good diet and by drinking plenty of water. 

Besides a great moisturizer, you want your skin care ingredients to include something like aloe in some cases. Aloe is great for the skin, and can help sooth a sunburn. If you can find a great skin care lotion that has sun screen in it, this is a plus as well. This can help keep sun from damaging the skin, and that is one way to prevent some wrinkles in the first place. Wrinkles are a fact of life, but some get them worse than others, and some can be prevented. Just remember to see through the hype when thinking about skin care ingredients so you aren’t spending a lot of money on a product that does not do what it claims.