SMOOTHIE RECIPES FOR A HEALTHY AND DELICIOUS MEAL

Here we are into 2008 and determined to keep our New Year's resolutions. If you're like me, you can't help thinking of all the buzz about nutritious food and getting trim and fat. Maybe it's the guilt of holiday indulgences that puts food-related resolutions at the forefront. Along with the guilt and determination, a little bit of a discouraged feeling may seep into your mind. "Phooey on all this health business! Ugh. Low-calorie this and boring that. Food is good!" Well, here's some good news to spur you on to success. Try some of these imaginative smoothie recipes, good for breakfast, lunch or even a midnight snack. Be the one who keeps your resolution for a healthier you! All you need is a blender.

Breakfast smoothie recipes start you off deliciously and nutritiously. We all know fruit and yogurt are healthy, but can be a bit dull first thing in the morning, whereas the smoothie is an entirely different experience. With the looks of a milkshake and a sensational and refreshing fruit taste, you've got a breakfast worth drinking! It's full of vitamins, fills you up, is quick to fix and is low in calories.

Almost any fruit goes well in smoothie recipes, regardless of the time of day. Oranges, kiwi fruit, papayas, peaches, pears, pineapple, strawberries, raspberries and banana are all excellent for the fruit component. You can mix several fruits in the same smoothie recipe.

If your favorite fruit is not in season, use a package of frozen fruit with its syrup. The syrup adds a few calories, but look at it this way. It's a complete meal. You won't be hungry until lunch. The nutritional value far outweighs the extra calorie count. Alternatively, use the new fruits that come in jars with Splenda( as the sweetener in the juice.

Fruit juices add flavor and can help thicken the drink, depending on the juice. Survey the juice aisle at the grocery and load up your cart.

Flavored yogurts and ones with real fruit at the bottom add even more flavor and substance. Pina colada yogurt goes great with tropical fruits. 

Smoothie recipes allow you to adhere to your dietary restrictions too. For example, if you're lactose intolerant, you can substitute soy milk or use a 2% fat acidophilus milk. Soy milk is a powerhouse of nutrients and comes in several flavors as well as an unsweetened form.

Now for some special flavor additions. A tablespoon or two of Torani( syrup in a flavor complimentary to your smoothie recipe ingredients can make a great smoothie magnificent. Toss in some shredded coconut or tahini paste for an exotic taste treat. A small scoop of quality ice cream never hurts.

Having just one smoothie each day can fulfill many of your New Year's resolution objectives. These generic smoothie recipes guarantee better nutrition, more energy and a trimmer you!




