Spray on tanning

Ever wonder how the celebrities keep their tans perfect all year long? I guarantee that they aren’t lying out in their backyards every day to keep that natural glow. And, I guarantee that they aren’t risking the wrinkles and dry skin in the tanning beds. Instead, more celebrities are opting for spray on tanning. They can be in and out of a salon within several minutes and have that healthy looking shine that lasts for weeks. They also know that they’ll be keeping their skin healthy and youthful.

Spray on tanning has become quite popular with more than just the celebrities. Everyday people who used to spend twenty minutes lying in the tanning beds are discovering the wonders of spray on tanning as well. They no longer want to lie in those beds wiggling all around in order to not have tan lines the next morning. With spray on tanning, tan lines are not as much of a concern. Within sixty seconds of stepping into the booth, you can step out looking completely different. Your skin may be a boring pale shade when you enter and suddenly, you have a healthy glow. Don’t panic though if you’re not as tan as you should be immediately, it may take about an hour for the color to take its full effect. You may notice that you don’t have that ‘tanning’ smell that you usually can’t get rid of until you scrub from head to toe in the shower at home. 

Your doctor will also be thrilled; they won’t have to warn you about the dangers of being in the sun or frying your skin in the tanning beds. It would normally take you at least four or five times of visiting a tanning bed to equal one session of sixty seconds in a spray on tanning booth. Sure, you may pay more than a normal tanning session. One spray on tanning session may be equivalent to several tanning bed sessions, but think about how much faster the results appear. It is well worth the money. Plus, you may only need one or two visits per month as opposed to several times each week. 

When spray on tanning first became popular, people complained that their skin appeared to look orange. They also complained that it stained their clothing. Since those complaints surfaced, those problems have seemingly vanished. You don’t see too many orange celebrities on your TV screens. Instead, you see people who have healthy and natural looking tans walking around with an air of confidence. If you’re still spending time in those tanning beds, perhaps it is time that you decrease your visits to only sixty seconds in a spray on tanning booth. Your skin will thank you.
