My husband will never admit the need to have street maps, but he knows that they are essential. He usually puts me in charge of directions, and that saves him from having to think he made a wrong turn. If I am navigating our trip, it would always be my fault when we get lost. That’s okay with me, as I know what is really going on. However, no matter how well he thinks he knows the city or road we may using or visiting, I always make sure I have a back up map in my purse. He doesn’t always know that, but I do it so I am sure we are never lost.

The great thing about street maps is that you can get them in many different forms. You can always get the standard map that has everything listed, and those are always a good idea, even if they are not your main source for information. Have them stowed away in your car should the need arise to have them. You can also find these online and print them out with step by step instructions, and that is what I normally love to do. There are many great sites that offer this type of map, and they usually work very well no matter where you are going.

There are some that get street maps from the GPS they have in their car. This is a great tool if you have to go many places with which you might not be familiar, though they might not be a great investment if you would only use them once in a while. These can speak out loud to you, and that means you can keep your eyes on the road. You can also get this service on your cellular phone, which is affordable if you only use it once in a while. Both of these types of street maps should be up to date and very accurate in most instances.

When using street maps from any source, you do have to realize that there might be times when they are wrong. However, you can usually figure out what happened and get back on course with little problem. You can even call home or to the home of a friend and have them help you get back on course. They can find street maps on their own computer to guide you to where you are going. You don’t have to worry about it too much though, as most are as accurate as they can possibly be.