On most days, I don't bother to check a live traffic report before I take a trip, but something about that day was different. I had some kind of strange presentiment. I don't believe in psychic powers, but sometimes the coincidences build up so much that the effect is kind of startling. I have always been very afraid of traffic accidents. You see, when I was little, one of my best friends was seriously injured in a major car crash. The person who hit him had been driving drunk, but because he had a good lawyer he was able to get off with a slap on the wrist. Because of that, I was always an extremely safe driver. While my other friends got into traffic accidents in their teens, I never so much as got into a parking lot accident. I was too careful..

Still, something about that fateful day made me worry about getting into a traffic accident. Although the weather seemed to be good, there was a chance of a late afternoon storm. I decided to take the risk and drive anyway. I was going to my grandmother's house, and I didn't get to visit her that often. She was sick and would really like to see me.

The supposedly unlikely storm actually came on quite suddenly. It really surprised everyone. Soon, there were traffic accidents all over the roadway. When I got caught in a pile up, I can't say that I was surprised. I was shocked, but on some level I had been expecting it.

At first, I didn't think that I was seriously injured, but as the days went on I started to develop strange aches and pains. That is when I decided to hire an accident attorney. You see, the insurance company refused to pay for any medical treatments or lost days at work. I was having backaches all the time, and I often had to call in sick. If I could not get my health problems straightened out, I would be in danger of losing my job pretty soon.

The personal injury lawyer definitely straightened things out with the insurance company. Some traffic accidents go on and on in court – so long that the people filing them often have to borrow money against future winnings. This was not one of those cases. As soon as the insurance company saw that I had started to consult a lawyer, they became much more generous.