Community Colleges play an important part in the educational system and Trident Technical College is valued in Charleston, South Carolina. The two year college serves the counties of Berkeley, Dorchester and Charleston and awards Associate Degrees, Certificates and Diplomas. There are three campuses, more than 150 programs and 12 different academic divisions. These include Aeronautical Studies, Allied Health Sciences, Business Technology and Hospitality, Tourism and Culinary Arts. There is also Film, Media and Visual Arts, Industrial and Engineering Technology and Science and Mathematics.

The diverse range of subjects help graduates to enter the work force, equipped with the skills that employers require. These include skills needed in the technology sectors and more traditional skills. Admission to Trident Technical College is usually based on SAT test scores or on a placement test. There are a number of financial aid opportunities for candidates. Some may be eligible for Federal Awards, Scholarships or State Awards. There is also financial assistance for veterans and children of veterans.

The facilities at the college and amount of staff support attract students to Trident Technical College. The campus has a student bookstore and a library with access to desktop and laptop computers. There are counseling services available and regular career fairs on campus, where students can hand in resumes and meet business leaders and employers from the local community. Students have a voice and can contribute to the Trident Times Student Newspaper.

Many adults want to improve their career prospects but find it difficult to attend college on a full time basis. The college operates a Continuing Education Program that includes practical courses for training. Courses covered include Commercial Driving, Radiography and Culinary Arts. There is also training for the construction industry and for more unusual jobs, such as private investigator. Online courses are also available from Trident Technical College and consist of 600 courses.

The three campus locations are set in landscaped grounds and offer a pleasant environment in which to study. The main campus is situated in North Charleston, on Rivers Avenue. The Palmer Campus is on Columbus Street and the Berkeley campus is at Moncks Corner. The application deadline for the Spring Semester for 2008 is December 1st at noon with a final payment deadline on January 12th at noon. The application deadline for the Summer Semester of 2008 is May 8th with a full payment deadline on May 29th at 5 p.m. Registration can be done online.
