Unusual Gift Ideas for All Occasions

I absolutely hate shopping for birthday and Christmas presents. It's not that I'm against gift-giving in general, but rather because I never know what to buy for my friends and family. I'm just not creative enough to come up with unique presents for all these occasions, so I usually end up buying the same old neckties, colognes, perfumes, and small kitchen appliances. Pretty boring, huh?

Obviously, it's no fun either giving or receiving these things, so I've recently been asking people for unusual gift ideas that will make my special occasions a lot more interesting. I've already received a bunch of excellent suggestions, and will have a good starting point the next time I'm called upon to buy a present.

For example, one of the unusual gift ideas a friend recommended was an "experience" of some sort, such as a flying lesson, beauty makeover, or wine tasting class. Driving experiences are extremely popular as well, and would give the recipient a chance to take a Ferrari or other luxury automobile out for a few hours. For the more adventurous, there are even Nascar, F1, or rally driving experiences for sale. 

I've got to admit that these unusual gift ideas are about 1,000 times better than anything I've ever given anyone in the past! The experiences I just mentioned sound sweet, but most of them are way out of my price range. I was actually hoping that someone would give me a few unusual gift ideas that are both fun and affordable.

Since none of my friends could help me with this, I decided to see what I could find online. My first few searches led nowhere, but then I hit the jackpot and found tons of unusual gift ideas that are well within my budget. I discovered cool gadgets that can melt the ice in key locks, locate WiFi hotspots, or wirelessly charge a cell phone. I also learned about how to create personalized photo books, where to buy authentic movie memorabilia, and how to order a gourmet dinner.

In addition, I came across numerous websites that feature experts offering free advice about gift-giving occasions. They go far beyond simply listing unusual gift ideas, focusing instead on how to determine what kind of presents the intended recipient would appreciate based on a number of different factors.

All in all, I'm confident that I've got enough information and resources to safely get me through the next few years of birthdays and Christmases. With all of these unusual gift ideas at my fingertips, I'll never be stuck giving neckties and perfume again!