Valentine Radar Detectors

I freely admit that I have a problem with driving over the speed limit. I figure there's no sense in owning a top-of-the-line sports car if I'm not going to open it up every time I hit the road. Of course, my sweet ride makes me an easy target for cops, and I've definitely received more than my fair share of speeding tickets over the years. However, that's all going to end now that I've got a Valentine radar detector on order.

Until recently, I was under the impression that all radar detectors worked in pretty much the same way and therefore gave drivers the same protection. But after talking to a buddy of mine, I realized that's not the case at all, so I decided to do a little comparison shopping on my own. I soon learned that Valentine radar detectors have the best overall ratings and the most positive reviews from regular consumers like me, mostly because of the advanced technology used in the devices.

I liked what I read, so I went down to a local electronics shop fully intending to pick one up. Then I saw the price tag and had to back off. I certainly didn't know that Valentine radar detectors cost so much! I realize that you have to pay extra for quality sometimes, but I just didn't have that kind of money. Plus, I was convinced that I could pick up the Valentine radar detector that I wanted for much less than what that shop was selling it for.

After I got back home, I started checking out a bunch of websites to see what kind of prices online merchants were offering. Just as I expected, I saw several sites advertising Valentine radar detectors at significant discounts. The model I wanted was in stock at most of the sites I looked at, so I simply picked a place that included free shipping in the bargain. My device should be here by the end of the week, and after that, I likely won't be getting very many speeding tickets anymore.

Sure, I suppose I could drive the speed limit and save myself the few hundred bucks I spent on my Valentine radar detector, but where's the fun in that? I'd much rather be able to enjoy my car to the fullest, even if it makes my wallet a little lighter. I'll just consider this purchase an investment and hope that it saves me money (and court appearances) in the long run!