Although there is a lot of disagreement about the efficacy of vitamin supplements, there are some things that everyone agrees upon. One of them is the importance of vitamin C. Anyone who knows something about vitamin nutrition will recognize that vitamin C is good for you. You simply can't get too much of it – or if you can, it is very difficult. C vitamin is good for all kinds of different things. It helps your immune system, fight against cancer and harmful free radicals, and may just make you live longer. 

There are some people who make some very extravagant claims about vitamin supplements, including vitamin C. It is claimed by some rather noteworthy people that taking hundreds of times the US RDA of C vitamins can greatly improve mental health, increase your lifespan, and make you healthier. Although this hasn't been proven by science, taking large doses at least doesn't seem to hurt you. Vitamin D, vitamin A, and many other nutrients can be harmful in excessive quantities. With vitamin C, however, you are unlikely to hurt yourself by taking too much. Your body simply flushes out any excess, and uses the part that it needs. If you take way too much you can give yourself a stomach ache, but that is about it.

I have personally used vitamin C to good effect to combat past illnesses. I used to have a doctor – and alternative medicine practitioner – who is crazy about the stuff. Every time one of his patients would get sick, he would give them what was known as a Super-C. He would inject concentrated high levels of vitamin C in the blood, combined with a small dose of Hydrochloric acid. It was amazing how quickly and effectively it would work. Within minutes of getting the injection, I would be feeling better. All the congestion would drain out of my sinuses, and my body would immediately fight off the illness. Although this still is not a common technique among many doctors, it is growing in popularity. It is quick, easy, and powerful. What else could you ask for?

It can also be a good idea to take a multivitamin supplement. A lot of us don't get enough nutrients in their diets, and it can never hurt to have a little bit of a boost. People who take multivitamin supplements are healthier, live longer, and gets sick much less often. What more could you ask for?