Orlando is one of the world's favorite tourist destinations and visitors can stay in comfortable accommodation at the scenic Westgate Lakes Resort and Spa. As part of a successful chain, the lakefront resort offers terrific amenities for all the family and is conveniently located for Walt Disney World, SeaWorld and other attractions. Guests can stay in a variety of units, including one bedroom and two bath apartments up to Grand Villas with room for up to 16 people in two, three or four bedrooms.

Each Villa has a large television with VCR and a washer/dryer. The views can be admired from a private terrace and some villas contain fully equipped kitchens and whirlpools. Guests enjoy using several heated swimming pools and there are facilities for playing tennis, basketball and volleyball. There is also the opportunity to participate in watersports. The Marina at the Westgate Lakes Resort and Spa is an active center for kayaks, paddle boats and fishing. 

Everyday supplies are obtained at the on site Mini Mart and the site also has a gift shop and there is an arcade and an 18-hole miniature golf course. Some visitors like to explore the area on a rented bicycle. Business users can stay in touch with work through the wireless Internet connection and there is a 24 hour Business Center. The Westgate Lakes Resort and Spa staff are friendly and helpful and like to get people together for activities. The activities program includes bingo sessions, discos and drive in movies. Staff also organise Art Auctions.  

Children have a great time at the resort and parents can have some well earned time to themselves by joining the Kids Club, where their children can take part in supervised activities. The club is for the ages of 2 - 12 years and they will not miss Mom and Dad as they play video games, board games and learn about arts and crafts projects. Dining at the Westgate Lakes Resort and Spa is informal and restaurants include a smokehouse grill. There is also a deli and a pizza outlet, from which meals can be delivered.

After a day's exploring or sports, guests can relax at Papillon the Spa, a Greek themed environment with statues and fountains. Treatments at the spa include facials, massages and body wraps. The facilities include a steam room, sauna and whirlpool and there are lounges for people to relax in and take refreshments.
