Writing an Ebook

I've been making a fantastic living through online ventures for the past five years or so, and I'm completely convinced that with my help and guidance, others will be able to do the same thing. I'm sure that people would pay good money to learn my secrets, so that's why I'm thinking about writing an ebook to sell on my websites. The only problem is, I've never done this sort of thing before, and don't really know where to start.

From talking to other online entrepreneurs, there are several things that I need to take into consideration before writing an ebook. For example, it's important that I guard my ebook from theft or illegal reproduction. I can do this by purchasing a protection program, issuing passwords to unlock the book only after payment is received, or by using Digital Rights Management. These steps will ensure that the ebook can't be copied or traded very easily.

I also learned that there's a definite formula to writing an ebook, and that once I get the basic feel for how to do it, the entire creation process will become a lot easier. Savvy marketers have discovered that there's an ideal length for ebooks, that the margins should be a certain width, and that there should be plenty of white space on each page so the reader doesn't get intimidated at the prospect of taking in too much information. There are even pricing guidelines out there to help me decide how much to sell my finished product for! I never could have figured these things out for myself, so I feel like I'm making good progress already. 

At this point, I think it would probably be best for me to purchase some special software that will allow me to take a step-by-step approach to writing an ebook. I've seen several of these types of programs advertised online, and have even checked out some of their features. It seems that the prices are pretty good for what the software delivers, so I should probably place my order soon. After all, the sooner I finish my book, the sooner I can start making money from it!

I'm excited about the prospect of writing an ebook, but I definitely need more information before I can begin in earnest. I'm going to devote the next couple of days to research, and will hopefully be in a better position to evaluate where I stand after that. 
