Title: 
10%/year growth or your money back

Word Count:
359

Summary:
Previously available only to a private trading group, this EA is now publicly available only from myfxtools.com. This EA has been compared to other EA's in the market and outperformed every one of them. The key to success of this system is that it is flexible to changing market conditions.


Keywords:
pointbreak ea, forex trading, automated trading


Article Body:
Previously available only to a private trading group, this EA is now publicly 
available only from myfxtools.com. This EA has been compared to other EA's in 
the market and outperformed every one of them. The key to success of this 
system is that it is flexible to changing market conditions.

Some of Point Break features:
Small trades are continuously added above and below the opening position.
The system will pyramiding, hedging or closing some positions depends which way the market moves.
All trades are closed only when a net profit is reached and added to your account balance.
Built in money management will automatically calculate the  correct position size for your risk level, and it can be used as a full automatic trading system or use it to create your own trading system.

The main goal of multiple trading strategies is to make the drawdown become 

smoother when there is choppy market.

Since Point Break version 4, we invented multiple close strategies. Beside each 

cycle has its own close profit procedure, there is additional simultaneous 

close technique which close all open positions together on specific rule, this 

make the close profit target be reached even faster, and as a result the 

expanding drawdown probability become decrease also.

Money Management

The probability is that the maximum largest expected drawdown is about $1,500 

(using 0.01 standard lot) with Conservative setting. Although it is not 

impossible exceed this drawdown. 

Based on the drawdown risk when the cycle ranges become expanding, trading more 

than 0.01 lot per $5,000 for standard account is discouraged.  

Fortunately, the EA uses automatically money management system that it will 

increase the lot size when the profit accumulated. For example when the EA 

start with $10,000, it start using 0.02 lots, it will increase to 0.03 lots 

when the equity become $15,000.


Average Monthly Return: 

5-8% for Moderate Strategy (Drawdown Risk: 30% from balance).
10-15% for Aggressive Strategy (Drawdown Risk: 50% from balance).

We have the utmost confidence in the EA and it has been used to managed forex 

accounts for 2 years already.  This EA is available in a 30-day trial format, 
available from our site, and we guarantee if you dont make 10% a year we will refund your money back.


