Title: 
Advantages of Low Interest Credit Cards

Word Count:
454

Summary:
A credit card with lower interest is of utmost benefit to the consumer.  As a result of stiff competition among credit card companies, negotiating and obtaining a lower interest credit card has become very simple.


Keywords:
credit card, low interest credit card, credit card offers, best credit card


Article Body:
Credit cards when used in a proper manner can be very beneficial to the cardholder.  And a credit card with lower interest is of utmost benefit to the consumer.  Some people stick to their first credit card, without even thinking of switching over to a credit card with a lower interest due to the habit of using the credit card for many years.  But switching over to a lower interest credit card will prove to be worth the hard work taken to do so by researching for the best option, as one can see by self how much money can save by paying a lower interest towards purchases done using the credit card.  Credit card customers have an option to choose between fixed lower interest rate credit card and a credit card which comes with lower introductory interest rates.  People who have good credit ratings can acquire a lower interest credit card with ease compared to those who don not have a good credit history, and can only get a credit card with a lower credit limit.  

As a result of stiff competition among credit card companies, negotiating and obtaining a lower interest credit card is very simple.  There are many websites which help the consumers find out a lower interest rate credit card, and promise the information needed for comparison, prevailing market rates, expected rates in the future etc which educates the consumer on the latest happenings in the industry.

A person habituated to carry a balance on the credit card every month can benefit by saving a huge amount of money with a credit card with lower interest rate.
Some people have an objective to pay off the credit card debt and the decrease in interest rate will enable them to clear off the debt faster than ever.  Lot of credit card companies promote their credit cards by giving a zero percent interest rate on balance transfers. Thus a person can clear his credit card debt without even paying any interest for it.

Normally incentives are provided to sign up for the lower introductory interest rates for the credit cards.  But caution is to be taken to read the fine print in order to find out if there are any higher rates charged after the introductory period.  Some might even charge a balance transfer fee for a low introductory interest rate credit card.  One can take advantage by transferring the debts from the higher interest rate credit card to a lower interest rate credit card.  

Before signing up for a credit card it is wiser to get the details regarding introductory interest offer, APR percent, introductory period time, charges if any for balance transfers, additional fee charged if any, security feature etc.


