Avoiding the Scam

In the issue of repairing your credit, it is best to
do it yourself. Most often, you may hear or see
advertisements claiming outstanding credit repair
services offering you “legal” and “guaranteed”
solutions for your credit problems. These services may
use mottos that are quite enticing to those who are in
dire need of credit repair. There are even others who
get easily convinced after reading “authentic”
testimonials from several customers, who might not
actually exist.

When you are really in need of credit repair, the
first thing you want to do is to act immediately. You
should remember that this action should be done by you
and not anyone else. Luckily, there are several
factors that can help you avoid scam credit repair
services.

The Fraudulence

Day after day, several companies appeal to consumers
who have awful credit histories. Often, they promise
to tidy up credit reports, for a price, to help
consumers loan a car, mortgage a home, or even get a
job. The horrible fact is they cannot deliver; you
should keep this in mind especially if you do not want
to worsen your debt. These companies would only take
the cost of the services with them and vanish into
thin air.

The Signs of a Scam

If you had responded to a credit repair service, there
are warning signs that can help you determine an
authentic credit repair offer from a fraud. Firstly,
be aware of companies that wish for you to pay the
cost of the repair before providing any services. In
addition, avoid those companies that do not divulge
any possible legal rights you are entitled to and what
processes you can do yourself without payment.

There are companies that advise consumers to directly
contact a credit reporting agency - you should avoid
such companies. More so, if the company you have
responded to suggests that you to create a new credit
identity and then make a new credit report by applying
for an Employer Identification Number to use rather
than you SSN, you should immediately stop contacting
that company.

Lastly, those that advise you to argue all information
included within your credit report or take actions
that may seem illegal, i.e. generating a new credit
identity, should be avoided.

Remember that you could be prosecuted for wire or mail
fraud if you use the telephone or mail to apply for
credit and give information that are not authentic.
Lying on a credit application, misinterpreting your
SSN and acquiring an Employer Identification Number
from the IRS under false pretenses are all federal
crimes.

Most importantly, you should remember that included
within the Credit Repair Organization Act is the rule
that credit repair companies should not require you to
pay until the services they have promised are
complete.

The best possible way to avoid poor credit history,
and totally keep you safe from fraudulent credit
repair services, is to do a periodic credit report
review. Reviewing your credit report is important
because the information in your report affects your
chances of getting an insurance or loan. Make sure
that the information is correct, complete and
regularly updated before applying for a loan. Lastly,
by doing periodic check-up on your credit report, you
can be safe from identity theft, which can create a
major problem not only in your credit report.