Building New Credit Habits

Repairing your credit entails getting rid of the
negative credit report information and catching up on
your overdue bills. This could raise your credit score
but might not be enough to make you credit worthy
again. However, to raise your credit score high enough
to entitle you to a loan, you have to rebuild your
credits. Doing so would only prove that you have the
capability to handle credit responsibility.

Although it might be difficult to start, but once you
achieve that momentum you need, you will be sashaying
to a good credit score. You can always begin by
developing the required credit habits.

The Do’s of Using Your Credit Card Wisely

Although many people are born without the skill it
requires to use credit cards, it is important to learn
the rules of the game. All you need to do is to
remember simple do’s and don’ts of credit card usage
and in time, you would welcome healthy spending habits
in your financial life.

The first thing you do want to ever do is to use your
credit card to make your everyday purchases,
especially food, gas and clothing. It is bad enough
not to have cash-on-hand but buying simple everyday
items can develop into a habit wherein you may tend to
substitute a credit card with cash. It is always
advisable not to take your credit card out of your
wallet for everyday purchases but instead use your
cash or a debit card.

The next thing you do not want to do is develop a
habit of making minimum-only payments. If you make
minimum payments each month, you are only increasing
the length of time it will take for you to pay off
your debt. Additionally, it will also increase the
amount of interest you could end up paying.

If you are one of those people who usually buy things
that are way off budget, remember not to use your
credit card to buy things you cannot afford. One way
to get into debt is living off borrowed money. You
might end up waking one day realizing you are so much
indebt that you wish to return your expensive
purchases back to wherever you bought them from.

The Do’s of Using Your Credit Card Wisely

Learn how to make correct decisions when it comes to
buying items you need against those you simply want.
Everybody knows what a “need” is and what a “want” is.
Remember not to substitute need from the want and vice
versa. If you are using your credit card wisely, it
only means that you are being responsible in
recognizing what things you need and which you only
want.

Next, always let your creditor know in advance if you
would not be able to pay your monthly payment on time.
Since most creditors offer assistance with your
payment if you give them a heads up, it is important
not to simply forget about the payment for no reason
at all. You can do this by simply calling your
creditor, explain the situation and ask if they allow
late fees to be waived.

Lastly, do not exceed with your credit limit. The
safest is to stay within at most 30% of your credit
limit. Because the major part of your credit score
reflects on the quantity of debt you actually have, it
is important to keep your balance low in order to
preserve a good credit standing.

