Title: 
Can I Receive Federal Benefits If I Retire In Thailand?

Word Count:
333

Summary:
You want to retire in Thailand but are worried that you cannot collect your Social Security benefits if you retire in a foreign country.  Well, worry no more.


Keywords:
security, social security, social, security administration, administration, bank, thailand, social security administration, embassy


Article Body:
It is possible to receive federal benefits in Thailand.  To apply for Social Security benefits, you need to apply to the Social Security Administration 3 months before reaching the age of 62 by completing a questionnaire.  

The U.S. Embassy can provide copies of the questionnaire.  Once completed, the questionnaire is then sent to the regional Social Security representative in Manila, Philippines.  They will then reply directly to the applicant and will provide additional forms, which need to be sent directly to the Social Security Administration in Baltimore, Maryland.  The Social Security Administration recommends allowing 120 days for processing. 

The address of the regional Social Security Representative is:   
Social Security Administration  
U.S. Embassy  
1131 Roxas Blvd.  
0930 Manila Philippines  

The address of the Social Security Administration main office is:   
Social Security Administration  Office of International Operations  
P.O. Box 17769  
Baltimore, MD 21235  U.S.A    

Most U.S. Treasury checks are sent first to the Embassy, which then distributes the checks to recipients.  The Embassy suggests that checks be deposited directly into the recipient’s bank account.  This helps prevent difficulties in cases of lost, stolen, misplaced or late checks, as well as delays in accessing funds due to bank clearance rules.

If you would like your check to be direct deposited into a bank account in Thailand, you need to contact Bangkok Bank.  This is the only Thai bank in which Social Security payments can be direct deposited.  Their address is:   

Bangkok Bank  Foreign Exchange Department  
333 Silom Road  
Bangkok 10500  Thailand  

If you already receive Social Security or other federal benefits in the United States, and you intend to move to Thailand, please notify the Social Security Administration or other federal agency of your change of address.  Your benefits will then be sent to your new address.   Contact the Consular Section to advise us of your residence in Thailand and inquire about the procedures for having your benefit checks sent overseas or deposited directly into your account.    

You may reach the Federal Benefits Unit of the Embassy at 0-2405-4272.


