Title: 
Chase Online Banking

Word Count:
342

Summary:
Chase online banking is a small business’s most useful financial resource. Most small businesses start with a great idea. The person behind the idea feels confident that the idea is sound and that there’s a demand. He or she then sets out to turn the idea into the latest must-have craze. What many small business owners don’t know a lot about is how to handle the company’s finances. That’s where Chase online banking can help.

Small business owners who enroll in Chase online...


Keywords:
Chase Online Banking,banking,online banking


Article Body:
Chase online banking is a small business’s most useful financial resource. Most small businesses start with a great idea. The person behind the idea feels confident that the idea is sound and that there’s a demand. He or she then sets out to turn the idea into the latest must-have craze. What many small business owners don’t know a lot about is how to handle the company’s finances. That’s where Chase online banking can help.

Small business owners who enroll in Chase online banking have access to a number of useful features to help them better manage their businesses. The biggest benefit is the ability to log in to any account that is linked to the business (even personal and investment accounts!) at any time, day or night, seven days a week. While certainly useful, managing account balances is just one of many things small business owners can do while online.

They can also view transactions as far back as 90 days or check to see which checks have cleared and which have not. They can pay bills online which is faster and less expensive than manual methods. Knowing that online checks and deposit slips can be printed anytime they’re needed removes one of the fears that people have about Chase online banking.

Small business owners can request to be notified via email, voice mail and even by text message anytime a change takes place in any of the accounts being monitored. They can order checks, wire money, and transfer funds and so much more.

Chase online banking also enables small business owners to download monthly statements straight into the popular small business accounting software packages, which makes the daunting tasks associated with accounting much easier to handle. They can use Chase online banking to set up direct deposit for themselves and their employees and that’s a nice benefit to offer when trying to attract valuable employees. There’s even more and it’s all explained on the online banking demo so take a look today!


