Title: 
Church Fundraisers Are The Oldest Type Of Fundraising Events

Word Count:
344

Summary:
Church fundraisers can be a lot of fun.


Keywords:
Church fundraisers, band fundraisers, 


Article Body:
Church fundraisers have been around for ages and are known for being community and family get togethers. At one time they were called garden parties and were held during the summer months. At the church fundraisers, there were games of fun for the children, food to buy and crafts for sale. There was usually a supper and a dance to celebrate the success of the fundraising event.

Schools and churches have band fundraisers because the purchase of band equipment is very expensive. Even if you want to purchase used band equipment, church fundraisers will be able to come up with the funds needed for different instruments. At an event where churches or schools need to raise money for the band, the patrons are almost always treated to a concert.

Church fundraisers often consist of adult concerts where the adults of the community show off their talents and show how they can act silly and childish. In small communities, when a concert is a successful band fundraiser, people from another community often invite the performers to put off the concert in another town to help them with their fundraising.

A common church fundraiser is a hymn sing held in the church. With this type of event, people make a donation to have their favorite hymn sung by the congregation or the choir in memory of a loved one. This also helps as a band fundraiser because the people see where the band needs new equipment just by listening to them play.

Bands perform on a regular basis in parades and town festivities. In order to do well in competitions they need to have the best of equipment and therefore band fundraisers help to provide the much needed funds, not only for equipment but often for travel. Church fundraisers help local bands in many ways because they often give donations to various bands. The next time there is a church fundraiser in your town, you might be surprised at the amount of fun you have when you attend. 

Church fundraisers can be a lot of fun.


