Cleaning the Mess in Your Credit Report

An important factor that plays an important role in
maintaining a clean credit report is actually the
contents of your credit report. The credit report is
pretty much the story of your financial life,
contained in a detailed document.

The credit report carries the credit score, which is a
numeric ranking usually between 300 and 850. Several
lenders use the credit score to help them decided
whether you are worthy of a credit. More so, the score
is also used to determine your capability of paying a
loan. The credit report is important and cleaning or
maintaining a good credit report is vital to your
financial survival.

A Look inside the Credit Report

In a credit report, the first entry is normally your
personal information. It includes your name, listed
telephone number/s, previous and current addresses,
reported differences of your Social Security Number,
past and present employer and the date of birth.

The information regarding your credit accounts follows
your personal information entry. This is also listed
in detail and normally includes loans, the maximum
loan amount, and information of any joint account
holders or co-signers. The credit report also
incorporate a section, called Inquiries, which lists
any person who has recently requested a copy of the
credit report.

There are some states, wherein the credit report
contains public record information. This information
can feature overdue payments, bankruptcies or other
judgments in the court. Normally, these entries can
last for up to ten years and may affect your chances
of obtaining a loan negatively.

How to Start

Firstly, in order to clean your credit report, you
will need to order a copy of the report. You must
determine what is out of date or inaccurate, after
which you can submit a letter to the bureau requesting
fixes to the information. This process may take a long
time and you may be required to do several follow-ups
with each bureau before achieving a clean credit
report. However, to perform this correctly, you must
be aware of the information the credit agencies are
allowed to report and the duration.

Ordering a credit report can be easily done and
accessible to everyone, since at least one free report
can be obtained by the consumer each year; this rule
is also included under the FCRA or Fair Credit
Reporting Act. More so, the consumer is also allowed
to obtain a free copy of his or her credit report each
year from each of the three major companies handling
credit reporting, namely the Experian, TransUnion, and
Equifax. However, in case you have already obtained a
copy of your credit report this year, you may be
required to pay an additional fee if you want another
copy.

Once you have obtained your report, review it
carefully. Every detail must be inspected since
bureaus can sometimes confuse names, addresses or
employers. Most often, people who have common names
have credit reports that may contain information on
other variations of their name.

Additionally, it is important to perform a periodic
check on the credit report. It is advisable to order a
copy of the report once a year and dispute any
possible inaccuracies. Always take careful steps in
handling your payments and make sure not to make any
late payments. Time is of the essence and even minimum
payments should not be neglected. Remember that
carefully managing your credit can add as much as
fifty points to your credit score per year.

