Title: 
Concerned You Will Not Retire In Comfort?

Word Count:
440

Summary:
Traditionally people have considered their retirement 401Ks and IRAs to be like safety nets rather than wealth builders.  However, with the self directed IRA, you need not be satisfied with growth rates in the single digits.  It is possible to realize phenomenal growth potential...


Keywords:
ira, portfolio, investment strategy, retirement, 401k


Article Body:
Traditionally people have considered their retirement 401Ks and IRAs to be like safety nets rather than wealth builders.  However, with the self directed IRA, you need not be satisfied with growth rates in the single digits.  It is possible to realize phenomenal growth potential outside of the traditional IRA markets, tripling and quadrupling your IRA's value is not uncommon, within relatively short period of time.  It will not just happen, however.  You have to take the reins of your retirement portfolio, put in the time and effort, and do your research.  The possibilities are endless to those who are prepared to make the investment paradigm shift.

Most savvy investors, due to the ups and downs of the stock market, are frankly not as confident as they once were in the old financial planner adage that the stock market is going to go up forever.  If your memory is a little foggy, then reflect back just a few short years.   

Concerned that you will not retire in comfort?  Put your IRA money to work and truly diversify your IRA portfolio with alternative investment vehicles.  Your banker and broker will not allow you to invest in alternative investments because they want complete visibility and control over your IRA.  In the meantime, they are earning fantastic returns on your money.  Isn’t it time you take the driver’s seat.   

Fundamentally, what do you need? 

·        Sufficient funds in your self-directed IRA. 

·         Intimate knowledge of a permissible alternative investing strategy for the IRA (such as real estate investing, purchasing discounted paper, private money lending, or gold investing) 

·        A Self-Directed IRA Advisor that can share valuable information and advice.  

·        A low fixed annual fee to pay your custodian, while you maintain full checkbook control at all times.  You – not they – issue the checks for managing your investment. 

Provided you satisfy IRA regulations on the type of investments allowed for your self-directed IRA funds (real estate is only one of several possibilities), you can take charge of your financial future by turning that IRA into a high-earning instrument.  

The IRS’s position is clear, as defined in their publication # 590: your IRA should be a separate and distinct entity from yourself.  Whatever investments you make should benefit your IRA, and not you directly.  Your self directed ira advisor will be able to explain the subtleties and refinements of this IRS publication. 

It’s your money.  If we told you that there are about $7 trillion dollars sitting in IRAs but of that amount, only 3% are self-directed, wouldn’t you be curious about how you can be part of that 3% that unknown to most, are enjoying unheard of returns?


