Title: 
Discover Card's Business Credit Cards

Word Count:
553

Summary:
Discover Card now offers its own version of business credit cards. Discover Card has been known for their customer service, and this dedication for service continues in their business credit cards product. Whenever you need to contact them, Discover Card assures you that business credit card specialists will always be on hand, that they will take your telephone calls quickly and that your queries will be attended to promptly. Discover does not treat this availability as a benefit, but rather view it as a service commitment to their Discover Card business customers.


Keywords:
cheap credit cards, discover business credit cards, 


Article Body:
Discover Card now offers its own version of business credit cards. Discover Card has been known for their customer service, and this dedication for service continues in their business credit cards product. Whenever you need to contact them, Discover Card assures you that business credit card specialists will always be on hand, that they will take your telephone calls quickly and that your queries will be attended to promptly. Discover does not treat this availability as a benefit, but rather view it as a service commitment to their Discover Card business customers. There is a wide range of benefits to be had on your Discover business credit cards though. Here follows a few of these:

Cash Back Bonus Business Credit Cards
Using your Discover Rewards business credit card, will entitle you to 5% discounts on office supply purchases, 2% on gas, and 1% on other miscellaneous purchases. This could translate into significant savings for your business, especially because this business credit card also enables you to earn valuable Rewards points

If you opt to redeem your business credit cards cash back bonus in the form of gift cards or e-certificates from their participating 70 brand-name partners, you will have the opportunity of doubling your points. This means that you can get gift cards or certificates to use for a variety of different items – and should that be your choice, even a Cruise.

If, on the other hand, you elect to redeem in cash, you can nominate how the payment should be issued and into which account it should go. This could be in the form of a check, an electronic deposit to the bank account of your choice, or as a credit on your business credit card account.

Travel Miles Business Credit Cards
If your business requires frequent travel, the Discover Miles Business Credit Cards will come in useful. Your business credit card account earns up to one mile for every dollar in usual purchases, double miles on your gas (at the pump or in the station) and double miles for travel purchases (plane tickets, car rentals, hotels). There is a limit of $5,000 imposed in terms of the amount you can accumulate on the business credit cards’ double miles feature, but when all is said and done, that is still a substantial amount.

You won’t have to wait long before you can start redeeming the miles on your business credit cards. You can redeem the miles as gift cards from 50 brand-name participating partners in a graduated manner: $5 for 1,000 miles, $25 for 3,500 miles and $50 for 6,000 miles. Once you reach 5,000 miles, you can start redeeming these miles as cash back rewards.

Other Benefits
There are also other, standard benefits for business credit cards. You will get quarterly and annual statements that summarize all expenses charged against your business credit cards; the summaries are already categorized to make your bookkeeping simpler, and you can receive statements online ready for download into popular accounting software applications.

You can customize your employees’ spending limits on their business credit cards online, and when you use your business credit card to pay for travel, you’re automatically covered for accident insurance and car rental insurance. A new benefit is that you can purchase checkbooks with your Discover business credit card, thereby enabling payments to those companies that don’t accept business credit cards yet.


