Title: 
Enjoy Quality Services With The Citi Platinum Select Credit Card

Word Count:
478

Summary:
One of the largest banks in the world, the Citibank was founded in 1812. It is one among the nine business entities, which is operated by the Citigroup.


Keywords:
citibank platinum select credit card, citi, platinum, business credit cards,


Article Body:
One of the largest banks in the world, the Citibank was founded in 1812. It is one among the nine business entities, which is operated by the Citigroup.

Citibank has come up with a number of advanced financial services and products for its worldwide clientele. Citi Platinum Select Credit Card issued by the Citibank is credit card with all standard features and allows you great purchasing power.

Significance of the Citi Platinum Select Credit Card

If you have a good credit and are on the lookout for many quality services and benefits from the Citibank, then the Citi Platinum Select Credit Card is perfect for you.

The 0% introductory rate, which continues for the initial 12 months, is certainly a boon for the cardholders (and is applicable on both balance transfers and purchases). The regular APR of 10.99% is slightly above the average but still less when compared to other reward cards. The credit card features no annual fee.

The credit card comes with many platinum cardholder advantages like fraud protection services, travel accident insurance and auto rental insurance.

Benefits Of The Card

The Citi Platinum Select Credit Card gives you the provision to gain free access to your account information online, which allows you to view your previous statements, your current billing statement and your unbilled activity.

The cardholder can also make payments towards the Citi Platinum account online, and can conveniently check all his/her expenses each month via his/her online account manager. There is a dedicated customer service that you can avail toll free for providing answers to all your queries.

The credit card boasts of offering certain highest security measures that is available for all the credit card users. You can also get your photo placed on the face of your credit card in order to ensure that no one else uses your card in a retail establishment.

If someone somehow gets hold of your card number and attempts to use your card for purchases, etc., over phone or online, you will not really have a genuine reason to worry, especially because you are well-protected under the $0 liability policy of Citibank. Your personal information is protected and you do not pay for any unauthorized charges to the card.

The Bonus Points

The other advantage of having the Citi Platinum Select Credit Card is that whenever you purchase bus, train or plane tickets using the credit card, you will gain a maximum of $1 million in travel accident insurance at no additional charges. This benefit covers you, and your family members, including your dependent spouse and children. Supposing your travels involve the renting of a vehicle, then you will earn automatic coverage after declining the car rental company’s collision waiver insurance.

Other perks on offer are the various Internet account related services, lost wallet service, medical and legal referral services, emergency card and cash replacement, and many more.


