Title: 
guide in forex market

Word Count:
484

Summary:
Forex trading, also known under the names of Foreign exchange or FX market is the widest currency market in the world.


Keywords:
forex, forex market, forex guide


Article Body:
Forex trading, also known under the names of Foreign exchange or FX market is the widest currency market in the world, with transactions summing more than one and a half million dollars every day. Regarding the "location" of the Forex trading market, it should be mentioned that it is an actual over-the-counter market, since trades are conducted between two counterparts.Forex trading works quite fast and can be easily operated, plus, it implies no fees and no commissions, so traders are welcomed to operate as often as they want.There are the traders who are basically following the economical aspects and who pay a lot of attention to the economical trends of the moments. On the other hand, there are the technical traders, who operate regarding various mathematically-based charts and analysis that help them identify the surest ways to the desired profits.You can select your pair of currencies and your amount whether the market is moving up or moving down - and still make a profit. You can decide to buy Euro and sell dollar or buy dollar and sell Euro. Additionally, it is not necessary that physically have the currency in hand that you choose to buy and sell. The quickest and by far easiest way to get started is to find a Forex market site, open an account, deposit your money, and then just start trading. Most reputable companies will provide you with training, support, and advice to help you get started.Trading online necessarily requires you to have the best computer. You need no install all the hardware. For example you will not need a DVD writer to trade online. But there are a few things that you must not compromise on. First have a wide screen monitor. This helps you to see the maximum amount of data at one point of time. Or you will need to minimize and maximize the windows. Next we come to the processor. A decent level processor should be good enough. Anything upwards of 2 GHz will work.
What you will need is speed and that will be provided by the RAM you have. Nothing less than 1 GB will do. Ideally it should be 2 GB or more. The hard disk should also have plenty of space. Go for at least 100 GB of HDD space. And try to keep the HDD as free as possible and don't run too many programs at a time, definitely not while trading. A video card will allow you to get the best live feeds.Now more people are involved in trading than ever before. And the reasons are quite apparent. One does not need to leave his house to do trading. There is no paperwork to be handled. One can trade at anytime of the day, whenever he is free and feels like. And one need not bother about what his broker is offering and how much commission he is charging.


