Title: 
How To Conduct A Home Equity Release

Word Count:
483

Summary:
Home equity release methods have gained popularity in recent years. Most experts advise using this method because it has been proven effective. Some people saw the value of their homes double in the mid-90’s. Home equity release is the subject of this article. 

Many retired people use the equity in their homes to enhance their weekly income. 
 
You should understand that if you use your property with the home equity release, you cannot leave it to your family.

If you ...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Home equity release methods have gained popularity in recent years. Most experts advise using this method because it has been proven effective. Some people saw the value of their homes double in the mid-90’s. Home equity release is the subject of this article. 

Many retired people use the equity in their homes to enhance their weekly income. 
 
You should understand that if you use your property with the home equity release, you cannot leave it to your family.

If you want to conduct a home equity release, there are certain steps you need to keep in mind. 

1. Doing your homework – you can use the internet as your resource. It is important that you conduct background research in order to be aware and informed of the scheme. At least you will know the basic rules that you need to follow and the possible alternatives.

2. Consult a legal expert – legal connotations are quite confusing so a legal expert is necessary to make things clear for you.
 
3. You should speak to an independent financial adviser – if you new to the home equity process, an independent financial adviser will be very helpful to you. If you unclear about something this is the perfect chance to ask so that you will not get confused as the scheme goes on. Talking to your adviser is essential so that you will fully understand the process. 

4. Talk it over with your family - you might be using their inheritance so it is best that you talk it over with them and find out if they are willing to take the scheme and if it matters to them. You should make sure that there is harmony with the arrangement. 

5. Choose the best provider – you should look around and make sure that you are happy with your provider and that he is a member of SHIP. If he is a member of SHIP, it will be of your advantage.

6. Provide an application- there are certain proofs that you need in order to be identified. This will include your marriage certificate and the appropriate details of your home building’s insurance.

7. Legal process – a solicitor’s job is to protect your interests and make sure that it is not violated.

8. Valuation process- the provider will be the one to arrange your home for valuation. This will be the basis on how much money they will give you.


The schemes may seem different but basically most of them work by giving you a home equity release and loan on the value of your property. With this method you will receive the loan as cash which is usually received on a monthly basis. Occasionally, it can be in a lump sum, and you can continue to live in your home. The company that gives you the money for the loan will recover it by selling the property after you sell your property or after your death.


