Title: 
How the Internet can help your finances

Word Count:
295

Summary:
My very own personal thoughts on how the Internet can help your finances. I'll be talking a bit about payday loans, debt consultation and credit reports. I'll also give a few links I found to be worthy.


Keywords:
Payday loans, free debt consultation, free unlimited credit reports, personal loans, loans, credit, debt


Article Body:
The Internet always struck me as a brilliant invention. 
The concept was brilliant right from the very start but, these days, as it got so incredibly big, you can order electronics, clothes or even food online.
You can also play games, talk with people all over the World and, finally, organize your finances online.

For example, one of the smartest things you could possibly do online is to get a free credit report that many companies such as credit.com offer. It's easy, fast and, most importantly, free.

Lots of companies also offer free debt consultation. It's one of things you have to shop around for as some are offering debt consultations for prices as high as $300 per hour while others are offering the same (or maybe even better) service absolutely for free.

Lastly, these days it's also very comfortable to get a payday loan (some call this type of loan also cash advance loan) online. It's not something I would recommend as the interest is usually huge when compared to a personal loan, for example, but it's the quickest way to get the money you need.
The requirements are very minimal (it's usually enough to be 18 years old and to make at least $1000 a month) and some companies, such as credit.com, let you have the money in just 24 hours.
Here are the credit.com requirements for a cash advance:
“
•	US resident over 18 years old
•	No outstanding payday loans
•	Active checking account
•	$1,000 minimum monthly income
•	This service is not available in Illinois, or Massachusetts. Nor is it available in Georgia or any state where prohibited by law.
“
These were just a few examples of things you could do online; I'm sure you can come up with other ideas that are way better than this.


