Title: 
How Will You Know That Your Accountant Is More Than Just A Number Wizard?

Word Count:
481

Summary:
The business arena is all about venture, is it not?

Indeed, there is only a thin line which separates success and failure. For businesses, small or big, somebody reliable must advise on complex things. These things include a whole lot of opinions on taxes, method of financing and effective planning. I am referring to a credible ACCOUNTANT.

Does it mean that an erroneous choice of an accountant will destroy a business? Well, probably not damage everything right off the b...


Keywords:
Accounting


Article Body:
The business arena is all about venture, is it not?

Indeed, there is only a thin line which separates success and failure. For businesses, small or big, somebody reliable must advise on complex things. These things include a whole lot of opinions on taxes, method of financing and effective planning. I am referring to a credible ACCOUNTANT.

Does it mean that an erroneous choice of an accountant will destroy a business? Well, probably not damage everything right off the bat but kill it softly. Can one afford that to let it happen? We presume everybody’s answer is no. So, before you feel like biting your elbow due to regrets, here are some tips on how to hire the right accountant:

He must be somebody who can get involved in the planning stage of your business and who can squeeze out advice on your choice of business. Moreover, he must know hoe to set up the right bookkeeping systems and negotiating leases. When the business becomes operational, he must prepare yearly information returns, work on reviews every quarter and the best part he must do good at is giving advice. As what Mike Jeffries, accountant of Bedard, Kurowicki, & Co. mentioned, “the role of the accountant transformed into somebody who has to review information, more of an adviser.”

As what surveys reflect, the accountant is the most trusted adviser of any business. This means that his point of view when it comes to problems on internal control, cash flow, inventory pricing and the like really matter. Therefore, a good accountant can be responsible enough. He has to take the role of a general business consultant.

In choosing the right accountant, one factor to be considered is that he must be a great source of referrals. An accountant has a community of professionals around him. He must know how to make good use of them.

An accountant who can set up the business with you is a good choice. (http://www.bytesolutions.com/ )

He must be someone with adequate experience. In whatever field, hiring someone with the experience is making the best decision. If he already knows if what the ins and outs of the business are, he is a better option.

"Someone who's going to answer your questions, someone who listens to you and your needs, someone who is reliable." This description of a good accountant. Make sure that you are going to choose someone you are comfortable with. According to Jeffrey Levy of Leads for Life Inc., a personal relationship is important.

Is a CPA better than those who are not? CPAs as we all know have passed exams and are well- equipped with the qualifications. However, t is not a general assurance that those who are not must not be considered.

With this tips, rest assured, you will see the difference between a number wizard and a certified good accountant.


