Title: 
Important Facts On Direct Deposit Cash Advances

Word Count:
509

Summary:
You’ve probably heard a lot of talk about direct deposit cash advances. Also known as payday loans or fast cash, these types of advances can really help out when you’re in a bind. Here are a few important facts on direct deposit cash advances you might want to know.

What they’re not

Direct deposit cash advances are not considered secured loans in the sense that you won’t be required to designate an asset such as your home or your car as collateral before you’ll be appro...


Keywords:
Online Payday Loan service, fast payday loan, payday cash loan, payday advance loan


Article Body:
You’ve probably heard a lot of talk about direct deposit cash advances. Also known as payday loans or fast cash, these types of advances can really help out when you’re in a bind. Here are a few important facts on direct deposit cash advances you might want to know.

What they’re not

Direct deposit cash advances are not considered secured loans in the sense that you won’t be required to designate an asset such as your home or your car as collateral before you’ll be approved. Generally, you need only provide employment information and a paycheck. The cash advance process doesn’t require completion of lengthy application forms either. In fact, most application processes are paperless and can be completed right online.

Approval takes just minutes

In most cases direct deposit cash advances can be approved in less than 30 minutes. Most cash advance companies have only a few requirements: you must be at least 18 years old; you must have a bank account and; you must have had the same job for at least 3 months. Sometimes another requirement is that you earn a certain net salary. But there’s no waiting for a background check or a check of your creditworthiness.

Money is transmitted electronically

That’s right. Once you’re approved for direct deposit cash advances, you need do nothing more. The approved loan amount will automatically be added to your bank account balance as soon as the funds have been transmitted. If your cash advance request is approved on a weekday, you’ll generally have the funds in your bank account within 24-hours where they’ll be ready for your use. When you apply on weekends or holidays you typically have to wait until the next business day. Most importantly, you won’t have to waste time waiting in line to cash a check because paper checks aren’t used with direct deposit.

You choose the cash advance amount you need

Direct deposit cash advances typically are available in increments of $100. From a low of $100 to a high of $1,000 and sometimes more, you select the amount you need during the application process. Some cash advance lenders may not approve the full amount the first time you apply. However, the amount can generally be increased with every satisfactory cash advance repayment.

Direct deposit is preferred

Most cash advance companies only allow direct depositing of funds. Sometimes an alternate arrangement can be worked out, but it takes more time because it usually involves many more steps. Direct deposit benefits everyone involved in the process. In fact, it’s the safest and fastest way to get the money when you need it.

Many are taking advantage of direct deposit cash advances

It does not matter who you are. What matters is that you need help getting out of a short-term financial crunch. Those applying for direct deposit cash advances include men and women, homeowners and renters, married individuals and singles, those with good credit or bad, persons of every race, and professionals as well as students.


