Title: 
Managing Your Finances Once Married

Word Count:
274

Summary:
It’s important to plan for your financial future beforehand so you have idea of what to expect. Once you get married, most newlyweds’ open a joint checking/saving accounts

Below is a list of 4 easy steps to take when determining your financial future.

Step 1-Determine your net worth

Net worth is the difference between assets and liabilities. Make a list to figure out your net worth, make a list of all the things that you own and assign approximate values to each one....


Keywords:
finance, personal finance, just married, couple counseling, family planning, premarital counseling,


Article Body:
It’s important to plan for your financial future beforehand so you have idea of what to expect. Once you get married, most newlyweds’ open a joint checking/saving accounts

Below is a list of 4 easy steps to take when determining your financial future.

Step 1-Determine your net worth

Net worth is the difference between assets and liabilities. Make a list to figure out your net worth, make a list of all the things that you own and assign approximate values to each one. Then make a list of all your debts. Subtract these two numbers and you will have your net worth.

Step 2- Family accounting

You will need to decide who is going to manage your accounting. Is one partner going to manage the finances or will this be a shared responsibility? Are you going to choose to handle the finances independently, if not you will need to create a system of whose going to pay the bills.

Step 3- Set goals

Statistics are showing that 95% of senior citizens can’t afford to retire. Set goals and start saving for your future today. Create short-term goals and long-term goals. Make sure when you set your goals that you are actually striving for them so they should be adjusted to your spending lifestyle

Step 4- Plan for adjusting your finances once married

Many couples get married without having a financial plan in mind. It’s very important to discuss your financial situation before tying the knot that way everything is out in the open. If you don’t want to deal with thinking of financial strategies get help from a financial planner for any needed advice.


