The Effect Of Exercise For Chinchillas

Chinchillas raised on a ranch get treated differently than those that are raised by breeders and pet owners.  Breeders and pet owners raised and treat their chinchillas like pets; ranchers treat their chinchillas like livestock.  To the ranchers, this is a business and they could care less about the animals getting adequate exercise or any exercise at all.  Their main concern is making a profit at the animal's expense.  Don't tell that to the breeder or pet owner.  In order to sustain their livelihood, they make sure that their pet chinchillas get in enough exercise to get them through each day.

Chinchillas should have time to exercise out of their cages every day.  They need to have time to be free, provided there is supervision.  This would only happen with breeders and pet owners.  They know that these exotic animals get stressed when they feel they are being confined.  Stress can cause them to be anti-social and withdrawn.  They get irritated and start biting their fur.  The chinchillas raised on the ranch can't move very well because the ranchers don't take the time for them to exercise.  When they do get a chance to roam, it's at a snail's pace because of the confinement.  

In order for the chinchilla to live a long and healthy life, it is imperative that they get out of their cage and get some type of exercise, even if it's just walking around.  The chinchilla will also stay happy.  So if you're a breeder or a pet owner, you should do what you need to do to make this happen.  A regular exercise regimen will decrease stress and in turn keeps your immune system from harm.

When you really care for a chinchilla, they know it.  They know when you really love them and have their best interest at heart.  They have a positive attitude and they will be able to trust you and relate to you better.  This will definitely show when you allow them to have time out of their cage.  This eliminates other stress-related actions, such as spraying urine or fighting with other chinchillas.  This will help them relate to other chinchillas and get along with them as well.  The best exercises for them are walking and getting on the wheel located in their cage.  Doing exercises on the wheel can reduce the presence of being overweight and/or obese.

There is no such thing as a chinchilla getting too much exercise or eating too much.  They know when they've had enough of both.  When they're tired, they'll stop and take a break.  Exercising on a regular basis can eliminate potential health or behavioral problems, including stress.

The key with exercise is that it needs to be regular and consistent.  You can help your pet do this by increasing the muscle tone, agility and mobility.  You have to remember not to confine them like they're in jail.  Otherwise, they'll look dumpy like the ones that are raised on the ranch.  That is one way for them not to stick around for the long haul.      
