What You Should Know About Buying A Chinchilla

Chinchillas are available for purchase from breeders or pet stores.  When you purchase one from either place, you're probably getting a reputable one.  Beware of those who are amateur breeders.  They try to sell their chinchillas also, but it's usually in classified advertisements.  Personal preferences decide on whether or not they should buy the pets from breeders or pet stores.

If you do buy one from a pet store, make sure that facility has a reputable following.  The employees there should be knowledgeable about what you're looking to buy.  They should also be able to offer you tips and suggestions to keep your pet healthy.  If you're looking more on the breeding side, you should get one from a breeder.  They will be able to advise you on the different aspect of breeding, etc.

Buying a chinchilla from a pet store is not without its risks.  It's been noted that some pet stores take chinchillas that can't be bred or the skin can't be removed.  If you are considering one of these pets from the pet store, ask about the breeders and related sources, along with a history of how they were raised.  This way, if they have any problems, you'll know up front.

Then you can decide whether or not you want to still take on the task.  If you can' insist a breeder in your area, then a pet store is probably your only recourse.  If you have to get one from the pet store, ask how long have they been in the store's care.  If you do decide to buy one from there, consult with the employees about getting a contingency agreement.  This agreement allows you to return the pet if they don't pass a checkup.  You would also get a refund from your purchase.  

There are other factors to consider before buying a chinchilla.  Make sure your are prepared to take care of the animal.  This is something you have to be committed to and it takes time for them to nuture and develop.  Check and make sure that the chinchilla is healthy.  Check out their entire body for any abornormalties.  The animal's cage should be clean.  If it isn't, it may mean that it wasn't taken care of properly.  The chinchilla may be disturbed and irritable if it has been paired up with different animals, such as birds or rabbits.  This throws off their system during the day because chinchillas are night owls.

If you do buy a chinchilla, get one that is at least four months old.  Anything younger than three months is not ready to be trained.  Make sure the animal is in a cage that is located in a dry area.  They need to be somewhere where they don't have direct exposure to the sun.  They need to be away from heat and humidity because it can cause them harm.  If you find that the chinchilla has a nervous tendency when you get close to it, it may be a sign of being nervous and scared.  It's difficult to use these type of pets.  

It is important that the chinchilla have food, hay and water.  These are essentials that your pet should have in order to stay healthy.     
