Title: 
France’s Troubles: Learning from US

Word Count:
362

Summary:
France's recent civil unrest warrants that the nation examine US history books for the solution to their problem. Will France swallow its collective pride and do just that? I hope so, but a nagging doubt persists within my very being.


Keywords:
France, civil unrest, war, Iraq, Muslims, Christians, Catholics, politics, America, civil rights


Article Body:
I know that there are some people who are celebrating France’s recent troubles with delicious glee. I guess I can understand how they feel, given France’s ongoing hypocrisy concerning the Iraq War [hmmm…whose hand is in that oil-for-food cookie jar?] and the all too common and world renowned snooty attitude displayed by many Francophiles toward outsiders. Time for you to eat some humble pie, France. Your troubles are upon you but they can be resolved. Guess what? You have to look at America’s example for your solution. I am not smiling…okay, maybe just a bit.

So, there you have it. France is in a pickle and they aren’t quite sure why. I have three Latin words for the French to consider:

<b>E Pluribus, Unum</b>

Translated in English it means this: Out of many, one. In France, immigrants remain outsiders always while in America we assimilate new folks. One or two generations after moving to France, many Muslim young people [born in France] feel as if they are on the outskirts of French society. They dress differently, talk differently, and they live in enclaves apart from the native French people. In short, they have no real future. Yes, their religion is different but that shouldn’t matter given France’s and the whole of Europe’s embrace of secularism and the eschewing of all things Christian. Hmmm, perhaps <i>that</i> is part of the problem too.

Anyway, I am not saying we in America are perfect given our history of civil rights. Still, fifty years removed from Rosa Park’s defiant and brave act and forty years after many marches on Washington, DC [as well as on capitols across our fair land] we here in America have learned our lesson.

I believe it is time for the French to take a chapter from the pages of our American history books in order for them to get through this difficult time. If they do not, additional unrest can be expected. Let not arrogance rule the day; this is a time for the people of France to stand up and demand that her leaders respond accordingly.


