Title: 
The Most Dangerous Place in the World – Right Here In America

Word Count:
819

Summary:
My brother once asked me what I thought was the most dangerous place to be in the whole world. I pondered his question by mentally perusing all the hot spots throughout the world where disease and war were rampant.  I can’t remember what I answered but I will never forget my brothers answer to me.


Keywords:
fetus,abortion,Christ,womb,mothers,science,religion


Article Body:
To answer this great scourge of death with the bible is to begin with the premise that everyone believes that the bible has something to say about it and that it is authoritative. For those who have put the bible on the shelf with literature, simple narrative, history or fiction this premise is futile. Others who think the bible is a book of nice little morality stories that may be inspired in spots, are left to hope that that may get enough inspiration to spot the spots. 

It is doubtful that a person who has disregarded the book of life will take any further cues from nature or simple humanity. In general animals don’t recklessly destroy their offspring. In all but the most backward civilizations of the world most of humanity also frowns on the destruction of their own young. If a people ignore the guides, and warnings available to us all, the bible has little chance of turning on any lights for them.
Yet, that in no way can eliminate the fact that the bible has plenty to say about it.

Both the bible and other annals of history show us that it was considered a blessing to be able to have children. In fact a woman who was barren was usually thought to be nearly under a curse. Times have changed and in America, Roe V. Wade has not just changed the times but has twisted it into a warp. Now it is considered almost a rude interference to be pregnant.

Science has provided us with a “scientific term” that makes it easy not to see a human life from the moment of conception, that handy little term is what is known as the “fetus”. Semantic wrangling notwithstanding everyone knows fully that a human life has begun at the point of conception not a scientific anomaly. Neither science nor legislation can erase the ache of conscience; it can only divert it for a while or provide a flimsy excuse for the self indulgent to dote over until a day of reckoning.

Those who don’t hide behind scientific words like “fetus” are prone to adopting the common wisdom of the day to provide them with excuses like, I have no education or I haven’t enough money to bring a child into the world. Since education has only peaked in the last one hundred years you’ve got to wonder how the world’s civilizations made it up to now without perishing under the weight of pure universal ignorance. Since great warriors, emperors, presidents, statesmen, philosophers, doctors, writers and others have come from great poverty; it would seem that the poverty excuse is also moot. 
Without getting all bogged down in “thou shalt nots” what does the bible have to say about abortion? It says that God knows us before we are born; He knows you’re going to be born, the day of your birth, and the day of your death. He even knows how many hairs you’ve got on your head at anytime. Matthew 10:30

The Prophet Isaiah told of a Persian King named Cyrus that would come in time and order the rebuilding of the temple in Jerusalem. Isaiah 44:28 No big deal until you discover the fact that Isaiah made this prediction over a hundred years before Cyrus was born. Does God know a human life is in the womb? Yes, and don’t worry just like Cyrus he doesn’t think your name is Fetus, He knows exactly what your name is and He always did, figuratively speaking even before you were only a twinkle in your fathers eye. 

One of the most well known figures in the bible is King David. The historicity of the life and reign of David is without question among bible believers and most all others as well. But did you know that David said that God knew him long before his birth or his reign over Israel? In fact David said that God knew him while he was still in his mother’s womb Psalm 139:13. Whew, thank God He didn’t mistake David for just a “fetus”.

Let’s go one step further to make the point. That God knows us from the womb is one thing but here is another. The most precious thing God could ever endow someone with is his own presence. He does not put his Holy Spirit on anything that is not holy. He does not put His Spirit on anything that is not human either. Yet the Bible says that He put his Holy Spirit on John the Baptist while he was still in his mother’s womb. Luke 1:15 God didn’t put his Spirit on a “fetus” it was a human, good thing God knew that, too bad we don’t.

Lo, children are an heritage of the Lord: and the fruit of the womb is a reward. Psalm 127:3


