Title: 
Why  you should use blogs and RSS feeds

Word Count:
510

Summary:
Blogs and RSS feeds are great marketing tools!  Now, if you're like me, you're probably scratching your head and saying, "Wonderful, but what in the world is a blog, and what the heck does an RSS feed?"  Let's make it quick and simple.


Keywords:
internet marketing online,rss feeds,blogs


Article Body:
Blogs and RSS feeds are great marketing tools! Now, if you're like me, you're probably scratching your head and saying, "Wonderful, but what in the world is a blog, and what the heck does an RSS feed?" Let's make it quick and simple.  

A blog is basically a journal or diary that is kept online. It changes every day as you add new content. An RSS feed is a little more involved.  RSS (usually referred to as Really Simple Syndication) is a means to publish regular updates to web content. The content itself is known as the feed.  In other words, RSS feeds are a great way to get information that changes often (for example blogs or even news headlines) out on the web to an amazingly large audience.  

Now to answer the question, why should you use blogs and RSS feeds?  Numbers, numbers, numbers! Let's think about it. When more people view your site, you will make more sales - obviously. Of course, the trick is to get them to your site. While you sit there reading this article, there are search engines silently exploring cyberspace for new or updated web content.  Aha! When you update your blog and use RSS feeds, your new information will be noticed by these tireless search engines and published across the World Wide Web. Hey, it's free advertising, right?

Anita was excited! She finally had her own website and an ebook on the market. Her enthusiasm was a source of amusement to her friends and family. Every lull in a conversation was an opening for Anita to discuss her new enterprise. Though Anita netted a lot of good natured eye-rolling and teasing, she knew they were all proud of her. It wasn't long before Anita's enthusiasm began to wane. After all, what good was an ebook if nobody bought it?  

She'd tried buying email lists and sending advertisements out, but it didn't seem to earn any profit.  Why?  Spam filters, like virtual pac-men, were gobbling up the emails that Anita sent.  In reality very few were ever even opened.

Have you, like Anita, been frustrated at the lack of web traffic your site receives?  Follow the example of hugely successful sites like Yahoo!, CNET, ABC News,and Amazon. Get on the RSS feed band wagon and share in the success. Join the masses of bloggers who are posting personal and professional blogs. Write your way to success. 

Don't be left behind with an empty bank account, when you could be enjoying huge profits!<br><br>If this sounds too easy for such an intricately technological subject, that's because there are people who have done the hard work for you. In fact, blogging and RSS feeds have been made simple for even the most technologically challenged. 

Need proof? Go to <a href="http://www.effective-info.com">Internet marketing online</a>  You'll discover a simple plan to incorporate blogging and RSS feeds into your marketing plan.  You'll discover a brand new marketing technique that will astound you with the increase in profit your website will net.


