Title: 
7 Steps to Connect with your Angels

Word Count:
741

Summary:
Learn to receive help and guidance from your Angels with these 7 simple steps.


Keywords:
angels, angel communication, angel messages, help from angels, St. Augustine, religion, spirituality, personal growth, self-help, meditation, prayer


Article Body:
The room you are in is filled with Angels! 

The next room you go to will be filled with Angels and Angels will be at your side with every step you take today. The Angels are with us and are eager to help us.

How do I know that? That's my specialty - I am an author, workshop leader and Ordained Minister whose specialty is Angels. For the past 10 years I have been helping people in private sessions and in workshops to connect more deeply with their Angels for help and assistance.

Angels are truly universal. The Pew Foundation reported that 72% of Americans believe in Angels. This is a much higher percentage than Americans who believe in any world religion, because Angels are fundamental to most of the world's major religions. We find them in Christianity, Islam, Hinduism, Buddhism, Judaism, Mormonism and many other spiritual traditions. 

St. Augustine, an authority on Angels, said, "Make friends with Angels." He recommended that we make personal relationships with Angels and that we let our relationships with them deepen - much as we would with any important, intimate relationship. 

Asking an Angel for help is one of our most powerful spiritual practices. We can ask the Angels for immediate help at any time and in any place. Here are some techniques that will help you:

1) Ask for help - Angels offer us help 24/7. The more receptive we are, the more help they can give us. If you diminish your receptivity you limit the Angels ability to help you. Create your own invocations, or prayers, that specifically call for the help you need. Realize that when you call upon an Angel, what really happens is that you open yourself into greater receptivity to their assistance. (See the Angel Messages at www.AskAnAngel.org for examples of invocations.) 

When asking for help, it's important to realize yourself as fully worthy of Angelic assistance. Angels work with everyone regardless of personal histories and beliefs. Angels are infinite and omnipresent - your request does not diminish them in anyway nor does it affect their ability to help the rest of us at the same time. They exist beyond our experience of time and space and respond to everyone with complete unconditional love. 

2) Connect with your inner divine child as you call upon the Angels and ask for help. Your inner divine child is whole, innocent and true and recognizes Angels as trustworthy gifts of Creator. This will help create openness, receptivity, excitement, eagerness and wonder as you prepare to receive the gift your Angels have prepared for you.

3) Hand everything over to the Angels when you ask for their help: every issue, problem, worry and fear as well as every good intention and positive outcome you imagine as the result of your request. Release all expectations of how your request will be answered.

4) Express Appreciation and Gratitude - Find and express genuine appreciation and gratitude for things exactly as they are. If you are struggling with this, ask the Angels to help you to find the love that is present in whatever difficulty you are facing. Have patience with this and let go of any expectation of how this love may be revealed to you.

5) Know that it is done - Every request is answered and help is always given. If you fear that your request will not be answered, then also ask for help in understanding. Trust that you will see the love in every answered prayer. You are known completely and loved unconditionally by the Angels and nothing that will serve you is ever withheld from you.

6) Act quickly on the guidance you receive. Accept the opportunity and act upon it immediately. Angelic help is infinite and unlimited - you can not use it up or run out of it. You cannot ask for "too much" and the Angels are joyously happy to give to you without limit. The faster you act, the faster you receive more assistance!

7) Celebrate yourself exactly as you are in the moment. Leave any critical judgments or negative feelings about yourself, your life, or others in the hands of the Angels for healing. Even if it is just for a few moments, let go of everything that is not of love for yourself and everything around you. In this moment of surrender much more can done for you by the Angels than you can accomplish on your own. Thank yourself and the Angels for deepening the relationship between you.


