Title: 
7 Ways to Grow Flowers

Word Count:
349

Summary:
Want a more beautiful garden? It's easier than you think once you understand the 5 "Zen" rules of fantastic gardens. This article provides all the tricks and tips you need to make it happen.


Keywords:



Article Body:
Flowering landscape trees are the crown jewels of the yard. 
Perhaps no other plants, individually, can have as great an 
impact on how a yard looks in spring. Browse the articles to 
which I've linked below for information on particular varieties 
of flowering landscape trees. Pictures are included. 

Crape Myrtles: Landscape Trees of the South 

A popular choice in flowering landscape trees for Southerners, 
crape myrtles have a long blooming period (mid-summer to 
fall). The blooming clusters of these flowering landscape trees 
come in pink, white, red and lavender. The clusters appear on 
the tips of new wood. Northerners can sometimes get away 
with treating these flowering landscape trees as perennials 
that die back in winter but come back in spring. 

Trees

Not all specimens with a weeping habit are flowering 
landscape trees, but this article looks at several weeping 
varieties that do bloom, headed by four types of cherry. 
Saucer Magnolias 

The size and shape of the blooms are what suggested the 
common name for these flowering landscape trees. Want a 
specimen with a brilliant bloom as big as a saucer? Access 
information on these beauties here. 

Rose of Sharon 

Although some people think of it as a landscape "tree" 
(because it gets tall and can be pruned so as to have a single 
trunk), rose of sharon is, in fact, a flowering shrub. The fact 
that it blooms relatively late -- and for a long time -- makes it 
a valuable plant for those looking to distribute their yard's 
color display throughout the growing season. 
Top 10 List of Flowering Landscape Trees and Shrubs for 
Spring |

This article features information on ten flowering landscape 
trees and shrubs that brighten our spring seasons. Included 
are redbud, callery pear and crabapple. 
Hawthorn: Late-Blooming Landscape Trees 

This article offers information on Washington hawthorn trees, 
which are perhaps most valued for the time at which they 
bloom (late spring to early summer). Many of the popular 
flowering specimens bloom earlier in the spring, and while 
their blossoms are pleasant sights for eyes sore from winter's 
barrenness, they desert us too quickly!



