Title: 
9 Tips For Getting Started Ballroom Dancing

Word Count:
927

Summary:
Learning to dance is fun and it is easy. In a sense it is like learning a new language, a language in which moods and emotions are expressed in movement; a language of rhythm, grace and harmony. It is new, but in a very real sense it is the oldest language in the world, for dancing is the oldest form of art.

Dancing is a wholesome, natural outlet for the emotions. It develops grace and poise, timing and balance. Men take pride in their ability to lead their partners with a...


Keywords:
ballroom dancing, ballroom dancing steps, learning to dance, dancing with the stars


Article Body:
Learning to dance is fun and it is easy. In a sense it is like learning a new language, a language in which moods and emotions are expressed in movement; a language of rhythm, grace and harmony. It is new, but in a very real sense it is the oldest language in the world, for dancing is the oldest form of art.

Dancing is a wholesome, natural outlet for the emotions. It develops grace and poise, timing and balance. Men take pride in their ability to lead their partners with assurance and poise. Ladies enjoy the ability to follow their partners smoothly, expertly and correctly. The ability to dance develops personality, and above all—it is fun.

Taking dance lessons is a great way to improve your confidence, it is a way to get fit and did I mention they’re fun?

And It’s Easier Than You Think…

1. Do you want to, learn to dance professionally, learn to dance for pleasure? It is important to know what you want to achieve before you start.

Perhaps you want to learn to get fit, for a social occasion or to meet new friends. Plus if you know what you want to get out of it this helps your instructor.

Lots of people start with social dancing. Social dancing classes are great places to learn ballroom dancing. A small percentage of social dancers later find that their love of dance compels them to become competitive dancers. Social dances normally start with a one-hour dance lesson and it is normally possible to find weekly group dance lessons especially for beginners. 

2. If you want to find out what is involved in dancing before you commit to lessons, or there are no good teachers locally, consider a dance video. You can watch it at your leisure, plus watch it as many times as you like to aid learning. A good video will help you practice once you start lessons.

3. Dancing provides great social benefits but also participating in ballroom dancing on a regular basis will produce significant mental and physical health benefits. Dancing is a great stress reliever. It builds confidence, alertness and good attitude. It also has been proven to have a great physical benefit as it physically tones the whole body in enjoyable exercise. 

Dancing can be a fun way to lose weight and get into shape. Just check out the potential for burning calories – Burn 309 calories with just one hour of Ballet, Tap or Freestyle, 290 calories with Country Line Dancing or Swing and 193 calories with the Waltz.

When choosing a dance studio you want to choose one that is conveniently located to your home or work place. If you can get there easier you will keep going and repetition is the key to quick learning. Not sure if you want to learn? Some nightclubs or studios hold introductory lessons. A number of websites have a dance studio locator, so that you can find studios local to you. 

In addition these sites have lots of free instructional material. Check out a few different dance studios. Most dance studios will offer group and private lessons. Look for studios offering a mixture of the two. How many teachers do they have? Do they have an introductory offer?

You may also find ballroom dance classes at local colleges and many city or county recreational departments include ballroom dance classes. Some organizations such as the YWCA, Community Centers, Elks or Moose Lodges offer dance lessons to their members and guests.

4. Find out about the different dance styles before you start lessons and see which ones you want to learn. Plus you’ll be more knowledgeable about the style and rhythm of the different dances before you start classes. 

Don’t forget to get my free book that covers the basics of ballroom dancing, details at the end of these tips.

5. Do you need a partner to start ballroom dancing? No. Lots of classes accept singles. If you already have a partner then you can have fun learning together.

6. Should you have private lessons or group classes? This depends on your preference and your budget. As a beginner you may prefer the privacy of individual tuition and certainly you will learn quicker, they can also be useful if you have missed some group classes and do not want to get left behind or you feel that you need extra tuition. However when starting out consider the social aspect of group learning which most people find stimulating, challenging and lots of fun. Group classes are also less expensive.

7. There are no special clothes for social dancing, except that they need to be comfortable and give you freedom to move. However for learning professional ballroom dancing you may find that exercise clothing is more appropriate, ask your instructor if you are unsure. When choosing shoes think about not only appearance but also comfort, support and protection.

8. Selecting your instructor is an important decision and you want to ensure that your instructor has professional qualifications. Obtain a copy of their resume for professional examinations and their experience in teaching beginners. The United States Amateur Ballroom Dancers Association will be able to advise you further.

9. Finally, just in case you didn’t get the message before – have fun! Learning a new skill can and should be fun, that way you’ll stick at it and before you know where you are you have mastered it!

Copyright © Lynsey Leigh.

This article is copyrighted. Please feel free to use it in it's entirety including copyright information and information about the publisher.


