Title: 
Accurate Psychic Readings

Word Count:
310

Summary:
Psychic readers are often trivialized as fortune-tellers at the local fair. However, an effective psychic reader has the ability to address mental and emotional issues, such as pitfalls and bad relationships and how to deal with them; accurate counseling can help seekers address the core of the issue and make better progress in all aspects of their life.


Keywords:
Accurate Psychic Readings, Inspirational Psychic Readings, Live Psychic Readings, Psychic Palm Readings


Article Body:
Psychic readers are often trivialized as fortune-tellers at the local fair. However, an effective psychic reader has the ability to address mental and emotional issues, such as pitfalls and bad relationships and how to deal with them; accurate counseling can help seekers address the core of the issue and make better progress in all aspects of their life.

However, doubts on a psychic reader’s credibility begin to crop up when a prediction goes awry. For instance, a psychic may predict that a major shift in the seeker’s relationship will occur in about a year. But when that year is up, and he finds himself in the same relationship, he tends to assume the prophecy was erroneous. Unfortunately, it is not so straightforward.

A psychic reader’s prophecy is not an engraving set in stone. Accuracy is very important in a psychic reading but, in every seeker’s individual life, free will is supreme. Psychic readers do not usually see an inflexible, predestined event. They see the patterns at work in the seeker’s life and how and when they are likely to manifest into certain events – IF his current momentum remains unchanged.

Accuracy must also reflect a psychic's ability to offer lucid insights that a seeker could then apply to the issue in a practical manner. In the context of a bad relationship or marriage for instance, a seeker may be told, "Your relationship is coming to an end," followed by an account of why that is being seen. Whether it is overwhelming job responsibilities or a bad temperament, why a relationship is heading towards disaster is more important than whether it will end. When the seeker begins to understand why things are going wrong and takes measure to rectify it, he takes the first step towards making a change, thus altering the psychic reader’s ominous prophecy.


