Title: 
Antiques - 7 Reasons Why We Collect Them.

Word Count:
310

Summary:
People collect antiques for many different reasons and therefore have many different views.

1. Some people collect antiques because they hold sentimental value. For example, I own a ceramic parrot that had been given to me by my grandparents, a cupboard from my other grandparents and a very old doll that had been given to me by my great aunt.

2. My in-laws once owned an antique business which they set up for sales and auctions. Their basement was always filled with a tr...


Keywords:
antiques,antique,collectibles,vintage,art,auctions,china,jewelry,memorabilia


Article Body:
People collect antiques for many different reasons and therefore have many different views.

1. Some people collect antiques because they hold sentimental value. For example, I own a ceramic parrot that had been given to me by my grandparents, a cupboard from my other grandparents and a very old doll that had been given to me by my great aunt.

2. My in-laws once owned an antique business which they set up for sales and auctions. Their basement was always filled with a treasure trove of fascinating and interesting items. They could tell you the worth of any item in the basement. They loved restoring old pieces, not so much so that they could sell it for more but simply because they gained satisfaction from doing so.

3. My son enjoys collecting antique games and old books and even collects them. One of his favorite antiques are the tiddly winks games which he has collected from all over the world.

4. Antique lovers enjoy the chase more than anything. They enjoy searching through stores and antique shops all over the country searching for that specific or unusual item they been looking for.

5. Some people look for antiques as simply a hobby but they very seldom buy anything. They simply enjoy looking at what different areas of the country have the offer. It can be a lot of fun searching through antique stores.

6. Sometimes people who want to furnish their home look for antiques. Antiques of different time periods will often work well together to create a beautiful home.

7. Their other people who deal in the buying and selling of antiques. They are hard-core, know the value of pretty much everything, and always want to buy low and sell high. These folks typically are only interested in the price itself.

Collecting antiques can be a wonderful experience and provide enjoyment for people of all ages.


