Title: 
Audio Book Myths Or The “Audio Book Phobic“ People

Word Count:
328

Summary:
Audio books are becoming more and more popular. Yet, there are a lot of individual people that are afraid of trying audio books – they are the “audio book phobic” people.


Keywords:
audio books, free audio books, online audio books rental service


Article Body:
Audio books are becoming more and more popular. Yet, there are a lot of individual people that are afraid of trying audio books – they are the “audio book phobic” people.

I have interviewed some of them recently and collected the so called reasons that separate them from the audio book world. I have proven to each one of them that those reasons are only myths and even succeeded in persuading some of them to try those threatening audio books. Here are the main myths I have encountered:

1. I believe audio books are expensive – wrong. In fact, there are free downloadable audio books online. Audio books on mp3 files are usually cheaper than the same title in its book version. Audio book on Cd and books on tape could cost more but are still not expensive.

2. I think that audio books will never be a good substitute for the “real” books – Right. Audio books’ publishers do not see audio books as potential books substitutes. They are only an extension for the book concept. You can learn foreign languages or learn history by listening to audio books – You will enjoy it more this way than reading a book about it. Audio books are intended for the times of the day when you can not read books.

3. I have no time to listen to audio books – Wrong. Most of the people listen to audio books driving, cleaning the house, jogging etc. You can not read books in these times. Did you know that the average annual delay due to traffic congestion has more than tripled since 1982 and that More than 19 million commuters travel more than 45 minutes each way to their jobs. In fact, More than 97 million workers drive alone to work each day;

To sum up, to all of you “audio book phobic” people who claim they can not afford audio books. Listen to me; you can not afford not listening to audio books.


