Title: 
Bass Guitar Essentials

Word Count:
411

Summary:
Picking out my very first bass guitar was an exciting event.  With all of the excitement of my purchase, I decided to make sure I have all of the essentials needed for my new bass.


Keywords:
bass amplifiers, bass guitar amplifiers, bass amplifier


Article Body:
Picking out my very first bass guitar was an exciting event.  It is the first instrument I have ever purchased that I plan on learning how to play.  Why not learn guitar first?  Well, I have a love for the bass and not only that, I have been told on many occasions that is is easier to learn than the guitar.With all of the excitement of my purchase, I decided to make sure I have all of the essentials needed for my new bass.  Below covers several accessories that you may want to include if you are looking to purchase a new bass guitar as well.

Bass Guitar Cases

The first thing you will want to do is protect your new investment.  This requires a sturdy bass guitar case.  Cases come in various styles and materials.  The lower-end cases are very thin and don't offer much protection if you plan on toting your bass around town.  There are sturdier cases which are molded and padded on the inside.  These cases have a hard shell and the padding keeps the bass secure.  I'd highly recommend a molded case if you will be doing a lot of traveling.

Extra Bass Strings

Bass guitar strings are relatively sturdy but it doesn't hurt to keep some spare strings handy.  There are several types of bass strings available to include flatwound, roundwound, and groundwound.

Bass Guitar Straps

Depending on the bass you purchase, it may already come with a strap included.Of course there are various types of straps to choose from as well.  The most popular guitar straps are usually made of leather or suede.  Many are often woven and come in a variety of colors to suit your tastes.  If you're not into the fancy straps, you can always choose between vinyl and polyester.

Extra Guitar Picks

Out of all of the accessories you can have for your bass, the pick comes in more styles than anything else.  You can choose from hundreds of colors as well as the thickness of the pick.  Having multiple guitar picks always comes in handy.

Guitar Tuner

Keeping your bass in tune is a must and there are various types of guitar tuners available on the market.  They all range in price from lower end tuners at $10 up to high-end versions that go for $100 or more.  If you're a beginner, it's probably safe to stick to a low-end model until you become better at playing the bass.


