Title: 
Beautifying Your Life With Scented Candles

Word Count:
572

Summary:
Scented Candles are a great way to decorate, scent, or just add warmth to any area. Scented candles are a favorite of most people because they create a clean smell, the smell of home, or even the smell of the season with scented Christmas candles and such. Candles are so universal that they are used just about everywhere, such as work, home, and there are even wedding candles that are a great addition to any wedding decorating scheme. Highly scented candles are quite popular ...


Keywords:
home, garden, crafts


Article Body:
Scented Candles are a great way to decorate, scent, or just add warmth to any area. Scented candles are a favorite of most people because they create a clean smell, the smell of home, or even the smell of the season with scented Christmas candles and such. Candles are so universal that they are used just about everywhere, such as work, home, and there are even wedding candles that are a great addition to any wedding decorating scheme. Highly scented candles are quite popular because with just one candle you can make the whole home or office smell great!

If you like your candles scented you’ll find that there are an almost unlimited number of scents for you to try. Online scented candle offers will often offer new scents that you can get in your local stores, or just great deals on the scents that you know you already love! Everything can be found online from scented Christmas candles to your typical tapers and pillars that you like for every day use. You can even find homemade scented candles online, or kits to help you learn how to make them yourself so you can customize colors and scents.

Candles are simply a great addition to any setting as they can add beauty along with wonderful scents that can make a new house feel like home, a decorated home feel like Christmas, or a just give the home a very clean scent. Because candles come in so many varieties and scents, there is a candle out there that is for everyone.

Grand Illusions was created by Nick Ronald and David Roberts in December 1987, initially with just one small store in St Margaret's, Twickenham. The mission was to promote gifts, cards and accessories of good design and taste at an affordable price - still very much the core business ethic to this day.

Shortly afterwards, they discovered and developed a paint range that was to transform their lives. In those days, painted furniture was something of a rarity, and a twenty two drawer chest painted in one of the new paints caught the eye of 'Homes & Gardens' magazine - the small feature resulted in over a thousand telephone calls and the seeds of the highly acclaimed furniture collection were sewn.

This also led to the publication of three Grand Illusions books on decorating techniques and design inspiration, published in five countries by Ebury Press and accompanied by guest appearances on BBC2's Home Front and various local BBC radio stations.

They published their first mail-order catalogue in 1990 which was immediately voted as one of the top 200 catalogues in a new worldwide review and several issues later, they were awarded the contract to operate 'Country Living by Post' on behalf of the magazine, in addition to their own unique programme.

Today, the company's activities are currently concentrated on their two stores in St Margarets and Shaftesbury, with mail-order, paint studio, trade-sales and distribution also located in Dorset. The team regularly exhibit at quality retail and trade fairs like Country Living, Top Drawer and the RHS Flower Shows at Chelsea, Hampton Court and Tatton Park. Their products are now available at quality retail outlets across the UK and some stores in Japan, USA and Germany.

The publication of this web-site sees the return to mainstream mail-order for the accessory collection, which is just one of the exciting developments planned for the near future - so watch this space.


