Title: 
Birthstone Gemstones Are Filled With Symbolism

Word Count:
543

Summary:
The argument that we have a predestined fate, and that we make our destiny is an age old one, being the object of discussion in many a philosophical conversation. It is also an argument that can never have a proven conclusion, only believers in either, by choice as a result of experience. Birthstone gemstones are closely related to the astral powers that be, according to the believers.

Every sun sign has a birthstone gemstone associated with it, which is supposed to be luc...


Keywords:
gems, gemstones, birthstone, arts, crafts, hobbies


Article Body:
The argument that we have a predestined fate, and that we make our destiny is an age old one, being the object of discussion in many a philosophical conversation. It is also an argument that can never have a proven conclusion, only believers in either, by choice as a result of experience. Birthstone gemstones are closely related to the astral powers that be, according to the believers.

Every sun sign has a birthstone gemstone associated with it, which is supposed to be lucky for the person born during that period. This is the simplest of explanations of birthstones. People use various stones hoping for various affects that the stone will have on their lives. At the same time, people avoid contact with certain stones that will bring them bad luck and misery. Although this may seem like something out of a fairy tale to westernized society, these things are practiced extravagantly in countries like India, where people go to the ‘learned man’ (probably a palm reader), who looks at the palm and foresees an event about to go wrong, and provides the means to avoid that event by wearing one gem stone, removing one, and things like that.

Some may laugh at the idea, while others follow their birthstone gemstones related issues with religious belief. Psychology says if you believe you are doing something to help solve a problem, that is half the battle won, call it psychology, call it faith, but if you wear a gemstone in the belief that it will help you, then it will! If you don’t wear a stone knowing well that you need to, you are probably going to make some mistakes! Anyway this was the original idea behind gemstones and why people wore them.

Today, many women choose birthstone gemstones as ornaments with jewel value, if nothing more. Many people wear their birthstone as a symbol of their identity. Whatever the reason, gemstones are very beautiful objects that ignite a spark in your emotions, and make you stare at them in awe.

Birthstone gemstones have various divisions like mystical stones, ayurvedic (Indian) stones, modern, traditional, astrological, planetary, talismanic and ancient cultural birthstones. Each category has a story and a reasoning behind it, each stone is believed to be special, and is great fun if nothing else, to hear why a stone is special and how it will help your life, and how it is meant specially for the particular individual in question.

In western society, gemstones and birthstones reached heights of popularity during the hippie days, when people began experimenting with eastern philosophies, and today offer a sweet reminder of those times to many a person who lived their youth during that period. Gemstones come in every imaginable color (including black by the way), which provide an opportunity to wear a stone with practically any color theme.

Birthstone gemstones come in a variety of sizes as well, and like any other jewelry, the bigger they are, the more rare , and thereby more expensive they are. As far as the fashion oriented use of gemstones and birthstone goes, smaller ones are used on rings and earrings and somewhat larger on necklaces and pendants. Gemstones vary in price from a few dollars to a few hundred dollars!


