Title: 
Clearing Up PS3 Games Rumor

Word Count:
551

Summary:
The PlayStation3 console won't be released until late this year but there are already rumors doing their rounds about it and the PS3 games. The report about Theseis is one rumor that perhaps confused even the most devoted player. Developers and publishers, as well as game sites, have been coming out with their reviews, release dates, and other news about the latest PS3 games for the past months. The hype about the PS3's Blu-ray increased expectations about the games; a game r...


Keywords:
ps3 games


Article Body:
The PlayStation3 console won't be released until late this year but there are already rumors doing their rounds about it and the PS3 games. The report about Theseis is one rumor that perhaps confused even the most devoted player. Developers and publishers, as well as game sites, have been coming out with their reviews, release dates, and other news about the latest PS3 games for the past months. The hype about the PS3's Blu-ray increased expectations about the games; a game rumor, though confusing, was not unexpected.

Let me refresh the events that fueled the rumor mill. Track7 Games, the developer of the popular adventure game Theseis for PC and Xbox 360, allegedly called the people behind PS3 Land to announce an important news. The announcement? The development of PS3 Theseis was consequently cancelled due to high development costs for PS3 games. The article that PS3 Land published even quoted Vicky Valvanos, managing director for Track7, saying that Theseis development would resume if Sony offers the company some assistance.

This bit of news has spread among Internet gaming sites and blogs with webmasters and forum moderators picking up the threads. Debates also ensued regarding the production of Theseis as one of the PS3 games. Apparently, no gamer noticed that there wasn't any announcement or news during the recent E3 or on the product lists about a Theseis software for PS3. A probable reason for this was the fact that Theseis appeared on several retailers sites as a PS3 game. Track7, however, did not recognized the existence of these catalogues.

This is the point when everything became confusing. Track7 didn't recognize the Theseis games on the retailers' sites but they called PS3 Land to announce that PS3 Theseis was discontinued? Track7 tried to clear up the issue by saying that the bits about canning PS3 Theseis and Theseis development were just jokes. The company even called the PS3 Land article "erroneous". As of now, PS3 Land updated their article on PS3 Theseis with the new article from Track7. But the confusion about the PS3 games came from Track7. According to them, there was no Theseis planned or developed for PS3, but what about the announcement they made to PS3 Land? Was there really an error, or was it just a joke said in passing that got blown up into big proportions?

A misunderstanding between PS3 Land and Track7 is a probable cause, although the question of what they talked about remains. Surely, there was some reference to Theseis, otherwise, it wouldn't have appeared in the article. There was also a number of retailers' database that showed Theseis as one of the PS3 games. Clearly, someone started it and the knowledge about Theseis lies solely with Track7 as Sony didn't include the game in its repertoire during the recent E3. The most probable cause, I think, is that Track7 wanted to develop a Theseis software for PS3. They let out that bit of "joke" to test the market and the demand for their game. In my opinion, they did this, also to bait Sony into thinking that a Theseis is a good addition to their games. Anyway, whatever the reason behind this, the market for PS3 games is a big one, and I can't blame anyone for wanting to exploit this lucrative business.


