Title: 
Cultural Inheritance's Influence to Indonesia's Abstract Woodcarvings

Word Count:
410

Summary:
Indonesia is one of the countries in this world blessed with a diverse culture.  This culture has been passed down and preserved from generation to generation.


Keywords:
Indonesia, arts crafts, business, trade, Asia, wholesale, product, merchandise, free article, website content, oriental trading company, jewelry, clothing, distributor, b2b, import export, Bali, batik, sarong, beachwear, fashion jewelry, mask, home decoration, apparel, cultural arts, religious article


Article Body:
Indonesia is one of the countries in this world blessed with a diverse culture.  This culture has been passed down and preserved from generation to generation.  Embedded as well into their culture are their religious duties and aspirations.  These two aspects are what serve as guides for their artists in molding their art traditions.  Each craft is like a form of scientific study, each requiring a systematic method for a successful output.  One of their flourishing art traditions is their woodcarvings.  Each piece is carefully carved and transposed into intricate designs that aim to depict more than what each piece physically portrays.  And visiting www.indonesia-exporter.com can show you Indonesia's cultural heritage's influence to their woodcarvings.

The Wooden Canvas

The Indonesian culture, although influenced by numerous other cultures, is dominantly close in relation to nature and most especially religion.  The fact that they use wood as their carving canvas brings us closer to understanding their love and high respect for nature.  Wood of different types, from soft to hard, dark to white, are used in all types of wood carvings.  Designs such as flowers, plants, trees, animals, and dragons are usual when dealing with Indonesian wood-carved art works.  Each work of art is unique therefore is very much cherished by the Indonesian culture and is popular to woodcarving collectors all over the world.

The Common Themes

Indonesian wood carvings are typically made in the likeness of human beings.  With a few varnishing and colorful touches, the finished crafts are always life-like in nature and expressive at first glance.  Human beings are portrayed in different eccentric positions that it even gives off the feeling of adoration for the nature surrounding it.  In addition to human beings, Indonesian wood carvings take up the shape of common domestic animals as well.  As part of their nature-inclined culture, they carve animal design that would not only represent human feelings at its best but the Indonesian history, incorporated in every detail.

Whatever the theme, whatever the design or concept and whatever the material used, each piece of carefully carved wood is evident of Indonesia’s colorful, spontaneous and bright culture.  You will notice as well that each detail incorporated in their woodcarvings is aimed to express the raw human traits that add lifelike touch to the woodcarving piece itself.  By logging into the Internet, you will soon discover that Indonesian wood carvings definitely portray the Indonesian art, religious beliefs and culture at its best.


