Title: 
Decorate With Black And White Art

Word Count:
435

Summary:
As an interior designer, it is only natural that I love to give people counsel as they attempt to make decorating decisions for their homes and offices. I love nothing more than to spend an afternoon over tea discussing color options, themes and good fabrics for my friends. I recently met with a client and together we came up with the idea for her to decorate her home office entirely with black and white art.

I must tell you that usually I am not a huge fan of black and wh...


Keywords:
black and white art


Article Body:
As an interior designer, it is only natural that I love to give people counsel as they attempt to make decorating decisions for their homes and offices. I love nothing more than to spend an afternoon over tea discussing color options, themes and good fabrics for my friends. I recently met with a client and together we came up with the idea for her to decorate her home office entirely with black and white art.

I must tell you that usually I am not a huge fan of black and white art. In fact, I have never suggested that a client decorate with it until this particular meeting. Sometimes I find that black and white art is quite boring. As I met with this client, however, and we talked about her tastes and her decorating hopes for her home office, we both determined that black and white art was the best choice for her.

I've now been on the hunt for great pieces of black and white art. I share this to encourage anyone who is looking for great black and white art that there are great uses for it and that there are places to find it. One of my favorite sources of black and white art has become antique stores. I have found the most lovely pieces of black and white art at various antique stores lately.

Just knowing that you want to decorate with black and white art may not be enough. Realize that you must have a good idea of the specific kind of art that you are hoping to find. I have discovered that there are many varieties of black and white art to choose from. Some pieces are vintage looking, and there is definitely a wide variety of modern pieces of black and white art to choose from.

Get online and do a search for black and white art. You might be surprised how much comes up. This is my favorite way to encourage clients to begin the process of narrowing down their style and preferences. You can often get a pretty good idea of the things you like when you see them first. So take your time and look at as many samples of black and white art as you can. The better idea you have of what you want, the better chance you will have of finding it.

I love nothing more than to help people decorate their homes and offices with style and creativity. The world of black and white art was recently opened up to me and I have fallen in love with its possibilities.


