Title: 
Differences Between Sony Playstation And Nintendo Wii

Word Count:
857

Summary:
Sony Playstation and Nintendo are the two most popular names known in the video game industry. With the technology applied to these two gaming consoles, users really get hooked up to using them. Video games do not have any preference for age and gender. Nowadays, both young and old, man or woman are really into these consoles.


Keywords:
video game consoles


Article Body:
Sony Playstation and Nintendo are the two most popular names known in the video game industry. With the technology applied to these two gaming consoles, users really get hooked up to using them. Video games do not have any preference for age and gender. Nowadays, both young and old, man or woman are really into these consoles. So, to further excite the gamers, the manufacturers of these consoles always try to come up with something new. Recently, Sony Playstation released its PS3 and Nintendo launched its Nintendo Wii. Are there any differences between these two?  For starters, it would be hard to recognize the differences. 

The first difference between Sony Playstation and Nintendo Wii is the price. The price of Nintendo Wii is almost half the price of the newest gaming console of Sony Playstation; the PS3. The average price of Nintendo Wii is $250 whereas the Sony Playstation 3 is sold from $500 to $600. Sony Playstation 3 is said to be the most expensive gaming console ever in the history.

Sony Playstation has a reason for its high cost. The new edition of playstation is considered as a computer entertainment system. It is built with blu-ray disc and matchless digital media storage. This gaming console is Wi-Fi enabled. It has 80 GB HDD, HDMI Out, has a free online game play, Blu-ray HD movie player, DVD Up scaling, CD Up sampling, remote play, Bluetooth compatible, 4 USB ports, Backward Compatibility and compact flash (SD memory card/memory stick). Playstation has a large library of games, mp3s, wavs, atrac+ and mp4s music files are also readable from this console. Playstation also has an online gaming, messaging and browsing features. With its high memory, you can store and display your photos in its hard drive as it also supports photo sharing and chatting with friends. 

The Sony Playstation 3 also comes with a high- definition multimedia interface. It is an audio/video connector that supports single cable with any TV or personal computer video format. HDMI also supports 8-chanel of uncompressed digital audio. This console is also Bluetooth compatible wherein devices with Bluetooth communicate with each other. This device serves as a radio communication system. 

The Blu-ray HD movie player feature of Sony Playstation 3 delivers a very good quality of entertainment experience especially when watching movie from this console. This device includes plenty of storage capacity with 50 GB in supporting the high definition of games and movies. It has a high resolution and surrounding sounds. It also supports disc format and can read entire libraries of CDs and DVDs music and movies. You can directly copy CDs, VCDs, and DVDs from your hard drive, store and listen to it. 


Playstation can be played by single players and multiplayer. You can also download games directly from the internet to your console, because this has the fastest processor of digital media with a unique multi-core design, true parallel processing, and high definition games and forty times fastest chip. 

There are also accessories available for your console like wireless controller. This controller is sensitive to motion sensing Bluetooth enabled devices and can be charged with USB cable. Playstation eye features 4 built in microphones and a fast rate of 120 frames per second that allows you to capture videos, photos and create a movie. 

Nintendo Wii is Nintendo’s smallest gaming console. Despite its size, it is loaded with complete game system. It can be positioned horizontally or vertically and it is loaded with themes and designs.

Nintendo Wii has processor features of CPU: PowerPC-based "Broadway" processor, made with a 90 nm SOI CMOS process, GPU: ATI made with a 90 nm CMOS process and has a main memory of 88 MB main memory, 64 MB "external" GDDR3 SDRAM, texture memory and frame buffer. There is a built-in NAND flash memory of 512 and expanded storage memory card up to 2 gigabytes. It also has a multi-output port of AV and S-video.

Nintendo Wii also has a Remote control connected via Bluetooth and has a 4 port game cube controller with a sensor bar power port and an optional USB message board. It is also WIFI ready to connect to the internet and also available in Ethernet LAN 

Wii remote control is the primary gadget for the console. It is one of the biggest differences between the Nintendo Wii and Sony Playstation 3. Nintendo Wii’s remote control is not the classic type. It’s a revolutionized remote control that uses an interactive controller to create the feeling of being in the game. The remote control comes with a strap that holds the controller to your hand as it can actually fly if not held firmly and properly.

Because of the Nintendo Wii’s revolutionary remote control, Sony Playstation 3 changed its remote control. Sony Playstation 3 came up with the Sixaxis in which a motion sensor is installed into the controller that allows the controller to detect when the player is using it. 

The above were just some of the differences between the Sony Playstation and Nintendo Wii. Get to know others by trying both but no matter what the differences are, these two gaming consoles still prove to be a perfect innovation of the gaming industry.


