Title: 
Disney Today

Word Count:
406

Summary:
Just take a look at all of the big name celebrities who have become hugely successful after a start on the Disney Channel. Mel Gibson as you know has run into trouble on the West Coast with his drinking, and purported anti-Semitic remarks resulting in Disney cancelling a Holocaust series with Gibson's production company.


Keywords:
disney today, disney games


Article Body:
Just take a look at all of the big name celebrities who have become hugely successful after a start on the Disney Channel. Mel Gibson as you know has run into trouble on the West Coast with his drinking, and purported anti-Semitic remarks resulting in Disney cancelling a Holocaust series with Gibson's production company. As family members we make choices that prove we are more interested in taking the week-end to go to Disney Land, the lake, the cabin, or the mountains.

A visit to any of the Disney properties reinforces the importance of consistently representing your brand. If you set out to go to Disney World in Florida, you don't just get in the car and drive in any direction. Disney will provide you with high-quality, attentive customer service and a dedication to family.

I have been investing in the stock market for 12 years now-since I was given 3 shares of Disney by my grandparents for my birthday. Toshiba has the backing of New Line Cinema, Disney and Universal. Hilary Duff then performed at the age of 8 in "Casper Meets Wendy" before being noticed in a casting for TV series Lizzie McGuire in 2001, produced by Disney and adapted to movie in 2003.

The Disney Movie Club features all the great Disney classics (except for titles that are "in the vault"), and just looking over the list of their movies is exciting. Apple in recent days has attempted to stake a claim on the movie download market by striking a deal with Disney Studios to deliver movie downloads. 

By the way, Eleanor Audley can now be heard as the voice of Madam Leota in the Haunted Mansion ride at Disneyland and Disney world. Not to animal shelters for Dalmatians after the Disney craze ended.

Nevertheless take rest Go to Disney Word, take a vacation. Playhouse Disney is a must for the younger guests, fans of Bear in the Big Blue House, Winnie the Pooh, Rolie Polie Olie and Stanley all appear on stage and bring the BIGGEST smiles to those little faces you will see all day. Then there's the song that introduces the genie, Friend like Me, with one of the 'trippiest' sequences in any Disney film.

The Disney approach to people management has helped gain them the reputation of providing a leading benchmark for quality and service in America. Walt Disney said, "We can reach all our dreams, we just need the courage to pursue them".


