Title: 
Downloadable iPod Games - The Inside Scoop

Word Count:
305

Summary:
It’s time to move, but you need to keep playing.  Drat, this world and all its injustices!  Not so fast battleship galactica, there just may be a way out of your predicament.  Downloadable iPod games.


Keywords:
Downloadable iPod GamesIpod Moviesipod movies


Article Body:
So, you’ve holed up in your cavern for two and a half days playing halo and everything’s been going great.  But, the problem is that you ran our of red bull and your roommate has been waiting to vacuum under the spot that you’ve been residing.  It’s time to move, but you need to keep playing.  Drat, this world and all its injustices!  Not so fast battleship galactica, there just may be a way out of your predicament.  Downloadable iPod games.

As of yet, you’re still shooting parashooters jumping out of planes and still trying your luck (and wit, I’m sure) at solitaire; but things are about to change.  Apple has remained fairly quiet about the software and possibilities that are awaiting the next evolution in iPods, but there are some reasonably trustworthy rumblings out there that downloadable iPod games are on the way.

There has been a lot of talk about an Eden Praries based company that would be in charge of getting the software together for Apple in order for the downloadable games to run.  Just the idea alone makes a lot of sense for Apple, as what can they do next to top the functions of the 5th gen iPod, without using downloadable games?

And I don’t know who said that necessity was the mother of all invention, but the never faced the competition of computer hackers.  There’s a plethora of hacks out there that are available to hook you up with 3rd party software that can currently make iPod downloadable games a reality.  But, if you’re a little shy and feel a bit uncomfortable with doing illegal business with a guy that’s sat in his basement for longer than you, there’s no problem, because Apple is already on the job.


