Title: 
Framing Your Art Work

Word Count:
495

Summary:
Tips and tricks on how to find the right frame for your original painting, art print or photography image.


Keywords:
art, buy art, artwork, paintings, sculptures, oil painting, art gallery, buy art online, buy artwork, 


Article Body:
Purchasing framed art to many can even affect the decision they make in purchasing the artwork itself. However art is fairly simple to frame and is relatively inexpensive. Many of the art frames can be purchased to match your décor and/or other artwork adjacent.  There are endless amounts of choices when it comes to finding the right frame online or offline.

My personal preference is to purchase my artwork of choice without the frame if given a choice. As beautiful as the painting might be, the artist and myself might have opposing tastes when it comes to framing. If you can find the artwork with a frame you enjoy then that is a bonus. If you are purchasing an unframed work directly from the artist it never hurts to ask if they have a connection to get you a good priced frame. Artists that sell a lot will not purchase frames at a premium price. They usually have a friend or a good business connection that deals with frames, so talk to him or her and see if you can get you a discount. It never hurts to ask. 

If you prefer to look for yourself then I’m sure you will agree that there are several professional framers in your area. As with any service or profession some are good and some are not so good. Shop around for the best service, best price, and look for value as you would for any other product or service.

If you know your frames you will not hesitate to purchase an ugly painting as long as the frame is worth the asking price. This is more on the lines of bargain hunting. So for most of us we will not be buying a frame to resell it for a higher value, we are simply purchasing it to enjoy the painting.

Below are just a few tips to help you choose your frame.

Size – Making any sized frame "work" with a piece one must ultimately control the proportions with matting.  A wide frame requires more matting than a narrow frame.

Style – by looking at your artwork you will see how the coloring, theme and medium will most often direct you toward an appropriate selection of frames.  Generally the frame should go with the theme, medium and style of the artwork.  If you are still having a hard time with choosing your frame you can also use the décor of your room in which the piece will hang as your guide.

Type of wood frames will look good on almost any piece of art.  We use walnut, cherry, oak, ash, basswood, poplar, and pine - all domestic woods - in our frames.  Stained wood can be plain, carved, simple or ornate.  And, many wood frames are available in lacquer finishes, faux finishes, and gold or sliver leaf. Metal frames, which work well with certain décor, or with modern pieces and posters is often a good choice


