Title: 
Free Web Page To Make Money

Word Count:
418

Summary:
Article about how to make money with your own webstie.


Keywords:
make money,free website,free webpage,free stuff,


Article Body:
Today is the time to make money on the web. Everyone who is someone has his own website hosted up on the net. This has less to do with personal reasons and more to do with financial reasons. 

These site owners are cashing in on their popularity. Often, there are a number of stars, Hollywood stare, pop stars etc. who host their own websites. These stars have a choice of making their sites free or paid. On a free site you can have the luxury of doing whatever you choose to do as you do not have to pay for anything you do on the site. 

Every feature on the site is available for free. Also, there are a lot of sites which actually pay you for doing things. Hence you can get paid to click on the sites, you can get paid to send mails using that site, you can also get paid for just clicking on the ads on a particular site. 

All this is often paid in the form of web money. Web money is another name given to the currency that these sites use. Often, these sites give names such as free carrots, free points, free www dollars etc. This has come to be known in common lingo as web money. 

Its is absolutely not necessary that you can surf other peoples only to make money. The internet has grown tremendously and in the course of this rise, there have been a number of sites which have tremendously helped the site makers to earn money. 

These sites often have a set model foe making money. No site survives without a good model of revenue. There has to be a good revenue model to help the site earn its required profits. Thus, the site owners must first have its own revenue model before setting uo the site. 

It is always advisable to have a free web page to earn money. A free web page assures you that whatever you earn will be your profits because you do not have to pay anything to the web page maker as a charge for hosting your site. 

 A free web page to make money I also often called a commercial blog. A commercial blog is similar to your regular blog. The only difference is that in case of a commercial blog you put in the facts on the site that attract the maximum attention and give you the maximum number of page hits and thus increase your revenue.


