Title: 
Great Tips for Buying Artwork Online

Word Count:
568

Summary:
Use these tips to find quality artwork while keeping spending to a minimum.


Keywords:
buy artwork online, art tips, digital reproduction, buying art online, new artists, paintings, find quality artwork


Article Body:
With plenty of artwork available online today, art lovers use this newfound market to secure masterpieces and home decor art at incredible prices. If you love to buy art, the Internet can be a valuable resource, saving you time and money. But first, learn to shop for art online wisely and be careful when choosing artwork. Use these tips to find quality artwork while keeping spending to a minimum.

Discover New Artists

The Internet offers a great opportunity to explore artwork and discover new artists. Use the power of search to find hundreds of artists. Then surf through their available paintings to find the styles that appeal to you. Ask questions about the artists by email or phone. Some artists or art retail companies use experienced art consultants to answer questions. Take advantage of this service when available. 

Keep in mind that there are thousands of new artists who are very talented. Since they‚re just starting out, they might offer their paintings for far less than a famous artist. Some original paintings by new artists can increase in value tremendously over time, as the artist becomes better known in the art world.

Use search engines to find art by certain keywords such as: artist name, type of art (landscapes, people, antiques, flowers, children, animals), date or time period of artwork, and medium (watercolor, acrylic, oil).

Online Tools to See the Scale of the Painting

Use Web tools that enable you to see the actual size and scale of a painting and how it would look in a room on a wall. Some websites provide these tools to help art buyers see how the artwork would look on their wall. They can choose different wall colors, frames, matting, and a variety of sizes to get a feel for how the art would complement their own home.

Authentication - Is It Important?

Buying art online is similar to buying jewelry or any other high-ticket retail item. Whether authentication is important or not is really up to you as the buyer. A good rule of thumb is if you plan to spend hundreds or thousands of dollars on a piece of art for investment purposes, then you'll want to be sure it's authentic. Use an authenticity service that you feel comfortable with and make sure the painting is not a reproduction or digital reproduction. 

Also, consider if having original pieces of art is important to you. Some art lovers admire the detail, love, and experience put into a sole piece of art. They are very willing to pay more for original paintings, even if only for pleasure.

If you want artwork simply for decorating your home and have a limited budget, digital reproductions are available online at very affordable prices. These reproductions look similar to the originals, but have been reproduced for mass distribution. 

Visit Local Galleries

You can also find great new artists and ideas by visiting your local art galleries. Take pen and paper with you to write down artists or the names of paintings that catch your eye. Then go online to search for these artists to see their other paintings.

Always check out online art retailers through the Better Business Bureau (BBB) Online to be sure the companies are trustworthy. Buying artwork online can be an enjoyable experience if you take time to explore all the beautiful paintings and find artwork that fits your style and budget.


