Title: 
Hair care with Cosmetic Hair Treatments

Word Count:
678

Summary:
From straight hair to curls or from natural curls to poker straight tresses there are cosmetic hair treatments available for everyone made possible by cutting edge hair cosmetics and other hair care products.


Keywords:
Skin Cosmetics, Hair Cosmetics treatment, Skin Care, Hair Care, Hair cosmetics


Article Body:
There are cosmetic treatments available for people with any kind of hair; be it curly, straight or frizzy. You can change the style of your hair like never before with the help of hair cosmetics and other hair care products. Following are some hair care tips and useful information while undergoing cosmetic hair treatments. 

Permanent waving better known as perming, has been around for nearly one hundred years. Since then perms have come a long way. Nowadays there are treatments available to give you exactly the kind of wave you want. Perms also add volume to fine, limphair. 

<b>Suitable candidates</b>

Perms look great on people with thick hair. Hair in good condition responds to a perm much better. People who have bleached or colored their hair should stay away from perming. The chemicals are too harsh for double-processed or heavily highlighted hair.

<b>Hair care tips before perming</b>

Tell your stylist what type of curls you want and also what you don't want. It’s a good idea if you carry along the pictures of perms you would like to have and the perms you dread. Avoid conditioning your hair for at least 24 hours before the perm; else you may not get the desired result.

The size of the curler determines the size of the curl. A smaller curler would create a smaller and tighter curl whereas medium to large curlers tend to give a more loose effect. The end result also depends upon the texture and type of hair. 

It takes one to two hours to perm hair depending upon how long your hair is and how efficient your stylist is. After the treatment is done, it takes more than 24 hours for the keratin in the hair to fully harden. 

<b>Types of perms</b>

1.	Alkaline perms give a strong, firm curl and have an active ingredient called ammonium thioglycolate.
2.	On the other hand, acid-balanced perms are gentler and have a significantly lower ph. Acid-balanced perms are ideal for people who have fragile, sensitive or damagedhair. 

<b>Hair straightening</b>

So you are tired of your naturally curly hair or frizzy locks and want that poker straight hair? Then straightening is the solution for you. Hair straightening should always be performed by a hair care professional with a good track record of straightening. 

<b>Various treatments</b>

1.	Permanent or chemical hair straightening should be carried out by a trained, experienced professional. This chemical makes the sulfur bonds in hair to separate and allows the hair to take a new shape. Flattening or straightening irons are used to give a new shape to the hair.
2.	The thermal reconditioning process invented in Japan has excited women all over the world. It restructures the hair bonds in a way that it lends a straight and glossy appearance to the hair. After the chemical is applied to the hair, the professional stylist painstakingly irons the hair, almost strand by strand. The hair is then rinsed and blown dry. People with colored hair are not suitable for this type of hair straightening process. It is expensive and can take hours to complete the process.
3.	Ionic treatment is ideally suited for people with highlighted and colored hair. It leaves hair soft and silky as ions used in the solution put moisture back into hair. The treatment lasts about five hours.
4.	Hair straightening irons have ceramic-coated plates that distribute heat evenly and prevent any damage to the hair. Straightening irons offer different heat settings to suit various hair types. 

<b>Precautions after undergoing treatment</b>

1.	After undergoing hair straightening treatment make sure to use a mild shampoo and a deep conditioner so that the hair is well moisturized and well protected.
2.	Stay away from any heat-styling tools to prevent any damage to the hair.
3.	Use a wide-toothed comb for the hair after the straightening treatment. A little care will go a long way in maintaining the straightened tresses.

<b>Conclusion:</b>

Cosmetic hair treatment</a> are made possible by cutting edge hair cosmetics and other hair care products for hair styling


