Title: 
Hollywood - From its very beginning to what it is today

Word Count:
396

Summary:
Hollywood California - is rich in history and a wonderful place to visit.  .Click on the link below for more information about Hollywood.


Keywords:
Hollywood California, Walk of Fame, Rodeo Drive


Article Body:
History

On January 22, 1947, the first commercial TV station west of the 
Mississippi River, KTLA, began operating in Hollywood.  In 
December of that year, the first Hollywood movie production was 
made for TV, The Public Prosecutor.  In addition, in the 1950s, 
music recording studios and offices began moving into Hollywood.  
Other businesses, however, continued to migrate to different parts 
of Los Angeles, primarily to Burbank, California.  A lot of the movie 
industry remained in the area, although the district's outward 
appearance changed.

The famous Capitol Records building on Vine Street just north of 
Hollywood Boulevard was built in 1956.  It is a recording studio not 
open to the public, but its unique circular design looks like a stack 
of old 45rpm vinyl records.

The Hollywood Walk of Fame was created in 1958 and the first star 
was placed in 1960 as a tribute to artists working in the 
entertainment industry.  Honorees receive a star based on career 
and lifetime achievements in motion pictures, live theatre, radio, 
television, and/or music, as well as their charitable and civic 
contributions.

Progress
In 1985, the Hollywood Boulevard commercial and entertainment 
district was officially listed in the National Register of Historic Places 
protecting important buildings and seeing to it that the significance 
of Hollywood's past would always be a part of its future.

In June 1999, the long-awaited Hollywood extension of the Metro 
Red Line subway opened, running from Downtown Los Angeles to 
the Valley, with stops on Hollywood Boulevard at Western Avenue, 
at Vine Street and at Highland Avenue.

The Kodak Theatre, which opened in 2001 on Hollywood Boulevard 
at Highland Avenue, where the historic Hollywood Hotel once 
stood, has become the new home of the Oscars.

In 2002, a number of Hollywood citizens began a campaign for the 
district to secede from Los Angeles and become its own 
incorporated city.  Secession supporters argued that the leaders of 
Los Angeles were ignoring the needs of their community.  In June, 
the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors placed secession 
referendums for both Hollywood and the Valley on the ballots for a 
"citywide election."  To pass, they required the approval of a 
majority of voters from all over Los Angeles.  In the November 
election, the referendums failed to receive the required percentage 
of votes by a wide margin.

Modern day Hollywood is a diverse, vital, and active community 
striving to preserve the elegant buildings from its past.


