Title: 
How To Work With Drywall Tools

Word Count:
573

Summary:
The right drywall tools are an essential part of the job. Good supplies for drywall installation and drywall finishing can mean the difference between a professional looking surface and a mess. Tutorials are available online or you could take a class at your local home improvement center to learn to hang drywall like a pro.
 
Basic Drywall Tools Needed
 
Tools needed:

o Trowels: you will need a plaster trowel and a corner trowel
o Hand sander with a good handle or san...


Keywords:
drywall tools, home improvement,


Article Body:
The right drywall tools are an essential part of the job. Good supplies for drywall installation and drywall finishing can mean the difference between a professional looking surface and a mess. Tutorials are available online or you could take a class at your local home improvement center to learn to hang drywall like a pro.
 
Basic Drywall Tools Needed
 
Tools needed:

o Trowels: you will need a plaster trowel and a corner trowel
o Hand sander with a good handle or sandpaper and a block sander
o Sanding pole is needed for reaching ceilings and other high areas
o Cordless drill is needed for drywall screws. Choose a larger drill, if you do big jobs, such as a whole house.
o Tape measure
o Utility knife
o T square: get a large size. Look for a four foot square to reach across a full sheet of drywall. This tool is important for accurate measuring and cutting.
o Corner tool: these come in either steel or plastic. Some people use both, depending on the job. The difference is largely a matter of preference.
o 4.5 inch steel knife to fasten the tape to the wall
o 10 inch steel knife for finishing
o Stainless steel mud pan for mixing compound. Stainless is the best choice, as it won’t rust.
 
Supplies needed:

o Paper tape for drywall taping. Paper is the best choice as the knife moves easily over this material.
o Sandpaper in both 100 and 220 grit
o Drywall compound: look for an all purpose compound. These are easy to apply and dry evenly.
o Drywall sheets
o Screws
o Nails
o Drop cloths
o Keyhole saw
o Steel ruler
 
How to Work with Drywall Tools
 
Complete tutorials for hanging drywall are available on the internet. Many home improvement stores offer workshops on drywall that last from a day to a weekend. These are good choices for the beginner. A major mistake many people make is trying to do the job too quickly. It’s better to go slow and take several days. The results will be more professional and you will be happier when you are finished.

Start out by sketching out your plan on paper. Take accurate measurements of the room to determine how many sheets of drywall you will need. Allow a bit extra for waste. Decide on the type of drywall you need. Green board is made for areas prone to moisture, such as the bathroom.

In general, you should start with the ceiling and then do the walls. Start at the top of the wall, near the ceiling and move downward. Keep the seams as tight as possible to help limit the amount of sanding and smoothing you need to do later. Use your T square to accurately measure the drywall. Score with your utility knife and then break the sheets. Attach these to the wall in a way that leaves the least number of seams possible.

Once the drywall is hung, you will tape over the joints. Tape firmly and smooth with a finishing knife. Use your knife to smooth out the compound. Smooth the corners with your corner tool. Allow this to dry for at least twenty four hours. At this time, you can sand the drywall and add another coat. Wait another day before applying the third coat and sand this after another twenty four hours has passed. This will ensure the best possible installation and smoothest finish.


