Title: 
Inside view - does it pay to produce adult movies in Romania ?

Word Count:
775

Summary:
Romania is in huge growth. Inventors are here and there is a continuance feeling of a “buzz” in the air. The adult industry how ever- is already here! 
So here we go for the first benefit-


Keywords:
adult movie, adult industry, porn stars, gio media, adult production, porn industry


Article Body:
“Romania? Are you serious???” …well, indeed this was a repeated line that one of our representatives heard during last Venus expo.

After revealing Eastern Europe in the last 2 years, producers start to reveal step by step, the advantages Romania can offer to them.
Along with many myths involved…I will try to provide here the complete guide to the producers who seek the benefits in producing xxx in Romania.  
First of all a small confession - I’m a foreigner leaving in Romania…it took me some time to get used to the mentality and understand how to handle the locals. 
Sure there are beautiful girls all over and the night life is really something…but we are here to do business! 
First of all a small confession - I’m a foreigner leaving in Romania…it took me some time to get used to the mentality and understand how to handle the locals. 
Sure there are beautiful girls all over and the night life is really something…but we are here to do business! 
Romania is in huge growth. Inventors are here and there is a continuance feeling of a “buzz” in the air. The adult industry how ever- is already here! 
So here we go for the first benefit-
Lesson # 1 - When the girls are beautiful and they need the money…
They are very young and beautiful; full of enthusiasm and they put a great deal of effort into their work. 
Also, being at the beginning of their career, they will not ask for huge and ridiculous sums of money, like well known celebrities do. 
The Romanian girls are already famous all over the world for their natural beauty, an easy to spot advantage when it comes to the show biz. 
The spiciest thing is the fact that when they decide to embrace a porn career, they are more than open minded, and ready to be as nonconformist as possible. 
Usually they are also available for all kind of acts.
Lesson # 2 – The land of MILF
The era of dead communism left many woman at their 40’s to become very open minded.
What they couldn't’t do in their 20’s they are willing to do big time now…and the money also encourage them a lot.
Lesson # 3 – Money talks
Although Romania has joined the European Union and become more expensive more than you can even imagine…-From the pricing point of view this is one of the leading benefits that it can offer.
Shooting an adult scene can costs 50% less than in USA. 
Don’t you think that it is easy to locate serious people- think again! But you can definitely find good and highly potential actresses in a very reasonable price per scene. 
Gio Media brings a huge change in here by locating for you the right actresses, at the same price as the local but at the quality of a western services…
Lesson #4 - A far more friendly market
There won’t be too much paper work, and for sure, shooting in there, will not repeat the history from Prague, from the Erotica sex 2005 fair, when the public opinion and the police were questioning the legitimacy of organizing such an event. 
Also, the media is helping a lot. Most magazines have already learned from their western colleagues that sex and erotic picture definitely sell big. And this contributed to the constant promotion of sexy models and of the sexy attitude. The main conclusion drawn from the facts presented above is that the adult industry here is far from having serious obstacles. 
Lesson  # 5 - The set and the surrounding
Hollywood had already chosen Romania for box office movies like Cold Mountain; and the UK market has established that Romania is a great place in order to shoot videos. The benefits came from the variety of available sights - amazing neuters, ski resorts, lakes and also the views of a modern city.
In Bucharest there is a huge collocation of amazing villas which can be excellent locations.
For the porn industry, this could be a hit, as the set and the surroundings will be different, and the static shooting effect will be replaced by the dynamic action. 
After this long lecture…I believe you got the idea. Not everything is pink and glamor in here but definitely it’s growing and going on the right way.
At the end of the day what counts is the quality of your movie and sticking to the budget.  
In the Next article: How to choose an agency for your movie?
** The writer of the article is the PR manager of Gio Media Group.com 
For more details about shooting in Romania contact us


