Title: 
Internet TV, the next revolution?

Word Count:
329

Summary:
Internet TV is a new way to watch TV. But where do you start?


Keywords:
internet tv,online tv,tv on computer,broadband tv,cable tv,watch tv


Article Body:
Few months ago I started to hear about Internet TV. Internet TV was a new way to watch TV shows and TV programs directly on your computer. I am not talking about recorded TV shows but LIVE TV! This will truly change the way I was watching TV. I could watch French, Russian and Japanese channels directly on my computer! The first thing that worried me was: is it legal? And the answer is yes! Most of the TV channels and programs you see are broadcasted directly by the TV stations themselves. This is not like downloading movies from peer-to-peer networks. With the authorities tracking illegal downloads and suing those peer-to-peer users, I though it was the perfect time to look for something completely legal. Enter the online TV or Internet TV. And unlike cable or Satellite TV you don’t have to pay a monthly fee. You usually need to pay a low one time fee (from $30 and up to $100). But how do you start? What you need to do is to find the service that meets your needs. Do you watch sports, TV shows, foreign channels or adult movies? Based on your answer there are different package you can choose from. www.SatOnlineTV.com offers reviews of the different offers and let you pick the right one. This website has the most comprehensive reviews of Internet TV packages on the market. For each package there is a review, a scale for ease of use, content, picture quality and price. Also for each package you can quickly find the program highlights. I’ve read somewhere that www.SatOnlineTV.com is working to add more Internet TV reviews as they become available. I bought Satellite TV for PC the titanium edition and I am really happy with this package. As a first step before buying an internet TV package make sure you check http://www.SatOnlineTV.com. On a next article I’ll detail each available Internet TV package.


