Title: 
Koi Tattoo meanings and how to get one you truly deserve?

Word Count:
449

Summary:
The choice for a koi fish tattoo makes a particularly powerful personal statement, and the choices in koi tattoo designs are rich with diversity. Click here to find out the koi tattoo meanings and Where to get one for inking.


Keywords:
koi tattoo,koi fish tattoos,koi tattoos,koi fish tattoo designs,koi tattoo designs


Article Body:
The History of Koi fish tattoos
The word "koi" comes from the Japanese, simply meaning "carp."  According to Both Japanese and Chinese legend, If a koi fish succeeded in climbing the falls at a point called Dragon Gate on the Yellow River it would be transformed into a dragon. Based on that legend, koi became a symbol of worldly aspiration and advancement. koi have been popular images throughout the history of Asian tattoo designs and now Koi is very prevalent in Western tattoo culture.

The Koi Fish Tattoo meanings
According to legend, the very strong koi will be able to swim upstream and leap the waterfalls, being rewarded at the end of the journey by being turned into a dragon. the koi climb the waterfall bravely, and if they are caught, they face their death on the cutting board bravely, like samurai. 
The Koi has long been revered within the tattoo community as a symbol of Perseverance and Strength...a symbol paying homage to a long challenging journey towards a lifetime Goal.

A koi in the tattoo with running water symbolizes courage and the ability to attain goals and to overcome life's difficulties. When the koi in the tattoo is shown swimming upstream, it can be used to mean that the tattooee is still struggling with their problem, whereas a koi swimming downstream implies that the tattooee has already overcome their difficulty. 

There are also other meanings associated with Koi tattoos,
First, there is another word to describe "love" which is "koi",
"Koi" is a love for the opposite sex, or a longing feeling for a specific person. It can be described as "romantic love" or "passionate love".

Second, in the Buddhist Religion, the Koi fish represents courage. Humans 'swim' through the 'ocean of suffering' without fear, just like a fish swims through water. 
In general Koi tattoos are associated with Strength, love and courage.

Where to Find Perfect Japanese dragon tattoo designs for Inking?
Both Japanese and Chinese Tattoo artists have taken the art of koi tattoo to amazing new levels. Whether you want a half sleeve or a full back design, you will find an incredible gallery of amazing designs to choose from. The koi tattoo can be white, black, red, yellow, blue, cream or grey and they may appear with running water and lotus.

Finding the perfect tattoo design to adorn your body can be a time consuming and onerous task. The advent of the Internet has provided a GREAT way for people to find tattoo designs for inking. Traditionally, people have been limited to the selections they could find on the walls at their local tattoo parlor. Now these "walls of designs" are available online!


