Title: 
Louis Van Amstel as your personal Dance Instructor?

Word Count:
611

Summary:
It is Saturday night, your friends and their significant others are off for another fun night of music and dancing. You would really like to go, except you can’t dance, or at least you think you can’t and that is enough to stop you from going.


Keywords:
Louis van Amstel, dancing with the stars, ballroom dancing, romance building, lose weight, learn dance moves


Article Body:
"We have been watching the show for a couple of years and I am excited to learn this with my girlfriend. I am surprising her for Christmas - I wanted to give her something romantic and she will love this!" - Bryce B. Utah

It is Saturday night, your friends and their significant others are off for another fun night of music and dancing. You would really like to go, except you can’t dance, or at least you think you can’t and that is enough to stop you from going.

Instead you stay home in your bath robe and watch "Dancing with the Stars". The gorgeous costumes, the infectious beat of the music, and of course the romance!..

As you drift off to sleep you envision yourself being whirled across the dance floor with the hypnotic beat of the Samba surrounding you in its warmth. You are in the arms of a handsome man. You smile up at him in confidence; his large hands encircle your waist as he glides you across the floor, making your feel like you are flying. 

Laughing triumphantly, you throw back your head and begin swaying with the music swing and grinding your hips seductively as you drive yourself closer and closer to the edge of ...<a href="http://www.thisawesomething.com/re/idance">the dance floor.</a> 

As the music draws to a close you gently pull apart, he tries to draw you back but as you turn from him you are swept away once again but this time in the arms of another man. 

You look back and catch the desperate look in your partner’s eyes as he watches you being lead away from him this time to the gentle sway of the waltz. 

There is no stopping you tonight; you are barely able to catch your breath as one partner after the other claims you for a dance. Visions of the foxtrot, the Jive, the Rumba and the Cha Cha fill your head.

As you look around the room searching for the handsome partner that you shared your first dance with you notice that most of the dancers have left. As if on cue the lights begin to dim. Perhaps, you sigh, it is time for you to go as well. As you head towards the door, the band begins to play and somehow you sense it.  He is there waiting for you in the middle of the dance floor with his arms held out to you, looking at you as if you are the only woman in the world.

The sensual music of the Tango pulls you into his arms as once again he folds you into his embrace, spinning you and twirling you across the floor.

As the song comes to an end you glance up at him and feel  like you must be dreaming.

Well, yes of course you are, but the good news is that it will not be for long. With the help of Emmy Nominated Choreographer, Louis van Amstel, best known for his 3 hit seasons on America's most popular dance show, 'Dancing with the Stars', you will be able to learn all of the most popular dance steps in the ease and convenience of your own home.

The eight disc selection allows you to choose from popular dancing steps such as: Cha Cha, Salsa, Waltz, Tango, Sumba, Jive, Rumba and the Foxtrot.

Learning how to dance will help you gain more confidence, tone your body, and shed any unwanted pounds, and the greatest part of it is that you will be having fun while doing it.

Before long you too could be "Dancing with the Stars!".


