Title: 
Occasions for Male Strippers

Word Count:
521

Summary:
When you are having a party that you want to be wild, a male stripper may be the right choice for you.  Male strippers can make any party more interesting for any woman


Keywords:
Male Strippers,party,Bachelorette parties,fun,club


Article Body:
When you are having a party that you want to be wild, a male stripper may be the right choice for you.  Male strippers can make any party more interesting for any woman.  You can really stir up some fun when you rent one of these performers.  It may be hard to decide when is the time to rent one and when you should not.  Most of the time when you have any party with single women that wants to have a great time, a male stripper is appropriate. 

Bachelorette parties are the perfect occasion to have a male stripper.  When a woman is getting married she will defiantly appreciate the last night of freedom and fun.  Another great occasion is for a woman’s birthday party.  When a woman reaches a certain age they will enjoy a night out with at club with where male strippers perform.  

Another good idea for a male stripper is when a woman is starting a new job or moving to a new area.  This would be a great way to celebrate with her and have a good time.  If she is moving away, it is a good way for friends to get together and have one last night of fun together.  Graduating from school or a college is another good excuse to have a male stripper for a woman.  

You have two choices when it comes to seeing a male stripper.  You can go out to a club and see many at one time or you can hire one to come to a private party.  There are so many different agencies that you can hire these performers for a night.  When you do have one come to the home, you should make some preparations first before they come.

Male strippers will come to the home dressed, as someone else likes a deliveryman, fireman, or police officer.  When he arrives, you should play along and have a good time.  They are used to the comments and will play along too.  You want to make sure that the guest of honor has the most attention from the stripper.  Get her into the gag and having a good time.  

Tell them why this is a special occasion and that the woman needs to be punished or you can roll up a dollar bill and place it behind her ear, in her teeth or in her cleavage.  This is a great way to get the guest of honor in the mood for fun.  You may also want to make sure that there is a chair in the middle of the room where she can sit and be entertained personally by the male stripper.  

The best thing that you can do when you are being entertained by a male stripper is having fun.  This is just a good time and there is no harm in that. Most of the time the stripper is just a regular nice guy that needs to earn a living.  Flirt and be wild.  You may never have the chance like this again to be so close to the perfect body of a male stripper.


