Title: 
onKeyDown=textCounter(this.form.f_arttitle,this.form.avachars_title,150);

Word Count:
590

Summary:
DISODIUM COCOAMPHODIACETATE is an Extremely mild, amphoteric surfactant which is not defatting to the skin and also does not strip oils from hair.For Baby Shampoos a surfactant which is having a quality mild, amphoteric, foaming and cleansing agent that can reduce the overall irritation of products is required.


Keywords:
baby shampoo,natural baby shampoo,baby product,baby care,baby bath tub,baby body wash,shower baby


Article Body:
DISODIUM COCOAMPHODIACETATE is an Extremely mild, amphoteric surfactant which is not defatting to the skin and also does not strip oils from hair.  Disodium Cocoamphodiacetate is a moderate foamer and is recommended for sensitive skin, baby skin, facial products.  For use in shampoos and body wash where optimum foam is desired, combine with another surfactant such as decyl glucoside and/or cocamidopropyl betaine for a mild high-foaming blend.
For Baby Shampoos a surfactant which is having a quality mild, amphoteric, foaming and cleansing agent that can reduce the overall irritation of products is required.  DISODIUM COCOAMPHODIACETATE  is often used in sensitive skin formulations like baby shampoos, shampoos, bath and shower body washes, and facial products. It is compatible with anionic, non-ionic and most cationic systems. 
	
In personal care /skin and hair care this coconut oil derived surfactant may be used with another surfactant, such as cocomidopropyl betaine or decyl glucoside to make a gentle high foam , high performance product.  The Product is in appearance, a Gold viscous liquid with its pH 8.5 – 9.5 and a Customary Usage: 1% - 50% depending on the final application. 

This product is used in many household and industrial applications too. It is stable over a broad pH range. Ideal for use in all types of industrial cleaners etc. since it aids in flash foaming and improves the foam stability in formulations.  It is non-toxic and biodegradable.

Disodium Cocoamphodiacetate is with an excellent toxicological profile.  
Like many surfactants, Disodium Cocoamphodiacetate is originally derived from coconut.

Chemical Name: Cocoamphocarboxyglycinate, disodium salt
CAS Registry Number: 068650-39-5

Synonyms: Cocoamphocarboxyglycinate oxide; Disodium cocoamphodiacetate; Cocoamphocarboxyglycinate; Coconut fatty acid, aminoethylethanolamine imidazoline, dicarboxymethylated, disodium salt; Cocoamphocarboxyglycinate, disodium salt; Imidazolium compounds, 1-(2-(carboxymethoxy)ethyl)-1-(carboxymethyl)-4,5-dihydro-2-norcoco alkyl, hydroxides, inner salts, disodium salts


In general, Baby shampoo is formulated so that it is less irritating to the eyes. Most contain sodium trideceth sulfate. Alternatively, baby shampoo may be formulated using other classes of surfactants, most notably non-ionics which are much milder than any charged anionics used.   


Ideally, in Baby Shampoos the conventionally used anionic surfactant i.e. Sodium Laureth Sulfate is used at 10 to 15% levels and the major surfactant component is formed by Disodium Cocoamphodiacetate by using it at 20 to 25% levels. Other ingredients in a Baby Shampoo may  include Cocoamidopropyl betaine. Glycerine,  PEG 150 Distearates, Preservatives, Humectants & Conditioning Agents. 

Most of the Leading Baby Shampoos are formulated without addition of Colors. As observed, they are light amber in appearance which is the natural color of the formulation. In case, where absolute color free shampoo is desired, another equivalent surfactant Disodium lauroamphoacetate is used. This product comes in very light yellowish clear liquid. 

Disodium Cocoamphodiacetate is also used in Premium quality of Shampoos & Face Wash. Most of the Anionic surfactants such as Sodium laureth Sulfate, Ammonium Laureth Sulfate, Disodium Laureth Sulfosuccinates contains sulfate contents which is harsh in nature. These surfactants cause damage to hair strands & reduce the moisturisation properties of the shampoo. Disodium Cocoamphodiacetate being amphoteric and having no sulfate content if when used in combination with these anionic surfactants provides excellent results further it also enhances the moisturisation & conditioning properties of the finished shampoo. Hence, a range of Mild wash & bath products can be formulated with this product such as Baby Bath, Shower Gel, Face Wash, Liquid Hand Wash, 2 in 1 Shampoo Conditioners etc. The Product is also stable & compatible to various other ingredients which are conventionally used in Shampoos. 

The Product is produced by some renowned organizations which are into complete varieties of surfactants for the cosmetic Industries. 


http://www.asiantradelinkindia.com/surfanol.htm

http://www.asiantradelinkindia.com/performance-chemicals-for-personal-care-products.htm


