Title: 
Party Favors

Word Count:
501

Summary:
A party favor is a gift that will generally be low in cost, and it will be provided at parties. A common party favor that will be given to young children is a package that is composed of candy, a toothbrush, and toothpaste.


Keywords:
party, entertainment


Article Body:
A party favor is a gift that will generally be low in cost, and it will be provided at parties. A common party favor that will be given to young children is a package that is composed of candy, a toothbrush, and toothpaste. Most party favors can be purchased at dollar stores or similar places. Party favors are generally given to children, and are composed of gifts that many children will enjoy. A child who is artistically inclined will enjoy receiving party favors that come in the form of colored pencils or markers.

In addition to this, bubblegum, rubber balls, bottles and stuffed animals are good examples of party favors. In addition to toys, party favors could also come in the form of food. Pizza or popcorn is very popular, as well as baked cookies. You will also want to make sure you provide party favors which are consistent with certain holidays. For example, if you are celebrating Easter or Christmas, you will want to make sure you choose party favors which are related to these holidays. Another popular party favor that can be given to guests is fortune cookies.

Giving fortune cookies to guests will allow them to open them to find out what their fortunes are. In fact, some companies will custom bake cookies for you that will feature personalized fortunes. This can allow you to put a special message or photo into the cookie. After you have baked the perfect cookies and placed messages in them, you will next want to put them  in a nice package. Party favors are great gifts to give at various events throughout the year. These include birthdays, weddings, holidays, and other important events. Many children love coloring books, and they can be purchased for low prices. Not only will it keep children occupied, but they will enhance their artistic skills as well.

Children also love balloons, and you won't want to give away party favors without including them. Instead of using plan balloons, why not use balloons that are shaped like animals or other objects? Balloons are great products to use and party favors, and many children enjoy them. If you enjoy arts and crafts, another great gift that can be given as a party favor are beads. There is no limit to the number of designs you can use for your beads, and children will enjoy the beautiful colors that you can add to the design. 

Party favors are great gifts to give, because they don't cost a lot of money, but they can do a lot to show that you care about someone. With homemade party gifts, the amount of money you spend is not as important as the thought and work you put into designing a specific gift. There is no limit to the number of different ideas you can use for party favors. The only thing that limits you is your imagination. These gifts can be given multiple times per year, and are good for virtually any party.


