Title: 
Pick Up a Greeting Card, Win a Trip to Hollywood

Word Count:
289

Summary:
Everyone knows it feels good to laugh, but did you know medical studies actually prove our assorted chuckles, titters and guffaws can have health benefits that include everything from lowered blood pressure to increased immune function to improved heart health?


Keywords:
Pick Up a Greeting Card, Win a Trip to Hollywood


Article Body:
Everyone knows it feels good to laugh, but did you know medical studies actually prove our assorted chuckles, titters and guffaws can have health benefits that include everything from lowered blood pressure to increased immune function to improved heart health?

Just in case the health benefits of laughing aren't enough to make you lighten up, the ABC Television Network and American Greetings are offering a "Look to Us for a Laugh Sweepstakes" in supermarkets, drug store chains and other mass retail stores. 

Five grand prize winners will receive a trip for two to Los Angeles to see the taping of an ABC TGIF Friday night comedy. Hundreds of other prizes will also be awarded. 

So what's the connection between greeting cards and TV comedy shows? 

"That's easy," said David Ricanati, vice president of card marketing and product development for American Greetings. "We're both in the business of bringing families together and making them laugh.

"Whether someone is laughing at the antics of Thimon, the lisping duck on one of our outrageous Thimon Thez cards, or catching 'George Lopez' on Friday nights, they're enjoying great family entertainment."

Entering the sweepstakes is simple. While stocking up on the newest American Greetings cards, look for signs and tear-off entry forms touting ABC's Friday night comedy line-up, which includes "George Lopez" and "Hope & Faith." 



"Our Friday night TGIF programming line-up was created to give Americans a place they could go to laugh after a long, tough week," said Michael Benson, senior vice president, marketing, of ABC Entertainment. "The partnership with American Greetings is a great platform to extend the laughs into a national promotion, giving our viewers a chance to win a trip to see the taping of one of their favorite shows."


