Title: 
Planning A Themed Party

Word Count:
318

Summary:
If you want to have time to enjoy the next party you throw, try this tip: Create a party theme that keeps your guests engaged.


Keywords:
Planning A Themed Party


Article Body:
If you want to have time to enjoy the next party you throw, try this tip: Create a party theme that keeps your guests engaged. The key to a successful party is to come up with a theme that allows guests to participate and interact with others. This keeps party-goers entertained, taking the pressure off you, the host. Here are a few popular themes that are easy to plan and can help keep you and your guests in good spirits. 

Around the World 

Plan a themed party that incorporates distinctive elements of a culture or country. For instance, you could transform your space into an Italian villa by playing Italian music, displaying photography of Italy and serving appetizers with an Italian flair-such as bruschetta and antipasto. You could even decorate using fresh lemons and oranges scattered around the house in large bowls and glass vases. 

Take It Easy 

Make your party relaxing. A spa-themed party is a popular entertaining idea. You can easily transform your space into small, semiprivate relaxation areas. 

Offer manicures and pedicures along with back and shoulder massages, providing your guests with relaxing activities. Refresh guests with light fruit-flavored cocktails and cold appetizers. 

A Touch of Sophistication 

Hosting a wine-tasting event can make your guests feel as if they just stepped into the vineyards of Tuscany or Napa Valley. When deciding what wines to include in your tasting, consider focusing on a region or a specific grape. This will provide some continuity. Want to step it up a notch? Try adding an international bottled water such as Acqua Panna® Natural Spring Water or S.Pellegrino® Sparkling Natural Mineral Water to the tasting schedule. Both Acqua Panna and S.Pellegrino are ideal in pairing with wines because they help complement the tastes, cleanse the palate and enhance the entire tasting experience. 

A themed party can keep guests entertained-and leave hosts with time to enjoy the get-together.


