Title: 
Planning A Large Party

Word Count:
374

Summary:
If you plan on hosting a large party with more than 100 guests (wedding reception, retirement party, school reunion, anniversary) you’ll need to have it at a larger venue, where event planning professionals can help you with planning, food and catering professionals can help you with food and beverages, and banquet setup can help with the decoration and setup of the party location.

Although traditionally, hotels, resorts and restaurants were the most popular large party ve...


Keywords:
party, party planning, party favors, party favor ideas


Article Body:
If you plan on hosting a large party with more than 100 guests (wedding reception, retirement party, school reunion, anniversary) you’ll need to have it at a larger venue, where event planning professionals can help you with planning, food and catering professionals can help you with food and beverages, and banquet setup can help with the decoration and setup of the party location.

Although traditionally, hotels, resorts and restaurants were the most popular large party venues, you may want to explore other exciting possibilities. Museums, art galleries, universities, non-profit company buildings are just a few of the possibilities. If you choose a non-traditional venue, be prepared to work more to make sure everything is in order for the big event. Venues that don’t usually host such events are less like to have all the necessities as a restaurant or hotel.

Regardless of what venue you choose, you’ll want to make sure they can accommodate the number of guests you are inviting and the magnitude of your event. You may fall in love with a venue, but it may be too small for your event. Another place may seem perfect, but the hours of your party would not work for the venue. It is always good to consult an event planning professional to try to locate the appropriate venue for your event.

Venues that host events similar to yours on a regular basis will ensure they know how to run an event like yours smoothly. You won’t have to worry about the hands on stuff because those have professionals taking care of the details for you. Experienced venues will utilize banquet setup personnel for the setup of the tables and dance floor. The venue management can offer you options for catering, entertainment, and logistics.

If you feel that the venue management lack creativity speak up. You are the customer, and you should be able to influence the planning of your event. Be sure to get everything in writing. Don’t assume anything. Make sure the contract includes what is and is not included at the venue.

Make sure there is enough parking for your guests. If someone you have invited needs special attention such as handicap access, make sure it is available.


