Title: 
Reliable Web Hosting

Word Count:
1070

Summary:
Reliable hosting is key to success in that it gives the consumer a consistent experience while preventing down time, that could cost the company in question hundreds, and maybe thousands in revenue.


Keywords:
Reliable Web Site Hosting, Reliable Web Hosting, Reliable Hosting


Article Body:
In addition to the conveniences and headaches brought on by our reliance on the world wide web, this new form of communication, advertising and commerce has brought with it an altered mindset for the new consumer, we want it fast, and we want it now, we want it perfect. From small ecommerce web sites to large organizations, reliable hosting is the key to ensure that customers and viewers see the same site at the same speed every time they visit their favorites. Reliable web hosting services provide the space, along with support (often 24/7) and the all important bandwidth. Reliable hosting is key to success in that it gives the consumer a consistent experience while preventing down time, that could cost the company in question hundreds, and maybe thousands in revenue.

There is a fine selection of reliable web-hosting services online. Often these services host in a specific region. There is a multitude of web sites on the internet advertising the services of one or another reliable hosting company. Luckily, there are also a couple out there to help you choose what is right for your company. Netcraft and Web hosting Inspector are two examples of such sites.

Web hosting Inspector provides a comprehensive spreadsheet listing independent test results, awards, rankings services and prices for various reliable web hosters. Though helpful, Web hosting Inspector feels a lot like paid advertising. A better choice is Netcraft. Netcraft supplies a lot of the same info as Web hosting Inspector, but also gives in depth analysis regarding down time, a fate worse than death to any e-commerce entrepreneur. Very often, these companies are run from private homes, a low cost, high return way for the internet savvy to make an income. However, the very “under the radar” nature of some of these businesses makes it all the more crucial that sites such as Netcraft exist, providing checks and balances to an otherwise turbulent industry.

You cannot have a company on the internet without a reliable hosting provider, with a team of dependable customer service. Their services are important to keep your e-commerce site consistent; visually consistent, service oriented and most importantly, consistently lucrative.

As the use of the Internet increases every day, with more people than ever before utilizing the World Wide Web to find products and services they need, reliable web site hosting becomes a bigger issue. Consumers will not continue using companies who have web sites that are slow loading or are constantly having technical difficulties and down time. It could be the death of a growing online company to have a site that’s unavailable for any lengthy time frame because of a server problem. The choice of a reliable web site hosting company is then imperative.

Online companies along with individuals will want to select a reliable web hosting company that also offers great customer service, fair and competitive pricing plus first class management. There are some suggestions you will want to remember when looking for a reliable web hosting company. If you are seeking quality and reliability you will want to do a some research before you make your final decision.

When you are ready to start a web site either for business or personal needs, you need to find a reliable hosting service. The reason for this is because that will be the place you keep the web pages for viewing by consumers and possible business clients. If you are just starting with an online presence either as an e-commerce venture or even as an individual you want to first understand the basics of web hosting. A server is a computer that gets the requests for pages or files from the Internet. When someone types in a domain name a server somewhere is accessed. It then shows the requested pages or files to the computer requesting the information. Another way to look at a reliable web host is, they are a landlord renting you space on their computer to others. You then have a choice between shared hosting or dedicated hosting. The difference is evident in the name. A shared host shares it’s server with more than one client and a dedicated host has one client on it’s server. Dedicated servers normally are used by e-commerce sites that require a large amount of space disk space and more personal management plus cost a little more.

As the Internet is growing so is the number of companies offering hosting services and the more competitive the market is becoming. Some offer inexpensive monthly prices, some even offer free hosting. As a business free web hosting may sound like a great solution however; having a website that is also shows advertising that may or may not compete with your online business is not a very good idea. In general a free web host does not have the quality of customer service a paid reliable web hosting company would have. These servers are also normally crowded with personal web pages and have limited options. Many have technical issues that may include down times which could have a negative effect on your new business. These are all factors you need to consider.

Paying more for a reliable web hosting company is a better option. You want to make a good entrance into the web and if you are already established you want to keep your appearance and your clients experiences positive. Another issue to think about is future expansion. A reliable web hosting company can offer a multitude of services and packages to grow as you do. When choosing a reliable web hosting company think of it as a long term business arrangement.

Before looking into reliable hosting options make a list of what is going to be important to you. This not only in regards to the web site, but to other aspects such as budgets, what you want to accomplish, short and long term goals. All these factors need to be considered. Sit down with other companies about their relationships involving several different reliable web hosting companies. This may give you a great place to start your search.

We mentioned budgets which most start up businesses need to deal with. A word of caution here, a reliable web host may not necessarily be the cheapest but you will get what you pay for. Reliable web hosting can be found at a price to fit just about every imaginable budget.


