Title: 
Restaurant Decor Ideas:  Serve Unusual Framed Art with the Meal of the Day!

Word Count:
465

Summary:
Give your restaurant a personality of its own with unique framed art.  Here are some great tips to enhance your restaurant decor...


Keywords:
african american art, latin art, native art, prints, posters, frames, home decor,  Bearden, Diego


Article Body:
If you feel your restaurant decor is drab, spruce it up with unusual framed art. Every wall can tell a story from the past, reflect a certain theme, or create the dining atmosphere you want for your patrons. There are paintings and posters to reflect almost any theme. From African-American art to Latin art, and even Native art - there's something for every type of restaurant! Here are some great ways to enhance the look and feel of your restaurant with unique framed art.

Jazzy Theme for the Musical Atmosphere

If you want to create a "jazzy" theme, choose framed art that reflects musicians and musical instruments in action. There are several amazing African-American paintings by Bearden that bring the jazz or blues scenes to life with saxophones, guitars, drums and other instruments. Diners will be in the mood for some relaxing live music once they catch a glimpse of your attractive framed art of musicians!

1950s Theme - A Walk in the Past

For a "malt shop" style restaurant, there's nothing better than some great framed prints or posters from the past. Create a nifty atmosphere with framed art or posters of Elvis Presley, classic automobiles, or 1950s-style cafes.

Classical Elegance

Use classical framed art to create an elegant dining experience for your customers. Try gorgeous prints such as Diego's "The Infanta Margarita Teresa in a White Dress" or "Museo del Prado" to illuminate each wall in your restaurant or cafe. Classical framed art can be matched with your restaurant colors or table colors, and you can choose from many styles of elegant wooden frames to complete your decor.

Give your Restaurant Personality with Cultural Themes

If you want to portray a cultural theme in your restaurant, you can choose from a variety of Latin art, African-American art, Native art or other cultural themes to suit your tastes. These come in all different colors, themes and frames so you can easily match paintings to your restaurant decor. 

More Framed Art Tips

Don't stop with paintings! Add a touch of individuality to your "walls of art" with other unique home decor items such as wall sconces, wall mirrors, wall fountains and wall plants or flowers. These will attract attention to your framed art so customers will take notice as soon as they enter your restaurant. You can even use small spotlights above or beneath the paintings to illuminate them and add soft lighting to every wall.

Place matching flowers or candles on each table to create a romantic atmosphere. Or, use your table centerpieces to complement the theme of your paintings - no matter what the theme. The possibilities are endless!

Using framed art to decorate your restaurant is easier today than ever before. There are almost unlimited resources online to find all the framed art you need!


