Title: 
Short Funny Quotes – Immortal gems of wit and wisdom for you!

Word Count:
397

Summary:
The best online address for tons of short funny quotes, guaranteed to make you laugh. Read all about it here.


Keywords:
college, scholarships, jokes, college girls, funny videos, funny pictures, college, jokes, games, play game, play games, games, videos, college girls, yo momma jokes, engineering scholarships, easy sc


Article Body:
If time is short and you need to laugh fast, short funny quotes are your best bet. Funny quotations are among the most amusing of stuff that you are likely to read. They are one of the great ways to chase your blues away. Man has amused himself since the beginning of time with the wit and humor of other men. There has been no dearth of great minds in human history that have dazzled us with their wit and many a time, have also compelled us to pause and think about the oddities of human nature and life in general. 
Thanks to the Internet, finding short funny quotes has become so much simpler. All it takes now is just a few simple clicks of your mouse to find tons of short funny quotes to read and enjoy. If it's raining and you can't afford to go to the library, just get online and click your way into complete quotation bliss. You don't have to rummage through dusty old humor magazines, or turn the pages of big fat books. Just relax in your favorite chair and click on your mouse. No one prepared you for such a huge collection of short funny quotes that is now available on the Net. 
There are many great (and seriously funny) websites out there in cyberspace which not only carry a huge stock of short funny quotes, but are constantly adding to them on a regular basis. This ensures that every visit to the site will present you with fresh lines to laugh at. No one enjoys reading the same stuff over and over again. The human mind needs fresh fodder for its mind to stay entertained. The Internet, more than aptly, takes care of this problem.
Let's get a piece of the real action now. These are some of my personal favorites, but I'm sure that there are thousands more like these out there, waiting for you to unearth and break into a side-splitting laughter. Let's start with this one by Mark Twain, "A lot of people are afraid of heights. Not me, I'm afraid of widths." Or how about this one, "By trying we can easily endure adversity. Another man's, I mean." Remember Einstein's famous lines, "Only two things are infinite. The universe and human stupidity, and I'm not sure about the former." This is really classic stuff, right?


