Title: 
Should You Have A Party At Home?

Word Count:
370

Summary:
A lot of work is required for planning a party regardless of the size and scope of the event. It might be more work to plan an offsite party than a party in your home. Most people have most of their parties in their homes for several reasons. It is great to have a party at home because it is comfortable, and usually less expensive than offsite venues.

When deciding on where to host your party keep in mind your guests’ needs. Does anyone need wheelchair access, does anyone ...


Keywords:
party, party planning, party favors, party favor ideas


Article Body:
A lot of work is required for planning a party regardless of the size and scope of the event. It might be more work to plan an offsite party than a party in your home. Most people have most of their parties in their homes for several reasons. It is great to have a party at home because it is comfortable, and usually less expensive than offsite venues.

When deciding on where to host your party keep in mind your guests’ needs. Does anyone need wheelchair access, does anyone have difficulty with stairs, is there anough parking for everyone, is the place easy to find or do you have to provide detailed directions?

On average, parties last for about four hours. Therefore, if you decide to host your party at your house make sure you can comfortably accommodate as many people as you invite. Your guests will want to be able to comfortable eat, drink, and converse with each other for the duration of the party.

Let’s consider the pros and cons of the most popular party venue, your home.

Pros- You have home field advantage, You know where everything is. You have a setup that supports almost anything you may need for a great party. You have everything in place working correctly. You may need to carry equipment and decoration to an offsite location adding time and costs. Having the party at home enables you to make a lot of the prep work ahead of time. You don’t have to worry about driving to an offsite location. If you are on a tight budget, having a home party is your best option.

Cons- You have to clean up an make the house presentable for the party. You have to provide all of the necessary equipment and decorations. You or your guests could damage your home that could result in expensive repairs. You have to clean up after the party. It is more difficult to end a party when you are at home. You may have a hard time getting rid of the last couple of guests.

Final tips: If you have pets, make sure your guests are not allergic. Also, some guests may be afraid of dogs.


