Title: 
Sports Autographs - A Sound Investment

Word Count:
267

Summary:
You don't have to be a sports fanatic to have an interest in collecting authentic sports autographs.  Famous athlete autographs can help boost the value of your portfolio as well as help you turn a quick profit.


Keywords:
sports autographs, baseball autographs, rare sports autographs


Article Body:
You don't have to be a sports fanatic to have an interest in collecting authentic sports autographs.  Famous athlete autographs can help boost the value of your portfolio as well as help you turn a quick profit.  The key to having a valuable sports autograph collection is being able to recognize the fraudulent autographs on the market.

One way to become an expert at spotting fake autographs is by immersing yourself in the industry.  There are specialty magazines which will keep you up to date about trade shows, reliable dealers, as well as online shops that are legitimate to purchase from.  These types of magazines will give you tips on how to spot fake sports autographs right away.  This will save you time and money in the long run, as well as build your expertise in finding authentic signatures.

A couple of simple, sure proof ways to detect fraudulent autographs include price and misspellings.  Often, if a sports autograph sells for a really cheap price, then it is probably a fake.  Many scammers on the internet will go as far as providing fake certificates of authenticity to sell an autograph.  Don't fall for these scams.  Stick to purchasing sports autographs from legitimate suppliers and you will more secure in your investment.

Misspellings of popular athlete autographs can be easy to spot.  If you notice that the spelling is wrong for any autograph, then you need to move on and continue your search for authenticity.  As you continue to immerse yourself in autograph collecting, you will become much better at recognizing the authentic autographs from the forged ones.


