Title: 
Spyware - is your secret safe?

Word Count:
283

Summary:
Is your computer feeling slow, or is your internet connection taking forever? You might have some problems with spyware or even malware.


Keywords:
Delete, destroy, eliminate, erase, erases, exploit, exploits, fix, fixes, get, gets, kill, kills, removal, remove, removes, remover, spyware, spywares, stop, stops, ad, ware, ad, wares, adware, adware


Article Body:
Most people like to surf. Everybody should know by now that a firewall or an anti-virus program is needed when doing so, but what about spyware and malware?

The problem

Every day 100 of millions of people log on to the internet to check their homepage, the newssite, datingsite, the mail or installing a free usefull program. But what you never know, is that there is a risk in doing this! You can unknowingly install what is known as spyware or malware. These programs are usually hidden within free programs, homepages or links to homepages. Most of these programs are fairly unharmful, as they "only" apply the author with information on your surfing or your shopping habits.

BUT - there are also malicious programs such as worms, trojans, keyloggers, know as malware. these programs install themselves on your computer, and opens up backdoors to your computer, making the author able to enter your computer through the internet. Or they transmit information on your password for mail or homebanking, even your credit card numbers!

Now, but installing a firewall you should think that you would be safe! but that's not really the truth. You should regularly scan your computer, or have a real time scanner installed on your computer to avoid these problems.

If you're interested in a more detailed list of the most common malware/spyware, you can check out <a href="http://www.squidoo.com/dievirus">this page</a> for a lot more information, and what to do about it.

If you are already experiencing your computer being slow, taking a looong time to open even the smallest programs or if your internet seems really bad check out the link below for more information!


