Title: 
Step by step, create , productive property web site

Word Count:
535

Summary:
Step by step, how easy it can be to create a good productive and cheep, "mini" site for your property you wish to sell or let .


Keywords:
Greece islands, villas greek islands properties, travel links, 


Article Body:
Its about time you will have a web site for your property, it easy, cheap and it will take you two steps
foreword from were you stand today among the competitors in your race. 
"Why i need it ?" Is not a secret that many markets, especially the "sell by owner " markets, 
there is a big movement from many old ways of marketing ,to one main marketing tool, the Internet! 
Not to be part of it is like to close your eyes to reality and never really rich to a point you will
be able to drain most of your property potential. "But i know nothing about sites and Internet as well.." 
So you better read the next lines and you will be surprise to find that to build a web site, 
good as most of the sites you can see on the net today, is really not a hard task and there is no reason in the world ,
you will spent more then 100$ to accomplished  that. 

First step to began with, will be to prouch a domain. A few ,simple rules you will have to follow.
The domain of your site its the site's "address" ,so anyone who wants to visit there will be able to do it.
In every place you will decide to advertising your site, you will do it by place your domain, with or without text, 
so people will be able to see it, "Click" on it and enter your site.
In other words ,the domain its the door for your site and in many ways will be function as the name of your site, too. so,
its not hard to figure that when you choose the domain you better keep it short,and try as you can, 
that it will be with good connotation to the property it represent.

that way, when people will see your domain they will know about what we talking here ,from the first moment.
Spaces are not aloud and you must use only small letters. you can choose to put signs lika "-", "_" , for separate words.
any domain will contain the domain name, a dot after and then an ending, that the ending can be "com" (the most common) 
or you will be able also to choose a specific ending represent a specific country, "gr" for Greece, "fr" for France and e.c.

Domain examples:  

 www.hotel-paros.gr    www.myhouse.il  
www.greeceislands.gr   www.greeceislands.net

How we actually do it. very simple, we must buy a domain, for no more then 9$ 
you will be able to own the domain for your site. Many co. sell domains, 
they all in their sites will guide you how to check that your domain wasn't chosen already,
by someone else and if the domain doesn't has writing problems,
they will lead you (you can be sure) to fast and easy purchase.
We recommends on two of them, from the most recognized and reliable companies in that filed,
good prices and service and whats more important, those co. will be a very good server to your site
in case you will choose one of them and its take us strait to the next step, the server issue. (at article 2)


