Title: 
Tailgate Parties

Word Count:
405

Summary:
It’s hard to picture a football game, baseball game or any sporting event without a tailgate party in the parking lot. Tailgate parties can be great for any occasion, and it doesn’t have to be reserved for sports events. Amusement parks, beaches, county fairs are just a few examples of possible events for great tailgate parties. Any event that doesn’t normally provide great food is excellent for tailgate parties.

Although tailgate parties are normally fairly short and infr...


Keywords:
party, party planning, party favors, party favor ideas


Article Body:
It’s hard to picture a football game, baseball game or any sporting event without a tailgate party in the parking lot. Tailgate parties can be great for any occasion, and it doesn’t have to be reserved for sports events. Amusement parks, beaches, county fairs are just a few examples of possible events for great tailgate parties. Any event that doesn’t normally provide great food is excellent for tailgate parties.

Although tailgate parties are normally fairly short and infrequent, tailgate parties are easy to plan and organize. Potlucks are the preferred choice for tailgaters. You can ask people to bring their favorite dishes. Make sure everyone understand the type of food they are responsible for, so you don’t end up with a 6 servings of desserts. Not that some of the guests would have anything against a dessert only party.

It is true that tailgate parties are informal events; it doesn’t mean you have to compromise on the quality of the food you serve. Because you don’t have to worry about spending money on decoration and such, you can afford to spend a bit more money on the food. The larger budget allocated for food allows for better quality food and drinks. These better quality products will turn your tailgate party into a memorable event.

Separate raw meat and poultry from cooked foods to avoid cross-contamination. Keep in mind that raw meat and poultry need to be cooked thoroughly. Store leftovers in a cooler within 2 hours of taking food off of the grill. When the temperature is above 90 °F outside, store food in a cooler within 1 hour.

Tailgate parties require no or minimal preparation. Decoration is going to get as fancy as the cars are on the lot. To make your party more relaxing, try to park your car in an area with the least amount of traffic on the lot. The less traffic in the area the less exhaust fumes you have to breathe in. Also, less traffic means less noise and you’ll be able to hear each other better and relax more.

For some people tailgate parties are too close to oil spots and exhaust fumes, so if you are one of them, tailgate parties may not be the best fit for you.

Interesting facts: The majority of tailgaters are men, and 60 percent are between the ages of 25 and 44. Almost half of all tailgaters tailgate 6-10 times per season.


