Title: 
Tattoos

Word Count:
556

Summary:
Basic introduction into the world of tattoos. Thinking of getting one done ? Read here first about tattoos.


Keywords:
tattoos, tattoo designs , red tattoos , tattoo photos


Article Body:
DOES IT HURT?

This article is based on this interrogative that it's commonly asked by anyone new to this. The final answer is yes. Having needles pierce your tegument *does* make you suffer. But what you *really* need to do is ask yourself, "Can I handle the pain, and can I manipulate it?"

It's not nearly as bad as what you can imagine.The symptoms present may vary according to where on your embody you get worked on. Skin or above the maraca (bone, astragal, etc.) tend to hurt less than other added areas. Also take note that some types of needles seem to spite more than others. I personally judge the needles used for outlining that produce a sharper cut .

Think about all I will present here before volunteering to get a tattoo.

Bottom Line: Do not rub with alcohol and don't take drugs before a tattoo sessions. Both aspirin and alcohol thin your blood and promote excessive bleeding. Aspirin also decreases the clotting of blood, which will slow down your healing as well.

SHOULD I GET A TATTOO ?

Your answer to this question might not be so clear. Statistically one of 163 tattooed men and women had regretted their tattoos! By reading this article about getting a tattoo you will be able to decide for yourself knowing both the pros and dissadvantages to this.


HOW TO GET RID OF A TATTOO?

This is *NOT* easy at all, and is *NOT* cheap. Expect to pay $1,000 to remove even a fairly small-sized tattoo if you're looking at laser surgery. Expect to have a noticeable ugly scar if you go with a non-laser technique. Expect to pay for every penny out of your own pocket because health insurance companies will not pay for tattoo removal. There may not be a laser surgery specialist in your area.

*WHY* WOULD YOU WANT A TATTOO IN THE FIRST PLACE?

People get tattoos for different reasons. Is it to please your partner?
Is it because you want to belong to a group that has tattoos? Do you identify with a certain subculture known for tattoos? Do you want to show your independence, individuality or uniqueness?

These are all valid reasons, and why many people get tattooed. However, because of the permanency of your tattoo, try to look at yourself infive, 10, or even 20 years. What will you be doing at that time? You might be a free-spirited college student now, and a web of vines on your wrist would look really lovely. However, are you planning to work in a very conservative field after you graduate? Will others look at your tattoo in a bad way? Will you have to hide it with long sleeve shirts?
Are you *willing* to wear long sleeve shirts if the environment is negative?

CONCLUSION

If you want to go through with getting a tattoo go online and check some red-tattoos.com designs . A tattoo design consists of both the actual design and the outline . These are needed but if you don't have an outline for a tattoo design , don't worry , the tattoo expert can do it for you or you can do it yourself with photoshop. Make sure before you go through with this that you view as many tattoo photos as possible with different tattoo designs so that your final choice will be a better one.


