Title: 
The Hollander Collection: Todos En La Familia

Word Count:
322

Summary:
The Hollander family is a five-pronged creative outlet with electrifying talent in painting, sculpting, writing and photography. Gino, the father, is an abstract-impressionist painter with numerous paintings of surrealistic perspectives. He began painting with acrylics in 1960, when such applications were nouveau. He offers no apologies or afterthoughts on finished work, as each represents his honest emotions at the time of its creation. For years Gino has given one-man shows...


Keywords:
art, painting, art collection, poetry, art gallery, art galleries


Article Body:
The Hollander family is a five-pronged creative outlet with electrifying talent in painting, sculpting, writing and photography. Gino, the father, is an abstract-impressionist painter with numerous paintings of surrealistic perspectives. He began painting with acrylics in 1960, when such applications were nouveau. He offers no apologies or afterthoughts on finished work, as each represents his honest emotions at the time of its creation. For years Gino has given one-man shows worldwide. Mother Barbara's poetry vividly describes her life and feelings in "Love & Lamentation." She also penned "Bits & Pieces, The Early Years," which is autobiographical, covering her life from 1924 to 1953.

In 1982, the couple established the Museo Hollander, located in Cortijo de las Yeguas, Spain, to exhibit a collection of Spanish antiques and artifacts that span 20,000 years of history. The Hollanders donated their museum to the government of Spain and were nationally awarded for greatly contributing to country's growth in tourism.

The equine nature of daughter Siri's sculpting coveys her unbridled attachment to horses. Many of her sculptures are large and suited for outdoors. The airport in Malaga, Spain, features a 25-feet tall bronze horse standing on its hind legs. Like her father, she seeks to capture emotional essence instead of photo-like accuracy.

Jim and Scott Hollander are photographers. Jim has lived and worked in Israel since 1983 as a photographer for the Reuters News Agency. He has captured numerous depictions on film of the region's infamous conflict. Jim's published works include "Until Peace," a photo essay of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, and "Run to the Sun," a book consisting of photos over the past 20 years from the yearly "Running of the Bulls" in Pamplona, Spain. Scott, a working Hollywood cameraman, specializes in outdoor photography and has amassed a stellar collection of photos from around the world while skiing, snowboarding, biking and rock climbing.

In the same manner that genes leave similar features and traits, soul bearing is an innate characteristic unifying all the Hollander's artistic endeavors.


