Title: 
The Quick And Easy Formula For Pottery Buying

Word Count:
360

Summary:
Did you know that pottery buying is actually an easy process? 

People spend their weekends digging through all sorts of rummage sales, yard sales, and specialty stores looking for the perfect piece of pottery to go in their home. In fact, there is an incredible home furnishings store in our city that has simply amazing pieces of pottery that anyone would love to buy (including us). However, we are constantly amazed by the large amount of people who don’t have any idea what...


Keywords:
pottery, stoneware pottery, polish pottery


Article Body:
Did you know that pottery buying is actually an easy process? 

People spend their weekends digging through all sorts of rummage sales, yard sales, and specialty stores looking for the perfect piece of pottery to go in their home. In fact, there is an incredible home furnishings store in our city that has simply amazing pieces of pottery that anyone would love to buy (including us). However, we are constantly amazed by the large amount of people who don’t have any idea what the different types of pottery are and how to buy the right type of pottery for their home. Pottery shopping is actually a fairly easy process once you get the hang of it. Follow these simple steps and you will be ahead of 95% of pottery buyers who end up paying more and getting less. 

1. Get educated on the different types of pottery. Can you tell the difference between Stoneware pottery and Polish pottery? Pottery comes in many different styles and can sell for all sorts of different prices. Spend the $7 on an informative pottery book from Amazon.com and truly take the time to learn all about pottery and how to tell the good stuff from the bad. 

2. Use the internet to familiarize yourself with pottery.Guess who is the #1 used car dealer on the face of the earth right now (and probably for the foreseeable future)? Ebay. Guess who also has extensive pottery listings? That’s right: Ebay. Ebay isn’t just for swapping beanie babies anymore. There are immense amounts of people who sell things on Ebay including lots of pottery. If you simply watch what is selling on Ebay and the prices that they are going for, you can get a pretty good idea of what the new and used pottery market is like offline too. I’ve generally found most ebay items to sell for at least a 25% discount to new offline merchandise.

3. Finally, you must compare pottery prices. Without proper price comparison, the other two points are almost meaningless. There are tricks to getting the best deal on pottery by comparing prices and no one should buy any without price comparison.


