Title: 
The Power Of Flower Paintings

Word Count:
638

Summary:
This article describes the beauty of flowers and what impact they have on houses with paintings of them. You will find out about different paintings and what there differences and similarities are.


Keywords:
rose flower paintings, flower garden paintings, flower field paintings


Article Body:
From Rose Flower Paintings to Flower Garden Paintings, you will find many different varieties of paintings that have to do with flowers. They may come in all colors of the rainbow, starting from red, and going all the way to indigo. 

Flower paintings make quite an impact on a wall, whether to accent the rest of the room, to stand out in itself, or to give some color vibration to the room. But either way, the painting is there for a reason, and thats all that matters.

Flower Field Paintings are not the most common type of flower paintings, but they are definitely plentiful in flowers. A lot of times you'll see one color of flower, not a huge assortment like you might in close-up pictures. This color has a tendency to be yellow, which happens to be also very common in the real world.

It is very rare that you see a field of blue flowers, the ultra rare green flowers, or even orange flowers for that matter. Purple is another common color as well. But, having a painting of a flower field on a wall that make quite the difference, it's likely there to give energy to the room, as bright colors give off that energy.

Lets move on, Similar to the Flower Field Paintings is the Flower Garden Paintings. These two have many aspects of similarity to them, but there is one huge difference, color. Like the flower field is mostly one color, the flower garden can vary in all types.

A flower field is usually dominated by one color simply because it is the most dominant flower in the area, or simply because there is a mass growth of that certain flower. A flower garden usually takes place in the garden of a home, where a large variety of flowers and plants are usually grown.

This is where you will see beautiful combinations of colors and many greens in the picture, this makes for a very balanced painting, both in color and intensity. 

Another one of the great paintings that you will find is Rose Flower Paintings. Roses are quite common when it comes to gardens, you almost always see at least one bushel of roses. They play quite a big role in the flower world as well.

Valentines Day leans heavily on roses as a symbol of love, especially red ones. Also at every flower shop, you will see a large variety of colors of roses, from red to yellow to white, even dyed ones that are green, blue, and even sometimes black.

Roses are all-around flowers that look great, and anyone can add their own style to a painting, unlike some flowers that are just too bland, or too complicated to look good.

You will often see roses all around the world simply because they are very easy to maintain and grow, as long as you keep the little chompers out of the way that eat the leaves, then you should be okay.

It never hurts to have a few helpful bugs to keep the little insecticides out of the way of your growth, because even little eaten leaves can lead to a dead plant in a matter of time.

Anyways, you never see Rose Flower Paintings with eaten up leaves, it just doesn't happen. Overall, if your looking to purchase a flower painting, these are some great options to have. It's always nice to know what your looking for before you go out and buy something that you regret later.

Flowers are peaceful, and they never do any harm, it never hurts to take the time to water your plants even if you didn't plant them, they provide us with the oxygen we need to live, and as long as we provide them sunlight and water, they will keep us living.


