Title: 
Tips for buying exclusive jewelry

Word Count:
509

Summary:
Buying jewelry is something that is liked very much by women all over the world. However, there are quite a few points that have to be remembered while purchasing jewelry. Jewelry is usually made from materials like gold, silver, platinum, glass, and precious gems like pearl, diamond, etc. Again, jewelry is either standard design or custom-made exclusive jewelry. Further, there are various types of ornaments like earrings, nose rings, neckwear, bangles, bracelets, anklewear, rings, etc. Since jewelry is a statement by a woman, it is always better to opt for exclusive jewelry.


Keywords:
buying exclusive jewelry, jewelry


Article Body:
Buying jewelry is something that is liked very much by women all over the world. However, there are quite a few points that have to be remembered while purchasing jewelry. Jewelry is usually made from materials like gold, silver, platinum, glass, and precious gems like pearl, diamond, etc. Again, jewelry is either standard design or custom-made exclusive jewelry. Further, there are various types of ornaments like earrings, nose rings, neckwear, bangles, bracelets, anklewear, rings, etc. Since jewelry is a statement by a woman, it is always better to opt for exclusive jewelry.

Exclusive jewelry should be selected in such a manner that it accentuates the dress and the personality of the woman. The exclusive jewelry should be highly feminine and at the same time be bold, exotic, mysterious, and individualistic. Exclusive jewelry should possess excellent craftsmanship and should also be affordable. Moreover, exclusive jewelry could be either contemporary or represent a period or a culture, like Victorian, Edwardian, Georgian, Belgian, Italian, Asian, Indian, etc.

Gold is the most common jewelry material. For centuries, jewelry lovers and designers had equally preferred the yellow luster and the ease of working of gold into several shapes. Pure gold is normally not used but always mixed with silver or copper to increase the strength of the exclusive jewelry and to make them more durable. Gold is measured in karat. 100% pure gold is termed as 24 carat, while 18 carat is 75% gold and 14 carat is 58% gold. Platinum exclusive jewelry is highly expensive, since it is about thirty-five times rare compared to gold. However, platinum exclusive jewelry does not tarnish or fade.

It would be better to have knowledge of the precious and semi precious gems and stones before buying exclusive jewelry. Amber is formed normally from fossilized sticky resin that comes from ancient pine trees. Emerald is obtained mineral deposits and is a green gemstone. Jade is available in two types, Jadeite and Nephrite. Jade is one the hardest of gems and could be carved into various forms and sizes. Nephrite is normally green, while Jadeite is available in red, blue, green and black. Lapis Lazuli is normally blue, but sometimes could have green or violet tints. The blueness comes from the sulphur that is present in the stone. Onyx is mostly black. Pears are either from freshwater pearl oysters or cultured. Nearly 95% of available pears are of the cultured type.

Women should also know the maintenance of exclusive jewelry to avoid it getting dirty. Generally, the oils from our skin and other beauty products like lotions that are applied on the skin tarnish exclusive jewelry. However, you could use warm water containing a little dishwashing liquid to clean most of the exclusive jewelry. Soaking for a considerable time in hot soap solution is also a good practice before cleaning with hand or using a fine brush. Finally, the exclusive jewelry should be rinsed in cold water and dried with a soft cloth. However, pearl and coral should not be soaked. Jewelry of various types should be kept in separate boxes designed specially for each item.


