Title: 
Tole Painting Book – Learn the art of decorating

Word Count:
296

Summary:
Tole painting is an art of decorative painting of metallic objects like tins, coffeepots, and other similar household items. This folk art began in the 18th century in New England.


Keywords:
tole painting book,painting book,decorative painting


Article Body:
Most of us like to draw and paint. Some of us are born artist while some of us are just fun painters. Now days one can find different types of painting books in the market. These painting books provide you with steps by steps guidelines to improve your drawing and painting skills. One of such types of painting book is Tole painting book. 

Initially one needed to have natural skills to learn the art of Tole painting. But today even a fresher can learn the skill of painting, considering the number of painting books in the market. 

Tole painting is an art of decorative painting of metallic objects like tins, coffeepots, and other similar household items. This folk art began in the 18th century in New England. The paintings are a wonderful artwork done on the surfaces of many metal objects. 

Today one can find number of online stores that provide such painting books. These painting books consist of many decorative and elegant paintings. The painting book also contains many beautiful displays of art for art lovers. 

One can learn the art of original paintings, decorative paintings, patterns, pattern packets, and many more things like instructions, tutorials, artistic ideas and inspirations, through this book. This book comes with many delicate designs of soft and pretty color. What else, there are step by step instructions of every illustration, pattern, color mixing recipes, etc. in this book. The book will provide you with many unique ideas for Christmas painting.

These books also contain number of attractive painting patterns. For instance, there are patterns available for different designs and moods. Also, there are many country tole patterns, holidays' patterns and many folk art patterns. You will be introduced to the important techniques, tools and equipment required for the painting.


