Title: 
Truth - Just How Does One Know?

Word Count:
1199

Summary:
Most people think they know truth because they went to church, bible studies, read books and received information from sources other than straight from Jesus Christ.


Keywords:
trust God, I trust, God only, Jesus lives, family, family values, love your neighbor, father, mother, children, forgiveness, confession, antichrist, rapture, end days, fear


Article Body:
It breaks my heart to see people seeking the truth in man and not having that one on one relationship with Jesus Christ our Lord and Savior, bless His heart and soul. The great thing about receiving the truth from the Blessed Trinity is that you experience it and see it. With man, all you might gain is some knowledge provided whom you are receiving it from knows truth. How can one discern what's truth and what's untruth? John 14:15-17 tells us that Jesus will ask God on our behalf to give us the spirit of truth provided we are ready. We can only be ready when we can keep those two commandments. 

It's not an overnight trip with Jesus Christ, it's a long and narrow road and a very laborous one also. 1John and the writtings of Paul have an account of this journey. You'll never learn what this journey is all about unless you travel that road which Jesus has mapped out especially for you. The hard part is getting started. It's all up to you, your desire, your willingness and how much suffering are you willing to go through to take this journey. One is going to need to be fearless, which means no doubts or worries, just 100% faith and trust in Jesus Christ. Most people want to take the easy way, the highway to perdition. 

Most people think they know truth because they went to church, bible studies, read books and received information from sources other than straight from Jesus Christ. To know Jesus is to have walked with Him. To know God's word is to know Jesus Christ and to have suffered as He has suffered. People have this crazy idea that when Jesus died for the sins of the world that, we don't have to do anything but accept the fact that He is our Savior and He died on the cross and was resurrected. We have to work for our salvation, it's not free.

You read and study the scriptures but by not working them is nothing more than vain knowledge. How can you prove the word of God is the truth without works? Let me give you an example: If I were to take an auto repair manual and read it, does that qualify me enough to go work on that car? Unless I have someone show me what tools and parts I need and shows me how to fix it properly, I shouldn't work on that car because I don't know what I'm doing. Now if someone who knows what they're doing shows me the right way to do it then I will be working what it says to do in the manual. Would you have a plumber teach you how to work on a air conditioner? Do they have stock brokers teach medicine? So why don't we have Jesus teach us how to make it home to God? 

Many people book vacations with travel agents because they trust them enough to give them a care-free vacation. But sometimes they don't get what they expected, they wind up at a dump for a hotel or it's located in a bad part of town, etc., etc. Same thing happens when man trust man with their spiritual guidance, only problem is thougC:\Program Files\Article Submitter\temp_article.htmh when you go on this trip there's no coming back. Who's your travel agent? May God BlessYou Dearly.

I received the following in an e-mail. I hope you find it enlightening. Please pass it on.

DID YOU KNOW THESE FACTS? 
  
Death is certain but the Bible speaks about untimely death! Make a personal reflection about this. Very interesting, read until the end..... 

It is written in the Bible (Galatians 6:7): "Be not deceived; God is not mocked: for whatsoever a man sow, that shall he also reap. 

Here are some men and women who mocked God : John Lennon (Singer): Some years before, during his interview with an American Magazine, he said:"Christianity will end, it will disappear. I do not have to argue about that. I am certain.

 Jesus was ok, but his subjects were too simple, today we are more famous than Him" (1966)... Lennon, after saying that the Beatles were more famous than Jesus Christ, was shot six times. 

Tancredo Neves (President of Brazil ): During the Presidential campaign, he said if he got 500,000 votes from his party, not even God would remove him from Presidency. Sure he got the votes, but he got sick a day before being made President, then he died. 

Cazuza (Bi-sexual Brazilian composer, singer and poet): During A show in Canecio ( Rio de Janeiro ), while smoking his cigarette, he puffed out some smoke into the air and said: "God, that's for you."
He died at the age of 32 of LUNG CANCER in a horrible manner. 

The man who built the Titanic: After the construction of Titanic, a reporter asked him how safe the Titanic would be. With an ironic tone he said: "Not even God can sink it". The result: I think you all know what happened to the Titanic. 

Marilyn Monroe (Actress): She was visited by Billy Graham during a presentation of a show. He said the Spirit of God had sent him to preach to her. After hearing what the Preacher had to say, she said: "I don't need your Jesus". A week later, she was found dead in her apartment. 

Bon Scott (Singer): The ex-vocalist of the AC/DC. On one of his 1979 songs he sang: "Don't stop me; I'm going down all the way, down the highway to hell".

 On the 19th of February 1980, Bon Scott was found dead, he had been choked by his own vomit. 

Campinas (IN 2005): In Campinas , Brazil a group of friends, drunk, went to pick up a friend..... The mother accompanied her to the car and was so worried about the drunkenness of her friends and she said to the daughter holding her hand, who was already seated in the car: "My Daughter, Go With God And May He Protect You." She responded: "Only If He (God) Travels In The Trunk, Cause Inside Here.....It's Already Full ". Hours later, news came by that they had been involved in a fatal accident, everyone had died, the car could not be recognized what type of car it had been, but surprisingly, the trunk was intact. The police said there was no way the trunk could have remained intact. To their surprise, inside the trunk was a crate of eggs, none was broken.

Christine Hewitt (Jamaican Journalist and entertainer): said the Bible (Word of God) was the worst book ever written. In June 2006 she was found burnt beyond recognition in her motor vehicle. 

Many more important people have forgotten that there is no other name that was given so much authority as the name of Jesus. Many have died, but only Jesusdied and rose again, and he is still alive. "Jesus" 
 
 Jesus said,  "If you are embarrassed about me, I will also be embarrassedabout you before my father."  

"Lord, I love you and I need you, come into my heart, and bless me, my family, my home, and my friends, in Jesus' name. Amen."


