Title: 
Tuscany - The Land Of Beauty and Art

Word Count:
547

Summary:
This article informs and discusses the effects of Tuscany Paintings in ones home, as well as going into the history and how Tuscany became so popular especially for art, take a look at this article if you want to learn about Tuscany.


Keywords:
tuscany paintings, tuscany landscape paintings


Article Body:
Tuscany is an amazing place in Italy, well known for it's history of art and the spectacular landscapes that you will find there. These two reasons, correlate really well with the idea of Tuscany Paintings and Tuscany Landscape Paintings. 

If you've never been to Tuscany, you might have seen Under The Tuscan Sun, a very popular and romantic movie. There you would have seen the sights of Tuscany, and how amazing they really are.

There are many talented artists that make artwork based on Tuscany, whether it be the homes, landscapes, villages, everything in general about the place is serene. it is a place so unique to this world.

Whether you are looking to get a painting of Tuscany for decorating your home, or for the simple love of art, you will never be dissatisfied with the final product. It's hard to ruin something that is so fantastic.

Having Tuscany Paintings on your wall are sure to add bright colors, a definite point of focus to your room, or wherever you so put it. The picture itself will speak its own words, you do not need to explain it.

To see the landscapes of Tuscany in a movie, and then Tuscany Landscape Paintings, they are two completely different things, one is actual footage of the place, while the other in an interpretation from an artist, whether it be exact or dramaticized, however it may be.

if someone loves to travel, one place that is a must travel destination is Tuscany, simply because you will not see another place in this world like it.

Tuscany consists of ten provinces, all of which are special in their own way. The land consists of about two thirds consistent hills, not mountains, but not flats. Suttle hills that accentuate the most dazzling sunsets one will ever see.

About a fourth of the land is mountains, which are not as travelled as the hills, or the rest of the land which is flat. The mountains are definitely the least seen, but not to be mistaken.

Out of all the provinces, Florence is the most populated, next to Prato, and then Livorno in a close third. The entire population of the land reaches into the millions.

Tuscany first started to pick up its history in the Bronze and Iron Ages, starting at around 1,100 B.C. A lot of controversy between religion was brought up in the early times of Tuscany, and eventually the land was essentially split into two.

Each province having it's own strength, for instance, one in banking, another having a dock, specializing in silk, and more. But that time is when Florence rose to the top as the cultural capital, and still holds the title for the most populated province.

Back to the subject. Overall, Tuscany Paintings are a great asset to anyones home, simply because of the beauty and power that the image holds. Especially in the United States, where you won't find anything close to what Tuscany has to offer in environmental beauty, having a frame on the wall is a close second though.

Hopefully this article will help you make your decision on purchasing Tuscany Landscape Paintings, and that you now know a little history to tell your friends and family if they do happen to ask.


