Title: 
Win a Ipod nano!

Word Count:
537

Summary:
Take everything you love about iPod and shrink it. Now shrink it again. The pencil-thin iPod nano packs the entire iPod experience into an impossibly small design. So small, it will take your music places you never dreamed of.


Keywords:
ipod, nano,apple,Spot the Ball,Prize,Competition,Win Prizes,Online Game for Prizes,Free Competition,UK Competition,Online Competition,Play games online,play online,game online, football,online games,sport,golf,rugby,online, winners,games,cars,tennis,betting,gambling,odds,odds on, dream prizes,win a supercar,win a ferrari,win a car,competitions,win a motorcycles,win a motorbikes,casino,poker,supercar,ferrari,porsche,bmw,bentley,lamborghini,Aston Martin,lotus,


Article Body:
Take everything you love about iPod and shrink it. Now shrink it again. The pencil-thin iPod nano packs the entire iPod experience into an impossibly small design. So small, it will take your music places you never dreamed of.

Believe Your Ears Call it astonishing. Unbelievable. Impossible, even. Then pick it up and hold it in your hand. Take in the brilliant color display. Run your thumb around the Click Wheel. Put on the earbuds and turn up your music. That's when everything becomes clear: It's an iPod.

The iPod nano is the same thickness as a #2 pencil. It holds up to three days' worth of music. It plays for up to 14 hours between battery charges.(1) It displays the color album art for the song you're listening to right now. It carries your photos, podcasts and audiobooks. It syncs seamlessly with iTunes. It connects to a host of iPod accessories. Simply put, iPod nano is 100-percent iPod. And then some.

Touch and Go iPod nano's Click Wheel puts music under your thumb. Click to fast-forward, rewind, play, pause or access menus. Use the touch-sensitive surface to control volume or browse music. You can do it all without looking. But with an iPod this beautiful, who'd want to?

Up to 1 GB(2) of skip-free storage on a featherweight iPod means you can wear almost three days' worth of music around your neck. Or jog with 240 songs on your arm. Now that you can take your music everywhere, there's no limit to where it will take you.

1 in 3000.com offers people who love to play games a chance to come together to test their skills in sports competitions with fantastic prizes. Unlike other online gambling, betting, lottery and casino games, each spot the ball competition is a game of skill and judgement where both the thrill of playing and the odds of winning are higher. Taking part is easy, winning is a question of skill.

The outcome of all 1in3000.com games is uniquely based upon the player’s skill rather than chance. The random odds that are typical of online poker games, black jack and other forms of betting are eliminated by 1 in 3000.com as the odds of winning are greatly increased by limiting the number of players in each game to 3000; hence the name 1in 3000.com.

1in3000 competitions are games of skill and as such comply with UK lottery regulations. Each entrant has opportunity to use their skill and knowledge to increase their chances of winning fantastic luxury prizes. Whilst the starting odds are dependent on the number of tickets sold - 3000 for each game - you can greatly increase your chances of winning incredible prizes by applying your skill, judgement and sports expertise in each game you play.

1 in 3000.com brings the traditional fun of spot the ball competitions that used to be found in newspapers to online players, with the added bonus of the chance to win luxury prizes in every game. Each spot the ball competition uses an original photograph of a real game of sport such as football, rugby, golf, cricket or tennis. The ball is removed from the picture and players must use their skill and judgement to decide the position of the missing ball.


