Title: 
X FACTOR - Its New and Coming Soon the BLIND FACTOR

Word Count:
461

Summary:
God damn it this is a talent show. How fair are the results on the X Factor. Is there a fairer way to judge, Yes.


Keywords:
X Factor,show,judges decision,simon cowell,talent,talented,sharon,Louis series,winner,


Article Body:
Talented but feared is how would be hopefuls in search of fame feel about entering a show like the X Factor. Contestants know what to expect and are prepared to listen to comments on their performance, but what do they get an ear bashing of abuse. You can not blame the next Whitney Houston and Marvin Gaye's holding back from entering the show all because they need to visit weight watchers. 

Most of the time the remarks projected from the judge's mouth can be very humiliating. Comments can be destructive not constructive towards the finalist where their appearance/weight or how they have a pimple to many is disclosed in front of millions. 

God damn it. this is a talent show. How many of you sit back in shock when the results are announced and the most talented are ushered through the exit door. 

Let us change the rules of the X Factor so that everyone gets a fair crack of the whip, how you ask? 

To make it fair we call the show the Blind Factor where the judges at no time throughout the contest get to see the aspiring hopefuls, because all singing is performed behind a screen. This way you will be sure the winner of the contest is judged purely on talent alone. 


There are loop holes where fellow colleagues that normally work alongside the judges will break the rules and give some inside information to influence the judge's decision in making the right choice. This is easily solved by whisking the panel of judges off to a safe house in the country where they have no contact with the outside world whatsoever. 

Can you imagine Sharon Louis and Simon under the same roof? It would be a great making of a fly on the wall series.

Each week the judges of the X Factor will be allowed to ask the finalists questions in hope to build a bigger picture surrounding the background of the entrant. Then the panel have to provide an image of the person they have conjured up in their mind at the finals before the screen is pulled back revealing the winner.

This is the only solution for fairness in a competition as big as this and a guarantee that the person going through each week is voted in purely for their talent.

Carmen Miranda was never seen without a basket of fruit on head, Ian Drury was maimed and Stevie Wonder blind, regardless of their appearance or disabilities all these artists went on to top the music charts and why, because they had the X Factor.


This show called the Blind Factor would be FULLER fun. Simon Cowell if you are reading this, remember this idea is mine. It would be a blind fool to say otherwise.


