Title: 
Your Essential Travel Companion

Word Count:
497

Summary:
Digital cameras are a household gadget nowadays. Everybody is slowly realizing the advantages of storing all their photos and videos digitally, rather than maintain a physical copy. With the advent of this new phenomenon, the next issue on everybody’s minds is to protect their gear.


Keywords:
Digital cameras are a household gadget nowadays. Everybody is slowly realizing the advantages of storing all their photos and videos digitally, rather than maintain a physical copy. With the advent of


Article Body:
Digital cameras are a household gadget nowadays. Everybody is slowly realizing the advantages of storing all their photos and videos digitally, rather than maintain a physical copy. With the advent of this new phenomenon, the next issue on everybody’s minds is to protect their gear. This calls for some research to find the right camera bag for you.

When we say camera bags, the first brand that comes to the mind is Crumpler. Crumpler has carved a niche for itself in this field by designing the trendiest and hip camera bags. Its products have sold out world over and are still going strong. Many critics might argue that Crumpler bags compromise on quality but that is definitely not true. The DA120 is one of the sturdiest camera bags and has also been rated by several web sites as one among the top 10 camera bags. The keystone and sinking barge models seamlessly blend style and oomph with protection and security.  There is abundant padding on the sides to protect gear from shocks and they are also equipped with tough material that can definitely not be cut open by the ordinary thief.

Domke bags are more for the professional photographer. It has custom made bags that can be split into several compartments and can store up to several lenses, chargers, batteries and a camera in a single bag. They have been a long time favorite of several photographers the world over. But the major drawback with Domke is that its waterproof capabilities are not very enviable. This is a major downside. If you are a forest photographer, then you have to ensure maximum protection from the elements, especially from rain. There are several bags that have been designed for this purpose, the most popular one being the M-Rock Denali bag.
M-Rock recently announced its specialist outdoors camera bag. It has rain protection flaps and thick inner lining with non-permeable foam material that strives to ensure maximum protection from rain. The Denali also has several other compartments that are designed to accommodate CD players, chargers, water bottles and even binoculars. It is the ideal travel companion. 

Delsey has gone the extra step to ensure the perfect blend of protection, style and functionality. Its latest release, the Delsey Gopix, is amazingly easy on the shoulder. The best aspect about Delsey is that every single part that is used to make the bag is tested under vicious conditions before being sent into the manufacturing plant. This ensures maximum benefit to the buyer and also increases its lifetime. 

The final verdict. Crumpler and Lowepro are seated firmly in the driver’s seat, being the leaders in this category. Domke bags are not very suitable for extensive outdoor conditions due to poor rain proof capabilities, but are still regarded as favorites among amateurs and professionals alike. Delsey and M-Rock are slowly but surely rising as major players, but must trudge longer to catch up with the leaders, who are undoubtedly, Crumpler and Lowepro.


