Lancaster Archery

Lancaster Archery is a pioneer in the field of archery. With a wide product range like the bows, arrows and gears and appeals this company has made a visible growth in this field. 

The bows designed by Lancaster Archery are light in weight and are made up genuine quality material. This bow is fully mechanized for better delivery. Their extremely sturdy and faultless risers slots  is one of its kind and the thumb groove gets the lets you get the arrow close to your hand  thus minimizing pressure and adding stability to the game.

Latest technologies like ,Vertical Force Technology (VFT) and the Pinnacle5 Cam, that are used for making these bows, move the unequaled energy on the arrow. These bows are designed with Roller Guard/Shortstop string suppressor that holds the string of the bow thus absorbing the vibration of the string. 

 Designed for excellence, Lancaster Archery, bows are set at an angle that provides more stability and accuracy. This bow maintains the balance and is installed with special features like Pinnacle4 cam that distributes the pressure equally thus adding stability to the game. This also helps in minimizing the pressure that is concentrated on the limbs. The arrow can be taken closer to the hand as these bows are designed with a thumb groove and lowered berger

 The smooth drawing feature minimizes the pressure thus reducing the shocks and the noises that can be caused during the game. Liberty bow is designed with Vertical Force Technology (VFT) that allows the equal distribution of the pressure in all the directions during the game. 

Designed with the special feature of Freedom Cam, these bows, a product of Lancaster Archery , are designed to deliver smoothness and stability in the game. This bow maintains the balance and distributes the pressure equally thus adding stability to the game. This also helps in minimizing the pressure that is concentrated on the limbs. 

The bows by Lancaster Archery are designed for the beginners, by adults and children as well. These bows are the first of its kind and are featured with dual-cam bow, and are provided with single pivot mod to maximize the length of the shots.

Archery is the game that involves the shooting of arrows that is released from the bow and shot at a target. The closer you shoot the arrow to the targets, the more your score will be.

The scored targets of each player are added and the person with the highest addition is declared as the winner. With such a wide variety of products by the pioneers, it will be easy to gain accuracy over the game.  
