Traditional Archery

Archery involves use of a bow and arrow. The bow is used to launch an arrow so that it hits the target accurately. Archery is used since time immemorial. The battles that took place in fourteenth and fifteenth century used arrows and bows as bows as war weapons.

Even today many tribes use archery for hunting purpose. It is said that traditional archers are down to earth, generous and hardworking. The world of Archery can be divided into 3 major camps that are recognized as primitive, traditional and modern.

Traditional archery is considered to be the one of the oldest form of Archery. There are several archery traditions in several parts of the world, each having its own significance. Traditional bows such as longbows were used by many including the early man.

Although compound bows are popular today, still many prefer traditional bows. The compound bows are too mechanized and people want something simpler when launching an arrow. Traditional bows are fun to use as they are uncomplicated and user friendly.

Traditional archery can literally become a part of your life. Traditional bows that include recurves and long bows have an attractive appearance. Shooting with traditional bows is itself a challenge. You have to master them in order to aim accurately.

In traditional archery the archer can fire arrows naturally and smoothly. Traditional Archery has amazing history and cultural value. Traditional Archery is a natural to a simple and serves to be quite relaxing and recreational. Roving with traditional bows is a very healthy exercise.

Traditional Archery became more popular in 1940s and 1960s. Traditions bows though are a bit heavy are still used even today by many archers. It requires dedication and practice to master traditional bows.

If you want a body work out then you should try shooting using traditional bows. It stimulates mental improvement through relaxation and concentration. Traditional bows weigh around 50 to 60 pounds.

There are many websites on the internet that can be regarded as a home for traditional bow hunters and traditional hunters. You will find various online shops that can provide you traditional archery equipment at your door step.

There are some online shops that provide used and new traditional Recurve and Longbows. Custom wood bow strings and arrows are built according to your sporting needs. You can have great discounts on these traditional bows.

Traditional bows and arrows are wooden. Hence easier to handle. High quality wood is used in making traditional arrows and bows.  Even today there are some countries that organize traditional archery competitions.

It requires a high level of understanding to master traditional bows and arrows. Although traditional bows are difficult to master, they are known for their instinctive accuracy. Today Traditional bows that are manufactured are generally long bows that are more stable and considerably reduce hand shock.


There is no doubt that traditional bows will be seen again in large number in the twenty first century. In a nutshell, traditional bows have immense benefits; hence people should not hesitate to buy them.
