Title: 
5 Things to Know Before Going Wireless

Word Count:
750

Summary:
Before you decide to go wireless or not, there are many points to consider.  You may be asking yourself if wireless is for you.  Well, today, many people are asking themselves the same question.


Keywords:
voip,internet phone,voice over ip,broadband,broadband phone,broadband connection


Article Body:
Before you decide to go wireless or not, there are many points to consider.  You may be asking yourself if wireless is for you.  Well, today, many people are asking themselves the same question.  If you watch the headline news, you are bound to see stories involving mergers, federal regulations, and new tax rules.  This all points to the fact that VoIP has made a definite impression on American citizens and is here to stay.  It may be difficult for some people to remove the telephone cords from their homes; we have depended on them for over 100 years.  But once many people take the time to weigh the pros and the cons, most choose to go wireless. Here are some reasons, why you should make the switch to wireless.

1.	Wireless Creates a Faster Network

Wireless networks are fast.  With VoIP, you can create a network that incorporates data, audio, video, and computer web features. You can easily monitor your network for problems and troubleshooting is much simpler with web based applications rather than hardware applications.  VoIP uses less bandwidth than other applications and this in the long run saves money.  This is of special value to businesses.  Businesses can also provide better customer service with integrated programs.  Not only does this increase productivity, but also it saves time and money in the long run.


2.	VoIP Saves You Money

Overall, VoIP is much more inexpensive then PSTN.  You simply pay for your Internet service, and then whichever VoIP provider you choose.   For a one time monthly fee, you can have unlimited local and long distance phone calls.  You will need to check with the VoIP service provider that you choose for exact details on their rates.  Sometimes, your VoIP service provider will allow free calls within the world to another computer, yet there may be a fee for calls worldwide to a landline phone.  Always check with your chosen service provider for exact details regarding your chosen plan. Included in many VoIP service plans are free features.  These features include Voicemail, Caller ID, Call Waiting, Do Not Disturb, and more.  Again, check with your chosen service provider for an overview of all the features bundled with your plan. The biggest benefit is the unlimited long distance calling.  This has proven to be the number one reason why most businesses are switching to VoIP.  For businesses such as sales or jobs that have mobile employees, these benefits go without saying. But overall, the average cost of VoIP is considerably less when compared to the cost of PSTN.

3.	VoIP Enables you to Talk with More than One Person at a Time 


With VoIP, you can talk with more than one person without paying extra for services such as three way calling. With VoIP you can have more than three people on the phone at once.  VoIP is the perfect solution for those who want to explore the features of conference calls.  This is very important for businesses that have employees overseas.  By using the video conferencing features, employers will increase their productivity.

4.	Enjoy Greater Flexibility


By using VoIP, you can take your VoIP equipment with you whenever you travel.             Your VoIP service provider will send you a converter that will allow you to use your converter with any standard telephone.  The converter comes programmed with your telephone number, allowing you to take your phone and phone number with you worldwide.  All you will need is a high speed Internet connection and you can use your VoIP phone service. This is of extreme benefit to mobile employees.  No longer are outdated telecommunications systems necessary, or are employees trying to run businesses on prepaid cell phone plans.  By using VoIP, an employee will have access to his/her phone number, wherever they are located.  Whether out of state, in a hotel, or traveling on a business trip, customers will be able to call the same number as well as leave voice mail on the employee’s computer.  

5.  You can Save Money for Family and Friends by Choosing Your Area Code

Many VoIP service providers will give you the option of selecting your own area code number.  This is a tremendous benefit to family and friend members who can call you locally, if you select the same area code number.


