Title: 
A Look At Cordless Phones

Word Count:
414

Summary:
Cordless phones, also known as portable telephones, use a wireless handset in order to communicate with the phone’s base, which is connected to a telephone landline. In order for cordless phones to function properly, they must be used within a specified proximity to the base. Most individuals find that they can use their cordless phones throughout the house or in the yard without interruption.

In their earliest days, rotary telephones were common and required nothing more ...


Keywords:
cordless phone


Article Body:
Cordless phones, also known as portable telephones, use a wireless handset in order to communicate with the phone’s base, which is connected to a telephone landline. In order for cordless phones to function properly, they must be used within a specified proximity to the base. Most individuals find that they can use their cordless phones throughout the house or in the yard without interruption.

In their earliest days, rotary telephones were common and required nothing more than a connection to a landline. Cordless phones require the same, along with an electrical outlet in order to charge the internal battery. This function is what allows the telephone to operate when away from the base and these batteries are automatically recharged when the phone is not in use. After years of use, the battery may need to be replaced. This can often be difficult on older models, but a compatible battery can sometimes be purchased directly from the manufacturer. In some cases, it may be less expensive to purchase a whole new phone than to replace a battery in the old model.

Years ago, there was growing concern about the privacy related to using cordless phones. The potential for conversations to be picked up by nearby baby monitors, radios and other devices was troubling to many. However, the manufacturers of cordless phones have stepped up to increase their security. In order to receive the best privacy, a 900mhz or better cordless phones are recommended.

The convenience of cordless phones is undeniable. With their invention, it is now possible to have the telephone with you literally wherever you go. This is especially valuable to elderly people who live alone and need to have a telephone nearby. Anyone who needs to have quick access to a phone will find great comfort in the presence of cordless phones. In addition, the clarity is much greater than the previous rotary models. With a clear conversation and the ultimate convenience, cordless phones have quickly become a staple in every household.

Many individuals are selecting the double handset models, which only require one telephone line but allow for two different bases to be located throughout the house. This is especially desirable for the household with only one landline connection, but has the desire for more than one telephone. A dual handset is like having two telephones, but only requires one hookup. With prices starting at $10.00 for basic cordless phones or $50.00 for a dual handset, there is an option for every budget.


