Title: 
All You Need To Know About Proxy Sites

Word Count:
412

Summary:
This article illustrates what are proxy sites and their usage. The advantages for using these sites are also discussed in the article.


Keywords:
Proxy server, proxy list, proxy site


Article Body:
The proxy server connects the computer you use and the Internet. The Internet is used for accessing information, as we all know, and the proxy server helps with checking the information. With a proxy server, the information you try to access, will first get transmitted to that and only then reach your computer. 

With proxies, one will talk about the security one needs while using the Internet as well as increasing the speed if you are downloading files. There are anonymous proxy servers, which could help you hide the IP address. With this, anyone trying to gain access to your computer through the Internet may not be able to do so. 

Anonymous proxies can be used for any web pages, including free email sites. Proxies will help you transfer files at a faster speed, and also connect you to the Internet at a faster pace. Any kind of information you need will be instantly given to you. The most important advantage of proxies, is your privacy. It protects you from malicious Internet users.

Proxy sites will also allow you to surf the web without anyone’s knowledge. This is especially useful for secret agencies and government organizations. It will help you redirect the request for information that you have asked for, thereby making you anonymous. There are even three types of proxy servers, and they are transparent, anonymous and high anonymity.

The first one is applicable only for high transfer, the second may quote that you are using a proxy, but the third allows you to be completely anonymous. Using proxies is claimed to be legal, as there are people even offering these services to the public. These servers are very similar to web servers. There is no such rule that the Internet has to be used only in a certain way, as it is for public use. 

Thus anyone can use proxies, if they think they feel vulnerable with the use of the Internet. This is a great way to maintain privacy with the other users. But we also need to be careful of certain proxies. They may be associated with hackers.

It is not at all difficult to get a proxy list. It is easily available on search engines, and anyone needing that can obviously gain access to them as soon as they need. While one may not be immediately familiar with the use of the proxies, a little time and research will help the user become familiar very easily.


