Title: 
All About Calling Cards

Word Count:
484

Summary:
Calling cards can be for corporate or personal use. Having a calling card is like packing all your business identity, contact information and logo into a wallet sized billboard.


Keywords:
business, cards, printing


Article Body:
All sorts of businesses, profession or hobbies can benefit from calling cards. Whether you use them as a businessman, real state agent, doctor or any other means you can always be one step ahead of your colleagues or competitors when you have calling cards. Having a calling card is like packing all your business identity, contact information and logo into a wallet sized billboard. 

Calling cards can be for corporate or personal use. When they are used for work purposes they are commonly referred to as business cards. Business cards are used for contact information and keeping in touch with your customers. Adding a business card to your marketing strategy is one way of assuring that you maintain communication with your customers. Whenever or wherever they need to contact you, reaching you won’t be too difficult because they know which number to call. 

For personal use, traveler’s calling cards can come in handy when you are on the road and need to book hotels, call home or call your office. Having traveler’s calling cards can allow you to make that important call no matter where you are. Home phone cards can also be useful when you are traveling through a countryside where cell phones don’t work. Say for instance your car broke down and you need to call a mechanic, you can’t be always sure to make that call when you do not even know who to call. Your personal card can be very helpful in this occasion. Hence, having a calling card is like an added insurance to you so the next time you hit the road make sure that you never go without your phone card.

You can always design and customize your own calling card. Your choice of design can come in different forms. Among the most common design are raised ink and full color. But you can also choose among foil stamping, embossing and die cut, whichever you think suits your business. Die cut calling cards are always effective in captivating attention because of their unique shapes but they can also be expensive. Nonetheless, they can really make a difference in projecting your overall company image and making a memorable impression.  

Full color printing, particularly CMKY color printing, is also a good choice in designing your calling cards because it gives you the option of using full color images and photos in your design. You need not worry anymore about color printing being expensive because with the technology that are available today, color printing can now be offered at affordable prices. Hence, they are a cost effective way to display your information.  

The bottom line is: your choice of calling card design should be based on how you would like to project your business image, your advertising scheme and budget. Remember also that a simple design can always be as effective as a costly design.


