Title: 
An effective way to earn money for your company leading to greater future financial success

Word Count:
351

Summary:
As supervisor of a large company, one of my greatest concerns is to limit expenses as much as possible to ensure further company success. It remains a constant part of my job responsibility to lower costs and always be thinking of cost-effective ways to continue business in my department. After my boss purchased a complete new phone system, I decided that we should sell our old AT&T equipment back to the company we purchased the new one from.


Keywords:
Telephone, telephones, phone, phones, telephone systems, telephone system


Article Body:
As supervisor of a large company, one of my greatest concerns is to limit expenses as much as possible to ensure further company success. It remains a constant part of my job responsibility to lower costs and always be thinking of cost-effective ways to continue business in my department. After my boss purchased a complete new phone system, I decided that we should sell our old AT&T equipment back to the company we purchased the new one from.

Coming up with effective ways to begin back money within your company can add future financial success to your company. This innovative way of thinking will make you more valuable to your company. Ultimately, encouraging the owner or whomever is in charge of expenses, to continue to invest in more equipment that will not only help you but other employees. 

By implementing more effective systems within one’s company, it allows for the company to remain on the forefront for upcoming technology and also allows for greater success for employees. Their workload can significantly be eased by the installation of a new phone system. Customer service representatives’ greatest concern is the needs of your customers. If their needs are not met, your revenues are affected. 

Making the right decision on a new phone system could be the determinant of your business success. This new equipment will allow employees to work more efficiently and with less stress. It has been proven that less stress allows for more productivity. For example, by purchasing a complete new phone system with multiple lines, employees can be more specified in work responsibility.

 In my printing company, customer service representatives are each assigned separate responsibility concerning orders received by mail, email or fax. By having multiple lines, the receptionist can easily transfer customers to their specialized representative to better suit their needs.

The installation of this new equipment has my business running at its best. After this investment, I am actively seeking out additional ones that will continue to secure my future financial success. Staying updated with one’s equipment allows for greater work flow and happier customers.


