Title: 
Download Music Onto Iphone

Word Count:
591

Summary:
Downloading music to your Iphone may be a little easier than you first think- all that's needed is a computer, an Internet connection, and of course an Iphone! For those of you that have already owned Ipods, the procedure is pretty much identical, but for those of you that don't read on to see how it's done.


Keywords:
songs for iphone, iphone music, music for iphone


Article Body:
Downloading music to your Iphone may be a little easier than you first think- all that's needed is a computer, an Internet connection, and of course an Iphone! For those of you that have already owned Ipods, the procedure is pretty much identical, but for those of you that don't read on to see how it's done.

First of all, before you can download music to anything, you need to decide where you want the music to come from. If it's from cds that you already own, you can copy it to the hard drive of your computer without too much bother, but if it's music you intend to download, most often you'll find it's in the correct file format already.

If you decide to go the CD route, the first thing to do is decide on the songs you want, and then go about the task of pulling the songs from the CDs and saving them on the computer. This process is known as “ripping”. You'll find that most computers built within the last 5 or 6 years will be able to perform this task with no problem, although you may find it easier with a newer model as it may enable you to do all the CDs in one shot, instead of one at a time.

If on the other hand you are tired of all your old music, or you simply don't want to go to the trouble of transferring it across and would rather download it from the internet, this is pretty simple too. At the current time it's not possible to download music directly to the Iphone, it needs to go onto your computer first. It's thought that Apple will fix this with a future software update.

When looking to download music from the internet to use on your Iphone, one of the most important things is the speed of your internet connection. It can take a while to download a song over dial up, generally the faster your connection the better. If you have a slower one, it's still no huge problem, you'll just have to wait longer for your songs.

The other main thing you need is somewhere to get the downloads from. Customarily, over the last few years people have been having a field day getting all kinds of free downloads by using the peer to peer sites, or torrent sites, or whatever you want to call them. This can seem pretty cool, until you try it-torrent sites are pretty dangerous-hackers hang out there to try and get their warez and trojans etc downloaded by innocent users, so that they spread around the internet. Also, sites like this are pretty illegal, so if you get caught downloading anything, you're going to get into a lot trouble. Do you want the new JZ album bad enough to go to jail?

As a happy alternative, you can now download stuff from a variety of new places, which are altogether a safer haven from hackers and spammers etc. The way it works is that you pay a one off fee, and for that you get unlimited access to their download database. The databases are usually huge, and the downloads are pretty high speed. As well as music downloads, you can also expect to get free movie and tv shows, as well as games etc. All in all it's a pretty good deal, as you won't usually have to pay any more than about $50, and that covers you for life.

Hopefully that article will come in useful for you.


