Title: 
Gold Mobile Phone Numbers - not just for Stars and Celebrities!

Word Count:
521

Summary:
In today's ever increasing image conscious
society, unique and exclusive mobile phone numbers may appear only for those 'wanting to impress', but there really are more practical reasons for owning an easy mobile number.


Keywords:
Gold Mobile Numbers,Gold Numbers,Platinum Mobile


Article Body:
Often thought of as the preserve of the rich and famous, exclusive, gold mobile numbers are now available to us, more 'down to earth' folk!  Your first reaction might be that you're not an image conscious Trust Fund Babe, so why bother?; but you'd be surprised at the reasons and benefits
of owning a gold number.

So what exactly is a Gold Mobile Number?

A gold mobile number, gold number, platinum mobile number or diamond number - all terms that refer to a numerically easy, memorable mobile phone number.  They can have repetative digit combinations, like 777, 888, or a simple sequence - examples being 123 123 or 10 20 30. Often the sequences can be part of the prefix also, making them even more desirable.

Gold platinum mobile numbers are easily transferred to any UK network - Orange, Vodafone, O2, T-Mobile, Virgin etc.,
either on a Pay As You Go or monthly contract phone, and once purchased your gold platinum mobile SIM card number is yours for life.

The benefits of owning a Gold Mobile Number

How often have you been in a situation when someone asks for your number, and you reply "Hang on while I find my phone / card / bit of till receipt I can scribble it on".  It's an
embarrasing event the majority of us can relate to in one way or another.  Wouldn't it be great to swiftly reply with a super number that rolls off the tongue?

When others hear your gold mobile number, it's not only easy for them to remember it's a conversation talking point and ice breaker. Both guys and girls are equally impressed when
given or told a super number when out socialising. It makes both the number, and the owner, memorable.  When you're angling for a date, having a memorable number is far more
appealing than a scribbled note on a scruffy scrap of paper!

Another consideration to owning a gold mobile number is more practical. Lost numbers are a real pain. How many times have we lost contact with a friend or family member for a period of time because we've either lost, or left behind, our
mobile phone?  Not all of us transfer our phone address book into a real world paper version. What is in the actual phone memory or stored on the SIM card is often the only copy we carry when away from home. 

Now imagine your boyfriend/girlfriend/mate/Mum or Dad losing their mobile phone and you're waiting to meet them - or waiting to be picked up from some event. At best, this sort of situation can be an inconvenience, at worst, a dangerous situation to be in.  If you had an easy memorable mobile phone number, they could easily reach you and situations like these can be readily overcome. The difficulty and stress such times can create can be greatly eased.

So, gold mobile numbers are not only for the image conscious celebrities or the 'wanabees', there are some really strong practical reasons to consider owning a Gold Number, and as the demand for rare numbers becomes greater, the opportunity
to aquire a really unforgettable number at affordable prices will become tougher.


