Title: 
Hearing Impaired Phones Help Millions Communicate

Word Count:
515

Summary:
There are a number of hearing impaired phones on the market that are designed to keep everyone in the communication loop.


Keywords:
hearing impaired phones, amplified phones, corded phones, cordless phones


Article Body:
We live in a society that is more dependent upon communication technology than at any other time in human history. And, with one out of ten people living with a hearing loss, it's critically important to ensure that technology is readily adaptable to people who have mild to severe hearing loss. 

Thankfully, there are a number of hearing impaired phones on the market that are designed to keep everyone in the communication loop. A wide range of amplified phones is available, including both corded phones and cordless phones. If you are interested in buying hearing impaired phones, here are some brands and models to consider:

GE: If you, a coworker, or a loved one suffers from moderate to severe hearing loss and also has vision problems, GE's big button amplified phones may be the answer. The phones have graphic equalizers that can customize the phone for a person's hearing loss, and have ringer amplification up to 90dB and a handset boost up to 40dB. The amplified base speakerphone works like a charm, and an enhanced visual ringer and vibrating alert ensures that no calls are missed. 

For users with mild hearing loss, GE offers a wonderful cordless audio boost phone. Its oversized ear seal helps hearing capability, and the hearing aid-compatible phone provides a 20dB gain. In addition, its backlit keypad, large buttons, and large LCD display are invaluable to those who are also sight-impaired.

Clarity: Clarity's line of corded phones are known for amplifying only the sounds the listener wants to hear while reducing irrelevant and unwanted background noise. With an audio output jack that can be connected to a headset, a neck loop, or a cochlear implant, the phones can amplify an incoming voice for a 60dB gain. Plus, they're fully compatible with hearing aids.

ClearSounds: ClearSounds offers hearing impaired cordless phones that are perfect for people who need the versatility and mobility that cordless phones offer. With amplification up to 50dB, the phones have tone controls that affect both low and high frequencies. With a vibrating alert in the handset and a loud ringer in both the base and the handset, calls won't be missed. 

Ameriphone: Ameriphone offers a variety of amplified corded phones that both increase volume and make words clearer and easier to understand. Slide control gives the moderately hearing impaired user the ability to adjust the tone range, while large, backlit buttons make it easy for those with impaired vision to dial. 

Of course, corded phones and cordless phones are only one type of technology that can assist those with hearing impairments. TTY/TDD phones are vital for some people, while warning devices like smoke detectors, carbon monoxide detectors, and weather alert radios can save lives. Similarly, knock sensors, light alerts, and bed shakers can make the lives of those with hearing impairments easier.

Hearing impaired phones are made by a variety of manufacturers and have myriad features. In order to find the right phone to fit your needs, shop with a reputable online store that has sales associates who are both knowledgeable and who are eager to help.


