Title: 
How To Get Music On Your Iphone

Word Count:
445

Summary:
Iphones haven't been on the market all that long and already they are becoming one of the most popular must have gadgets around. One of the questions on many Iphone owners' lips' is how to get music onto their Iphone. If you're familiar with Ipods you may already know how this is done, but if not, read on to find out how to get some music on your Iphone.


Keywords:
iphone songs, music for iphone, free iphone songs


Article Body:
Iphones haven't been on the market all that long and already they are becoming one of the most popular must have gadgets around. One of the questions on many Iphone owners' lips' is how to get music onto their Iphone. If you're familiar with Ipods you may already know how this is done, but if not, read on to find out how to get some music on your Iphone.

In order to download music to your Iphone, there are a few things you will need-

1-A computer-age and specifications shouldn't matter, as long as it's newer than say 6 or 7 years. You'll also need enough free space on the computer's hard drive.
2-An internet connection. Speed isn't an issue, you will however be better off with the fastest connection you can find though, as if you are still stuck on dial up or something it can take a while to download the files you want.
3-You'll also need the USB lead that came with the Iphone to connect it to the computer. At this stage it's not yet possible to download songs directly from the internet to the Iphone, so you will need to save them to your computer first.

The last thing is the trickiest-somewhere to download the music from!

The first thing you will need to know is to avoid the torrent sites-they are also known as P2P or peer to peer sites. Using these sites may result in you having criminal proceedings brought against you, as they are illegal, and it can also result in your computer being damaged beyond repair by malware and trojans etc that may be embedded in your downloads.

You'll find that there are no places where you can actually download free music for your iphone, but you will find there are a few sites which can offer the next best thing-unlimited downloads after a small one off fee. If you can find a site like this you will end up getting fantastic value for money.

The other alternative is to put your CD collection on your Iphone. This is usually done by obtaining a “ripping” program to use on your computer-this will enable you to literally “rip” the songs from CD and save them as files on your computer. Despite it's scary name, ripping the songs from a CD doesn't affect it in any way. Once you have the songs saved on the computer, it's usually just a case of connecting the Iphone to the computer and synchronizing the Iphone, which should then automatically transfer all the songs over to the Iphone.

Hopefully you have found this article informative and helpful when transferring music onto your Iphone.


