Title: 
How To Get Movies On Iphone

Word Count:
470

Summary:
If you are lucky enough to own an Iphone and have been trying to find out how to put movies on it, this article aims to show you the way. You can't have failed to realise that Apple have recently released their Iphone, which is technological marvel following along the lines of the Ipod.


Keywords:
iphone movie downloads, watch movies on Iphone


Article Body:
If you are lucky enough to own an Iphone and have been trying to find out how to put movies on it, this article aims to show you the way. You can't have failed to realise that Apple have recently released their Iphone, which is technological marvel following along the lines of the Ipod.

The Iphone is, as it sounds, basically an Ipod mixed with the latest cellphone technology, allowing internet browsing, phone calls, and multimedia storage all from one small handset. There is obviously a lot that the Iphone can do alongside play movies, but the movie playing side of things looks a dead cert to be on of the most popular aspects.

With an Iphone you can show movies that have come either from a DVD or straight from the internet. Obviously, a DVD won't fit into your Iphone, so you'll first need to get the movie onto a computer, and you should then be able to transfer the files to your Iphone. In order to get a DVD saved on your computer in the required format, you'll need some “ripping” software, which is capable of ripping the files into MP4 format, which is what the Iphone uses.

The other side of the coin is when you are trying to get movies on your Iphone when you don't actually own them on DVD. This answer is one of the most sought after amongst Iphone owners, and once you know it you will probably be the envy of many of your friends.

Many people simply download the movies from torrent or peer to peer sites, which is of course illegal, and pretty dangerous for your computer too. Ever wondered why people that download lots of stuff get viruses all the time? It's because they use places like that. Do you really want to run the risk of killing your Iphone or computer, or worse, actually going to jail, just to download the latest Tarantino  movie? It's simply not worth the risk.

Instead, there are some much safer alternatives springing up in the world these days. There are only a few of these sites because the Iphone is so new, and you really do need to know where they are to find them, but the way it works is that you pay a small fee and then you are given access to their download database, which is usually huge, much larger than any P2P site. Once you have access, you are then allowed to download an unlimited amount of stuff for your Iphone. It's not limited to movies either, you could download MP3s, games, music videos, TV shows, pretty much whatever you desire. The downloads are usually pretty smooth and fast too.

Hopefully you will find this resource useful, as most people have no idea these sites exist.


