Title: 
Iphone Software-Download It For Free

Word Count:
414

Summary:
In case you have been under a rock for the last five years, Apple's Ipod has been a phenomenal success, so much so that it's spawned it's owned cultures and styles.


Keywords:
free iphone software, free iphone downloads


Article Body:
In case you have been under a rock for the last five years, Apple's Ipod has been a phenomenal success, so much so that it's spawned it's owned cultures and styles. Apple's latest release, the Iphone, looks set to do much the same thing, as it's a cellphone which gives you full internet abilities and lets you carry your whole music and movie collection around and watch it on the go. One of the best reasons to own an Iphone, is so that you may download some of the cool software that's emerging for it.

At this time, Apple have restricted the Iphone and don't allow any third party manufacturers to develop software for it. Many people fail to see the point of this restriction, and even though the device is relatively new, and hackers have already been able to bypass security on the unit and get into the firmware. This means that users are no longer stuck with the cell networks that Apple have forced onto them-Apple aren't too pleased however, and have issued statements declaring that such hacking will violate the terms and conditions of the user's guarantee.

It is reported that Apple are soon to be releasing a security update for the Iphone, which will of course be mandatory, and will once again attempt to block the use of other cell networks. Whether the hackers will again be able to break into the firmware after this update is anybody's guess. The other major aspect to be updated, it is thought, is to give the Iphone direct access to the Itunes media download store, which as it stands cannot be done directly through the phone itself. Apple was accused of dropping the ball in a major way when the Iphone went live and people discovered for all it's technology, it was unable to download music directly to the phone itself, something other cellphones have been capable of for the last couple of years at least.

Apple have recently committed themselves to ongoing updates and development of the Iphone software, which will be obtainable free of charge for all users. Whether this is truly a goodwill gesture as they seem to claim or just an attempt to repeatedly block the hackers remains to be seen.

Iphones really are starting to be the new craze, taking over from the Ipod. If you want to be able to listen to music, use your cellphone, browse the web and watch movies, what more could you want?


