Title: 
Making a long distance call from a military base overseas, just got a lot easier.

Word Count:
389

Summary:
For service members to acquire the choice calling rates from OEF/OIF, senders should take advantage of the retrenchment and buy the Military Interchange 550 and 300 Minute Prepaid Card as it offers  superior function when calling from abroad.


Keywords:
Calling cards,Prepaid calling cards,Millitary calling card,long distance calling card


Article Body:
For service members to acquire the choice calling rates from OEF/OIF, senders should take advantage of the retrenchment and buy the Military Interchange 550 and 300 Minute Prepaid Card as it offers  superior function when calling from abroad. 

Although telephone cards are handy at many metropolitan retailers, they do not tender the genuine value when placing international calls to the U.S as compared to the Military Interdependence 600 and 180 Minute Global Prepaid Phone Card. 

Prepaid phone cards are typically intended and marketed for usage only within the 48 conterminous states by various retailers as the cards are usually sold for domestic service. Domestic retailers do not bull's-eye nor bargain low priced international calling rates to the U.S. Hence, they tenor international long distance prices higher, as their target market is domestic.

Military service members may be sent prepaid calling cards from home or provided pro bono prepaid cards from special organizations; inasmuch, the Military Connection does not sway the negotiated rates for these products and rates may be significantly higher as well as lie under connection or various obscured fees.

 Additionally, various emolument options are adaptable when placing calls such as telephone calling cards, mercantile credit cards, and collect calls. Using these products when placing calls from Iraq or Afghanistan will be significantly higher and rates differ for each product. Telephone calling cards may contain surprising charges, connection and service fees. Using the 550 and 300 Minute Global Military Exchange Prepaid Card offers the military man superior value when calling from OEF/OIF back to the U.S as they do not bear any hidden charges, connection fees and the minutes do not run out. 


Beloved friends and family back home can "recharge" minutes to a deployed soldier's prepaid card. Simply have the deployed troops supply you with the 800 number and secret pin number located on the back of the prepaid card. Then simply call the 800 number and follow the voice prompts to add additional minutes.


The "Ship to Shore" prepaid card is the only card that can be used to place calls via Direct Ocean Services (DOS) and is effective on most U.S. Navy ships. DOS allows for Sailors and Marines to stay in contact with family and friends pending on deployment. This card can also be used to place calls ashore when port visits. Calling rates differ through country.


