Title: 
Predictive Dialers and Other Vital Tools to Increase Your Telemarketing Profits

Word Count:
533

Summary:
Maximize your telemarketing efforts with innovative call center software and tools such as the amazing predictive dialer.  Read more about predictive dialers and other great telemarketing products in this article...


Keywords:
predictive dialers, predictive dialer, auto dialer, spitfire, telemarketing, crm, call center, telemarketing services


Article Body:
Telemarketing has changed a great deal over the past few years. With innovative technologies being released such as Spitfire predictive dialers and other call center software and products, your telemarketing team can now be more productive than ever. Computerized telemarketing tools and the recent integration between the Internet and telephone systems enable your telemarketers to spend less time dialing and more time actually giving their presentation to potential customers. 

Below are some unique telemarketing services and products that have revolutionized the way telemarketers conduct their businesses.

Predictive Dialers

A predictive dialer was developed to dial phone numbers automatically and then monitor calls and the types of answers it receives when dialing. It then connects telemarketing agents to the call once it recognizes that a real person is on the line. Predictive dialers are used in many call centers today, and have helped thousands of telemarketers maximize their efforts and waste less time dialing non-responsive numbers. 

How It Works

With a hosted predictive dialer system, you'll only need a computer, Internet connection, and a telephone line for each telemarketing agent. With a Spitfire Predictive Dialer, for example, you'll receive outbound and inbound dialing capabilities, and can integrate the system with your T1 or analog lines without having a separate database server. Other features include query-based dialing, and time zone sensitivity. You'll also have the capability to run multiple campaigns simultaneously, alternate number dialing, and monitor and record calls. This setup is an easy-to-use system and requires minimal effort to get started. 

This amazing CRM (customer relationship management) software drastically reduces the number of answering machines, voice mails, busy signals and hang-ups that your telemarketers may encounter during the workday.

Auto Dialers

Auto dialers were available prior to predictive dialers. These can dial telephone numbers automatically for your call center agents, but do not use algorithms such as the predictive dialer to connect the agent to only successful calls. The auto dialer is a handy tool if you have a limited budget but want to automate your telemarketing efforts.

Monitoring Systems

A monitoring system enables you to monitor calls for testing, training, motivation and assistance. You can ensure better quality service by keeping an "ear" on your telemarketers during their training.

Amplifiers

Amplifiers are great for ensuring good sound quality for each telephone call. With an amplifier, you can control the volume and enable muting. With some amplifiers, you can switch from your telephone to your computer easily. 

Headsets

With headsets, your telemarketers can have free hands to write, type or do anything else while talking with potential clients. This prevents dropping of the receiver or the need to hold the receiver in an odd position while trying to write or type the client's information. There are many types of headsets including voice tubes, in the ear, over the ear, noise canceling, wireless, and convertible.

These are just a few of the basic tools every telemarketer should have to be successful. In today's ever-changing marketplace, you have to stay ahead of the game with innovative call center software and products like predictive dialers to be a success. Telemarketing is still a great way to contact potential customers once you have all the tools you need.


