Title: 
Review of Callcentraic features

Word Count:
612

Summary:
We have heard of many different pc to phone call companies that even offer free pc to phone international calls. We asked ourselves a question - how many people actually use these types of telephone services? Who would want to use their computer to make calls and receive calls?


Keywords:
free pc to phone international call


Article Body:
We have heard of many different pc to phone call companies that even offer free pc to phone international calls. We asked ourselves a question - how many people actually use these types of telephone services? Who would want to use their computer to make calls and receive calls? And it actually turned out that a lot of people would rather use their pc to make and receive calls than use a regular phone line. We have taken a look at the company called Callcentric. This company seems to be relatively new on the market but has a lot of different calling features that might make it more popular than other companies.

Looking into the different features offered by this provider it seems that one feature actually sticks out more than the rest. Many of you have heard of three (3) way calling but what about four (4) way calling. This is something completely different and yet it is the same. You activate the feature the same way you would for three way calling but you are allowed to get a total of four different numbers or rather people on the line at the same time. This would be a great feature for a home office especially when it comes to conference calls. A lot of people have to get three or four people on the line at the same time and end of having to get their telephone company to provide a number to call so that the conference call can be made like that. And this feature is part of the plan so there are no extra charges. This is awesome!

What about those annoying calls where people whether they are friends, family members or those most creative (just joking) telemarketers who have their telephone numbers blocked. On landline telephones you use the caller ID to know whether or not to answer the telephone and have to either wait for the answering machine or voice mail to pick up.  Well it seems Callcentric has taken it one step further and come out with anonymous call rejection. When you see those unknown callers coming through your pc you have the choice on what to do with them; either send them directly to your voice mail or you can send them to a prerecorded message that advises them that you do not accept calls from unknown callers and they have to call back with the number unblocked. It seems Callcentric gets better with their features.

Everyone has heard the saying BYOB but have you ever heard of BYOD.  BYOD - Bring Your Own Device, what exactly is it? Well, with Callcentric you can use any type of phone whether it is the soft-phone or a regular telephone adapter, and as long as it supports SIP (Session Initiation Protocol) you can use it. With some devices you even can connect your pc to phone adapter and it will act as a broadband router. You can verify what devices have been tested by going to the support area of Callcentric.

The last two features that seem to be useful when it comes to Callcentric is the call forwarding feature and the call return.  The call forwarding allows certain features to be used and where all incoming calls can be forwarded to another number.  Call return lets you call back the last person who called even if you didn’t actually speak to that person.
It seems that using Callcentric and its PC to phone call which offers free pc to phone international call is one of the best PC telephone companies out there.  It has tons of different great features which make the company one of the best.


