Title: 
RingtoneFeeder Launches  Innovative New Service for iPhone ringtones

Word Count:
438

Summary:
RingtoneFeeder, is proud to announce the launch of its new service for iPhone ringtones. RingtoneFeeder provides a new and innovative approach to ringtones through its subscription service, which automatically installs a new original ringtone on subscribers’ iPhones via iTunes every week. The earlier people subscribe to the service, the bigger the ringtone collection they will have. When a ringtone has been released, it will not appear in the weekly feed ever again.


Keywords:
iphone ringtones, ringtones, ring tones, ringtones for iPhone, ringtone


Article Body:
Once the ringtone has been synced via iTunes, it is instantly available on the iPhone. The subscriber can keep all iPhone ringtones received permanently during the active subscription period even if the service is cancelled later on.

Using Smart Playlists in iTunes the user can manage the number of simultaneous ringtones to be synced to the iPhone automatically, however, the basic concept is simply to get a fresh new ringtone every week -- just like getting an episode of a favorite podcast or TV show.

"We are really exited about this new concept and we are confident that the iPhone ringtones we are producing will make a positive difference for the millions of iPhone users out there. Unlike normal ringtones which are often made from extracts of songs or existing tones, we are producing short songs that are made to be ring tones, they are unique, sometimes even topical and optimized specifically for the iPhones," said Geoff Smith, Partner and Producer at RingtoneFeeder.com. "We hope to be able to make the sound of your phone ringing more pleasant, maybe even put a smile on someone's face when the iPhone starts ringing."

RingtoneFeeder is currently offering two different subscription options. The monthly subscription cost is $1.98 or consumers can opt for a full year at $19.98, which both includes instant access to the 5 most recently produced iPhone ringtones along with at least one new ringtone usually released every Tuesday. 

In addition, subscribers have access to a video tutorial about using RingtoneFeeder services, managing ringtones via Start Playlists in iTunes and syncing with the iPhone.

A free demo feed is available so the service can be tried out with no obligations. The free feed contains a few sample iPhone ringtones as well as an introduction video and a PDF guide to managing ringtones via iTunes.

Most of RingtoneFeeder.com’s ringtones are written and produced by partner Geoff Smith, who has been producing and playing music most of his life and is mostly known online from his jingles heard on Adam Curry’s Daily Source Code Podcast, GeekBrief.tv, Tips from The Top Floor, ScreenCasts Online and recently the successful iYule project.

Beside writing the lyrics and producing the original tones, RingtoneFeeder has spent considerable time identifying not only specific instruments but also testing each and every ring tone production to ensure that the tones are within a well defined sound spectrum ensuring the ringtones sounds great when the iPhone is ringing.

To learn more about RingtoneFeeder.com, please visit www.ringtonefeeder.com. Visitors are also encouraged to check out RingtoneFeeders’ blog at blog.ringtonefeeder.com for the latest news and updates.


