Title: 
Samsung Phones-Pack Powerful Technology and Great Design into One Smart Package

Word Count:
372

Summary:
Uniquely put together and designed are adjectives that easily describe all samsung phones. They offer a vast array of styles such as sliders, flip phones, and sleek candy-bar like designs. The LCD screens are bright and bold, allowing users to see them clearly.


Keywords:
samsung cell phone, cellphones


Article Body:
Fine Features of Samsung Phones
Clamshell flip phones are the forte for the lineup of samsung phones available to consumers by all cell phone providers. There are a few exceptions to that rule such as the Samsung Juke, which plays music. Half of the phone flips in a sideways motion to allow the user to talk. Samsung isn't short on innovation and technological advances. They are continually coming out with a new line of phones for the public to use and enjoy. Samsungs phones are available in both CDMA and GSM formats. Samsung phones in the GSM format have the ability to receive custom-made ringtones and the best in graphics. However, CDMA Samsung phones don't offer the same ability typically. PDA style phones are also available by the company. Many of the Samsung phones weigh in around 2.8 to 3.0 ounces and only a few weigh as much as 3.6 ounces. They're easy to carry around and fun to talk on. 

A Company that Makes it Easy on the Consumer
If you don't like to play twenty questions, you may rethink that when you go to buy a new cell phone. Shopping for Samsung phones is made very easy for the consumer. By taking a test located at http://cellphones.about.com/od/buyersguides/qt/best_cell_phone.htm you can best determine which type of cell phone they offer that will best suit your calling and lifestyle needs. Since the company has been around since 1939 during the WWII area they have had ample time to hone to perfection their technological skills. Their engineering is superior to many other cell phone manufacturers offering similar types.

Style and Design of Samsung Phones
Uniquely put together and designed are adjectives that easily describe all samsung phones. They offer a vast array of styles such as sliders, flip phones, and sleek candy-bar like designs. The LCD screens are bright and bold, allowing users to see them clearly. Samsung phones often have bold and sleek designs with the latest in technological upgrades. They're very durable if they're ever dropped on the ground, basically taking a licking and keep ticking to the very end. Some come with colored, changeable face plates to give the cell a different look beyond ordinary


