Title: 
Treo-Gear.com Offers the Palm Treo 700w Smartphone—the First Verizon Windows Mobile Device Built Into the Power of a Palm

Word Count:
292

Summary:
Treo-Gear.com adds the Palm Treo 700w Smartphone—the first Palm phone device available on Windows Mobile platform—to its already vast selection of Treo devices. The Treo 700w is a full-featured phone with easy-to-navigate features and high-speed CDMA networking capabilities that successfully combines phone, email, organizer, messaging, Web browser and camera in one small device.


Keywords:
Treo Accessories, Treo Phone, Treo Case, Treo Charger, Treo Holster


Article Body:
Treo-Gear.com adds the Palm Treo 700w Smartphone—the first Palm phone device available on Windows Mobile platform—to its already vast selection of Treo devices. The Treo 700w is a full-featured phone with easy-to-navigate features and high-speed CDMA networking capabilities that successfully combines phone, email, organizer, messaging, Web browser and camera in one small device.

“With the Treo 700w, users get the power of a Windows Mobile environment with the speed of high-speed, broadband internet access and the one-handed navigation of a Treo Smartphone,” says Jennifer Bean, IS Director of eCommerce at Treo-Gear.com.

Treo 700w Accessories, such as a 512 MB or 1 GB expansion card, Bluetooth headsets, optional screenguards and versatile cases make the 700w’s functionality truly exceptional. Plus the device’s integrated QWERTY keyboard with 5-way navigator—Windows Mobile 5 action keys—in the center of the phone allows users to access everything with one hand. Scroll messages, scan Web pages, read documents and find phone numbers easily. 

Central to the device’s functionality is an enhanced Today Screen system, a Windows Mobile-based experience that gives users access to their phone numbers, calendar appointments, unread emails, Web searches and more without the need to go through a menu screen.

“We are pleased to offer this user-friendly, high-functioning device and huge selection of quality Treo accessories to our customers,” Bean says. “This ultra-portable device allows users to stay in touch with home and office while on the go without the need of a laptop.”

For quick information access and versatile usability, The Treo 700w Smartphone is Palm’s first to integrate EvDO, the latest generation of high-speed CDMA networks, which supports download speeds of 400-600 Kbps. The device has 128 MB of memory, 60MB user storage and a 1.3 megapixel camera with 2x zoom.


