Can High End Home Purifiers for Homes Work for Business?

Are you a business owner who is looking to improve the health of your customers and employees?  If you are, you may be interested in buying an air purifier to use in your establishment.  If you are, you may turn to high end home air purifiers.  Air purifiers that are designed for the home are known for their affordability, but will they work for a commercial setting?

When it comes to determining if a high end home air purifier will work for a business setting, you will find that it all honestly depends.  If you are a business owner or the person who is responsible for making all office related purchases, there are a number of important questions that you will first want to ask yourself.  These questions should help you determine which type of air purifier should be bought for your establishment.

One of the many questions that you will want to ask yourself is how large of a space do you want to clean the air of?  When answering this question, it is important to proceed with caution and be fair.  For example, you will not want to treat and clean the air of one department, but not the other.  The same can be said for retail stores.  The whole establishment should be treated, not just the sales floor, as you do not want to give the impression that you care more about your customers than your employees.

Returning back to the size of space that you need to clean, it is important to remember that air purifiers do come in a number of different formats.  For example, there are high end home air purifiers that are designed for single rooms, multi-rooms or the whole house.  If you can run a small office setting, it is possible to purchase a single room or multi-room air purifier, but you will also want to keep the CADR in mind.  If you want to purchase whole house air purifiers, which are designed for large spaces, you can do so.  With that being said, it may be best to examine those that are designed for commercial spaces.

As stated above, you do have the option of using multiple air purifiers for individual rooms or offices.  Before doing so, it is important to look at the number of systems that are needed and their costs.  It is no secret that high end home air purifiers, including those for small rooms, cost more money.  Although these costs are more than worth it, it is important to examine how much you will end up spending.  Depending on what you purchase, you could easily end up spending around $500 to $1,000 on an air purifier.  As a quick comparison, many commercial air purifiers, which are often designed for larger spaces, tend to start at around $4,000.  Whatever approach you take, just make sure that you don’t end up losing money.

As for why you should purchase an air purifier for your business, it is important to know the benefits of them.  As for the benefits that can benefit businesses the most, they can help to reduce sick time and they can also help to improve productivity.  For example, those who suffer from allergies and asthma are likely to experience fewer symptoms when air purifiers are used, especially those with HEPA filters.  Also, consider outfitting your establishment with an air purifier as a good deed.  You are providing your clients and employees with good, clean air.  In fact, if this is known, it can help to improve your public perception.

PPPPP

Word Count 593
