Cheap Air Purifiers versus High End Air Purifiers:  Which Is Best?

Do you suffer from asthma or allergies or would you just like to make sure that the air inside your home is clean?  If you would, you may be interested in buying an air purifier.  If you are, you will find that you have a number of different options.  Two of your main options involve buying a cheap air purifier or a high end air purifier.  As for which one is the best, you will find that high end air purifiers come highly rated and recommended.

When it comes to shopping, we all want to save money. That is a given.  Of course, no one wants to pay more money than they need to, but it is important to proceed with caution where air purifiers are considered.  For more information on why, please continue reading on.

Air purifiers are systems in the home that cleans the air.  They, essentially, make your home a safer place to be.  For example, most homes have more toxins and pollutants inside than there is outside.  This is amazing and scary all at the same time.  Air purifiers all help to clean the air, but it is important to know that not just any air purifier will do.  For example, did you know that high end home air purifiers that use HEPA filters tend to trap and remove about 90% of the particles from the air.  This number is significantly higher than the numbers that you will find associated with many cheaper, lower quality air purifiers.

When shopping, you have likely heard the phrase “you get what you pay for.”  Although this phrase is commonly overused, it is true.  On average, a high end single or multi-room air purifier can cost around $300 to $500.  Cheaper air purifiers cost much less.  In fact, they typically start at around $50.  Although buying an air purifier for about $50 does sound nice, what do you think that you will get out of it?  In all honesty, you have to look at it from the standpoint of a manufacturer.  If some are able to sell their air purifiers for hundreds or even thousands of dollars, why aren’t they all selling for that much money?  It is because the quality is different.

As for why high end home air purifiers are recommended, you will find that they tend to save you money overtime.  This is something that many consumers are surprised with, as many do not think to take the long-term cost of owning an air purifier into consideration.  Typically, you will find that high end home air purifiers last longer.  This, alone, can save you money.  It is also important to look at the filters used.  Cheaper air purifiers often need to have filters replaced on a monthly basis and this can get very costly.  On the other hand, some high end air purifiers only need to have their filters replaced a couple of times a year, if that.

If you are turned of by the cost of high end air purifiers for the home, don’t be.  You should look at it as an investment that you will likely see a return on.  That return may be more money in your pocket, as you often need to replace your purifier and filters less.  It is also important to look at it from health side.  High end air purifiers can provide those who suffer from asthma and allergies with relief.  

PPPPP

Word Count 571
