Factors to Consider When Buying High End Air Purifiers

Air purifiers are increasing in popularity.  Their sales have increased over the past few years.  While there are a number of different reasons for this, you will find that most are centered on or around health.  Air purifiers are a great and relatively affordable way to clean the air of a home.  This is perfect and in many cases a must for those suffering from allergies and asthma.  

If you decide to purchase an air purifier for your home, you will want to go with a high end air purifier.  This is because high end purifiers have a number of benefits.  These benefits tend to include quality air purifiers that produce the best results, at a quicker rate of speed, and for a longer period of time.  Since there are a number of benefits to high end air purifiers, you may be interested in making a purchase.  When doing so, however, there are a number of important factors that should be taken into consideration.

When looking to buy a high end air purifier, one factor that should be taken into consideration that of CADR.  CADR is the abbreviation that is used to describe the Clean Air Delivery Rate.  This is important, as it can help you determine which sized high end air purifier you need to purchase.  As for what this means, the higher the CADR number, the easier it will be for a room to get clean air.  Many home improvement stores recommend taking the square footage of a home or a room and multiplying it by .75.  This will give you the CADR that should be purchased.

Air filters are another one of the many factors that should be taken into consideration when looking to buy a high end air purifier.  Some air purifiers are filter-free.  Although these filter-free purifiers have increased in popularity, many still like buying those with filters.  When doing so, it is important to proceed with caution.  What you will want to do is determine how long an air filter is likely to last.  Next, examine the costs.  High end air purifiers and air filters are likely to cost more money, but you shouldn’t have to spend thousands of dollars each year.  Look for HEPA air filters, as they come highly rated and recommended.  HEPA air filters are also considered high end air filters.

Reputation, ratings, and reviews should also be taken into consideration.  If you are looking for a high end air purifier, you may want to first examine brands.  Be sure that you choose a high end brand or at least one that is trusted and known for their good reputation and quality products.  If you are looking to buy based on model number, price, or size, be sure to first examine ratings and reviews.  This is important.  Just because an air purifier or an air filter is high priced, it doesn’t mean that it can be considered high end, in terms of performance.

Another factor that should be taken into consideration, when looking to buy a high end purifier, is that of purchase points.  Purifiers are sold through a number of different retailers.  There are some high end air purifier manufacturers who sell their own products on their own online websites, but many still allow their products to be sold through other retailers.  If you are interested in shopping locally, your best bet is to shop at a home improvement store.  Department stores and discount stores do sell air purifiers, but they tend to be cheap and poor in quality.  

As highlighted above, there are a number of important factors that should be taken into consideration when looking to buy a high end air purifier.  As a quick recap, these factors include CADR, purchase points, needed air filters, and reputation, ratings, and reviews.  By keeping these important points in mind, when making your purchase, you are likely to purchase a quality high end air purifier that can keep the air in your home clean for years to come.

PPPPP

Word Count 667
