Title: 
10 Questions To Consider When Selecting An Online Video Store

Word Count:
436

Summary:
We all heard about Netflix and some people are rather disappointed with the service, while others are simply seeking a new DVD by mail company.

So how do you know which DVD by mail company is good for you? The following questions are provided to help you seek out the best:

1. Find a company that offers a complete categorical breakdown of what you expect at their site. There are DVDs that are selected based on your previous choices, Expert Picks, Highest Rated (among mem...


Keywords:
DVDs, dvds, movies, online dvds, online movies, cheap movies, movies by mail


Article Body:
We all heard about Netflix and some people are rather disappointed with the service, while others are simply seeking a new DVD by mail company.

So how do you know which DVD by mail company is good for you? The following questions are provided to help you seek out the best:

1. Find a company that offers a complete categorical breakdown of what you expect at their site. There are DVDs that are selected based on your previous choices, Expert Picks, Highest Rated (among members,) Most Popular, New Releases, New To DVD, Coming Soon, Recent Reviews and Oscar Winners. With categories like these, it is easy for you to just click on what your interested in and move on to the next website.

2. Pricing. Are you really getting the best deal? Most DVD by mail companies will offer a trial service, but how much does it cost once the trial is over and how much will you being paying biweekly, monthly, annually etc.? To date, most DVD companies charge $9.99 a month.

3. Are there any specials, sweepstakes, or discounts offered for long-term membership? Why join any company that isn't rewarding you for spending money with them?

4. Does the company have valid contact information and can they be contacted any day of the week? What happens if your video is lost in the mail or never arrived?

5. What is the process to cancel your subscription? Will you have to notify them in writing? Some companies will continue to bill you even though you spoke to a customer representative. If you must notify someone in writing, find out how soon and to whose attention do you send the letter.

6. Does the company automatically send you a feature DVD that you will have to respond to whether you want it or not? The company may send you something each month you don't like will you able to make your own selections?

7. Are there options to buy DVDs? How much do they typically cost? If you csn buy it at Walmart for cheaper, don't bother buying one on the website.

8. What is the policy if you should lose a DVD or it comes to you damaged? How do you return the DVD? Does the company have its own special packaging.

9. How long does it take to get movies? If you are finding it takes a lot longer than promised, send an email or talk to someone in customer service. The company may be making false claims.

10. Are there any due dates or late fees? You don't want to be surprised when you open up your monthly credit card statement, now do you?


