Title: 
12 Angry Men Tickets - See A Classic Study Of Intense Character Development

Word Count:
430

Summary:
12 Angry Men tickets have been available in one form or another for nearly 50 years, and the classic film that was originally released in 1957 has come to the stage for a production that’s already drawing rave reviews.  12 Angry Men is a deep and intense exercise in character development that also reflects society through its view of a jury deliberation room, and a closer look at the story overall will shed some light on how this play has become so beloved by so many.  

Th...


Keywords:
12,Angry,Men,Tickets,See,a,Classic,Study,of,Intense,Character,Development


Article Body:
12 Angry Men tickets have been available in one form or another for nearly 50 years, and the classic film that was originally released in 1957 has come to the stage for a production that’s already drawing rave reviews.  12 Angry Men is a deep and intense exercise in character development that also reflects society through its view of a jury deliberation room, and a closer look at the story overall will shed some light on how this play has become so beloved by so many.  

The Story’s History

The big-time film release in 1957 was actually written as a shorter television film in 1954, and the success of that program spurned writers to develop the story a bit further in order to release it on the big screen.  The original cast of the movie was legendary in nature, and included such Hollywood luminaries as Henry Fonda, Ed Begley and Jack Klugman, among others.  The film was nominated for three Academy Awards that year, and was met with critical acclaim.  

The story was later adapted for the stage for a successful run on the London theater circuit in 1964, and was once again remade into a film that was originally aired on television in 1997, starring the likes of Tony Danza and Jack Lemmon.  In all, there have been countless adaptations of this story and it has been the source of study in theater schools and educational institutions of all types around the world for decades.

The Plot

At first glance, 12 Angry Men tickets may seem like entrance into a low-budget work, as there is only one setting during the entire play, and that’s a jury deliberation room where a 12-peson panel has been given a murder case in order to reach a verdict after closing arguments at trial.  As the story begins, there are 11 jurors who are ready to convict the defendant and one who does not.

The plot develops through a series of emotional and intense exchanges between the jurors and through several telling monologues that not only give the audience a picture of the direction of the jury, but also of the characters themselves in how they view things in general.  The jury ultimately moves in one unified direction as a result of meticulous deliberations and examination of the evidence.

We’d tell you how the plot concludes, but just in case you’re not one of the millions who have already seen this timeless story, we’re not going to ruin it for you, and we encourage you to secure 12 Angry Men tickets to see for yourself how this story unfolds.


