Title: 
2006 Top Fashion Trends For Kids

Word Count:
552

Summary:
The biggest trend for 2006 is that kids are more fashion-conscious—at earlier ages. You may have seen those ads for Old Navy—“Get your Fash’ On”? They’re aimed at pre-teens—who are absorbing the message. Many of us didn’t care about fashion until we hit high school—until then, we wore whatever T-shirts, jeans, shirts, sweatshirts, and other things our parents bought us or our older siblings handed down. Today, kids as young as eight or nine are brand-conscious and trend-aware...


Keywords:
clothing, punk, rock, tattoo, store, goth, kids, tshirts


Article Body:
The biggest trend for 2006 is that kids are more fashion-conscious—at earlier ages. You may have seen those ads for Old Navy—“Get your Fash’ On”? They’re aimed at pre-teens—who are absorbing the message. Many of us didn’t care about fashion until we hit high school—until then, we wore whatever T-shirts, jeans, shirts, sweatshirts, and other things our parents bought us or our older siblings handed down. Today, kids as young as eight or nine are brand-conscious and trend-aware, shopping for cohesive outfits instead of just throwing on whatever’s clean. Here are just some of the brands and trends your youngsters craved over 2006.

The 80’s Are Back. You may have noticed a trend this year for skinny jeans, ballet-slipper-inspired shoes, leggings under skirts, oversized tees, and big hoop earrings. This is a look that appeals to young girls—it’s whimsical and yet stylish at the same time. Trendy tweens in 2006 went for the Flashdance look in a big way.

Crib Rock Couture. This company mixes traditional nursery rhymes with edgy style to give a unique, creative and entertaining take on kids’ clothing. The brand is extremely popular among celebrities—Angelina Jolie, Jennifer Garner, Ben Affleck, and more are all known to dress their kids in these clothes.

Dress Like a Pirate. Pirate fashion inspired by the hit movie Pirates of the Caribbean was big this year. Horizontal stripes, fringed edges, bright colors, and beading were all the rage among younger pre-tweens.

Loads of Layers. Layering is a big fashion trend among young adults that’s been around for a while, and the kid fashion world is starting to emulate it. Girls are picking up camisoles, layering several different shirts, sweaters and button-downs. Trendy kids are also incorporating scarves and knit ponchos, and leggings under skirts for a look that’s more sophisticated than the typical jeans-and-a-sweater warm weather looks of past decades.

Bohemian Chic. With stars like Mary Kate Olsen and Sienna Miller as role models, young girls went for the flowy, flowery Bohemian Chic look in a big way this past year. This look involves long, flowing skirts; earthy tones combined with antique colors like dusty rose and muted sage; lots of contrasts in texture; Ethnic-inspired prints; and chunky, handmade-looking jewelry.

Rock Edge. Rock-inspired tees for boys have been a big trend ever since Angelina Jolie’s son, Shiloh, made an appearance in People Magazine wearing one from Kingsley. These tees are vintage-looking, faded and distressed. Boys tend to like baggy pants, but the look is a tad more sophisticated when paired with some dark, straight-leg fitted jeans or a pair of skater-boy long shorts.

Vintage Casual. A little softer than the rock-edge look, but still along the same theme, boys loved the vintage casual look this year—it looks cool without “trying too hard,” and it’s comfortable, too. Pre-worn, pre-distressed and faded-looking tees with old-fashioned logos are a mainstay of this look, worn under button-downs left unbuttoned and untucked for that casual, relaxed look. Cargo pants and worn-in, relaxed-fit jeans are a natural pairing.

Expect kids to become brand-conscious earlier and earlier into 2007—they’re noticing what their older peers wear, and they want to look the same. There are lots of ways young kids can look cool and still wear age-appropriate clothes.


