Title: 
4 Tips To Improve The Life Of Your Ipod

Word Count:
369

Summary:
While everyone knows about the iPod and what it can do, not too many people are aware about the batteries that are located inside. Most people may assume that the batteries will simply last forever, because they are permanently attached to the inside of the iPod. Now, this assumption is incorrect on two levels. On one level, the lithium ion iPod battery that’s inside your iPod can be removed and replaced with an iPod battery replacement kit. Secondly, even though the battery ...


Keywords:
Apple, iPod, Lithium, Ion, Battery, Life, Long, Lasting, Replace, Learn, Tips, MP3, Music, Nano, How


Article Body:
While everyone knows about the iPod and what it can do, not too many people are aware about the batteries that are located inside. Most people may assume that the batteries will simply last forever, because they are permanently attached to the inside of the iPod. Now, this assumption is incorrect on two levels. On one level, the lithium ion iPod battery that’s inside your iPod can be removed and replaced with an iPod battery replacement kit. Secondly, even though the battery never really leaves the inside of the device; that does not mean that the battery will last forever.

Now, because we now are aware of the fact that the battery won’t last forever, we need to make ourselves aware of some of the tips and tricks that can be applied in order to extend and improve the life of the new iPod battery.

TIP 1: Don’t overcharge the battery

WHY: Overcharging the battery can damage the lithium ion iPod battery itself.

EXPLANATION: With nowhere to store or displace the energy, the battery will become damaged as it attempts to keep charging even when it’s full.

TIP 2: Keep your iPod at room temperature only

WHY: Temperature plays a vital role in the function of the iPod battery

EXPLANATION: Chemical reactions take place inside the lithium ion iPod battery, and it’s those reactions that make the battery properly function. If the temperature it too cold, then the reactions slow down. And those reactions will also speed up if the temperature is too hot. 

TIP 3: Only charge the iPod battery when it needs it

WHY: Charging the battery actually weakens it at the same time

EXPLANATION: Each time you recharge the lithium ion iPod mini battery, the overall charge capacity of the battery dwindles ever so slightly. By only charging the battery when needed, you are ensuring that the battery only loses its charge capacity when it has to.

TIP 4: Use your iPod on a consistent basis

WHY: Keeping it inactive dulls the battery

EXPLANATION: If you never use your iPod, the device and the battery itself can simply wear out and die. Using them on a regular basis can keep them both fresh and operational.


