Title: 
5 Reasons Why Scrapbooking Should Be Your Next Hobby

Word Count:
588

Summary:
Scrapbooks Protect Your Photos

Not only does a well-made scrapbook protect and preserve your photos, it also makes the photos themselves more fun to look at. Most people would much rather thumb through a scrapbook with its extra, fun touches than a plain photo album.

Scrapbooks Make Great Gifts

Because they are so personal, scrapbooks make a great gift for a loved one on a special day. Some especially good occasions to give a scrapbook as a gift are: weddings, annive...


Keywords:
scrapbooks, scrapbooking, arts, crafts


Article Body:
Scrapbooks Protect Your Photos

Not only does a well-made scrapbook protect and preserve your photos, it also makes the photos themselves more fun to look at. Most people would much rather thumb through a scrapbook with its extra, fun touches than a plain photo album.

Scrapbooks Make Great Gifts

Because they are so personal, scrapbooks make a great gift for a loved one on a special day. Some especially good occasions to give a scrapbook as a gift are: weddings, anniversaries, milestone birthdays, graduations, and retirement parties.

Scrapbooks show that you put a lot of time and thought into your gift and can be a wonderful keepsake for the receiver.

Scrapbooking Is a Great Creative Outlet

Did you know that you have an artistic, creative side? Everyone does, it’s just that not everyone uses it. Scrapbooking, with its colors, themes, cutting and pasting, writing, and arranging, is a great way to express your creativity. The best part is that all of that is enjoyable and so much fun!

Maybe you are one of those people that don’t believe you can do any of that very well. Guess what? You’re wrong! Even the most un-artistic person can copy a page layout that they found somewhere and really liked. Besides, it’s hard not to be inspired when you have some great photos and some fun scrapbooking materials in front of you.

After a while you’ll be adding your own personal touches to your pages, and soon you’ll be creating your own completely unique layouts that you can be proud of.

Other Scrapbookers!

Nothing will help you make new friends faster than sharing a hobby with someone! Scrapbooking is an especially great hobby for sharing with friends. Many communities have scrapbooking clubs where scrapbookers can get to together to scrapbook, share ideas, show each other photographs, and talk for hours. Some craft stores also have a scrapbooking night for this same purpose (usually with the hope that people will buy a few things).

These scrapbooking nights or “crops”, as they are called by scrapbookers, are a great way to get out of the house and spend some time socializing with other people. If you really need some time for yourself, get your club to put on a weekend scrapbooking retreat. It will be two days of nothing but scrapbooking fun!

Your town doesn’t have a scrapbooking club? That’s easy. Find some friends who scrapbook and start one! If you don’t have some other scrapbookers in your life, you’re missing out.

Scrapbooking Captures Precious Moments and Memories

In my opinion, this is the most wonderful thing about scrapbooking. The best way to explain it is with a quick story.

When I first started scrapbooking, my grandma was the person in my family most interested in my layouts. Every time she came over we would look through them together and she would point out the things she liked the most.

She was so interested that I finally decided to make a scrapbook with her. We put in photos of us together along with mementos of all the special times we could think of. It took a few weeks to finish, but we had a great time.

Two short months later she was diagnosed with pancreatic cancer and quickly slipped away. I’m so thankful that we were able to make that scrapbook together. Because now, whenever I miss her, I can just look through that scrapbook and smile at all the precious memories.


