Title: 
5 Unique Doll Houses That Aren't Actually Houses

Word Count:
452

Summary:
When we think of what a dollhouse looks like, we are often filled with the image of a traditional home, a Victorian style home, or even a country cottage. These dollhouses bring about images of mom and dad in the kitchen while the kids play in their bedroom. It is all about using the imagination for family role-playing. But, there is a whole wide world of dollhouses outside the traditional house. These unique dollhouses will open up a new world of role-playing for children an...


Keywords:
wood doll house kits, doll house design, doll house models


Article Body:
When we think of what a dollhouse looks like, we are often filled with the image of a traditional home, a Victorian style home, or even a country cottage. These dollhouses bring about images of mom and dad in the kitchen while the kids play in their bedroom. It is all about using the imagination for family role-playing. But, there is a whole wide world of dollhouses outside the traditional house. These unique dollhouses will open up a new world of role-playing for children and new collectible possibilities for adults.

The possibilities of unique dollhouses are almost endless. They go beyond the standard house and provide limitless opportunities for both play and collection. Some examples of unique dollhouses include a country store, New England lighthouse, church, fire station, and barn. These different settings will allow children to expand their imaginations into new forms of role-playing. It also gives the avid collector the ability to design new rooms in new settings and add some diversity to their collection.

Each of these unique dollhouses offers something special. The barn has a great loft as well as several areas for farm animals. The fire station has a bunk for the fireman, firemen’s pole, and bays for the fire trucks. The country store is a beautiful display piece with great potential for the right miniatures. The church boats an altar, six pews, and stained glass windows. None of these items would be found in a traditional dollhouse.

These unique dollhouses are available as a wood kits from Real Good Toys. Real Good Toys is based in Vermont, and so these designs have a very traditional New England feel. The company boasts some of the most unique and well-structured dollhouses available. Each design comes with a complete set of plans that includes working parts. The kits includes all precut materials, which ensures that each piece will match correctly. Several of the kits also come with miniature accessories. 

Building a dollhouse from scratch brings an amazing sense of accomplishment. This is something that can be passed down the generations as an heirloom. The lighthouse kit includes electricity to light the way for ships and the church includes a ringing bell to call in the parishioners. These dollhouse models are a wonderful way for siblings to bond or for parent and child to spend time together or just for some relaxing alone time.

There are endless possibilities when it comes to dollhouses. These 5 unique dollhouses are just the beginning. A true collector of dollhouses and miniatures should expand their collection to include some unique dollhouse designs. The barn, church, New England lighthouse, fire station and country store are just some of the potential additions to a great collection.


