Title: 
A Baby Story – A Funny Story To Brighten Your Day

Word Count:
391

Summary:
My wife loves to watch the show, A Baby Story, everyday. She starting watching it a year ago when she was pregnant with our son, because she wanted to try to get an idea what labor would be like. Now she watches, because she wants to reminisce about the birth of our son, and look forward to having our next child. Personally I think that this show is boring, but recently I heard a baby story of a different kind. Here is how the story went.

The girl was nineteen years old wi...


Keywords:



Article Body:
My wife loves to watch the show, A Baby Story, everyday. She starting watching it a year ago when she was pregnant with our son, because she wanted to try to get an idea what labor would be like. Now she watches, because she wants to reminisce about the birth of our son, and look forward to having our next child. Personally I think that this show is boring, but recently I heard a baby story of a different kind. Here is how the story went.

The girl was nineteen years old with no boyfriend in the picture anymore. She was working full time to try to make ends meet, and she was getting very anxious for the baby to be born. One morning before she had to be at work, she went to the doctor’s office for a checkup. The doctor checked her and told her that she was in labor, and she needed to go to the hospital to be delivered. She said cool, and then she asked do I need to go to the hospital now, or can I go after work. The doctor politely told her that she did not have to go to the hospital immediately, but that she could only go home and get her a bag ready for the hospital stay. She asked if it would be ok if she got something to eat, and he said he did not advise it. Next thing you know she is in the drive-thru line at Whataburger trying to get something to eat, and a guy backed into the driver side of her truck. Remember now that she is in active labor. She can not get out of the driver side door, so she drags her big, nine months pregnant belly out the passenger side door. The man saw her condition, and got so worried he fainted. Now a nine month pregnant women is sitting in the parking lot at Whataburger, in active labor, fanning a man trying to revive him. Once she got home, her mother rushed her to the hospital. After a few hours of labor a beautiful baby boy was born, and both mother and baby were healthy. I don’t know about you, but if A Baby Story was this interesting everyday, I think I would tune in a lot more often.


