Title: 
A Better War Of The Worlds?

Word Count:
341

Summary:
After watching the movie War of the Worlds staring Tom Cruise last weekend I was inspired to do some research on the original H.G. Wells novel.  I almost bought a copy of the book, I did read it once as a child, but I hesitated.  Instead I downloaded The War of The Worlds BBC broadcast based on the novel by H.G. Wells as an audiobook off of the Internet.

It was very easy to do.  I simply paid with my visa card and was able to do an instant download.  I did not have to wait...


Keywords:
talking books, audiobooks, audio book


Article Body:
After watching the movie War of the Worlds staring Tom Cruise last weekend I was inspired to do some research on the original H.G. Wells novel.  I almost bought a copy of the book, I did read it once as a child, but I hesitated.  Instead I downloaded The War of The Worlds BBC broadcast based on the novel by H.G. Wells as an audiobook off of the Internet.

It was very easy to do.  I simply paid with my visa card and was able to do an instant download.  I did not have to wait for CD’s to come in the mail.  After downloading the audiobook I burnt it to discs so that I could listen to it in my car as I drive.  

I was also happy to see that doing an instant download of the audiobook was much cheaper then the same versions of the audiobook on CD.  It really is a much better deal to download the file and burn it to disc your self then to have to pay someone else to do the same thing.

Another great feature is that I will always be able to download the audiobook again for free at any time.  This is perfect if you are like me and are prone to scratching your cd’s.

I have to say I was thrilled with the quality of the recording of the audiobook.  The audiobooks is from the BBC Classic Sci-Fi Radio and has a run time of two hours and fifty minutes.

One of the things that I enjoyed the most of listening to War of the Worlds on audiobook compared to the movie is how much eerier it was.  Watching the movie was good, don’t get me wrong, but I must say that I enjoyed it as an audiobook more.  The movie was real eye candy.  But the audiobook invokes your imagination.  The sound effects being much simpler in the audiobook, but it felt more real.  It really made me feel like I was there


