Title: 
A Fine Piano Music Box Is A Work Of Art

Word Count:
450

Summary:
Music boxes have always come in all shapes and sizes. Some are small enough to fit in your hand, while others are designed to hold jewelry, and still others are large enough to stand alone like a piece of furniture. Wood, metal, glass, and stone; jewelry boxes are familiar to all of us. Equally familiar is the musical jewelry box. In fact, it is almost rare to see one without the other. A piano music box is another variation on that theme, and what a unique and intriguing var...


Keywords:
Piano Music Box


Article Body:
Music boxes have always come in all shapes and sizes. Some are small enough to fit in your hand, while others are designed to hold jewelry, and still others are large enough to stand alone like a piece of furniture. Wood, metal, glass, and stone; jewelry boxes are familiar to all of us. Equally familiar is the musical jewelry box. In fact, it is almost rare to see one without the other. A piano music box is another variation on that theme, and what a unique and intriguing variation it is!

A piano music box is exactly that; a music box shaped like a piano. But its appeal extends well beyond its familiar shape and the songs it plays. Some piano music boxes are simple enough; the least expensive models are often just a standard music box inside a case that resembles a piano. And like many other music boxes, they often have room to hold trinkets and jewelry. But it is the expensive, hand crafted models that are so unique and interesting, they have to be seen to be believed. 

Often imported from Europe, a hand crafted piano music box is a work of art. Hand carved, hand-painted, and inlaid with rare stones, piano music boxes can often cost hundreds of dollars or more. The lids of these miniature grand pianos lift and reveal the musical movement, which is the heart of the musical instrument, just like a real baby grand. The musical movement on a piano music box is just as impressive as the case in which it sits. 

A high quality piano music box can be custom ordered with a musical movement that fits your needs. A basic musical movement might be capable of playing eighteen notes, and that would allow a piano music box that is outfitted with that movement to play simple songs that are short in duration. As you progress in price in sophistication, the musical possibilities become greater and greater. The most expensive musical movements are capable of up to one-hundred and forty-four notes. This allows a piano music box to play intricate songs that last much longer than the more basic movements allow. Naturally, the list of available songs becomes quite long when your piano music box is outfitted with the finest musical movements. 

A piano music box is something that is sure to bring joy to its owner, and it is equally likely to be passed down as a family heirloom. Its ultimate appeal lies in the fact that it is so much like its full sized counterpart. Its beautiful woodwork and beautiful sound make a piano music box more than just a music box; it is a work of art.


