Title: 
A Miniature House Isn’t A Home Without Dollhouse Dolls

Word Count:
422

Summary:
Dollhouse dolls make a dollhouse complete. Without miniature people, the house is easy to imagine as just a house with furniture that will never be used and toys that will never be played with. As sad as that sounds, it is easy to remedy by adding a family of dolls.

One of the best parts of having a dollhouse family is making them just like your own family. There can be a mom and dad, brother and sister, grandma and grandpa and even pets. Everyone’s family is different and...


Keywords:
dollhouse dolls


Article Body:
Dollhouse dolls make a dollhouse complete. Without miniature people, the house is easy to imagine as just a house with furniture that will never be used and toys that will never be played with. As sad as that sounds, it is easy to remedy by adding a family of dolls.

One of the best parts of having a dollhouse family is making them just like your own family. There can be a mom and dad, brother and sister, grandma and grandpa and even pets. Everyone’s family is different and that is what makes the world interesting. A family with seven children would fill a dollhouse with love. A smaller family with just mom and child would equal a lot of fun time together. A family with grandma and grandpa will have a house filled with stories. Having dolls that are like your family is a great way to make your dollhouse even more special.

Dollhouses are so much fun because they give life to imagination. Children can go anywhere and do anything in their miniature world. There are many dollhouses available that aren’t houses at all, but are stores, barns, churches, and so much more. These unique dollhouses need people as well. Your miniature family can take a trip to the grocery store, attend church, or go to school. There are countless stories that can be acted out using all sorts of different dolls. It is all in the imagination and the imagination of a child is limitless!

One of the best parts of having miniature dolls is being able to dress them up. A lot of dollhouses are built like houses from a certain time period. The house may be a colonial, or a grand Victorian, or even a small country cottage. It is nice to have miniature dolls that match the era. Another great addition to the dollhouse is pets. If there is a farm then consider adding cows, chickens, horses, pigs, and sheep. Dogs and cats are also great additions. Adding animals will help create even more stories to act out!

A dollhouse is a wonderful toy for children. It opens up the imagination through role-playing and also gives children a sense of accomplishment and pride. In order for a child to role-play with their dollhouse, it is necessary to have dollhouse dolls. These dolls can be purchased or made by hand. They can be a family or individuals. They can have any job in the world. That is the magic that a dollhouse gives to children.


