Title: 
A Review Of Disney Channel's High School Musical

Word Count:
306

Summary:
Disney Channel's High School Musical is one of the hottest movies ever offered up by Disney. Kids and teens love the singing and dancing of this fast paced movie and most watch it repeatedly. This movie can only be seen on the Disney Channel or on the DVD that has been released for home viewing. This must see film could easily become a family favorite in your home, from the very first time you watch it.

The plot of High School Musical is a traditional love story theme, as ...


Keywords:
disney,disney channel,disney games,games,game,high school musical


Article Body:
Disney Channel's High School Musical is one of the hottest movies ever offered up by Disney. Kids and teens love the singing and dancing of this fast paced movie and most watch it repeatedly. This movie can only be seen on the Disney Channel or on the DVD that has been released for home viewing. This must see film could easily become a family favorite in your home, from the very first time you watch it.

The plot of High School Musical is a traditional love story theme, as is popular in many teen movies. The popular school jock meets the new nerdy kid, while singing karaoke one night. They later star together in their high school's musical and fall in love. The sports elements, dancing, singing, and love interests give the movie an appeal to kids and teens of all ages and sexes. 

Disney Channel's High School Musical is a film that parents can feel good about letting their children watch. Though there is a love story element, there is nothing that is obscene or age inappropriate in this movie. In a world where nearly every movie involves cursing, violence, and sex, High School Musical is a much needed breath of fresh air. Even the youngest members of the family can watch and enjoy the fun songs and talented dancers.

If you are looking for a great movie that your whole family can watch together, High School Musical is the perfect choice. Rent of buy this movie today, or catch it the next time it is shown on the Disney Channel. Everyone in your family will enjoy the story and singing and it will give your family a great chance to bond, as well. It is definitely time to plan a family movie night and get everyone together to enjoy a wholesome movie watching experience.


