Title: 
A Special 50th Anniversary Gift - A Complete Review.

Word Count:
514

Summary:
A few months ago, I opened my mailbox and sighed. I had just received an invitation to my best friend's parents' 50th wedding anniversary party. It's been nearly 30 years since I have known my best friend and her family, so I am pretty close to all of them. I simply cannot miss out on this special occasion, however, the thought of shopping for a 50th anniversary gift didn't thrill me either. I am not a fan of shopping for presents like that. I know that I simply cannot get th...


Keywords:
50th anniversary gift


Article Body:
A few months ago, I opened my mailbox and sighed. I had just received an invitation to my best friend's parents' 50th wedding anniversary party. It's been nearly 30 years since I have known my best friend and her family, so I am pretty close to all of them. I simply cannot miss out on this special occasion, however, the thought of shopping for a 50th anniversary gift didn't thrill me either. I am not a fan of shopping for presents like that. I know that I simply cannot get them a generic present, as this is a very special occasion. Even though I was clueless as to what would be an appropriate 50th anniversary gift for such a wonderful couple, I had sent my RSVP to them.

The next day, I hit the mall in search of something special as well as unique. Unfortunately I came up with nothing really exceptional other than the usual picture frames and candles. I mean, can someone enlighten me as to what to get as a 50th anniversary gift for a couple who practically has everything?For sure, I didn't want to just buy then a gift that you can buy for anyone at anytime. I wanted something meaningful and special, now that's easier said than done. After some advice from co-workers, I stumbled upon a website that just thrilled me. The site http://www.seniorstore.com had an enormous selection of ideas that cater to 50th anniversary gifts or any occasion presents for seniors.

In fact there were some really unique presents that I put some serious thought into. The gifts that I found interesting were books from the year of their marriage, photo albums, beautiful poems and even a gift basket with a collection of items from the year of their marriage. I personally felt that the personalized basket was such a wonderful idea. It had some wonderful memorabilia in it and for only $100; it was the perfect 50th anniversary gift! I was extremely happy for having found it.

I had lots of fun at the party, and it was a very emotional one too. The couple got some wonderful gifts, but I was extremely pleased when their eyes lit up upon opening my gift basket. I was certain that the gifts inside the basket would bring back some beautiful past memories and perhaps create some new ones as well. My best friend also told me that she had a real tough time trying to figure out a special 50th anniversary gift for them, and was envious of the present I'd bought. I did tell her about the site where I had purchased the gift from, as well as the other gift ideas that I'd gotten from looking over their offerings. With a bit of creativity, not only can you find the perfect 50th anniversary gift, but you can also create some presents that will be appreciated for any occasion. I know for sure where I'll be purchasing a 50th anniversary gift for my parents as they still have a couple more years before their milestone!


