Title: 
About Free Video Download And The 6 Features Of A Good Free Video Download Site.

Word Count:
857

Summary:
It is always a happy moment for some of us when it comes to the end of a Friday. This is because we are going to relax from that excruciating week. I personally chose to relax by watching my favourite video (Music video, movies) or playing a video game. Are you like me or just almost like me?

If yes, you know that it is expensive to pay those video rental fees at your video rental store. Not so?

For years, I faced this same situation until I decided that I should look f...


Keywords:
free video download,music video,video games,movie download


Article Body:
It is always a happy moment for some of us when it comes to the end of a Friday. This is because we are going to relax from that excruciating week. I personally chose to relax by watching my favourite video (Music video, movies) or playing a video game. Are you like me or just almost like me?

If yes, you know that it is expensive to pay those video rental fees at your video rental store. Not so?

For years, I faced this same situation until I decided that I should look for an alternative to paying those monthly fees to the video rental store so that I can get to take my favourite movies home every friday. Plus on top of the monthly membership fee, I had to pay per movie/video that I was taking home.

What did I do to get away from this situation? I went to google and typed in "free video download"

I was very happy when my search returned 358,000,000 results. "Wow, that is a great number" I said to myself, not knowing that I was in for the worst experience of my life. Don't get discouraged here, as this experience has turned out to be the best move I made for my life and entertainment.

With the above number, I thought that there are that number of websites where you can get free video download or some thing related to a free video download.

So given that fact that there are many free video download software programs available to download free music videos and video games online,before you use one of those free video download programs you may want to know what you need to look for.

As I stated above,I have joined many free video download sites and I have got the good and the bad experience about them. So here are the 6 things you should look for in a free video download website.

1- There should be no monthly fees or any per video download fee. If any site claims to offer free video downloads and then asks you for any monthly fee of any sort, I recommend that you steer clear of it. However, the best free video download sites will ask for a one time monthly fee just to help them maintain there services and sources for all these videos for you. That is acceptable. From my experience these are the sites that actually give you the real videos you want of high quality.

2- Quality of the videos downloaded: This is some how related to the above point. From my experience,free video download sites that do not ask for a membership fee usually provide low quality videos, some blurred and the likes. You see the most popular video site youtube, there are many videos, it is free to join but what about the quality of the videos you get?

3-Download limits: There should be no download limits what so ever. Most sites limit the amount of videos you can download per day, some per hour and others per session. These are not good and I would not reccommend that you join them.

4-Your safety and the safety of your computer or machine. What I mean here is that you should be worry of most free video download sites. Most have the capacity to infect your computer with viruses, adware and spy ware. For your security and the safety of your machine, you should stay away from these. How do you know that this site will infect your machine with viruses and adware? That is a million dollar question,but my answer is that look for the recommendation of some one who has been there, seen it and experienced it. I have joined many of such free video download sites and I provide a review at my website as you can see in my resource box.

5-How about the number of videos available for you? I think we would all need the site to have as many videos as possible. It would be no good for you to join a site that has only 10 million videos when you can get one with over 100 videos.Look out for such and it is usually listed at the home page of that website where you get to join and become a member of the website.

6-What is in it for you?: You should ask your self this question. By this I mean the variety you get. While most websites will offer one type of videos such as music videos, others will give you access to music videos, movie videos, video games and other software that you can download. I gues it would not be good and valuable for you to join a site that fearures more variety of services and videos for you than the opposite. That would be the best move.

Well,there are many other things I can talk about here such as the customer support, the download speed and many more. But I hope the above can give you a small hint of what you should look for in a free video download website.


