Title: 
Adirondack Chairs - Ditch The Cheap Chairs And Go With Something Classic

Word Count:
517

Summary:
Adirondack chairs are the perfect places to unwind, and enjoy a cold drink in the hot sun. You can really settle in to their sloping seats and angled backs. Whether plastic or wood their style and comfort add classic style to your patio, yard or porch.

Developed in the beginning of the 1900’s for a lake house near the Adirondack Mountains, these chairs have been adding comfort and ease to yards, patios, porches and beaches for over 100 years. Traditionally made of wood tha...


Keywords:
plastic adirondack chair,plastic adirondack chairs,porch patio furniture,resin adirondack chair


Article Body:
Adirondack chairs are the perfect places to unwind, and enjoy a cold drink in the hot sun. You can really settle in to their sloping seats and angled backs. Whether plastic or wood their style and comfort add classic style to your patio, yard or porch.

Developed in the beginning of the 1900’s for a lake house near the Adirondack Mountains, these chairs have been adding comfort and ease to yards, patios, porches and beaches for over 100 years. Traditionally made of wood that is exceptionally durable and strong, these chairs aren’t cheap, but they do withstand the rigors of temperature and time extremely well. 

Often our budgets determine our furnishings and we end up with cheap furniture that doesn’t last or look good. Maybe it’s time to ditch those unsightly chairs made of PVC pipe circa 1978 or that wrought iron set that is starting to rust and finally make your backyard or patio into the 5 star resort you’ve always envisioned in your daydreams. 

Investing in some good Adirondack chairs will give you a classic look that exudes luxury. Crafted from plastic resin or one of 6 types of wood these chairs come in many colors and designs to accent your style from shabby chic to bungalow boutique or even modern and sleek. Whether Alder, Cedar, Cypress, Mahogany, Pine or Teak; Adirondack chairs are easy to protect and maintain. Some can be painted to match your décor and others are more beautiful naturally. Most will last at least 5 years such as cedar and some can last 50 or more. Wooden chairs can be treated to maintain their original coloring or they can be left to age to an inviting silvery gray. 

Because of their ease of care, durability and classic style, Adirondack chairs are the perfect addition to anyone’s patio, porch, yard or poolside. Lounging in a comfortable chair bathed in sunshine just can’t be beat. Add an ottoman to kick up your feet. Add a table and your lemonade and favorite book are in reach.   Tired of traditional? Go with an Adirondack styled chaise lounge or steamer chair.  Place a garden bench under an arbor and you’ve got it made in the shade. Bring on a breeze in an Adirondack swing or rocker. 

You simply can’t go wrong with an Adirondack chair. They are built to last with very little loving care. Put a few of them on your patio or porch and transform it into your own little paradise. Go back to that beach house your family visited every year on the Atlantic or that fabulous resort you visited in Cabo last winter. Adirondack chairs radiate a luxurious simplicity and classic charm that blends seamlessly into anyone’s outdoor style. It is said that some things never change. Sometimes we wish they would. And sometimes things don’t need to be changed. The Adirondack chair style hasn’t changed for over a century and for good reason. It’s a comfortable American classic that graces many patios no matter the color or style. Why isn’t it on yours?


