Title: 
Aggregation Of Runescape Wisdom

Word Count:
307

Summary:
Do you visit Runescape related forums and sites often? Do you go to only one site or several? How about loyalty to a particular fan site? Is it a good thing? I think not, at least not at the degree it is done nowadays.

What I noticed while participating on several major Runescape forums is that there is an undeclared ‘cold war’ between Runescape fan sites. While it is somewhat understandable, it still saddens me a lot. 

The world gets more open every day, boundaries bet...


Keywords:
runescape, blog, article


Article Body:
Do you visit Runescape related forums and sites often? Do you go to only one site or several? How about loyalty to a particular fan site? Is it a good thing? I think not, at least not at the degree it is done nowadays.

What I noticed while participating on several major Runescape forums is that there is an undeclared ‘cold war’ between Runescape fan sites. While it is somewhat understandable, it still saddens me a lot. 

The world gets more open every day, boundaries between countries and cultures get erased, free and open software and services are everywhere, but we keep and keep building new boundaries and walls. As an owner of a smaller Runescape fan site (Runewise) I can see these walls very clearly. If you don't believe me, go ahead and try to get any kind of partnership with a bigger site! In most cases you won’t even get a polite refusal – just silent emptiness. Well, I am a big boy and can cope with it. But another aspect of this ‘war’ is Runescape knowledge being scattered and hidden. There are so many interesting articles, blogs, guides, posts, topics out there behind those walls.
 
I can’t help with ‘boundaries’, but at least I can point Runescape players to most interesting materials out there regardless on what fan site or blog they are located. That is it. My mission statement right there…

So, here I am with my Runescape wisdom ‘aggregation’ blogs.
This is the older one I maintain at Runewise: http://www.runewise.net/rs/rdigest.php
And the newest addition for regular bloggers at Blogspot: http://runescapereader.blogspot.com/

Welcome! And if you would like to point me to an interesting Runescape related source, by all means, please, let me know!
Let's make the Runescape world a little bit more open!


