Title: 
All About Antique Boxes And Collectables - A Personal Review.

Word Count:
431

Summary:
In every true sense, an antique is said to be any item (may not be essentially artistic in nature) that is over a century year old. People collect all kinds of antiques, but undoubtedly among the most fascinating are antique boxes. For sure, I don’t expect you to share my view as all antiques are personal favorites. But I personally feel that antique boxes signify the spirit of the antique that we all find so fascinating.

In my opinion, antique boxes spell treasure. In my ...


Keywords:
antique boxes


Article Body:
In every true sense, an antique is said to be any item (may not be essentially artistic in nature) that is over a century year old. People collect all kinds of antiques, but undoubtedly among the most fascinating are antique boxes. For sure, I don’t expect you to share my view as all antiques are personal favorites. But I personally feel that antique boxes signify the spirit of the antique that we all find so fascinating.

In my opinion, antique boxes spell treasure. In my earlier days, I spent a lot of time reading stories of treasure chests and pirates like Robinson Crusoe, Swiss family Robinsons, Treasure Island and the like.

In a number of these stories, one would read about these antique boxes that were filled with the promise of treasure even though there was no true treasure. But ever since, antique boxes have held a remarkable fascination for me.

I was truly surprised when I stopped at my regular bookshop and discovered that he had quite a number of antique boxes displayed prominently at the counter. What’s more he had gone a step further to
pack these antique boxes with books to reinforce the treasure that lay in books and reading, however I was simply consumed by the sight, smell and look of those antique boxes.

Almost immediately I rushed in to ask him where he had procured them. Though to me, he was more than an acquaintance and was aware about my fascination with antique boxes. Even then, he pretended ignorance for a while before breaking down helplessly in laughter. As he sat there with tears of mirth flowing down his eyes, I could not but help wonder anxiously about the antique boxes and how he had managed to get his hands on them. He did however tell me the truth, as soon as he calmed down sufficiently. Well, it seems that there were quite a number of people like me around the world who also found ancient antique boxes (with or without any treasure) fascinating. As a result one proactive Chinese company had decided to capitalize on this attraction by making near real replicas of antique boxes. Despite the fact I was initially disappointed, a closer look led me to believe that if the boxes I saw were replicas of antique boxes, then they were sure damn good replicas. In spite of the reasonable price tag though unlike the real thing, I decided instantly to get a couple of them for myself. Today, I too am a proud owner of a couple of antique boxes.


