Title: 
An Ideal Gift: Personalized Wind Chimes

Word Count:
853

Summary:
Personalized Wind Chimes: Ideal Gift for Any Occasion

Ancient giant bamboo chimes had practical uses such as protecting rice fields from birds and animals. Musical and artistic qualities of wind chimes were refined by ancient Asian civilizations. The Chinese in particular were skilled metal workers and excellent iron refiners. Wind chimes designed by the Chinese were used for religious and ceremonial purposes. The wind chimes were believed to drive off evil spirits while i...


Keywords:
wind chimes, windchimes, personalized, gift, gifts, engraved


Article Body:
Personalized Wind Chimes: Ideal Gift for Any Occasion

Ancient giant bamboo chimes had practical uses such as protecting rice fields from birds and animals. Musical and artistic qualities of wind chimes were refined by ancient Asian civilizations. The Chinese in particular were skilled metal workers and excellent iron refiners. Wind chimes designed by the Chinese were used for religious and ceremonial purposes. The wind chimes were believed to drive off evil spirits while inviting kind spirits.

In the nineteenth century tubular bells were used in orchestras. This instrument sparked the perfection and the development of precisely tuned high-quality wind chimes. Modern technology allowed for wind chimes to be precisely cut and tuned so that they can resound ancient or modern musical scales. Multitudes of people have been captivated by the melodic sounds of wind chimes throughout history. Today a garden or patio just isn't complete without the harmonious tone of a properly tuned wind chime.

Wind chimes are the ideal gift for any occasion. Give that special person a memorable gift that will withstand the weathers of life (literally). Wind chimes made with high quality craftsmanship will enhance any surrounding and leave an impression that will last a lifetime. You can make giving wind chimes more memorable by having them personalized. Personalized wind chimes are perfect for expressing your care in a way that will continuously warm the heart of the recipient.

The wind chimes' graceful, soothing tones will resonate glorious sound while striking a memory of your love through your personalized gift.

Special Occasions

Tell your mother or wife how much you appreciate all they do with a set of wind chimes that have a personalized message on Mother's Day. Some message ideas are: "Thank you for all you do. With love, your name,"

"Eternally grateful. Your loving son/daughter/husband, your name," or "A mother's love is ever-lasting. Thank you, your name." She will always treasure your thoughtfulness when she hears the wind softly blow the chimes with a gentle breeze.

On Valentine's Day give wind chimes with a personalized note of your undying love and affection to your one and only. A few message ideas are: "Forever yours," "To my one and only," "My Soul Mate," "Be Mine," or "Happy Valentine's Day." Whatever message you decide on, when the chimes harness the wind as player and composer it will continue to remind him/her of your happy times together and resound the sweet confession of your love.

Personalized wind chimes make a thoughtful wedding gift. Help the bride and groom commemorate their special day with a blessing to them from you. Some message ideas include: "Bride and Groom's name, wedding date, your name," "Wishing you love and happiness," or "Congratulations on your blessed union." Throughout their years together they will forever be delighted by the melodic sound of the wind chimes and reminded of your heartfelt wishes for them.

What better way to help someone add ambiance to their new home than with a personalized set of wind chimes? Wind chimes add character to an atmosphere and make the ideal housewarming gift. They will set off any decor and leave a warm memory of your friendship through the gentle tones adrift in the breeze.

There are many ways a person can enjoy wind chimes. You may prefer to hang your wind chimes outdoors where you relax and catch a nap in a hammock, work in your garden, or prepare a romantic dinner on the patio to the soothing peaceful sound of your wind chimes. On the other hand you may prefer to enjoy your wind chimes indoors. One common indoor idea is to hang your chimes in a bedroom window and let sweet sounds in the breeze sway you to sleep on a cool spring or hot summer night. Placing wind chimes in your office helps to relieve stress from a busy day.

Selection

When choosing wind chimes only the highest quality, best sounding chimes will do. Quality and craftsmanship walk hand in hand; where wind chimes are concerned one cannot be without the other. Wind chimes must be clear of tone and resonance to produce a pure sound. The material used will determine the tone and durability. Tempered aluminum chimes and top rings are resistant to cracking or drying, while they produce top quality sound. Redwood and cedar strikers are not likely to rot and they will eliminate harsh overtones in the wind chimes. The strings should be made of a weather resistant material such as Dacron. The wind chimes tubes should be precisely placed so that the striker hits each tube in the musical "sweet spot" or exact middle for the most elegant tones. When having your wind chimes personalized you should make sure your engraving is preserved on a material such as brushed aluminum that will endure any climate and withstand the test of time.

Whatever the occasion, whoever the person to receive them, wind chimes are the perfect gift. When you give personalized wind chimes you know it will provide a lifetime of pleasure and be a constant reminder of how important they are to you.


