Title: 
Animal Dolls: Own A Virtual One That Comes To Life!!

Word Count:
519

Summary:
There are so many example of children who really love animal dolls. I would say that animal dolls is the best and most favourite type for children. As being a mom of a daughter who loves dolls so I would like to tell you a bit more about a girl’s story, which is very good example for parents who may consider to buy toys for kids but still not sure what to do, which may be due to budget limitation or any other reasons.

An only child, my six-year daughter was pestering me to...


Keywords:
webkinz, webkinz ganz, buy webkinz, webkinz for sale, webkinz toys,new webkinz,webkinz animals


Article Body:
There are so many example of children who really love animal dolls. I would say that animal dolls is the best and most favourite type for children. As being a mom of a daughter who loves dolls so I would like to tell you a bit more about a girl’s story, which is very good example for parents who may consider to buy toys for kids but still not sure what to do, which may be due to budget limitation or any other reasons.

An only child, my six-year daughter was pestering me to get her a pet, preferably a golden retriever or lab, as her cousins have one. It was quite painful trying to explain to her that owning a pet, though wonderful, was a bit difficult, since we lived on the fourth floor of an apartment building in a congested city. My work schedule also did not permit me the luxury of taking care of a pet, as I often had to stay late at work. Imagine not being able to walk the dog, or feed it in time, which wouldn’t be fair to the poor animal.

I got my little girl a number of toys and animal dolls to play with, including a few teddy bears, a jumping dog, a stuffed tiger and even a cute little kitten doll. I then heard from a friend of owning a pet in the virtual world, which I found at first quite amusing. To know more, I decided to visit and took a tour of the site. I found it really amazing that one could just buy an animal doll, and obtain a secret code printed on the tag of the doll. This secret code then allowed one to own an animal doll as a virtual pet on the website.

There are a number of games, which a child can play with the virtual pet, and they had games for kids as per their age groups, starting from 5 years and above to almost any age!! to 13 years of age. It is also educational for the child, and gives the child enormous emotional support and company. It also helps the child gain responsibility, and gives cash, which is used to buy things, or feed the pet, using virtual money, teaching the child how to use money wisely without any actual risk. My daughter is now thrilled to be a proud owner of a pet, and she is having great fun. I even play with her pet on weekends, and enjoy every moment of it.

Even though there are many type of toys that have been invented to impress children. But it is fairly to say that dolls or animal dolls have its own legend and still be the most favorite type for children. In some case you may find other type of animal doll like pet dolls or virtual pets to let them try the new technological innovation of children toys. There is no harm for them to have it and sometimes you may find that your child will have rapid learning form playing this type of toy.


