Title: 
Are Bose Speakers Worth It?

Word Count:
336

Summary:
People who have Bose speakers say they have excellent sound quality and tech support team, even though their system is simpler than most yet cost more. And others have different opinions. So let’s see if Bose is worth the purchase.

Bose’s 3-2-1 system means that two Bose Articulated Array speakers are used instead of five, producing excellent surround sound quality and boasting a multi-channel output. Plus they use a patented Acoustimass module, not a subwoofer, that can b...


Keywords:
bose speakers, home theater speakers


Article Body:
People who have Bose speakers say they have excellent sound quality and tech support team, even though their system is simpler than most yet cost more. And others have different opinions. So let’s see if Bose is worth the purchase.

Bose’s 3-2-1 system means that two Bose Articulated Array speakers are used instead of five, producing excellent surround sound quality and boasting a multi-channel output. Plus they use a patented Acoustimass module, not a subwoofer, that can be placed anywhere in the home theater area and still produce excellent, quality sound quality.

Like snapping fingers, you can connect everything with only one power cord and three wires. Plus installation means only four connections are necessary:

- media center with acoustimass module
- power outlet with acoustimass module
- television to media center
- speakers to media center

The Media Center unit contains an AM/FM tuner and integrated DVD player that plays nearly any type of CD / DVD (regardless of whether or not they are rewrites, etc.) Other features include an equalizer, amplifiers, three inputs with both digital coaxial and analog jacks. Plus one optical digital audio input is available for more audio connections you may need.

However…..

Some people have reportedly found different types of Bose displays in stores. They feel that while the equipment they use in their displays may give off excellent sound from roughly three feet away for in-store listeners, the same systems in home areas would more than likely reproduce distorted sound and definitely lesser quality sound overall.

So bottom line is to test and read quality reviews. Then see for yourself and make sure to check for warranty information first so that you are covered while you are initially testing your system in your home. Don’t fall in love with it until you give it thorough testing with different music compositions and other programs - -and ask other people (friends, family, etc.) to test it, too.

Better safe than sorry! It very much may be worth your investment. But why take a chance?


