Title: 
Arizona Charter Bus Rental Tips

Word Count:
521

Summary:
An Arizona charter bus is a practical way to move a large group around. Those onboard the charter bus will be able to relax, see the sights, and converse with one another or they can spend their time alone, reading a book, watching movies, or even sleeping. If you’ve got to get a large group from point A to point B, and you want to do so economically and comfortably, you should consider reserving an Arizona charter bus.

Here are some tips that can help when you’re looking ...


Keywords:
phoenix party bus,phoenix charter bus,phoenix bus,phoenix limousine rental,phoenix limousine service


Article Body:
An Arizona charter bus is a practical way to move a large group around. Those onboard the charter bus will be able to relax, see the sights, and converse with one another or they can spend their time alone, reading a book, watching movies, or even sleeping. If you’ve got to get a large group from point A to point B, and you want to do so economically and comfortably, you should consider reserving an Arizona charter bus.

Here are some tips that can help when you’re looking to rent an Arizona charter bus for your group’s travel.

Safety First

Once you start searching for Arizona charter bus companies, you’ll see that there are many to choose from. One way to help narrow down your choices is to dig a bit deeper into the charter bus company’s driving history. Even though traveling by bus is safer than flying or driving, that doesn’t mean all charter bus companies put safety first. Before making a reservation with an Arizona charter bus company, ask how often the company maintains its fleet and whether maintenance is handled by the charter bus company directly or whether it’s contracted out.

You can always Google the Arizona charter bus company history. Search for information about past accidents, driver citations, and safety violations. The Department of Transportation has strict guidelines governing the number of hours bus drivers can operate a bus without a break, about drug testing and physical examination schedules, about keeping logs and other important safety issues. It’s fully within your right to ask about these types of issues.

Plan ahead

The sooner you have the details of your trip coordinated, the better. It’s always a good idea to reserve an Arizona charter bus as far in advance as possible. Knowing the travel dates, destinations, and the number of people traveling will help ensure you end up with a charter bus that meets your group’s needs.

Review the fleet

As you contact each Arizona charter bus rental agency, ask what types of busses are available. In addition to the deluxe motor coach type, you might be able to choose a double decker bus, a mini bus, an executive coach or Arizona limousine style bus, a van, and possibly even a bus with sleeping compartments!

Scrutinize the quotation

Arizona charter bus companies typically charge either by the hour or by the mile. Make sure you understand which you’re being quoted so there won’t be any surprises later on. It’s also a good idea to ask whether or not the price includes tolls or other trip-related expenses. You definitely want to also know if the bus driver’s gratuity is included in the quote. On average, a bus driver’s gratuity should be about 10% of the bill and that extra money becomes their incentive to provide an enjoyable ride.

Ask about back-up transportation

Hopefully it won’t be an issue, but you definitely want to find out what will happen to your group should the Arizona charter bus you reserve experience mechanical trouble during your trip.


