Title: 
Astro Bingo - A Bingo Site With Horoscopes

Word Count:
451

Summary:
If you are into horoscopes, this bingo site is for you. Astro Bingo has the world famous astrologer, Eugenia Last, as their guest, to give personal readings to each community member. She’s only here twice a year so better sign-up and catch her next appearance. More than knowing your lucky star, Astro Bingo offers 3 types of bingo games, each with progressive jackpots. Cost of cards range from £0.05 to £0.25 with a free one if you buy 6. Prizes at stake here are not that big c...


Keywords:
astro bingo, bingo


Article Body:
If you are into horoscopes, this bingo site is for you. Astro Bingo has the world famous astrologer, Eugenia Last, as their guest, to give personal readings to each community member. She’s only here twice a year so better sign-up and catch her next appearance. More than knowing your lucky star, Astro Bingo offers 3 types of bingo games, each with progressive jackpots. Cost of cards range from £0.05 to £0.25 with a free one if you buy 6. Prizes at stake here are not that big considering there are only a few players. But if you are looking for bigger chances of winning, you will definitely get it here. Less players, more chances of winning!

One nice feature of this site is that it gives a £5 free sign up bonus once you register.  You can use that to try out their bingo games. However, you need to deposit first if you ask for a payout. Minimum deposit amount is £10 with 105% deposit bonus for new members. Your succeeding deposits will be matched with a 35%-65% bonus. That’s lots of play hours at Astro Bingo! And to make sure that you will have continuous fun at their site, Astro Bingo will rebate 50% comps of your last deposit if your account balance is lower than £1.00. That’s up £30.00 comps back to your account!

Astro Bingo also offers eGift, where you send or receive credits to another account. Make sure you enter the correct recipient’s account when doing so, since the site will not be held liable for any wrong send credits. This is a great feature which is not usual on other bingo sites. Astro Bingo certainly knows how to assist their members and have more fun. Aside from that, they have a community page where you can see members’ profiles with their pictures, a hall of fame, and winner’s testimonial.

There are lots of reasons to play at Astro Bingo. They have various promotions, including a trip to Orlando, Florida. All you need to do is play at the specified time, and be the lucky one to have a chance to win these exciting prizes. You can also earn points from your deposits, which you can exchange to bingo credits, t-shirts, mugs or watches. So keep on playing and updating your account!  They also offer special birthday comps once you have joined.

Other games Astro Bingo offers are slots, poker and keno. Their withdrawal policy is somewhat complicated, with a scheduled day of cashing out for bingo and casino games. Nonetheless, with all their featured services, a very clean look, and easy to navigate site, and with a 24/7 help desk and friendly chat moderators, you will always be a winner at Astro Bingo!


