Title: 
Audio Books: Why Recorded Books On Tape And Mp3 Books Win Over Books On Cd?

Word Count:
677

Summary:
You’ve seen audio books in many formats, haven't you? Recorded books, as they are also called, come on CDs and tapes. The latest technology has created MP3 books. As weird as it may sound, many people like recorded books on tape better than books on CD. Read along to learn why.

Although CDs are great, but when it comes to listening to recorded books, books on tape are the long-term consumer’s favorite.

As a sideline, MP3 books are the new kids on the block. They offer e...


Keywords:
audio books,books on tape,MP3 books,books on CD,recorded books


Article Body:
You’ve seen audio books in many formats, haven't you? Recorded books, as they are also called, come on CDs and tapes. The latest technology has created MP3 books. As weird as it may sound, many people like recorded books on tape better than books on CD. Read along to learn why.

Although CDs are great, but when it comes to listening to recorded books, books on tape are the long-term consumer’s favorite.

As a sideline, MP3 books are the new kids on the block. They offer even more flexibility and convenience. Above all formats, MP3 books cut out the fancy packaging, the mail carrier or extra shopping trips. How would an instant download at home suit your busy schedule?

Overall, their superior storage, unnoticeable portability and better price make them superior above other formats so far.

But what’s with recorded books on tape being superior to books on CD?

1. Most audio books on CD are incapable of holding more than 75 minutes of content. On the other hand, books on tape cram 90 plus minutes of voice-over.

Sure, you can have the complete audio book copied out over several CDs. But who wants to haul around a heavyweight case with CDs, right?

So, a few tape cassettes will do you for a particular audio book. In contrast, you will need many more CDs for that same audio book.

2. Would you spend extra money for audio books on CD when you can get the same book on tape (or in MP3 format) for less?

Here’s a quick example to explain:

An unabridged version of "Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire" slims down to nest in 12 audiotapes. It sells for a mere $31.96 on the Barnes & Noble. Ready for the CD numbers now? The same version there, on CDs, costs roughly double the amount - $55.96. And you’ll have 5 more items to handle ‘cause there are 17 sets of CDs.

Now, you are thinking … “What a rip off!”
Whoa!

It’s far from being fleeced. CDs simply cost much more time and money to produce. Because of the extra outlays, the price tag is higher than the one for the tapes.

3. This one’s clear. When you turn off your CD player while listening to an audio book, often, you won't be able to carry on from the exact spot you left off. With a tape, you can continue from the exact track location you left off.

Imagine how annoying this can be if you are driving and you turn off your car. You’d need to kick-start the audio book CD and patiently locate the spot where you stopped at.

If you have a more advanced CD player that saves your location when you turn off your car, then it’s no problem until …
You shut off the car and pull out the CD.
Oops.

If you do the same with an audiocassette, the spot where you left off is waiting for you when you push the tape back into the player.

4. You may or may not agree with me here. Audio books, after all, are narrations. Many recorded books enthusiasts are smart. They say …”Why would I spend the extra cash to buy CDs because of recording quality level when I can snatch near enough the same quality on audiotapes for much less?”

It boils down to the reality that a human voice recording has little to gain in depth and clarity when recorded on a CD as an alternative of a tape cassette.

Recorded books are here to stay. You, too, may prefer books on tape over books on CD. The tape benefits clearly outweigh the ones of CDs. Have they surprised you at all?

With the entrance of MP3 players and MP3-enabled cellular phones, you can be in good company with audio books MP3 of your choice anywhere you go. The pure ease of use for MP3 books pushes them to the top of modern portable conveniences. They allow for a fun-on-the-go cruising or an educational makeover without trying to find the extra time.


