Title: 
Audiobooks: The New Way To "Read"

Word Count:
399

Summary:
We all know about bookstores. And real books. But just where do we find audiobooks?

Prior to the Internet, we all had no option but to physically visit the bookstores or order via phone or mail. But now with the advent of the Internet, you can search for the exact audio book you want, check out the cost and order it... without leaving the comfort of your home or office.

It is now safe to say that the audio book market place is now on the Internet. Physical bookstores ca...


Keywords:
audiobooks


Article Body:
We all know about bookstores. And real books. But just where do we find audiobooks?

Prior to the Internet, we all had no option but to physically visit the bookstores or order via phone or mail. But now with the advent of the Internet, you can search for the exact audio book you want, check out the cost and order it... without leaving the comfort of your home or office.

It is now safe to say that the audio book market place is now on the Internet. Physical bookstores can't match the incredibly abundant advantages that shopping for audio books on the Internet provides.

The audio book market place on the Internet gives you the opportunity to instantly search for and find the particular audio book you are looking for.

This can't be compared to the era of physically going through several bookstores and manually checking the thousands of books available before you find the audio book of your choice.

For those of you who don't have an online audio book store in mind, you can get started by using the search engines to search for the audio book title of your choice.

There are hundreds of sites offering thousands of book titles in many varied categories and genres.

Apart from these audio book stores, there are other audio book stores in specific categories such as business, motivational, fiction, etc. For example, a site called Jeff's healthy Living (www.jeffshealthyliving.com) offers a bunch of nutrition audiobooks. Online Christian Shopper (www.onlinechristianshopper.com) sells downloadable religious books and Tech Tips Today (www.techtipstoday.com) offers a large selection of sci-fi titles.

You get the idea. Whatever the niche, there are audiobook stores around, besides the big box sites like Amazon and Barnes and Noble.

If you don't find the particular audio book of your choice from the major audio book stores online, then use the search engines. It will be very helpful if you know either the exact name of the author or title. If you don't, it can end up being a case of "jargon in jargon out".

In other words, if you type in the wrong name of an author of an audio book you desire, it will be extremely difficult for you to find the particular audio book.

But there are so many audiobook titles available, you'll probably find another audiobook you like just as much.


