Title: 
Avenue Q Tickets - See A Clever Parody Live

Word Count:
450

Summary:
If you’re familiar with the children’s classic television show Sesame Street, you’ll be well-served by a night using Avenue Q tickets.  This innovative show took much of its influence from the television show, and its successful run has shown that Avenue Q is growing into a theater classic.  Below is a look at the story itself and the production history, but the bottom line is that Avenue Q is a story that takes an “adult” view of a children’s tradition.  

The Story

The...


Keywords:
Avenue,Q,Tickets,See,a,Clever,Parody,Live


Article Body:
If you’re familiar with the children’s classic television show Sesame Street, you’ll be well-served by a night using Avenue Q tickets.  This innovative show took much of its influence from the television show, and its successful run has shown that Avenue Q is growing into a theater classic.  Below is a look at the story itself and the production history, but the bottom line is that Avenue Q is a story that takes an “adult” view of a children’s tradition.  

The Story

The cast of Avenue Q is filled by puppets, although these are hardly the puppets millions have come to know on the television show.  Avenue Q is a true spoof of Sesame Street, and the story centers on the main character, Princeton.  Princeton has just graduated from college, and he has no money, as he’s just getting his start in life.  

Given his lack of funds, Princeton moves into a New York City apartment in the only neighborhood he can afford, and that apartment is on Avenue Q.  Princeton slowly gets to know the other characters on his block, including Brian, an unemployed but laid back kind of guy who’s engaged, Kate Monster, a teaching assistant who’s unhappy with her lack of a boyfriend, Rod, the secretly-gay investment banker/Republican, Nicky the slacker, and a host of other interesting characters.  

The basic premise of the story is life’s struggles as they are encountered by young adults just getting their start in life.  We'd tell you how the story plays out, but you’d be better off getting Avenue Q tickets for yourself to see just how this diverse and sometimes-racy neighborhood moves in the city that never sleeps.

Parallels with Sesame Street

There are several somewhat direct parallels between the play and the television show, and anyone familiar with the children’s classic will recognize them instantly.  Rod and Nicky are roommates, and they are clearly a parody of Bert and Ernie, with the most interesting twist to this parallel being that Rod is gay.  

Another character, Trekkie Monster, is a spin-off of the Cookie Monster, and even the way the songs are sung and put together are eerily reminiscent of the television show.  The most obvious connection is the use of puppets.  

However, this is where the similarities end, as the theme of the story is quite mature.  There are explicit lyrics in the songs, full “puppet” nudity, and strong sexual content between some of the characters.  

Overall, Avenue Q tickets will take you back in time with its parallels with Sesame Street, but will also mesmerize you with the modern and often-hilarious twists on the original story idea.


