Title: 
Bachelorette Games- Really Easy Purse Game

Word Count:
305

Summary:
Having a bachelorette party is a time you will remember for the rest of your life. Here is a really easy game that is also a lot of fun.

Purse Game

This game is one of the best bachelorette games you can play. Use this one for a bachelorette party that you're hosting, or your own.

This one is sure to make the party a hit. When everyone is having fun at the party without having to be drunk as a skunk, you know it's a success.

The Purse Game works like this. The wom...


Keywords:
bachelorette games, bachelorette party


Article Body:
Having a bachelorette party is a time you will remember for the rest of your life. Here is a really easy game that is also a lot of fun.

Purse Game

This game is one of the best bachelorette games you can play. Use this one for a bachelorette party that you're hosting, or your own.

This one is sure to make the party a hit. When everyone is having fun at the party without having to be drunk as a skunk, you know it's a success.

The Purse Game works like this. The woman with the wackiest items in her purse will win. Before the party, assign points to things that you might find in a woman's purse.

Of course, the wackiest or most unusual items get more points. When you're ready to start the bachelorette games, you can mark each woman's name on a card and then proceed with the game.

You will call out each item, and write the point value next to the women's names that had the item in their purse when they arrived at the party. Then you will add them up when the game is over, and whoever has the most points wins.

Some of the things that you might include on the list and possible point value are:

Cell Phone – 10 points
Napkins – 5 points
A Utility Bill – 20 points
A CD – 25 points
Any type of food – 55 points
Bottle Opener – 60 points
Hair tie – 20 points

You can, of course add to the list, and change the point values as you want. This is one of those bachelorette games that everyone will get into.

A great idea is to give bonus points to someone who has something really unusual, or something that's not on the list.

You can pick up some great supplies for your bachelorette party at http://www.bachelorettegames.net


