Title: 
Bachelorette Games You Have Never Played

Word Count:
328

Summary:
What have you supposedly never done? This bachelorette game is a lot of fun and you may just learn some things about your friends who never knew before.

I Have Never

This game definitely tops the list of the most fun bachelorette games ever. It is especially fun if there is a diverse group of girls at the party.

You can use this as a drinking game, or if there is no drinking at your bachelorette party, you can use candy or pennies instead. Here's how it works.

Whe...


Keywords:
bachelorette games, bachelorette party, bachelorette game


Article Body:
What have you supposedly never done? This bachelorette game is a lot of fun and you may just learn some things about your friends who never knew before.

I Have Never

This game definitely tops the list of the most fun bachelorette games ever. It is especially fun if there is a diverse group of girls at the party.

You can use this as a drinking game, or if there is no drinking at your bachelorette party, you can use candy or pennies instead. Here's how it works.

When it's time to play the bachelorette games, place every one in a circle, and give them a drink or 10 pieces of candy or pennies.

The women will take turns, going around the circle, making statements that begin with the words, "I have never."

They will finish the statement with something they have never done. The bachelorette can start first, and she will make a true statement about herself, such as, "I have never played strip poker."

Now, the women in the circle who actually have played strip poker will have to place a candy or penny in the middle of the group, or take a drink.

You can make statements like these:

"I have never been to a night club."
"I have never gotten straight A's."
"I have never been to a concert."
"I have never been to (city.)”

You can change the statements to whatever you like. If you know that the others have done something you've never done, use that to help you get an advantage in the game!

This is one of the greatest bachelorette games to play if you want to make sure that everyone is having a great time.

If you're using this game as a drinking game, please ensure that no one will be driving. You can either call a cab or have a fun bachelorette sleepover!

You can pick up some great supplies for your bachelorette party at http://www.bachelorettegames.net


