Title: 
Barstools – An Affordable Way To Add Charm

Word Count:
426

Summary:
Barstools are growing in popularity among a variety of venues: from kitchens and counters, to restaurants, clubs and bars. Wherever they are located, barstools are bringing modern and contemporary style to any room they reside in.  Barstools are no longer just simple seats. With their increasing custom designs and styles, barstools and barstool furniture are an affordable way to add charm to the dining room, kitchen or patio of any location.  

Barstool styles feature diffe...


Keywords:
bar stools,kitchen carts,pot racks,etagere,kitchen island,wine rack


Article Body:
Barstools are growing in popularity among a variety of venues: from kitchens and counters, to restaurants, clubs and bars. Wherever they are located, barstools are bringing modern and contemporary style to any room they reside in.  Barstools are no longer just simple seats. With their increasing custom designs and styles, barstools and barstool furniture are an affordable way to add charm to the dining room, kitchen or patio of any location.  

Barstool styles feature different seat heights, movement and material. Barstools are made for all counter heights, but usually 24 to 36 inches. Barstools can be made to move left to right, swivel 360 degrees, or remain stationary. In terms of material, barstools can be fashioned out of metal or wood: the most common woods including oak, pine and cherry. They can also be made of stainless steel, aluminum or wrought iron. Barstools are made in European and French fashions, and some of the most contemporary barstools can be found in chrome retro and 1950’s style designs as well.

Barstools can be purchased both with backs and without. Traditional barstools are usually found without backs. They are simple designs with seats, fabric covered or not, on three to four posts. More modern designs include backs and are more often referred to as barstool chairs. These barstool chairs are more conducive and comfortable to the human body. This is why there has been an increasing popularity among high-backed barstools and barstool chairs.  Additionally, an even more recent trend has incorporated ergonomic elements in barstool designs: features like seatback and tilting seats, increased padding and cushioning, adjustable height, foot and arm rests are among some of the ergonomic aspects that are being introduced into barstool production.

Whether it is your kitchen, living room, patio, or billiard room, barstools make a wonderful addition to the furniture already present in any room design. In fact, when purchasing barstools, the best place to begin is right inside the room they will occupy: look around at your other furniture and get a feel for what styles, material and color would accessorize your arrangement the best. What is more, barstools tend to be affordable pieces of furniture, so maintaining a reasonable price range while opening up the style options available is generally no problem.  Understanding what you want and what you can afford are the two best notions to keep in mind when approaching a barstool purchase. Yet no matter what material or style your original room set-up is concentrated in, it is likely that a barstool set exists in a matching fashion and affordable price.


