Title: 
Basic Strategies On Winning At Live Dealer Baccarat

Word Count:
626

Summary:
Live dealer baccarat is not hard to play and has one of the highest payouts of all casino table games. Baccarat is one of the simplest ones to understand. It is in fact a simple game and the following winning strategies will help you play baccarat and win!

Nine is the magic number.

Think Nine in Live Baccarat. The first thing you want to do is create a hand with a total of nine in only two or three cards. Eight is ok, but nine is the goal on the total cards in your hand...


Keywords:
baccarat, live bacarat, bacarat live, webcam baccarat, webcam bacarat


Article Body:
Live dealer baccarat is not hard to play and has one of the highest payouts of all casino table games. Baccarat is one of the simplest ones to understand. It is in fact a simple game and the following winning strategies will help you play baccarat and win!

Nine is the magic number.

Think Nine in Live Baccarat. The first thing you want to do is create a hand with a total of nine in only two or three cards. Eight is ok, but nine is the goal on the total cards in your hand. The perfect hand would be a hand that has only two cards with the value of the two combined being nine. The second best hand in live baccarat is this same set up but with the value being eight. These two hands are referred to as “natural nine” or “natural eight”. Here’s the fun part, when one player has one of these “natural” hands then none of the other players may draw a third card. That’s fun isn’t it? This even includes the banker. The player with the natural eight or natural nine wins the hand immediately. If no other player has a natural eight or natural nine then the players decide to continue the game by continue betting or folding their hand. If there is a tie between two players then the game is voided and nobody wins.
Know your card point values.

How do you get to a natural 8 or natural 9? First you need to know your baccarat point face card values. You can’t win at baccarat if you don’t know the points of each card. This is incredibly important to learn because you can lose quickly by making simple calculating mistakes. if you don’t know what points apply to the cards. Here are the values of the cards. Aces are one point, cards from jack to king are zero points, and all other cards have their face value points.

What happens if you go over 10? Well, it’s important to know as well that if your hand totals more than 10 you simply ignore the first digit to get your point values. So, if your hand totals 18 the score is 8. A natural nine would be only a two card combination 5 + 4, 6 + 3, 7 + 2, and so on and so forth.

Know how and when to bet.

If you really want to win at Live Baccarat you will know how to lose as well. Don’t ever bet on ties or standoffs. Also, if there is a trend then bet with the trend until the trend breaks. Betting against a trend rarely results in winning and when you bet. However, with the trend you can make a lot of money over the long run. Another tip is to always have enough money on hand and be sure to stay in the game long enough to pick up on a run or play long enough to go through your play through bonus requirements at your casino of choice. You need to know how to manage your money (Bank Roll Management) if you are going to play live baccarat successfully.

Get practice with free sites.

Learning how to play is important especially if you want to win big. So, consider playing baccarat online at the casinos that offer free baccarat. You can practice with fake money until you get your technique down. You will also pick up some tips and skills to playing baccarat along the way simply from playing. Baccarat is the favorite game of many and for good reason. It’s fun and relatively easy to play. Just make sure you are prepared to plan when you hit the real tables and be ready to earn some cash!


