Title: 
Beauty And The Beast Tickets - A Timeless Classic Continues

Word Count:
459

Summary:
Beauty and the Beast tickets have been available on Broadway since 1994, and as of this writing the production is one of the longest-running plays in history. The show has remained a big attraction for several reasons, including the fact that the production itself is renowned for its quality. However, the story itself is also a romantic and timeless classic, and thespians of all ages have enjoyed the drama as it has unfolded before them.

About the Story

The story begins...


Keywords:
Beauty,and,the,Beast,Tickets,A,Timeless,Classic,Continues


Article Body:
Beauty and the Beast tickets have been available on Broadway since 1994, and as of this writing the production is one of the longest-running plays in history. The show has remained a big attraction for several reasons, including the fact that the production itself is renowned for its quality. However, the story itself is also a romantic and timeless classic, and thespians of all ages have enjoyed the drama as it has unfolded before them.

About the Story

The story begins when an unattractive old woman wanders into a prince’s castle looking for shelter. The prince is not friendly, and refuses the woman’s request, mostly because she is ugly. It turns out that she is an enchantress, and she places a spell on the prince by turning him into a horrible beast. She gives the beast a rose, and explains that he must learn to love someone and accept her love in return before the last petal falls off the rose or he will remain a beast forever.

The prince is furious, and his encounter with a local villager who is lost displays his bitterness. Maurice, an inventor, is on a journey to promote his latest product, but he gets lost and is chased by wolves on his way, and finds his way into the castle. The beast is angry at the intrusion and keeps him as a prisoner.

Meanwhile, Belle, the “Beauty” of the story, is worried that her father is in trouble and sets out to look for him. At the same time, she is avoiding a marriage proposal from a local tavern owner. Belle eventually finds her father and convinces the beast to keep her as his prisoner if he sets her father free. The beast agrees to this offer, and Maurice returns to his village.

Over time, Belle and the beast become attached, and love is ultimately in the air. Belle sees that her father has encountered trouble back in the village through the beast’s magic mirror, and the beast allows her to leave to help him.

The plot starts to become quite intense at this point, and just in case you haven’t seen how this classic story unfolds, we’re not going to spoil it for you. Instead, you should secure Beauty and the Beast tickets for yourself, as you’ll never forget the themes of love, acceptance and fantasy that are on display with every performance.

Beauty and the Beast will remain a classic as long as there is a stage to tell the story, and it was nominated for nine Tony Awards the year it was released. If you want to treat your family to a night filled with memories, Beauty and the Beast tickets will accomplish just that.


