Title: 
Beep Beeps: Understanding Metal Detector Signal

Word Count:
1057

Summary:
A metal detector should not be bought solely on the suggestion of one person (no matter how good a friend). If you are new to the hobby, you should realize that long time detector users can be very committed to the particular model and brand of detector that they have been using. They are generally unfamiliar with anything newer or different. Be it out of sheer hobby or more on the professional level, you really would not perform well treasure hunting if you do not have a goo...


Keywords:
metal detector,detect metal,gold metal detector,metal detector reviews,treasure hunting,bounty hunter metal detector,


Article Body:
A metal detector should not be bought solely on the suggestion of one person (no matter how good a friend). If you are new to the hobby, you should realize that long time detector users can be very committed to the particular model and brand of detector that they have been using. They are generally unfamiliar with anything newer or different. Be it out of sheer hobby or more on the professional level, you really would not perform well treasure hunting if you do not have a good metal detector to explore with. 

Hand-held Metal Detectors are designed to safeguard security-sensitive areas like schools, courtrooms, corrections facilities, sports events, businesses, nightclubs, bars and other public areas and events. They are used along with walk-through metal detectors. In 1881, Alexander Graham Bell constructed one of the world’s first metal detectors in an attempt to find an assassin's bullet in President James Garfield. Fischer patented a portable version in 1931. 

Beep beeps: Understanding Metal Detector Signal 

Treasure hunters love to use metal detectors because they aid them in searching for those hard to find metal items planted in the ground. When you are looking at metal detectors you might say that these contraptions are not that hard to understand. You are actually right. You just need a huge amount of patience and perseverance and you will learn to understand what the beep beeps mean. 

To learn what your detector tells you is matter of good listening skills and keeping notes. You need to tally or remember specific sounds and see which or what type of metals created that particular kind of sound. Be very observant and focused on the small or faint signals your contraption sends out for you. 

Your machine works by transmitting signals below the ground. When this happens and there are no metal objects your machine is very quiet and makes no other signals. If there are coins or other metallic objects in the area you are searching different sounds come into play because the signals transmitted are blocked and interfered with. 

You can change levels of detection in your machine by controlling your pad. There are specific frequencies for different types of metals you want to consider in your search. At the lowest level you may end up with a tin soda can or other metal scraps. At the highest level on the other hand you risk not detecting very low sited coins or other precious metal objects. Youve got to buy a metal detector that could withstand normal wear and tear longer than its competitors. The longer the metal detector can serve you, the better your return on investment will be. 

Some metal detectors use BFO (Beat Frequent Oscillation). This technology contains two coils of wire. The two coils are represented by two wires which is the large and the small. The large coil can be found in the search coil of the detector while the small coil is found on the System Control Pack. Any place there is construction and the ground is being cleared, that is a great place to start treasure hunting. Successfull treasure hunting starts with having the right metal detector. But which type of metal detector should you get? Complete info on metal detectors and treasure hunting at http://detect-metal.info. 

Go to your local " do it yourself " coin operated car wash. Look for the place where they dump the contents of the 25 cent vacuum cleaners. Search the piles and see what a gold mine they are for coins and rings. 

A good way to view the purchase is to decide how much money you are comfortable spending. It is our view that you measure this purchase against other purchases you have made. Remember, the higher the coil is above the surface the more depth you will lose. If they've got a old coin that is 6 in. below the surface, and your detector can detect 8 in., and the coil is 3 in. above the ground, you will miss that target. If the coil had been directly upon the ground you would be able to detect that target. 

Whatever metals you can find may be different from what a professional and/or a neophyte may find with the same machine. Professionals through continuous listening and trial and error have mastered the art of metal detecting. Their secrets? Simple! PATIENCE. Yes, you need patience in going through the area; carefully trying not to miss an inch and swinging very carefully. You must also keep your search very close to the ground just in case there are coins planted far below the ground so your detector can detect them. If you worry about your coils banging into every rock in the area get a bump guard or what some call a shield. 

Try wearing headphones to hear more clearly all those very soft tones and beeps created by your machine. You never know if they just might whisper a soft signal that there are coins right bellow were you are standing. You might even want to keep the pace at a minimum. You don't want to miss anything, do you? Remember all the beeps are important, so identify them and through patience and understanding you will be a more effective metal detector user. 

Hand-held Metal Detectors are designed to safeguard security-sensitive areas like schools, courtrooms, corrections facilities, sports events, businesses, nightclubs, bars and other public areas and events. They are used along with walk-through metal detectors. You could find rings, bracelets, necklaces, coins or anything metal. Depending on the brand of metal detector you buy and model it is you will get different results. Just ask or research to find out what kind would best suit you. 

Find the best gold metal detector today and start treasure hunting! Of course, it is good to know how to choose and adjust the frequencies of the metal detector especially when you are using it on the beach. It is also important that you use it at a strategic place or location. When using it on the beach, the modes should be adjusted so that the depth and intensity will be specified and clear. Lastly, familiarize yourself with the metal detector you are using to obtain the best results. Prices of used metal detectors vary from $275 to $700 for all-purpose metal detectors. Underwater metal detectors can cost around $500.


