Title: 
Beeswax Candles Are The Finest Quality You Can Buy

Word Count:
407

Summary:
There are some very good reasons for beeswax candles manufacturers to use beeswax as a the primary matter. Though there are other variants such as soy wax or chemical products used in candle production it is common-knowledge that beeswax candles are top quality. The explanation is very simple. Beeswax is clean and one hundred percent organic when it is collected from bee hives. Technological processes have it ever more purified and then turned into first hand material to be u...


Keywords:
candles,beeswax candles,classic candles,ear candles,flameless candles,gel candles,candles,


Article Body:
There are some very good reasons for beeswax candles manufacturers to use beeswax as a the primary matter. Though there are other variants such as soy wax or chemical products used in candle production it is common-knowledge that beeswax candles are top quality. The explanation is very simple. Beeswax is clean and one hundred percent organic when it is collected from bee hives. Technological processes have it ever more purified and then turned into first hand material to be used for the best candles on markets all over the world.

Beeswax candles in the religious service

There is a lot of candle burning in all religious services, and if poor-quality candles would be used, then there'll be quite a mess from wax dripping. Fortunately, this is not the case with beeswax candles, there is very little dripping or none at all. There is another great advantage to the use of clean beeswax, it makes very little smoke, thus eliminating the risk of dark smoke spots in the room, and allowing air in to remain fresh. Some Christian institutions make beeswax a must for the candles they use.

For instance, the Eastern Christian Orthodox church uses only beeswax candles during their religious services, and The Catholic Church follows the same example during Liturgy. Furthermore, beeswax is the essential ingredient for the traditional Paschal candles also known as the Easter Candle. For such an important celebration, poor quality is unacceptable.

Many producers try to get to a production compromise, they use a combination of beeswax and chemicals to reduce the costs of candle making. Unfortunately, products lose their top features under such circumstances.

How to choose beeswax candles
Beeswax is a used in the compositions of many scented candles; there's no dark smoke, dripping or bad smell. However, beeswax candles are not a must for daily use. It is important however, that the candles you buy contain a specific percent of beeswax. It may not prevail, but at least it improves the burning quality of the products.

Beeswax candles are considered the most ecological variant of candles existent on the market. There may be jelly-like candles that look and smell great, but remember they change the structure of the air you and maybe your family breathe; whereas, clear beeswax can bring no harm. That's why it is so important to read on the package before purchasing anything, check for the beeswax content of the candles you want to buy.


