Title: 
Benefits Of Audio Books

Word Count:
347

Summary:
The popularity of iPod and MP3 players has boosted the market of audio books in recent years. Some book publishers even predicted that audio books would outsell paperback books or e-books one day.  Indeed, this trend is understandable when you consider the benefits of audio books over paperback books.

1) Listening to audio books is convenient and it fits the busy lifestyle of modern people.  You can listen to your favorite novels anytime anywhere, while you are walking, sh...


Keywords:
audiobooks, audio books, download audio books, audio book rental, audio book download


Article Body:
The popularity of iPod and MP3 players has boosted the market of audio books in recent years. Some book publishers even predicted that audio books would outsell paperback books or e-books one day.  Indeed, this trend is understandable when you consider the benefits of audio books over paperback books.

1) Listening to audio books is convenient and it fits the busy lifestyle of modern people.  You can listen to your favorite novels anytime anywhere, while you are walking, shopping, waiting at a doctor’s clinic or doing housework.

2) For many people, listening to an audio book is more entertaining and exciting than reading a paperback book. 

3) Listening to audio book is more relaxing.  You can sit down, take a rest and close your eyes while listening to your favourite book.

4) Downloading audio titles is easy and quick.  You don’t need to wait for the shipment to arrive or look for a particular book at the bookstore.

5) Audio books are affordable.  Many audio book clubs provide audio book download and rental services at low cost.  You can rent unlimited audio books or download 1-2 audio titles for less than $15 per month.  In addition, there is no shipping cost involved.

6) Audio book is a good learning tool.  You can improve your listening skill and vocabulary by listening to the audio book alone or reading the paperback book at the same time.

7) Parents can listen to audio books together with their kids and have fun.  An audio book can substitute a bedtime story. 

8) For the book publishers, audio book recordings can be duplicated easily and downloadable audio books will never run out of stock.

9) Unlike paperback books, audio books can be kept for indefinite period of time, they are easy to store and do not take up space. 

To sum up, digital audio books provide hours of entertainment to listeners at low cost. More and more book publishers now produce digital audio titles simultaneously with the release of the paperback version. If you have not listened to an audio book before, try this new way of entertainment and experience the difference.


