Title: 
Bingo Boogie - Dance Your Way To The Jackpot

Word Count:
558

Summary:
Bingo Boogie is another bingo online site powered by Parlay Entertainment and The Gaming Network.  The first appearance of the site is very colorful and up-to-date, with Santa’s Helper on the page to greet you.  There are very easy to follow links to many of the areas of the site, located at the bottom of the home page, and in case that is not enough, they also have a link to a site map.

Getting started to play here is very easy with their 2 simple steps. Just fill-out the...


Keywords:
bingo boogie


Article Body:
Bingo Boogie is another bingo online site powered by Parlay Entertainment and The Gaming Network.  The first appearance of the site is very colorful and up-to-date, with Santa’s Helper on the page to greet you.  There are very easy to follow links to many of the areas of the site, located at the bottom of the home page, and in case that is not enough, they also have a link to a site map.

Getting started to play here is very easy with their 2 simple steps. Just fill-out the required personal info, deposit money to your account, and you’re set to enjoy their bingo, and other casino games. Your first deposit will be matched with a 100% sign-up bonus, which will give you double the fun! Refer some friends too to get a 5% commission from their deposits within 91 days of registering. 

You can opt to play for fun prior to depositing, to acquaint yourself with their games. And winning at those free games could do more than be a fun and learning experience.  You have a chance of winning a  £10 to  £100 High Street Voucher.  Winners are notified the first of each month.  However at Bingo Boogie, playing for real promises loads of excitement.  

A minimum £5 deposit will take you far enough to get the most out of the site. What’s more, if you win their daily progressive jackpots that can amount up to £10,000! You will surely dance a Boogie for joy! And whether you like the American style 75 number bingo game, or the British 90 number, you can get it from Bingo Boogie. They have three rooms for these games, which are named blue, orange, and green. Cost of a ticket is as low as 10p. 

Make sure to take part in the chat rooms and meet hundreds of friends, plus win bingo bonuses in the chat games.  And if you get confused by all those abbreviations they use in the chat rooms, this site even offers you a Bingo Lingo dictionary of the most commonly used abbreviations and their meanings.  Something I have not seen on any other site. 

Various promotions are in store at Bingo Boogie, making you want to play every single day. Whether you are an early bird, lunchtime person, or a night owl, you’ll be up for special jackpots. Their loyalty rewards also promise cash back on every penny you waged. Check out Bella’s Booty Bag and find out her monthly challenge. You can win any of her fabulous prizes like a digital camcorder, ipod nano, flat screen monitor, and many more. 

Bingo Boogie also offers casino games such as poker, blackjack, slots, keno and pull tabs. And in case you are new to bingo games, or just forgot how to play them, they have detailed information to guide you through. The same goes for the other games. A hotline number is also available for your queries and problems, or you can email them. Withdrawing your winnings will take 2–5 days, and you can use either Neteller, Click2pay, Bank transfer, or Cheque. 

Having been recognized as one of the best new bingo sites in 2005, Bingo Boogie will definitely give you “the finest online bingo experience”.  Its colorful and very stylish web design adds to the overall impact of the site, giving each player a whole new experience in online bingo.


