Title: 
Bingo Boudoir - Play Bingo With Style

Word Count:
332

Summary:
Play bingo with style at Bingo Boudoir! The site’s “boudoir” effect can be seen all over the site with its romantic and stylish design, add to that the great layout of the home page. Bingo cards here cost 10p, 25p, 50p or £1, depending on each game. The site gives 10 free bingo cards on registration, no deposit required! Use that free money to try out their various 75 ball or 90 ball bingo games. There are different rooms for each bingo game that you can choose from, each wit...


Keywords:
bingo boudoir


Article Body:
Play bingo with style at Bingo Boudoir! The site’s “boudoir” effect can be seen all over the site with its romantic and stylish design, add to that the great layout of the home page. Bingo cards here cost 10p, 25p, 50p or £1, depending on each game. The site gives 10 free bingo cards on registration, no deposit required! Use that free money to try out their various 75 ball or 90 ball bingo games. There are different rooms for each bingo game that you can choose from, each with live chatrooms where you can meet fellow Boudoir buddies across UK, and all over the world.

The site offers amazing promotions. Just like the other bingo sites, it offers 100% matching bonus on your first deposit and 50% on subsequent deposits of at least £20. Referring your friend can also earn you 5000 loyalty points as part of their loyalty program. Remember, for every 1,000, you get £1 free on your account! Play more games too, since every purchase has corresponding points. You can find big promotional prizes on this site, such as a cruise trip, Cannes Festival Awards ticket, the World Cup, among many others. Another reason to spend a romantic evening at Bingo Boudoir is their £1,000,000 Coverall jackpot every Wednesday and Friday at 10 pm in the Chatterbox room. This jackpot decreases with every call made, but you are still guaranteed a jackpot of at least £1,000. 

Bingo Boudoir has an easy 3-step registration process, and withdrawal policies. Various payment options can be used such as credit cards, Fireplay, Neteller, Switch and Solo and debit cards. Remember to make at least a £30.00 deposit prior to your first withdrawal. Aside from the bingo games, Bingo Boudoir also offers instant games to play simultaneously with bingo. Casino games such as slots, poker and table games are also at hand. Powered by Globalcom, with services provided by Aqua Gaming, and a license from Kahnawake gaming Commission, Bingo Boudoir will appeal to your taste if you’re up to trying your luck in online games.


