Title: 
Bingo Fabulous - Fabulous Bonuses And Jackpots

Word Count:
411

Summary:
Bingo Fabulous is a very interesting site!  Not only is the home page very clear and easy to read, but they also have a good layout and vibrant colors.  When you first log on to this site, you will be pleased not only with the layout and colors, but with the size of the various icons and pictures and links! 

Where else can you get a chance to win a £1M cash jackpot but at Bingo Fabulous? And with a guaranteed £2500 minimum payout, that’s super fabulous! Just be sure to be ...


Keywords:
bingo fabulous


Article Body:
Bingo Fabulous is a very interesting site!  Not only is the home page very clear and easy to read, but they also have a good layout and vibrant colors.  When you first log on to this site, you will be pleased not only with the layout and colors, but with the size of the various icons and pictures and links! 

Where else can you get a chance to win a £1M cash jackpot but at Bingo Fabulous? And with a guaranteed £2500 minimum payout, that’s super fabulous! Just be sure to be there every Wednesday and Friday at 10 pm to be the next lucky winner of this one million pounds! Well, if you can’t win their £1M coverall jackpot, you can always try your luck at their progressive jackpot, which keeps on increasing and restarts at £500 every time there’s a winner. 

In addition to this fabulous jackpot money, Bingo Fabulous also offers fabulous bonuses. Upon your initial registration, you’ll receive 1000 loyalty points which you can convert to 10 free bingo cards. Use that free money to play the 75 ball and 90 ball bingo games and win cash prizes. Aside from that, when you make your initial deposit, which is £5 minimum, you’ll receive a 100% matching bonus. Another 50% reload bonus is waiting for all your other succeeding deposits of at least £20. Although Bingo Fabulous is smaller in content compared to other bingo sites, these offers are enough to play and have fun at this bingo site.

Other ways to earn cash at Bingo Fabulous is to avail of their loyalty points. You can get these points by registering, referring a friend or simply by just purchasing cards and playing games. Keep accumulating those points since for every 1000 points, you can have £1 additional cash in your account. At Bingo Fabulous, everybody’s a winner! Various instant games are also offered, which you can play alongside regular bingo games for that double fun and win. They also have different types of slots, video poker and table games that you can try your hand at.

Bingo Fabulous is powered by Globalcom, with services provided by Aqua Gaming, a premier international eGaming service provider fully licensed by the Kahnawake gaming Commission. The site has easy to follow links and simple registration procedures. For the starters, they have ‘Help’ and ‘Faq’ links which will guide you through the site. With their 24/7 customer service, all your queries will be answered quickly. They process payout requests after 24 hours.


