Title: 
Bird House Kits Make Great Bird Houses

Word Count:
633

Summary:
One great way to attract birds to your garden is by providing them with a comfortable nest in which they would definitely continue returning.  Believe it or not, there are bird houses that are already made and there are bird house kits which could be easily assembled on your own.  However, if you are adept to working on crafts, you could easily create one simply from any materials that are available around your house.

If you are in any way planning to use a bird house kit,...


Keywords:
bird, birds, bird house, crafts, garden


Article Body:
One great way to attract birds to your garden is by providing them with a comfortable nest in which they would definitely continue returning.  Believe it or not, there are bird houses that are already made and there are bird house kits which could be easily assembled on your own.  However, if you are adept to working on crafts, you could easily create one simply from any materials that are available around your house.

If you are in any way planning to use a bird house kit, the primary thing to consider is just how you are to use a bird house kit. Do you think the bird house is to be used as a fixture in your own yard?  Or do you prefer the bird house to be portable?  Do you have a good idea on the specific bird types that you plan to attract?  If so, you should therefore have an advanced plan as to what types of bird seeds or feeds to use.

There are also many types of bird house kits that cater to any types of birds.  There are those bird house kits that are created for single type birds.  There are also others that are for a lot of birds.  There are bird house kits that could be hung while there are also others which could be mounted on a post or a fence.  

The fact of the matter is that giving yourself appropriate time and effort in planning way ahead will eventually make your bird house making experience a lot satisfying. However, if you are planning to buy a kit that is ready to be assembled, the wood to be used will then be already cut and measured.  

Also included in the kits are the hardware. The holes for the bird house are also pre-cut.  Another good thing is that the holes for mounting it are also pre-prepared.   These kits are also made generally from wood cedar as this type is resistant to weather.

Take note that the bird house kits surfaces are either primed or rough, ready to have a coat paint finish. The good thing about this is that painting it is extremely fun.  There are colors you could choose wherein you could go for simple or those that  easily attract birds – like a paint job that is a lot fancier.

Believe it or not, these kits could also be made as easily by kids.  Therefore, building one could be a very interesting project which kids could easily finish in one session. This also works for cub scout groups or for your grand children.  You could even make them and give them out as presents during Christmas!  

What you need are basically the following things:  (take note that this is usually available in lumber yards or in your local home improvement shops)  boards that measure 1X 6, boards that measure 1 X 8, one box of five penny nails, exterior paint (either brown, white, green)  that is preferable made of latex for the purpose of making it easy to wash using water, a disposable cheap paintbrush for every bird house kit, a wire single heavy strand, hammers for kids (the less than three dollars kind) for those children who may have forgotten theirs.

All in all, making a bird house is easy as long as you put your mind to it.  The important thing of course is for you to enjoy what you are doing and the rest is simply a walk in the park.  Nothing really beats seeing your finished project hanging on a tree somewhere with lovely birds nesting innocently on your creation.  It brings unquestionable pride for you especially for anyone – especially kids – who may have a part on the making whether you used a pre-made bird house kit or made one from scratch.


