Title: 
Bonnie's Story: Ex-husband In Freezer

Word Count:
370

Summary:
EX-HUSBAND IN FREEZER... It become her favorite phrase after seeing those words on a refrigerator magnet years ago. Having been married eleven times, Bonnie Ashley has earned the right to adopt it. This provocative gal is a Survivor with a story like no other. If you are looking for an awesome Speaker that will mesmerize and excite an audience, Bonnie Ashley is the answer. She has got attitude, but Bonnie is a class act that you can trust to tell her story with style. And WHA...


Keywords:
bonnie,ashley,speaker,author,keynote,book,divorce


Article Body:
EX-HUSBAND IN FREEZER... It become her favorite phrase after seeing those words on a refrigerator magnet years ago. Having been married eleven times, Bonnie Ashley has earned the right to adopt it. This provocative gal is a Survivor with a story like no other. If you are looking for an awesome Speaker that will mesmerize and excite an audience, Bonnie Ashley is the answer. She has got attitude, but Bonnie is a class act that you can trust to tell her story with style. And WHAT A STORY!

She has lived a life most people can only read about in a pulp fiction novel, but TRUTH IS STRANGER THAN FICTION. In the case of Bonnie Ashley, it is also a heck of a lot more interesting! Born in the 1950s; brought up in a male dominated religious family; miraculously healed of Rheumatic Fever; raped at the age of fourteen; unable to have children after a hysterectomy at the age of 21; remarried two of her ex-husbands three times; had lesbian love affairs; made numerous suicide attempts and that's just the tip of the iceberg!

The first book from Bonnie Ashley will soon be available to readers and explore many aspects of her incredible life that she hasn‘t had the time to talk about in her presentation. However, live audiences can hear the highlights of her story right now because Bonnie Ashley is a Keynote Speaker available for all occasions. Visit http://www.BonniesStory.com for more details, contact information, photos, merchandise and to sign up for her free Newsletter and Emailing List.

Bill Knell is the Project Manager for Bonnie Ashley. A veteran writer, researcher and consultant, Bill has used his talents to help major film projects like Independence Day, Men in Black, Fire in the Sky, The Fifth Element and War of the Worlds become the successes they have. Cathie Knell is the Book Project Publicist, Media and Program Coordinator for Bonnie Ashley. Cathie is well known for booking Authors and Keynote Speakers on major radio and television programs and for landing them highly sought after speaking engagements. Contact Cathie Knell to set up media interviews, guest spots or speaking engagements for Bonnie Ashley or email Cathie@BonniesStory.com


