Title: 
Book Review: When The Angels Have Risen

Word Count:
343

Summary:
Jerry Fletcher, cynic, is abducted while on a hiking trip with co-workers. He wondered if he was trapped in an “X-Files reality.” Yoshu’ah, an alien, appears to Jerry and explains that there are two forces at work on planet earth, one is the force of LIGHT or good and one is the force of DARK or evil. Star Souls of LIGHT include Moses, Buddha, Isaiah, Daniel, Joseph and Jesus they taught love of God and the universe. But DARK took the teachings of LIGHT and “manifested the in...


Keywords:
extraterrestrial, et, las vegas, angels


Article Body:
Jerry Fletcher, cynic, is abducted while on a hiking trip with co-workers. He wondered if he was trapped in an “X-Files reality.” Yoshu’ah, an alien, appears to Jerry and explains that there are two forces at work on planet earth, one is the force of LIGHT or good and one is the force of DARK or evil. Star Souls of LIGHT include Moses, Buddha, Isaiah, Daniel, Joseph and Jesus they taught love of God and the universe. But DARK took the teachings of LIGHT and “manifested the institution of religion, creating the hierarchy of power.”

Jerry is one of the Star Souls and has been chosen to enlighten Earth. “You are like many great warriors of the Light. We have transferred large amounts of information to your DNA within your bones, and later, while on the Earth plane, you like thousands upon thousands of LIGHT warriors, will battle to save the Earth plane, bringing LIGHT unto Earth.”

Jerry is returned to Earth and begins to enlighten others; his message is not one that the system of institutions wants spread. The people stage a rebellion against the government, there is rioting and civil unrest. Jerry has become a “threat.”

Reading “When the Angels Have Risen” I could have sworn it was written by Michael Moore or a Michael Moore clone. The book is written in a humorous way but has some very serious deep lying messages.

Those who do not trust the government or forms of institutions will love this book and the message it preaches. The front cover is beautifully done and promises something prophetic and exciting inside.

The plot is good science fiction. My views on Christianity are very different from the author’s; however, I have to admit he is a good writer and has done an excellent job. I did notice several editing errors. All in all this is an interesting read. I recommend this book to liberals. This book, “When the Angels Have Risen,” has succeeded in making me ask questions and ponder many things I believe in.


