Title: 
Borat: Both Sides Of The Debate

Word Count:
314

Summary:
Borat is a movie that has caused a great deal of controversy. The movie is funny, but the jokes make fun of women, Jewish people, and Gays. The controversy has two sides, those who view the movie as entertainment and those who are outraged because they feel this movie gives people of all ages the impression that there is nothing wrong with having fun at the expense of others. They also feel the movie stereotypes women and Jews in a manner that is disrespectful and not true.
...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Borat is a movie that has caused a great deal of controversy. The movie is funny, but the jokes make fun of women, Jewish people, and Gays. The controversy has two sides, those who view the movie as entertainment and those who are outraged because they feel this movie gives people of all ages the impression that there is nothing wrong with having fun at the expense of others. They also feel the movie stereotypes women and Jews in a manner that is disrespectful and not true.

One of the reasons Borat has caused such as stir is because the movie is portrayed as a documentary film. Many viewers believed that it was a realistic documentary, giving more fuel to the fire regarding the information contained in it. Another view of this film is that the producer, Sacha Baron Cohen, is brilliant. Maybe the purpose behind the film is to get people to take notice of how ignorant such behaviors truly are in our society. While many feel the jokes in the movie are border line offensive, they do make people stop and take notice. Maybe it will reflect back to their own statements as well as those made by others they converse with.

Whether you make the choice to see the film Borat or not, it is likely you will hear people talking about it. Some will find it fun entertainment while others will take it as offensive material that should not be available to the public. The producer is remaining quiet about the reasons behind such a film, leaving audiences and critics to draw their own conclusions. Cohen is no stranger to developing and marketing films that the general public finds controversial. While some individuals will go see this movie because of the trailers, it is likely many viewers will see it just to find out what all the hype is about.


