Title: 
Britney Spears Tickets - The Pop Phenomenon Returns

Word Count:
607

Summary:
Britney Spears tickets are still some of the most sought-after on the entertainment market, and this musical and cultural diva has been drawing headlines for years and for many different reasons.  Despite recent placement in the tabloids for a plethora of issues, many have already forgotten that Spears became a hot story initially because of her incredible ability to put on an amazing live show.  She’s also lived a full life already, and a look at that life will provide some ...


Keywords:
Britney,Spears,Tickets,The,Pop,Phenomenon,Returns


Article Body:
Britney Spears tickets are still some of the most sought-after on the entertainment market, and this musical and cultural diva has been drawing headlines for years and for many different reasons.  Despite recent placement in the tabloids for a plethora of issues, many have already forgotten that Spears became a hot story initially because of her incredible ability to put on an amazing live show.  She’s also lived a full life already, and a look at that life will provide some insight as to how she got to where she is and where she may be headed. 

Early Life

Britney Jean Spears was born on December 2, 1981 in McComb, Mississippi and was raised in Kentwood, Louisiana.  She was born into a middle class family, as her father was a contractor and her mother a grade school teacher.  She has a brother and a sister, and her overall childhood could be considered “normal” by many definitions.

Spears’ first real interest was gymnastics, which would later serve her well on stage.  She competed in several competitions until she was nine, and began to learn the art of dance as well at about that same time.  Her entertainment-driven aspirations were defined early, as she was auditioning for the Disney Channel’s “The New Mickey Mouse Club” when she was eight years old.  

These auditions, although not successful in the sense that she wasn’t picked up for the dancing troupe, did gain her the first level of notice that she enjoyed within the industry.  She was spotted by an industry agent and spent the next few summers at a performing arts school in New York and even appeared in a few off-Broadway productions.  

She returned to Disney a few years later and was ultimately invited to participate in the program along with future stars such as Christina Aguilera and Justin Timberlake, who would eventually occupy a prominent space in Spears’ life for a time.  

The Disney show enjoyed a successful run, but ultimately ended, and from there Spears had to make a career choice - dancing on stage in theater productions or singing.  Spears made the choice to sing, and after a very brief stint with a pop band, she decided to go solo with her efforts.  It turned out to be a good decision.

Musical Career

Spears put out a series of demo tapes and was soon signed to a recording contract.  She released her first single, “...Baby One More Time” in late 1998, and it shot to the top of several charts.  Spears’ looks and overall image were also a big draw, and her video that accompanied the release was in demand all over the world.  

Her debut album of the same title was released in early 1999, and all it did was achieve 14x platinum levels in sales.  Spears’ dancing ability was also an instant smash with music fans, and Britney Spears tickets quickly became nearly impossible to find.  Overall, Spears has released six albums and enjoyed seven number-one singles from those albums on charts around the world.  

Personal Spotlight

Given her beauty and innocent image, Spears has also been the target of the tabloids almost since the day she hit the scene.  Her much-publicized romantic relationship with Timberlake was an attraction to Hollywood followers, and her marriage to Kevin Federline also faced immense scrutiny.  

Generally speaking, though, Spears is where she is because of her look, her talent and her ability to put on an incredible live show, complete with athletic and intricate choreography and an engaging style.  If you want total entertainment at a concert, you need to secure Britney Spears tickets as she returns to the stage.


