Title: 
Buddy Guy Tickets - Blues Legend Is Still Rocking After All These Years

Word Count:
477

Summary:
Buddy Guy tickets have been available for more than 50 years now, and regardless of how much time passes, this musical legend still packs houses all over the world and still brings the house down regularly with his brand of soulful blues and foundational rock and roll.  Guy’s life has been one filled with nearly as much struggle as success, and a look at his personal history will help explain why he’s become an iconic figure to millions of people around the world.  

Early ...


Keywords:
Buddy,Guy,Tickets,Blues,Legend,is,Still,Rocking,After,All,These,Years


Article Body:
Buddy Guy tickets have been available for more than 50 years now, and regardless of how much time passes, this musical legend still packs houses all over the world and still brings the house down regularly with his brand of soulful blues and foundational rock and roll.  Guy’s life has been one filled with nearly as much struggle as success, and a look at his personal history will help explain why he’s become an iconic figure to millions of people around the world.  

Early Life

George "Buddy" Guy was born on July 30, 1936 in Lettsworth, Louisiana, and he grew up in a poor environment.  Rather than face a life of manual labor under the hot Louisiana sun, Guy learned the guitar as a child and played it religiously.  His aspirations to become one of the world’s best musicians were met with resistance by those close to him, but he persevered and continued to hone his skills.  

Guy bounced around “gin joints” in Louisiana as a young man, most often in Baton Rouge, but soon decided that he needed to move to a big city to really make his mark.  That’s exactly what he did in 1957, when he moved to Chicago at the age of 21.  

Career Beginnings

Upon arriving in Chicago, Guy fell under the influence of who many consider to be his predecessor on the Chicago blues scene, Muddy Waters.  The following year, Guy won a local guitar competition that earned him his first record deal.  However, his early career was difficult, as his style was not accepted by his labels.  Guy was more of a free-wheeling guitar player who tended to improvise both in the studio and on the stage, but his managers demanded a more conservative, “by the book” approach to all of his work.

Guy tended to retreat to the stage for his artistic escape, as many of his early singles were not even released, and Buddy Guy tickets soon became a hot item in Chicago and in other venues around the United States.  Basically, he made a name for himself more as a live performer than a recording artist, and eventually his reputation spread around the world, and led him to a series of shows in Europe.  

Success and Influence

Guy’s presence and style was finally met with acceptance as his live shows continued to draw big crowds, and his talent influenced the likes of Eric Clapton, Jeff Beck and the Rolling Stones, among others.  Clapton in particular credits Guy as being his biggest influence and one of the greatest musicians he has ever seen.  

Overall, Guy’s on-stage success ultimately followed him to the recording studio, and he has become a multiple award-winning recording artist.  However, Guy is still all about his improvisational live performances, and Buddy Guy tickets will treat you to a guaranteed night of soul-stirring blues.


