Title: 
Buying The Right Souvenir

Word Count:
468

Summary:
Choosing the right souvenirs is not always easy when traveling to another region or another country. While you will pass by many gift shops, duty free shops, and travel shops, you probably won't buy anything until you are ready to come home. By then you will be tired and not in the mood for shopping. Buying a few souvenirs such as a mug, keychain, t-shirt, or shot glass that displays where you went on vacation is what most people do because these items are easy to find, inexp...


Keywords:
winter holidays, skiing, family vacation


Article Body:
Choosing the right souvenirs is not always easy when traveling to another region or another country. While you will pass by many gift shops, duty free shops, and travel shops, you probably won't buy anything until you are ready to come home. By then you will be tired and not in the mood for shopping. Buying a few souvenirs such as a mug, keychain, t-shirt, or shot glass that displays where you went on vacation is what most people do because these items are easy to find, inexpensive, and unique to those who will receive them. 

Buying souvenirs for other people is a longstanding tradition. While travelers buy travel gifts for themselves, they will usually include a few small items for close friends and family. In addition to stories and pictures, many people like to receive a small gift as a way to appreciate another person's trip even more. While some people buy items in bulk, some will spend a little time while on holiday to pick out gifts that are more personal in nature. New stationary, a monogrammed shirt, or a collection of postcards are special items that many people do not have at home. 

When you want to bring home gifts to loved ones while on vacation, you should make a list so you don't leave anyone out. This includes family members. Next, ask them what they would like. Most people are not picky, they usually want small items that don't cost too much. Write these ideas next to their names so you won't forget. Depending on how long you will be traveling and where you will be traveling, you may need to wait until the end of your vacation. Some countries are particular about what you can take in and out of their countries, so be sure to have an understanding of the rules before buying any gifts. 

If you have time to shop for individual gifts, don't forget to buy something for yourself. Forgetting to buy an item that you can cherish while on vacation can be frustrating. Put yourself on your list if you think you will forget. Once you know what to buy, find small shops and make your purchases. Small shops are usually less expensive and you have a better chance of finding items that are rare and unique. 

After buying souvenirs, make sure they are wrapped and securely positioned in your suitcase. Because you may need to check your baggage, your souvenirs may break during the trip home. Once you arrive, take your souvenirs out of your suitcase and store them in a safe place until you are able to give them to your friends and family. Even though most people will give you a list of what they would like, they are usually very surprised when they receive something.


