Title: 
Cable Telephone Service, Yank My Dish!

Word Count:
413

Summary:
Here again is another example of the Cable TV advantage! Cable TV provides your Digital Cable TV, High Speed Cable Internet, and also Cable Telephone Service! Some call these three services bundled together the {Triple Play}. This saves the consumer much money purchasing these three great services together as a bundle. And also think of the convenience, One Wire One Bill!

With Cable telephone service, you get a lot more bang for your buck. Included with most Cable telephon...


Keywords:
Cable telephone,digital telephone,triple play,cable phone service,call waiting,callerID,cable servic


Article Body:
Here again is another example of the Cable TV advantage! Cable TV provides your Digital Cable TV, High Speed Cable Internet, and also Cable Telephone Service! Some call these three services bundled together the {Triple Play}. This saves the consumer much money purchasing these three great services together as a bundle. And also think of the convenience, One Wire One Bill!

With Cable telephone service, you get a lot more bang for your buck. Included with most Cable telephone services are call waiting, caller ID, voice mail, call waiting with caller ID, three-way calling, call forwarding, and many other service options at no extra charge. Just try getting those options from your land line service such as Verizon at no extra charge?? Good luck! Verizon would nickel & dime you and make that monthly phone bill far more expensive than Cable telephone.

A big advantage to digital cable phone service is it’s similar to your digital cable TV. The data is compressed, which results in much less bandwidth being used than your old analog service.

Cable TV telephone service has the advantage of better voice quality, dependable service, much cheaper monthly bills than a land line, and still One Wire One Bill for all your cable services!

Something to note is in many cases, your cable digital phone service is separate from the High-speed internet service being offered by many cable companies and does not rely on TCP/IP traffic or the Internet.

With cable phone service you can always reach the people you care about most, family, friends, or business and hear them in a very crisp and crystal-clear sound, whether they’re in your neighborhood or around the world. With cable telephone everyone is much closer.

Plus the typical cable telephone calling plans gives you unlimited nationwide calling in the U.S., Canada, and Puerto Rico. Many people can keep their current phone number they now use, so everyone can still stay in contact and always know where to reach you.

Simplify your life, why have so many separate bills? While Vonage, SunRocket, and Packet8 are more desirable and affordable than your old land line from Verizon, it can’t get any easier or more affordable than subscribing to a bundled service package such as Triple Play.

Contact your Cable TV provider today, for Cable Telephone, High-Speed Cable Internet, and of course your Cable TV needs.

Keep things simple, One Wire One Bill!

Will Rogers-"Always drink upstream from the herd."


