Title: 
Camping Holidays For You And Your Family

Word Count:
484

Summary:
For many people, summer is just not summer without taking a weekend camping trip.  Camping holidays are an inexpensive and fun way to spend time outdoors and recuperate from everyday life.  Sitting under the stars, cooking out, and eating smores can just make any day seem better.  Whether you use a tent, RV, cabin, or lay out under the stars, you will find that camping can help you to get in tune with all the nature that is around you.   

You can camp alone or with your fa...


Keywords:
camping, camping holidays, tour


Article Body:
For many people, summer is just not summer without taking a weekend camping trip.  Camping holidays are an inexpensive and fun way to spend time outdoors and recuperate from everyday life.  Sitting under the stars, cooking out, and eating smores can just make any day seem better.  Whether you use a tent, RV, cabin, or lay out under the stars, you will find that camping can help you to get in tune with all the nature that is around you.   

You can camp alone or with your family.  There are a wide variety of campsites all over the country in every state and area.  By visiting these different areas, you can tour and learn more about different parts of the country.  Here are a few of the campgrounds that you may want to consider:   

1.  A.B.C. (America’s Best Campground) is located in Branson, Missouri.  This campground has 162 RV and tent campsites that offer satellite TV, phone service, and electricity.  The campsites also include a grill, table, and concrete patio.  Pets are welcome to stay at the campground as well.  Branson has a wide variety of activities for you and your family to take part in as well.  

2.  Petit Jean State Park is located in the first state park in the United States, which is near Little Rock, Arkansas.  This campground has 127 campsites, along with 33 cabins.  This campground offers many different activities for you and your family, including picnic spots, hiking trails, and playgrounds.

3.  Montana de Oro (meaning “Mountain of Gold”) State Park is a wonderful beach camping spot.  It is the right camping choice for those who love the ocean, with hiking trails, ocean access, and beautiful golden flowers.  Sea lion colonies can be seen from the bluff.  You have to hike in to the camping area and you cannot light a camping fire.  This is a beautiful place for camping on a beach.  This is truly roughing it, but the view and beauty is worth it.   

4.  Angel Island State Park is located in San Francisco Bay.  You can only reach this beautiful island by ferryboat.  The number of campers is restricted per night and you will enjoy the beautiful view of San Francisco and the Golden Gate Bridge.  Nine campsites are available and there are trails that are located around the island that you can use to walk to shops, a café, and to rent a bicycle.

5.  Fort Welikit Family Campground is located in South Dakota.  You can camp around three lakes and it is not an hour away from the major attractions that you can tour, including Crazy Horse Mountain, Custer State Park, golf courses, and the majestic Mount Rushmore.  

Camping is said to be the top outdoor activity enjoyed in the United States.  People from every income level enjoy camping holidays.  Pack your bags, grab your map, and get ready for a camping vacation that you will never forget.


