Title: 
Candle Making, The Romance Of It All

Word Count:
834

Summary:
Before electricity was discovered, candles and firelight were the only instruments humans could rely on to navigate after dark. But in the 21st century, they are two of the most effective stimuli for creating a passionate mood. And if you use a highly scented candle, you'll create an even more effective sensual experience. 

Candles affect us on a number of different levels: 

1. Gazing at a flame is a mesmerizing experience and relaxes both the eyes and the mind. 

2. ...


Keywords:
candle, candle wax, candle wicks,  romantic candles


Article Body:
Before electricity was discovered, candles and firelight were the only instruments humans could rely on to navigate after dark. But in the 21st century, they are two of the most effective stimuli for creating a passionate mood. And if you use a highly scented candle, you'll create an even more effective sensual experience. 

Candles affect us on a number of different levels: 

1. Gazing at a flame is a mesmerizing experience and relaxes both the eyes and the mind. 

2. Because a candle throws light on a relatively small area, it creates a sense of intimacy among the people basking in its glow. 

3. On a sensual, a candle induces a sense of warmth, even though it emits very little heat. 

4. A candle can also capture the eye through the beauty of its color and design, which are enhanced by the flickering flame. 

5. An armotic candle adds more pleasure to the mix by appealing to your sense of smell. 

You can use highly scented candles to create a romantic atmosphere during intimate evenings at home, or you can give them to special people in your life as gifts.

There are so many varieties of candles now available in stores and online that you're sure to find one to suit every taste.

Candle Uses:

1. Aromatherapy

The study of how scents affect the central nervous system is centuries old. Modern day aromatherapists can evaluate a client's situation and prescribe a solution in one short consultation. Aromatherapy candles can be used in the same way as essential oils to change a person's frame of mind in a calm and non-threatening way. 

Here are some uses for highly scented or aromatherapy candles: 

a. To help a person feel calm, use a candle scented with chamomile. 
b. A lavender candle will induce a feeling of serenity. 
c. To help someone who is worn out, give him or her a sandalwood candle. 
d. To lift someone who is down, give a candle scented with ocean breeze.

2. Relaxation

a. Candles are often used to enhance quiet thinking, and suitable types include chakra candles and Feng Shui candles. 
b. Meditators often use an aromatherapy burner fueled by tealights or votive candles. 
c. Give highly scented candles to someone who enjoys taking baths by candlelight.

3. Color Therapy

a. Choose soft colors or neutral shades for people who love to relax. 
b. Give strong colored candles to people who love to celebrate.

4. Celebration

a. Candles are regularly used in ceremonies such as christenings, birthdays, weddings and graduations. 

Most candles are made from beeswax, paraffin, soy, gel or other materials such as resins. You can purchase clean burning soy candles if you or the people around you suffer from hypersensitivity.

Candle Shapes

Candles come in all shapes and sizes:

1. Long thin candles known as pillars and tapers 
2. Small candles such as votive and tealights 
3. Geometric shapes, including balls, pyramids, squares and rectangles 
4. Cartoon shapes 
5. Candles in decorative containers such as glass, wire or steel vases 

All of these, with the possible exception of character shapes, make great sensuous gifts. And even a character shaped candle can be romantic if it has a particular significance. For example, a candle shaped like a snowman can remind her of the night you fell in love while building a snowman in her parents' yard. 

Most women love candles of any kind, and men who take pride in their surroundings will also appreciate a beautifully crafted candle.

Choosing a Candle

Here are some practical tips to help you choose a great romantic candle:

1. Keep in mind the design pallete the person favors in his or her home. Don't give her a sparkling blue candle if her living room is decorated in shades of salmon. Don't give him a red candle if his apartment is painted in olive tones.

2. Go for clean, classical lines when you buy, like elegant tapered candles or classic round candles, either big or small, in clear, beautiful colors. 

You can buy a more extravagantly decorated candle if you know the person will absolutely love it. Or you might buy a fun candle for someone with a great sense of humor. If you're absolutely stuck, buy a neutral color.

3. If you know the person well, you might choose a candle that fits in with his or her interests. A zodiac candle will thrill an astrology buff, while a pyramid candle will please an Egyptian history enthusiast. You can find a whole range of candle containers that feature dolphins, butterflies and other motifs that make for an excellent personalized gift. Choose a highly scented candle that features one of their favorite scents.

4. Take into account the person's allergies or environmental concerns. Look for candles made of sustainable materials like soy.

It's worth taking the time to think through the other person's preferences before you buy a candle for a romantic gift. People recognize when thought has gone into a gift selection, just as they sense when the choice was haphazard. Your thoughtfulness will add immeasurably to their appreciation of your gift.


