Title: 
Candle Making Kits - A Candle Hobby Can Be Fun

Word Count:
585

Summary:
Millions of people throughout the world have hobbies to help them relax after a long day of work. One hobby that has risen in popularity is candle making.

Candle making has become sort of an art form. Each person has their own ideas and designs for candles, and each candle has the potential of becoming a work of art, if only to its creator. 

Candle making is not difficult, however if you are creating something that will become a focal point of a room, you want it to be ...


Keywords:
candle making kits.candle hobby,make candles


Article Body:
Millions of people throughout the world have hobbies to help them relax after a long day of work. One hobby that has risen in popularity is candle making.

Candle making has become sort of an art form. Each person has their own ideas and designs for candles, and each candle has the potential of becoming a work of art, if only to its creator. 

Candle making is not difficult, however if you are creating something that will become a focal point of a room, you want it to be perfect. The great thing about candle making is that if you make a mistake, you can melt the candle and start all over again. 

Candle Making Kits Are Great

Candle making kits are great  for first timers to introduce yourself to candle making. Candle making kits will show you the basic steps and techniques when you have the basic knowledge of how to make candles, you will be able to create candles that are stunning.

The first step in candle making is to protect your work surface from melted wax. Covering with newspaper or heavy plastic will insure that your workspace is kept clean. 

You do not need elaborate tools to create wonderful candles. A roasting pan and a thermometer will work just as well as all of the fancy equipment that can be quite expensive.

Candle making kits can become a way to spend quality time with your children. However, it is very important that they are supervised at all times to avoid any accidents that may occur. 

Safety First

Melting wax is relatively easy, however little fingers may try to test it. Make sure that you advise your children that although the melted wax may smell good, it is extremely hot and they could get serious injuries if they try to touch it. 

Dyes and fragrances for candles are available at craft stores throughout the country. It is important that you add the dye slowly to the melted wax and wait for it to dissolve completely. Adding colors one at a time will allow you to determine which colors work with each other the best. 

It is very important that you watch the wax very carefully when it is melting. If the heat is too high, it will burn the wax. If melting wax begins to smoke, remove it from the heat immediately, being very careful not to spill any on your skin. If this should happen, do not wipe it off. You could spread it cause more serious burns. Instead, run it under cold water until the wax hardens and it should fall right off. 

Once you have poured your wax into your molds, it will need twenty-four hours or more to cool and harden completely. Once the candle has set up, it is time to decorate. 

Add Personality To Your Candle Making

Choosing the right pattern for your candle is the most creative part of candle making. If you want to add a splash of color, try melting your favorite colored crayon for a vibrant look to your candle. 

You can use just about anything from stencils to non-flammable beads to create works of art. You are limited only by your imagination. 

If you choose to create scented candles, adding crushed herbs will give a pleasant scent that will last as long as the candle itself. Candle making kits come with complete instructions on how to create the perfect candle. They are easy to follow and can be used in any setting.


