Title: 
Candy Wrapper Software Makes Dreams Come True

Word Count:
539

Summary:
One of the most popular and fun elements of any get together, be it a holiday, a special event like a wedding or a child's birthday, is to provide your guests with personalized sweets. And thanks to the computer age, doing so can be taken to a whole new level with candy wrapper software. Easy to use, incredibly flexible, these applications allow you to design and print out virtually any size covering for almost any type of goodie or treat. 

In a typical use, you launch the...


Keywords:
candy, wrapper, software, labels, program, chocolate, bar


Article Body:
One of the most popular and fun elements of any get together, be it a holiday, a special event like a wedding or a child's birthday, is to provide your guests with personalized sweets. And thanks to the computer age, doing so can be taken to a whole new level with candy wrapper software. Easy to use, incredibly flexible, these applications allow you to design and print out virtually any size covering for almost any type of goodie or treat. 

In a typical use, you launch the program on your computer and go step-by-step to design the wrapper for your own needs. You start by selecting a background image that repeats across the entire surface of the covering. Then you add in a picture, say of a family member, add text (and you can use any font on your computer) to describe the event and then tidy up the layout. Print them out, wrap up the sweets (or containers) and you're done!

Most of these programs come pre-loaded with the dimensions of the most popular sizes and shapes, but you can usually add additional wrappers for unusual sizes simply by taking a few measurements. On a garden variety chocolate bar, don't forget that you can make use of both the front and back surfaces as well. You can easily save your designs, share them with friends and use them again and again!

More than just a hobby, if you've got a flair for design, candy wrapper software can be the key to launching your own part-time business! With very little overhead, huge demand and a home computer, you can literally earn thousands of extra dollars a month providing custom designed coverings for family, friends and others in your community. 

And you needn't worry about marketing your services – your fun, popular designs will do it for you. Using novelty ideas such as chocolate bar wedding invitations will have your phone ringing off the hook with orders for more wrappers! If you're not interested in running a business yourself, it can also be the ideal opportunity for a mature teenager to get involved in.

If you're active in your community, you can also use your packaging design skills to personalize sweets for hospital and nursing home patients. Around holidays, community events, fundraisers and other activities will give you countless opportunities to make unique contributions that will be remembered long after the candy is gone!

If you’re crafty and you enjoy designing and embellishing small gifts and treats for others, your next step will be finding some software that you like.  Ease of use and a significant ability to personalize the labels and/or wrappers with many options will be big factors.  Also a reasonable price point will also be a consideration for most.  When you do find the right software though, you’ll be a big step ahead of everyone else out there who is “just thinking about” this business.  Act on your passion.

What child wouldn't be thrilled with a personalized sweet from Santa Claus or the Easter Bunny; what fund raiser wouldn't be even better with personalized wrappers? You'll brighten everyone's day with your personalized designs and an inexpensive candy wrapper software program will get you started right!


