Title: 
Car Paintings – How To Begin A Car Painting

Word Count:
434

Summary:
How come painting cars is so hard compared to lets say a flower? Well the main thing with cars is that every little line has to be perfectly proportioned one little mistake and it can screw up the whole painting. This is because our brain is very good at remembering shapes and details around it. While a red rose can have different shades, come in different sizes, different leaves etc, a car model stays the same, so we will spot the difference rather quickly when something isn...


Keywords:
car paintings, car drawings, car sketches, pencil,


Article Body:
How come painting cars is so hard compared to lets say a flower? Well the main thing with cars is that every little line has to be perfectly proportioned one little mistake and it can screw up the whole painting. This is because our brain is very good at remembering shapes and details around it. While a red rose can have different shades, come in different sizes, different leaves etc, a car model stays the same, so we will spot the difference rather quickly when something isn’t correct.

When you do your next car panting, do not rush the early parts of it, the part when you try to get all the proportions right before starting to shade or paint. It doesn’t matter if you are extremely good with colors, or your shading technique is superb when you draw cars. If you don’t get the proportions right, the end result will not be very good. That is how important it is to get the proportions right. How do you do it? How do I do it?

Start out with a clean sheet of paper, preferably a pretty big one. Find a good picture of that car you want to draw, this picture will be used as reference for your car painting / drawing.

Start by doing some soft lines on the paper, try to get the general box proportion right. By box proportion I mean the most basic lines, like the cars bottom and roof. After you have done that, start by adding the front or rear of the car. (Depending on how the car is positioned on your reference picture)

When this is done, and you feel you really nailed these lines well, then move on to the small details like the headlights, door handles, windows etc. My advice is to not start doing the wheels to early because those are usually the hardest part. Do the wheels when you are happy with the overall lines of your car painting. Then take a break. Yes take a break for it all! This is good because when you come back an hour or so later you will probably notice small things that needs to be corrected, which you didn’t notice while you were drawing the car. Add this small details and remember don’t start to shade and paint the car until you feel very satisfied with the cars shape and details. When you do, then I would suggest you start to shade it carefully. How you shade it correctly is another topic, which I will cover on my next article.


