Title: 
Care With Gemstones

Word Count:
428

Summary:
Gemstones are one of the most precious substances known to mankind. Their worth alone is reason enough for us to care for them. A gemstone can cost a fortune and one scratch or impurity can ruin there value. As strong and durable as they may be, they can be scratched, dirtied and even broken if mishandled. There is not much we can do to care for them, but some precautions are necessary.

Physics teaches us that no matter how hard a substance is, it can be broken down to bit...


Keywords:
Gemstones, stone, materials, Jewelry


Article Body:
Gemstones are one of the most precious substances known to mankind. Their worth alone is reason enough for us to care for them. A gemstone can cost a fortune and one scratch or impurity can ruin there value. As strong and durable as they may be, they can be scratched, dirtied and even broken if mishandled. There is not much we can do to care for them, but some precautions are necessary.

Physics teaches us that no matter how hard a substance is, it can be broken down to bits if applied some pressure at the right points. During exercise, we sometimes strain our muscles at various points, particularly our fingers. Therefore it is advisable to remove any rings before attempting any strenuous exercise.

Cleaning gemstones requires a simple knowledge about gemstones. There are generally two kinds of gemstones; transparent and opaque. Transparent gemstones will make dust visible even if it gathers behind the stone on the ring or any form of jewelry that holds them. These are mostly single crystal stones and therefore application of water will not affect them too much. The use of a soaked cloth to clean the dust gather behind the stone is therefore not a bad move. You may even use a brush to clean the dust if you like.

However, opaque gemstones or organic gemstones are affected by water or any chemical substance. These are usually porous and will allow the water or chemical to flow inside the gemstone. Once inside they can either build up inside, make the stone loose its color or even cause it to crack. Therefore these kind of gemstones should be kept away direct contact with any kind of chemical in sprays, cosmetics and even from water.

There are advanced methods using certain technology to help clean gemstones. Expert jewelers and dealers are well-versed with all these methods and know how to clean each specific kind of gemstone. Therefore it is advised that you do not do the cleaning yourself and rather, have it done by someone who knows more about how to deal with them. If you can afford to buy a gemstone, why not spend a little more money on keeping them safe and clean?

Gemstones are hard materials. In contact with some other gemstone or the metals which contain them such as gold, they can crack each other or the metal. Therefore care must be taken with jewelry how it is kept and handled. Jewelry is expensive and valuable, especially those with precious gemstones in them, therefore they should be treated with care.


