Title: 
Cavs Karaoke Supercdg: 5 Ways You Will Benefit From Cavs Dvd-203g Usb Karaoke Player At Home

Word Count:
612

Summary:
Take your home Karaoke experience to a whole new level ecconomical SuperCDG discs, containing up to 2000 songs each. Enthusiasts and DJs alike can accumulate large collections of songs at a fraction of the cost. I'll examine one model to show how SuperCDG Players can benefit you and your family at home.

I can remember just before Karaoke began back in the late 70's, TV producer, Chuck Berris came up with "The Gong Show" and all the bars and night clubs started having gong ...


Keywords:
CAVS Karaoke Machines,CAVS DVD-203G USB,CAVS DVD-203G,CAVS SuperCDG,SCDG Karaoke Players


Article Body:
Take your home Karaoke experience to a whole new level ecconomical SuperCDG discs, containing up to 2000 songs each. Enthusiasts and DJs alike can accumulate large collections of songs at a fraction of the cost. I'll examine one model to show how SuperCDG Players can benefit you and your family at home.

I can remember just before Karaoke began back in the late 70's, TV producer, Chuck Berris came up with "The Gong Show" and all the bars and night clubs started having gong shows. As this musical trend was culminating, the timing was just right for Japan to introduce KARAOKE. America went wild over the concept, bars quickly incorporated the "singing machines," and soon Karaoke became a household word and a cultural phenomenon. Karaoke equipment, like all new technologies, was very expensive and only available commercially and to bars, restaurants, hotels and Karaoke MC’s. Today America loves karaoke more then ever but not everyone wants to hang out in bars, singing and drinking all night so now more then ever, home Karaoke machines are in big demand.

Benefit #1 - Karaoke fun at a fraction of the costs with SuperCDG Discs

As an alternative to the expensive Laser Discs and CD+G Discs (holding between 12 and 22 songs at a rate of about $1 per song), CAVS Karaoke has created "SuperCDG" which holds up to 2000 Karaoke songs costing about 10 cents each and SuperCDG Players like the CAVS DVD-203 USB cost a fraction of what machines used to. SCDG Karoke Discs can be found online in a range from $50 to $200 but they usually hold 250 to 1250 songs on each. I've seen 1250 song discs for as low as $99.

Benefit #2 - CAVS PC Software allows you to creating your own SuperCDGs filled with your own MP3s

Expand your CAVS Karaoke player's music capabilities by using the optional software to create your own SuperCDGs with your MP3 music. Remember wiring your home system up with separate DVD, CD Players or maybe even a Karaoke machine or a 300 CD/DVD Carousel? Remember naming all the discs on the carousel machine. With only 2 SuperCDG discs full of your favorite MP3s you can replace your entire carousel. The song titles come up right on the front LCD panel. The DVD-203G USB also read many other formats including: DVD, DVD-R, DVD+R, DVD-RW, MPEG-4, VCD, CD+G, CD-R, CD-RW, HDCD, JPEG CD, Kodak (slideshows).

Benefit #3 - 5.1 Dolby Digital allows you use with your existing surround sound system

The 5.1 Dolby Digital output allows these units to effectively replace any other disc players in your home system, saving space on your shelves and just looking neater. There's also output for S-Video and Fiber Optical

Benefit #4 - Expand the memory on the CAVS DVD-203 USB

The CAVS DVD-203G USB has USB port which allows you to load your songs onto an optional external hard drive meaning that you could conceivably have 100,000 Karaoke and Non-Karaoke songs right at your fingertips.

Benefit #5 - The family that sings together swings together

To me this is one of the most important benefits of having Karaoke in your home. If you are a Karaoke addict like I am then you know there's not much else that can compete with a family get together around the Karaoke machine. Dad get's to sing "Mack the Knife," the neighbors come over to join in and Little Linda can practice for American Idol when the house is empty. It builds confidence for the kids and strong bonds between family and friends and that's always a good thing.

Take your enthusiasm and talent to the next level. Just click the link in my bio and check out my article on the "7 Rules of Hosting a Karaoke Party."


