Title: 
Celebrating Valentine’s Day With Valentine Box Ideas For Kids

Word Count:
429

Summary:
Valentine’s Day is a day to celebrate love in any form. Whether romantic or platonic, we use this special day in the middle of winter to warm our hearts by declaring our love for the people in our lives. In elementary schools everywhere, children celebrate Valentine’s Day by giving each other cards. Big, small, decorated with stickers, or filled with candy, these cards are the children’s first foray into articulating their respect and appreciation for each other and it is an ...


Keywords:
Valentine Box Ideas


Article Body:
Valentine’s Day is a day to celebrate love in any form. Whether romantic or platonic, we use this special day in the middle of winter to warm our hearts by declaring our love for the people in our lives. In elementary schools everywhere, children celebrate Valentine’s Day by giving each other cards. Big, small, decorated with stickers, or filled with candy, these cards are the children’s first foray into articulating their respect and appreciation for each other and it is an important part of the Valentine’s Day tradition. In order to give and receive these cards, the children often create their own Valentine box in which they collect their cards. And, as is often the case, these boxes are constructed at home and then brought to school for the festivities. For those craft-challenged parents faced with the prospect of helping their child with such a project, there are several easy Valentine box ideas that will have your child ready for Valentine’s Day in no time.

First and foremost, the shoebox is your best friend when it comes to simple Valentine box ideas. All you need to do is take an ordinary shoebox and cover it with brown paper – turn a grocery shopping bag inside out and you have all the brown paper you need. Or, if you have any on hand, you can cover the box with Valentine’s Day wrapping paper –anything, white, red, or pink will do. Once the box is covered, cut a slit in the top of the box lid so that cards can be slipped inside the box. Then let your child go to town decorating the box with stickers, drawings, fabric, glitter, beads, paint – all of which you can pick up at your local craft store. Just make sure that their name is on the box somewhere.

Another one of the equally popular Valentine box ideas is to take an empty Valentine’s Day candy box – heart shaped or otherwise – and cut a slit in the top into which you can slip cards. Again, cover the box so that your child can decorate it the way that they want to and be sure they put their name on the box somewhere.

The most important part of any Valentine box ideas, of course, is that your child has fun doing it. Make it a craft that the two of you can do together by gathering all the materials and shopping for what you need. Then you can both sit down and plan the design of their special Valentine box.


