Title: 
Celebrate The Holidays With A Doll House Christmas

Word Count:
456

Summary:
As you decorate and prepare your own home for the holiday season, don’t forget about the miniature home that you have displayed as well. There are a number of fun and creative options available to you as you think about ways to drape the holiday spirit over your miniature dollhouse and its exterior display. 

Any holiday design set must include a miniature Christmas tree. There are several ways that you can do this. The first is to buy or create a regular exterior miniature...


Keywords:
doll house christmas


Article Body:
As you decorate and prepare your own home for the holiday season, don’t forget about the miniature home that you have displayed as well. There are a number of fun and creative options available to you as you think about ways to drape the holiday spirit over your miniature dollhouse and its exterior display. 

Any holiday design set must include a miniature Christmas tree. There are several ways that you can do this. The first is to buy or create a regular exterior miniature tree that you would use in decorating the exterior of your dollhouse. A conifer tree of some sort would be preferable. If you choose to use an ordinary tree, then you will gain the privilege of decorating it yourself. Take up a challenge and see how close you can get your miniature tree to matching the real tree that you have set up in your home. If you don’t have the time this holiday season to decorate your own miniature tree, you can always buy miniature Christmas trees that are already decorated and just need to be set into place. 

Don't stop with a miniature Christmas tree, though. Continue decorating the rest of your dollhouse with garlands or red ribbons that reflect the holiday season. Hanging greenery on the walls or on staircase railings is always pretty. Wrap tiny packages with Christmas paper and place them under your tree, just waiting to be opened. Of course, you'll need Santa Claus decorations to enhance your Christmas theme as well!

Now that you've added warmth and spirit to the inside of your dollhouse, work on the exterior. Trim the eaves with miniature lights, just as you would your own home. Crafting a small wreath to hang on the door makes the exterior look more complete. Adding a tiny candle or even working in a miniature light in your wreath will give a nice finishing touch to the whole dollhouse Christmas feeling. You'll also need some artificial snow to make your winter holiday theme turn into a wonderland.

You may find it fun to move the miniature people in your dollhouse outside at this time of year. Dress them in warm coats and scarves and create a scene that depicts them playing in the snow with the family dog or even sledding. Regardless of how you choose to set it up, the addition of some holiday flair to your dollhouse or miniature display will only serve to enhance the overall holiday décor of your home. See how much depth and character you can give to your display. Remember, don’t just stop at decorating a tree, Christmas is a holiday that affects the décor of the entire house, inside and out.


