Title: 
Celine Dion: One Of The Greatest

Word Count:
310

Summary:
Celine Dion is one of the biggest international pop stars in history. Born on the 30th of March in Charlemagne, a city in the province of Quebec, Canada, she started her career at a young age in her native French. She won the Eurovision song contest in 1988 in Dublin, Ireland, representing Switzerland with the song Ne Partez Pas Sans Moi, (translated Don't Leave Without Me). She released her debut English album in 1990. 

After winning a Grammy and an academy award for the ...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Celine Dion is one of the biggest international pop stars in history. Born on the 30th of March in Charlemagne, a city in the province of Quebec, Canada, she started her career at a young age in her native French. She won the Eurovision song contest in 1988 in Dublin, Ireland, representing Switzerland with the song Ne Partez Pas Sans Moi, (translated Don't Leave Without Me). She released her debut English album in 1990. 

After winning a Grammy and an academy award for the song beauty and the beast, the title theme of Disney’s beauty and the beast, her career was well established. Over the next decade Celine went from strength to strength. To date she has sold over 100 million albums with no sign that she intends to stop. Her massively successful hit, My Heart Will Go On, from the film Titanic hit number 1 in the charts across the globe, selling over 50 million copies worldwide. 

She took a break from the music world in 1999 to 2002. During this time her husband, René Angelil, was diagnosed with throat cancer. Thankfully he responded well to treatment and Celine gave birth to there son, Rene Charles, on 25 January 2001.  

She returned to the music world in 2002 and released the album, A New Day Has Come. The album shot to number one in 17 countries. In 2002, Celine Dion signed a three-year show agreement with Caesars Palace, a hotel and casino located on the Las Vegas strip in paradise, Nevada. 

A custom-theatre was constructed especially for her performances. Celine Dion agreed to appear five nights a week in a show named for her album, A New Day Has Come. The show is in both English and French showcasing her hits over the years and has been extended to run through 2007. Celine is continuing to to grace us with her voice, and it doesn't look like she plans to stop!


