Title: 
Celtic Tattoos - Why Are They So Popular

Word Count:
544

Summary:
Celtic tattos are still one of the most popular types of design despite their long history. These designs have existed for thousands of years, yet more than one thousand people search for information about celtic tattoo designs every day. So why are these designs still such a popular choice for tattoos?

The Celtic people have a long and proud history. From ancient times their people have shown an artistic ability to create complex works of art. These elaborate patterns too...


Keywords:
celtic tattoos


Article Body:
Celtic tattos are still one of the most popular types of design despite their long history. These designs have existed for thousands of years, yet more than one thousand people search for information about celtic tattoo designs every day. So why are these designs still such a popular choice for tattoos?

The Celtic people have a long and proud history. From ancient times their people have shown an artistic ability to create complex works of art. These elaborate patterns took pride of place on their stonework, metalwork, weapons and jewelry. In fact ancient celtic designs carved in stone can still be found in both Ireland and Scotland.

Celtic tattoo designs usually consist of elaborate patterns of lines, loops and spirals that are linked together in a decorative manner. Occasionally animal designs, often depicting the tiger and the lion are incorporated into the tattoo design. These celtic animal designs (often known as zoomorphic tattoo designs) differ from traditional celtic patterns as the various lines and strands of the design end in animal heads, feet and tails instead of following a never ending path.

The meaning of these patterns is not readily apparant. To find the real meaning of celtic artwork you have to look much deeper. The constant interlacing of lines and spirals symbolizes the connection between the physical and spiritual worlds. And the never ending route of the loops and spirals represents the never ending cycle of life, death and rebirth.

Celtic designs also represent the fight and the heart of the Celtic people who were renowned throughout the world as courageous warriors. And it's thanks to a combination of these noble values and the timeless symbolism of these patterns that they remain such a popular choice for tattoo designs.

The most popular and well known of all the celtic designs are the celtic knot and the celtic cross.

Celtic Knot: This tattoo consists of decorative loops with no beginning and no end which represents the continuing cycle of life and death.

Celtic Cross: The celtic cross is usually a highly elaborate design containing many interlinking spirals and strands. Once again, the lines used to create the outline of the cross don't have a beginning or an end, and as such represent the immortality of human life and love. The cross is also significant as the Celtic people believed it would protect them from their enemies.

Celtic tattoo designs are a great way of expressing pride in your ancestry whether you are of Irish, Scottish or Welsh descent. In fact these designs are highly popular among people from North America who have Celtic ancestors.

However, you should be aware that due to the elaborate nature of these patterns, celtic tattoo designs are not easy to create. So before you start, make sure that you find a tattoo artist who has experience in creating celtic tattoo designs. An eye for detail and the ability to place the lines and spirals in exactly the right place is vital. And even once you find a talented artist, it will take a lot of time, patience and dare I say it, tolerance of pain, in order to get your celtic design just right. So make sure that you find the perfect celtic design before you go any further.


