Title: 
Challenging Pool Computer Games

Word Count:
479

Summary:
You have always admired pool maestros like Rodney, Davies, Reyes and such international figures and wanted to play like them. Now you can play like a pro. Free. Anytime you like.

Though the graphics were not so realistic as the current scenario, but pool games on the computer have been in existence ever since computer gaming began. Of course you had to compromise on the sound effects and sound quality – but computer pool games are attractive on their own merit. It can be p...


Keywords:
games, computer games


Article Body:
You have always admired pool maestros like Rodney, Davies, Reyes and such international figures and wanted to play like them. Now you can play like a pro. Free. Anytime you like.

Though the graphics were not so realistic as the current scenario, but pool games on the computer have been in existence ever since computer gaming began. Of course you had to compromise on the sound effects and sound quality – but computer pool games are attractive on their own merit. It can be played by anybody who is interested in the game. And the most beautiful part is that you can play it free.

You have numerous options to choose from. For instance, you can choose the game type, your opponent (both on line or off line), the difficulty level of the game, depending on your own competence level. All this with truly amazing 3D graphics and near-to-real sound effects. This free game is so addictive that you wont even realize time ticking away as you proceed from one proficiency level to another – mastering every level with élan and grace.

The state-of-the-art graphics and sound effects have made the game as realistic as possible. The rolling of the ball, its drop in the pocket, its hammering against the rail and bouncing back after hitting the other balls – you would feel every pulse of the game as if you were playing the game in your favorite pool bar. You can negotiate your way through the heavy traffic of other balls to get to your aimed target, using the side railings to maneuver across the board, its all so real. You can try using the masse shots, tricks, combined shots, see your cue call, reposition adequately, assess the strength of your shot. Even you can pre-determine the angle of your precise shot and aim for the pocket. Just the game on the board you can concentrate, aim and shoot. Then relax and take a deep breath.

You can play the game in the 9-balls, 3-balls, 8-balls with your friends. If you cant find any you play the game with your computer. Or if you wish to be left alone, you can play the game by your self. It does not matter whether you are an amateur or a pro. This free computer pool game is suitable for anyone.

The different types of pool games are:

1. Death Match
2. Pyramid
3. Straight Pool
4. Rotation
5. American
6. 9 balls
7. 3 balls
8. 15 balls
9. 8 balls

Some of the Computer Pool Games available:

1. Super Pool
2. Live Billiards
3. Live Pool 3D
4. Real Pool

You can play this game through LAN supported networks or through the internet. There are on line matches and even once-a-month world wide tournaments. Now isn’t tht interesting?

So get started with this challenging on-line pool game on your computer and start getting prepared to win the coveted world award for the best pool player in the world.


