Title: 
Champagne Bingo – Sparkling With Fun And Big Prizes

Word Count:
414

Summary:
Just like a champagne, Champagnebingo is sparkling with great offers waiting for you to grab them. They have four reasons why you should play here. First, they give out 10 free bingo cards on your initial registration. That’s in the form of 1000 loyalty points which can be converted to £1 cash. You can use that free money to play the 75 number bingo and 90 number bingo games with the cost of the card at 10p minimum. Second, you are entitled to a 100% matching bonus upon your ...


Keywords:
champagne bingo


Article Body:
Just like a champagne, Champagnebingo is sparkling with great offers waiting for you to grab them. They have four reasons why you should play here. First, they give out 10 free bingo cards on your initial registration. That’s in the form of 1000 loyalty points which can be converted to £1 cash. You can use that free money to play the 75 number bingo and 90 number bingo games with the cost of the card at 10p minimum. Second, you are entitled to a 100% matching bonus upon your initial deposit between £5 - £100. That’s double the amount to play with! Third reason is that they have a £1,000,000 coverall jackpot. Play every Wednesday and Friday at 10pm, and if lady luck is on your side, you can be a millionaire! Or you can settle for the guaranteed £2500 minimum jackpot. You might say that is enough reasons but, being a champagne bingo site, a free champagne with your £100 first deposit shouldn’t be missed. 

Champagne Bingo, just like other bingo sites, also rewards its players with loyalty points which can be converted to cash and used to play and win those bubbly cash prizes. There are several ways to earn these points, that include registering, which automatically entitles you to 1000 points, referring a friend for 5000 points, or purchasing cards. If you reach £1000 points, you can redeem that for an additional £1 in your account. That’s an easy way to get free money! What’s more, your next deposits of £20 - £50 will be given a 50% matching bonus. That’s a win-win situation for you if you keep on playing at Champagnebingo.
 
This bingo site accepts currencies such as the British Pound, European Union Euro, and United States Dollar to be used in playing. Being a product of Globalcom and Aqua Gaming, with a license from the Kahnawake gaming Commission, playing at Champangnebingo is worry-free since you are assured of the complete security and fairness of the games they offer. And with a 24 hours toll free hotline, you are assisted all throughout your use of the site. 	

Champagnebingo also recently introduced instant games like table games, video poker, slots, and instant wins to be played together with the bingo game. These games are equally fun and offers cash prizes too. So how about playing these instant games while playing a bingo game for that double win?  Requesting payouts is not complicated either. You only need to deposit at least £30.00 prior to making your first withdrawal. Your payout request will then be processed after 24 hours.


