Title: 
Cheap Holiday Without Hassle

Word Count:
507

Summary:
One of the first things families consider when they start planning their holiday is the budget.  While everyone wants to do it all and have a great time, unfortunately there are only so many dollars that can go into the trip.  The key to getting everything you want for your trip is making those dollars go further. A cheap holiday can often be accomplished by doing a little research from the comfort of your own home.

Thanks to the internet, we can now compare airfare, car r...


Keywords:
vacation reservation, cheap holidays, bargain


Article Body:
One of the first things families consider when they start planning their holiday is the budget.  While everyone wants to do it all and have a great time, unfortunately there are only so many dollars that can go into the trip.  The key to getting everything you want for your trip is making those dollars go further. A cheap holiday can often be accomplished by doing a little research from the comfort of your own home.

Thanks to the internet, we can now compare airfare, car rentals, hotel rates and even attraction ticket prices online in just a few clicks on the home computer.  This also has made the companies offering travel get into competition to have the lowest price, and with a little research you’ll find a lot of bargain savings.

When you first look for a website to browse for your vacation reservation, make sure to go to a reputable site. Not everyone who sends you an e-mail and has a webpage really is a business with good practices.  The better-known reputable sites are ones such as http://Expedia.com, http://Traveocity.com, and http://Orbitz.com.  These have all been in business for some time and have a proven track record.

You will want to go site to site and compare the price for the travel reservations you are looking to purchase. You can choose if you just need one service, such as airline tickets or hotel rooms, or if you need a combination of these items. If you are going to need more than one service, you may want to bundle them together in your search. Often there will be additional savings for booking multiple items.

When you are purchasing airfare, be careful before you buy. There are a few things to make sure you know before you hand out your credit card number. First, check for any restrictions on the ticket. Some are non-refundable, and while they are more affordable, if you are worried about possible changes in your schedule, it may be better to pay for a more expensive ticket. Also, the first price you may see on a ticket may seem too low to be true.  Make sure it has all the appropriate taxes and fees included before you get too excited. If they have not been added in, they may lump an additional $50 - $100 on the price, per ticket.

Once you have made your selection, make sure to print out all the documentation that shows your purchase has been made.  This may be useful down the road if there are any problems with your purchase. 

If you are not a fan of online shopping and you are worried about all of your reservations being put into the system correctly, once you have booked, double check.  A few days after your purchase pull out the papers you printed as a record of your order. They should have confirmation numbers. You can call the hotel or car rental location, give them that confirmation number and make sure they have everything correct.


