Title: 
Cheerleading Music & Mixes

Word Count:
413

Summary:
There is really no such thing as a good cheerleading routine that does not have a great music mix. In order to really wow all of the judges and blow away the competition, you need to have a terrific mix that is going to keep the cheerleaders motivated and the crowd cheering in a frenzy of delight. Today, there have been quite a few companies to come out with incredible music and mixes that are just right for almost any kind of cheer squad to use at their games, events and pos...


Keywords:
cheerleading music & mixes, competitive cheerleading, cheerleading apparel, cheerleading


Article Body:
There is really no such thing as a good cheerleading routine that does not have a great music mix. In order to really wow all of the judges and blow away the competition, you need to have a terrific mix that is going to keep the cheerleaders motivated and the crowd cheering in a frenzy of delight. Today, there have been quite a few companies to come out with incredible music and mixes that are just right for almost any kind of cheer squad to use at their games, events and possible competitions that they may be entered into.

The majority of cheerleading squads are on the lookout for awesome mixes that are going to be unique and leave quite an impression on all of the judges at a competition. The last thing that you are going to want to do is use a pre-made music mix when you are entering a regional or national competition. When you do this, you are obviously running a great risk of having the same music as another school. Also, most judges can end up spotting such a track right off because they are constantly judges these competitions. Really, the ideal mix will come from a reputable company that specializes in unique mixes to fit the need of various cheerleaders and their coaches.

Some cheerleaders will also try and make a homemade mix to bring out to events and competitions. This can be a good idea, only if you happen to have quite a bit of experience when putting together sharp music mixes. When you do so, it is really important that you make sure that you have a decent song selection so that they blend together nicely to create a smooth transition between songs and sound effects.

If you have ever had the chance to check out one of the exciting cheerleading competitions either on your cable sports channel or in person, then you have been lucky enough to catch some of the hottest mixes that squads like to use today. With the right mix, you will have a group of cheerleaders who are excited and enthusiastic about showing the crowd the routine that they worked so hard on for months and months. When you have a group of cheerleaders that you are working with or coaching, it may be necessary to show them the importance of a music mix that will get them the attention that they are looking for from the crowd and judges.


