Title: 
Children Crafts Are Kids Play

Word Count:
500

Summary:
Rainy days and summer vacations always cause mothers and teachers a moment of dismay. How to entertain the children if they can't go outside and play? Better yet, what kinds of children crafts will help to break up a day filled with lesson plans, errands and other responsibilities?

Children crafts are as varied as the types of children they're meant to entertain. For younger kids, crayons, coloring books and plastic figurines will keep kids busy for hours, but many parents...


Keywords:
crafts, children crafts


Article Body:
Rainy days and summer vacations always cause mothers and teachers a moment of dismay. How to entertain the children if they can't go outside and play? Better yet, what kinds of children crafts will help to break up a day filled with lesson plans, errands and other responsibilities?

Children crafts are as varied as the types of children they're meant to entertain. For younger kids, crayons, coloring books and plastic figurines will keep kids busy for hours, but many parents and teachers prefer a more 'hands-on' approach to crafts. 

In the old days, our parents made us play clay out of flour, salt and water. That was great stuff, but today, Play Doh is more popular than ever and is a cheap craft that kids from 2 to 10 will enjoy playing with. Many of these types of dough, including sculpturing clay, will allow children to create animals, monsters and anything in between.

Children crafts can be created with simple ingredients like paper, glue, scissors and crayons or markers. Designing cards, masterpieces or just scribbling will keep various age groups entertained, and only imagination is the limit to what children can produce if given the opportunity.

Watercolors and paintbrushes are also a favorite with kids, and finger-painting is still as popular as it was thirty or forty years ago. If you don't want the mess of paints, crayons or markers, try beads, yarn and plastic needles to help your kids create construction paper animals or pockets for letters, chores or homework assignments.

Children crafts are an important part of your child's life and help to encourage creativity and ingenuity. There are no right or wrong crafts to choose for kids, other than making sure that they are age appropriate. Younger children may need supervision and help at times, but older children are fine in creating and designing things out of whatever craft supplies you have on hand. 

A child, a box and a box of crayons can be turned into fun children crafts when making spaceships or forts, and encouraging children to use their imagination provides ample stimulation for their creativity. Lacing beads, yarns and glues and old socks can be turned into animals that will delight your children and give them a sense of pride and accomplishment when they see what they can create from a few spare parts.

Children love to draw, and large pads of drawing paper placed on an easel will provide ample opportunities for your child to discover the joys of pencil, crayon, marker, watercolors and paints. Remember, even Michelangelo had to start somewhere! 

No matter that type of children crafts you choose, make sure that floor space is protected to eliminate stress for already busy Mom's and Dad's, and that any craft supplies that you have gathered for your children are age appropriate. Offering praise, even if you don't know what you're looking at when your child shows you his or her masterpiece, is a great way to instill confidence and pride in accomplishment with children.


