Title: 
Chinese Tattoo Writing - A Warning

Word Count:
477

Summary:
At one time chinese tattoos were strongly associated with criminals and the mafia. But these days all that has changed thanks to a new wave of celebrities and tattoo artists who have recognised the attraction of these intriguing tattoo designs. Every day thousands of people are looking for information about chinese tattoos, as the Chinese culture continues to spread around the modern world.

Part of the popularity of tattoo designs based on Chinese writing is due to the fac...


Keywords:
chinese tattoos,tattoo designs


Article Body:
At one time chinese tattoos were strongly associated with criminals and the mafia. But these days all that has changed thanks to a new wave of celebrities and tattoo artists who have recognised the attraction of these intriguing tattoo designs. Every day thousands of people are looking for information about chinese tattoos, as the Chinese culture continues to spread around the modern world.

Part of the popularity of tattoo designs based on Chinese writing is due to the fact that most people in the West won't understand what it means. Chinese tattoos, more than any other type of tattoo design, are a great way to get speaking to people. Not only will people ask what the characters say, but you'll also be able to tell them why you choose to display such a message.

Most Chinese tattoos represent ideas, values or beliefs, such as happiness, love, peace etc, which are easily understood all round the world. However, if you decide to get tattooed with Chinese characters, here's a serious warning; (i) make sure your consult someone who speaks Chinese as their first language about your chosen design, and (ii) make sure you trust them.

There are so many subtle meanings and nuances in the Chinese language that one slight alteration to the design or mistake in translation can leave your body displaying a message that's vastly different from what was intended.

For example, you might think that your design says one thing when it really means something entirely different and pehaps extremely insulting. It's not been unknown for an artist's mistake or a practical joke to cause years of humiliation. Let's face it, would you like to walk around with a tattoo that's insulting to a quarter of the world's population?

Alternatively but less dramatically, the meaning of certain Chinese symbols can change quickly, causing your tattoo to become irrelevant and out of date within a short space of time. So please consult someone who speaks Chinese about your chosen design before you get started. Find out what the characters mean and what they symbolize. 

In my opinion, the most impressive Chinese tattoo designs include both writing and an image. Men generally opt for a Chinese dragon, while women look great wearing a phoenix tattoo. Both of these mythical creatures are worshipped in China as they represent power and luck.

Alternatively, you may decide that you only want a Chinese calligraphy design. However, it's important to bear in mind that these written characters can look rather bland and uninspiring unless the artist is extremely talented. So if you want your tattoo to consist entirely of Chinese writing make sure that you find an artist who has experience in writing Chinese calligraphy.

But whatever you choose, make it your aim to create a design of lasting importance to you, instead of just hopping on the latest fashionable bandwagon.


