Title: 
Chitchat Bingo – A Friendly Online Bingo Site With A Huge Jackpot

Word Count:
580

Summary:
Owned by Goldbond Marketing Ltd., and St Minver, UK’s biggest bingo network, Chitchat Bingo aims to deliver the most entertaining online bingo game in Europe. They carry the motto “My Kind of People” which is what they want to promote on their site. You can see this in their customer support and friendly chat moderators. They don’t have a lot of promotions to offer to bingo players but their progressive jackpot which starts at £10,000 is something that will motivate you to jo...


Keywords:
chitchat bingo


Article Body:
Owned by Goldbond Marketing Ltd., and St Minver, UK’s biggest bingo network, Chitchat Bingo aims to deliver the most entertaining online bingo game in Europe. They carry the motto “My Kind of People” which is what they want to promote on their site. You can see this in their customer support and friendly chat moderators. They don’t have a lot of promotions to offer to bingo players but their progressive jackpot which starts at £10,000 is something that will motivate you to join this bingo site. Winning this jackpot is easy if luck is on your side. You only need to have a full house in 37 calls or less. They boast of giving away an average payout of £30,000 per month for this jackpot alone.

Chitchat bingo doesn’t give free play bingo, but they do give their new players £1 to play with as a welcome bonus. Use this to try their bingo game, and who knows, you might win real cash without shelling out your own money. Deposits made should be at least £10 and maximum of £1,000. And yes, they also have the usual 100% initial deposit bonus. They’ll double your first deposit up to a maximum of £125. And what’s more, you are entitled to receive one of their fancy mugs as a new member. What a warm way of welcoming new players! 

Of course, loyalty points will not be missed at Chitchat bingo as a gesture of rewarding your loyalty to them. Refer your friend to this bingo site and you can have £5, and in return your friend will get a welcome bonus of £2 instead of the regular £1. Every time you buy £1's worth of bingo cards, you also receive 10 loyalty points. Accumulate those points up to 1000 and you can redeem this for £1 of bingo bonus. In case you fancy trading your points for more fabulous prizes, you can do that too. Just select from among their prizes and, depending on your accumulated points, you can get a champagne hamper, Ipod video, 20 inch LCD TV, weekend for 2 in Paris, and many more exciting prizes.
 
Chitchat bingo also allows a low minimum withdrawal amount which is only £10. Withdrawals can be done only once per day. This site also promotes responsible gambling, wherein they help in every possible way they can to discourage problems in gambling, by such things as limiting the amount that can be deposited in any day, week or month. They also place limits on the amount that can be staked per game. In addition to bingo, they also have games like Slot machines, Video poker games, and Keno.

Another new feature of Chitchat bingo is the downloadable bingo alerts. With this, you’ll never miss the progressive jackpot schedule and other new offers on Chitchat bingo. They’ll also add £2 to your account when you download this feature. That’s equivalent to 20 free bingo games. So no reason not to get the bingo alerts when you have nothing to lose, only a lot to gain! 

Chitchat bingo website is designed for beginners not to have a hard time navigating the site. All links are visible and easy to follow, which makes registration and using the site a breeze. And if your lucky colors are purple and gold or yellow, the home page should cheer you up!  If you are looking for a bingo site where you can meet new people, and at the same time have a grand time playing bingo, Chitchat bingo is for you.


