Title: 
Choosing The Right Packaging For Video Ipods

Word Count:
461

Summary:
Packaging is a very important part of selling a particular product or ensuring that the customer is attracted towards that particular product. In this regard the Apple company has set new trends in the world of packaging. The whole idea is to not only to find ways and means of making the packaging compact but also ensuring that the cover has all the requisite features of the product for the customer to read. There has to be some cohesion between practicality and aesthetics wi...


Keywords:
entertainment, video ipods,  ipod


Article Body:
Packaging is a very important part of selling a particular product or ensuring that the customer is attracted towards that particular product. In this regard the Apple company has set new trends in the world of packaging. The whole idea is to not only to find ways and means of making the packaging compact but also ensuring that the cover has all the requisite features of the product for the customer to read. There has to be some cohesion between practicality and aesthetics with a subtle but fully loaded artistic touch incorporated for good measure. This requirement is also dictated by the characteristics of the product itself.

It all started with a package that was a six inch cube box and once out of the sleeve would turn into a flower. This was to reflect the company image - that of being exuberant and expressive with brisk sounds and colors. Then they went on to acquire a more mature image which they tried to promote through their packaging, their intense campaigning and the overall design of the product itself. Back then the iPod came in basic black, which in itself, was a bit contrary as it came with an inbuilt video that automatically indicates a color reproduction, diversion and motion. The silver streaks or accents on the box were indicative of the company logo and one could read the text. This look was maintained as it gave the impression of being very stylish and presented a sophisticated image of the new product as the color of the box matched the color of the iPod itself. Even the promotional campaigns began to reflect this new look.

The new product is different in presentation, in its image that it is trying to convey, in the technical aspects of the product itself wherein the video is a very relevant feature and all this comes in neutral colors with many small touches to the overall design and the presentation of the packaging.

Now the box took on a flattish square shape and its look was one which said ‘I mean business’. It worked as a one-end open sleeve quite like a DVD set and concealed a box inside which was further divided into 2 parts that contained the iPod and the monolith. While it does not have a manual or a guide, it does have a CD in a PDF file that is multilingual, that is, it has instructions in English, German, French, Chinese and Japanese. It is a small quick-start guide with all the required instructions, the copyright statement and a sleeve for the protection of the iPod. It also comes equipped with a USB adaptor cable and ear buds which are so small that they need to be protected while the package is being opened.


