Title: 
Christina Aguilera Tickets - The Teen Icon Comes Of Age

Word Count:
572

Summary:
Christina Aguilera tickets no longer mean you’ll be sharing a venue with thousands of teenaged girls screaming and chanting for pop rock sounds. Aguilera has come a long way in a short time, and like several musical icons that came before her, Aguilera has managed to reinvent herself quite successfully. Gone are the days of pony tails and lyrics centering on study hall. Aguilera is a woman, and her journey through life is as interesting as it gets.

Early Life

Christina ...


Keywords:
Christina,Aguilera,Tickets,The,Teen,Icon,Comes,of,Age


Article Body:
Christina Aguilera tickets no longer mean you’ll be sharing a venue with thousands of teenaged girls screaming and chanting for pop rock sounds. Aguilera has come a long way in a short time, and like several musical icons that came before her, Aguilera has managed to reinvent herself quite successfully. Gone are the days of pony tails and lyrics centering on study hall. Aguilera is a woman, and her journey through life is as interesting as it gets.

Early Life

Christina María Aguilera was born on December 18, 1980, in Staten Island, New York. She spent the first few years of her life there, but moved with her mother to a suburb of Pittsburgh when her parents divorced. Aguilera later described how this move was the right decision, as her father was abusive in every sense.

Aguilera’s childhood in Pennsylvania was relatively happy, and her grandmother was the first person to recognize her vocal talent. Her grandmother nurtured Aguilera’s love of music, and bought her records from a wide variety of artists, including Billie Holiday, Ella Fitzgerald, Etta James, Judy Garland, Barbra Streisand, Otis Redding, Madonna, Marvin Gaye, Gladys Knight, Donna Summer, Whitney Houston, Mariah Carey, Stevie Wonder and Aretha Franklin.

Given this wide range of musical interest, Aguilera soon learned to sing and dance to several different genres, and she was always in love with the stage. She won several local singing, dancing and performing contests, and it wasn’t long before she was known quite well locally for her stage presence. However, this track record of winning led to local backlash, and Aguilera and her family were ostracized. Eventually, the harassment got so intense that the family had to move.

Career Beginnings

At the tender age of ten, Aguilera appeared on Star Search, and although she didn’t win, the appearance garnered her more attention in Pittsburgh. She began to appear on local television and regularly sang the national anthem before Pittsburgh Penguins games. All of this attention led her to a pack of performers who would ultimately become legendary.

In 1993, Aguilera joined The New Mickey Mouse Club, a cast of singers and dancers that included the likes of Britney Spears and Justin Timberlake. The show ended in 1994, and Aguilera spent the next few years finishing school and recording demo tapes in an attempt to be discovered by a record company.

In 1998, Aguilera got the notice she was looking for, and she was signed to a record deal after singing the theme song for Mulan, a Disney production. She released her first album, Christina Aguilera, in 1999, and all it did was sell over 8 million copies. At this point, a star was born, and Aguilera began to tour the world.

As a result of her dancing background, her shows received rave reviews, and Christina Aguilera tickets instantly became a hot item. She continued to record, and over time she has released three full-length and several other various releases, and has sold over 20 million records in her short time in the business.

In recent years, Aguilera has attempted to follow in the footsteps of Madonna and others by redefining her image, as she never wanted to flame out as a “teenie-bopper.” She has successfully done so, and her lyrics are now as sultry as any in music.

Aguilera hasn’t lost her live touch, however, and Christina Aguilera tickets still are and will remain in demand for years to come.


