Title: 
Cleaning House – Caring For Your Dollhouse

Word Count:
501

Summary:
We all have things in our lives that hold some sort of sentimental or monetary value. For some, it is a prized collection of coins or rare books. For others it is an irreplaceable antique or piece of jewelry. It is these things that always require special care and preservation, whether it is a yearly polishing or a consistent cleaning.

The same practice holds true for avid dollhouse collectors. Dollhouses are basically miniature replicas of a large-scale home, equipped wit...


Keywords:
cleaning your dollhouse, dollhouse protection


Article Body:
We all have things in our lives that hold some sort of sentimental or monetary value. For some, it is a prized collection of coins or rare books. For others it is an irreplaceable antique or piece of jewelry. It is these things that always require special care and preservation, whether it is a yearly polishing or a consistent cleaning.

The same practice holds true for avid dollhouse collectors. Dollhouses are basically miniature replicas of a large-scale home, equipped with wood furnishings, electrical lights and even miniature pieces of china and crystal. Dollhouses, and their accessories, require the same kind of loving care that a regular home needs.

First of all, you should never place a dollhouse in a room that gets direct sunlight. The suns rays can heavily damage the delicate woods used in making most dollhouses. It can cause paint, wallpaper and fabrics to fade dramatically. And in extreme degrees of temperature changes, it could even end up warping or cracking the wood.

Another thing to keep in mind when caring for dollhouses is to always dust it regularly. Dust collects in our own homes on a daily basis, and the same holds true for dollhouses. All the accessories are so small and intricate that they require a good dusting and polishing to maintain their value and beauty. The dolls, animals or other small figurines you purchase for your dollhouse should also be dusted regularly to maintain their quality.

You should never store a dollhouse in damp climate. Dampness, such as in a basement, can deteriorate the materials used to make a dollhouse. It can also lead to mold development that can be difficult to remove or eliminate from fabrics or carpeting. You should also be weary of storing a dollhouse in the attic because moths or other household varmints could do damage to the house itself or its accessories.

Be sure to keep your dollhouse away from household pets. Pets love to chew and nibble on small objects, and what better chew toy than a piece of dollhouse furniture or a miniature figurine? Small children and toddlers should also be kept away from dollhouses. Children of this age like to put things in their mouths. The small accessories present a choking hazard to younger children who don’t understand the value of what they are touching.

Not all dollhouses are going to be detailed enough to go to extreme measures of protection. But for most avid collectors, these precautions are necessary. In fact, one of the best ways to store a prized dollhouse is to have a special case made for it, usually from a clear material. This prevents dust from collecting on items inside the house and it keeps pets and small kids from touching it. And if you are a smoker, a case is a great way to keep smoke from tobacco away from the dollhouse.

Prized possessions need proper care, so it is best to stay on top of keeping your dollhouse in tip-top shape.


