Title: 
Collectible Dragons Don't Have To Be Masterpieces

Word Count:
410

Summary:
Most of us have an on going collection of something or the other like spoons, stamps, books and so on. Some are more valuable than the others and some are only as valuable as we want to make them such as sentimental value, which can be the most valuable of all.

Unusual Hobbies and Collections

Ever so often we will come across something that is out of the ordinary collections is one place to find them. Collecting collectible dragons is one such collection, which because ...


Keywords:
collectible clock,collectible dragons.collectible display case,baseball collectible,


Article Body:
Most of us have an on going collection of something or the other like spoons, stamps, books and so on. Some are more valuable than the others and some are only as valuable as we want to make them such as sentimental value, which can be the most valuable of all.

Unusual Hobbies and Collections

Ever so often we will come across something that is out of the ordinary collections is one place to find them. Collecting collectible dragons is one such collection, which because they are not common it is hard to pursue and maintain.

Collecting dragons is a hobby like all others that is started by some because of their cultural background and by others due to its unusual nature and myth. In China for example, collecting any type of dragons is considered good fortune and you can see that by the fact that most Chinese restaurants or houses will have in a form or the other dragons placed by the main entrance.

In the western world however collectible dragons take another form and that is followed by the usual rules of rare and old specimens with different meanings and myths to consider.

Known Collectible Dragons

The pocket size miniature set dragons was first created in 1989 after the much televised and watched TV serial called Pocket Dragon Adventures. These toy collectible dragons were very high in demand and sought after due to which about 400 different types were created. Today, the production is believed to have stopped and that made the pocket dragons on the market even higher in demand by the collectible dragon collectors.

The other collectible dragons are the masterpieces created periodically by known designers as limited editions such as the Swarovski house creation of the Chinese zodiac dragon figurine. The Swarovski dragon is not a limited edition piece but is considered a must in any dragon collector collection.

The most sought after dragons are however still the one made in mystic and beautiful China where each figurine has a story behind it with details and paintings done manually.

A Hobby to be remembered by

Whether you are collecting dragons or stamps, a hobby is what creates and captures our soul and passion. Our hobbies, collections and writings are what we will eventually be remembered by. The value of what you practiced and stood for in the end is not in its material worth but in the sentimental value that was invested in it through the years.


