Title: 
Collectible Card Game – Not Always A Kid’s Game

Word Count:
407

Summary:
There is no boy in this world that does not have, or wish to have, a cool collection of baseball cards, cricket cards or soccer cards – depending upon which corner of the world he lives in. The collectible card game is almost an integral part of a boy’s childhood.

Sometimes, the Childhood Collectible Card Game Spills Over into Adulthood

Many times what starts as a boyhood fad, becomes a passion in adulthood. There are instances when men continue their childhood collecti...


Keywords:
collectible clock,collectible auction.collectible card game,baseball collectible,


Article Body:
There is no boy in this world that does not have, or wish to have, a cool collection of baseball cards, cricket cards or soccer cards – depending upon which corner of the world he lives in. The collectible card game is almost an integral part of a boy’s childhood.

Sometimes, the Childhood Collectible Card Game Spills Over into Adulthood

Many times what starts as a boyhood fad, becomes a passion in adulthood. There are instances when men continue their childhood collection throughout their lives. You may know men – and women - who like to collect coins, stamps, baseball. Cricket, soccer cards, scaled-down cars, airplanes miniatures, ship miniatures, army knives, and so on.

The collectible card game started as a trading card game a decade or so ago, which used the popularity of the Pokemon cartoons to promote sales of different children’s items with the help of a collectible card game. This had become an instant success with kids and ever since, there have been many other collectible card games in the market, promoting items for children of all ages.

The Open-handed Rules of the Collectible Card Game

Unlike standard games, the rules here are open to the interpretation of the child, and availability of the cards. They can use the collectible card game to collect cards based on any criteria they feel important. It could be the description of the items contained on the card (baseball star, Pokemon, cricketer, soccer star, etc) and the player will have to collect as many cards as possible cards he or she is able to swap or buy.

Toy stores capitalize on these fads and often arrange ‘tournaments’ and swaps where kids can come and battle it out as to what deals they would like to strike for adding more cards to their collection.

The spill over happens when the collection looks too good to discard. The adult ‘boy’ many times does not like to let go of his childhood memories. Some of them revel in the boyhood fancies because they feel good thinking and reliving their childhood through it.

When this happens, these collectibles get a new emotional dimension and the collection become a precious part of the past. The adult now revels in what he had put together as a boy, and will continue to enhance his collection throughout his life, with the hope that one day he could proudly hand it over to his children and grandchildren.


