Title: 
Color Plays An Important Role In Design And Graphics

Word Count:
477

Summary:
Color schemes are fun no matter what they are being used for. Color schemes come into play when decorating a room or painting a house. They are created for use in web pages, clothing, or arts and crafts. There is something joyous in looking at, planning, and working with colors and trying to make them fit, aesthetically, into a piece of work. Colors send emotional messages, and they illustrate traditions, trends, or themes. Some of the most interesting color schemes are those...


Keywords:
graphics,design,colors,art


Article Body:
Color schemes are fun no matter what they are being used for. Color schemes come into play when decorating a room or painting a house. They are created for use in web pages, clothing, or arts and crafts. There is something joyous in looking at, planning, and working with colors and trying to make them fit, aesthetically, into a piece of work. Colors send emotional messages, and they illustrate traditions, trends, or themes. Some of the most interesting color schemes are those applied to clothing.

In the 1970s, for example, the trend was for neon-like colors. Pink and green were used together in for a spring fashion extravaganza, with these two solid colors used in tunics, shifts, skirts and pants. The two colors in combination provided a nearly psychedelic display that nearly always brought springtime back for anyone who wore them. Even if you look at these colors together today, you will get the same feeling of spring.

Needlepoint patterns contain complicated and careful color schemes. These works use hundreds of shades of yarn and thread, and the artistic designer of a needlepoint pattern makes use of the appropriate color palettes by combining and integrating shades and hues of yarn or thread to create fine lines, details, sharp angles and shadows, and even degrees of light that make for a nearly photographic image.

In the profession of interior decorating, color schemes are also complex and demanding. They require much attention and a lot of study to be effective. The interior designer must think about things like where the light coming through a window will strike a particular color and how big a space will look if one color or another dominates it. These factors enter into the decisions of where to use particular colors in a home’s interior. The color wheel is available online at a number of web sites to help with color scheme decisions. There is also information online concerning the psychology of color and the impact that specific color combinations have on humans.

Color tools are also very useful in the area of web site design. Just like color schemes for offices and other interior design project, color schemes for web sites are very important to the overall success of the site. Color may even be more important online because most web sites are created to sell products or services, and designers want the site’s visitors to feel positive about their offerings. Using the appropriate color scheme and considering psychological factors that are related to color can make a site more successful. Different demographic factors, such as age, educational level, financial status, ethnicity, and others can be impacted through the presentation and layout of a web site. These elements of a site rely on color schemes to help them do the work of selling the product or service to a particular audience.


