Title: 
Colors Used In Embroidery Digitizing

Word Count:
384

Summary:
Embroidery digitizing is an interesting concept of beautifying clothing and fabrics. Today practically all types of fabrics can be embroidered using the right stabilizer in embroidery digitizing. Though the practice of embroidery digitizing is rather easy where only a computer and embroidery digitizing software is required, there is always the possibility of complications arising with embroidery digitizing. However, with the right information and tips on embroidery digitizing...


Keywords:
custom, color, embroidery, digitizing, digitising, stitches, designs


Article Body:
Embroidery digitizing is an interesting concept of beautifying clothing and fabrics. Today practically all types of fabrics can be embroidered using the right stabilizer in embroidery digitizing. Though the practice of embroidery digitizing is rather easy where only a computer and embroidery digitizing software is required, there is always the possibility of complications arising with embroidery digitizing. However, with the right information and tips on embroidery digitizing, it is possible to come up with a design that is the eye of envy to everyone.

The most commonly used embroidery thread weight is 40wt thread while 60wt or 90wt thread is used as the bobbin thread. The number of thread breaks and problems that may occur in embroidery digitizing is greatly affected by the quality of thread used for it. The best thread to use is polyester thread as it is the most color safe and durable.

In embroidery digitizing, there is no problem in using different colors from the colors found in a design. There is also no need of fretting if you don’t have the same colors or brand of thread used in the design. Slight changes in the shades and tones of the colored threads don’t pose to be quite noticeable on the completion of the design.

Embroidery digitizing proves to be more interesting if you can adjust different colors for different fabrics colors. It is better to use the background color change feature found in the embroidery digitizing software to determine which color looks the best on the fabric you use. If this feature is absent in your software, keep different colors of felt and fabric nearby to test the different colors on them before starting on the design.

When starting on creating an embroidery digitizing design, it proves to be beneficial to go through the entire design collection to find out where the design look can be changed just with a color change. Even fruits and flower designs look different and more attractive with a color change in the design. So it can be seen that embroidery digitizing does not mean you have to follow the design that you find in the design book or software. You can create much more interesting and appealing designs by using your imagination and color instincts to make the design more interesting.


