Title: 
Combining Travel And Golf

Word Count:
450

Summary:
There are many places in the US where you can golf during your vacation. Those who golf often sometimes plan entire vacations around certain gold courses they may have always wanted to play. Depending on the time of year, you can play in warm places like Phoenix, Arizona, Hilton Head, South Carolina, and in Las Vegas, Nevada. There are plenty of courses for you to play on. All inclusive vacations are available that will allow you to play on various courses during your vacatio...


Keywords:
golf holiday, travel and golf, golfing vacation


Article Body:
There are many places in the US where you can golf during your vacation. Those who golf often sometimes plan entire vacations around certain gold courses they may have always wanted to play. Depending on the time of year, you can play in warm places like Phoenix, Arizona, Hilton Head, South Carolina, and in Las Vegas, Nevada. There are plenty of courses for you to play on. All inclusive vacations are available that will allow you to play on various courses during your vacation. 

For many people, a golfing vacation is a great way to relax, spend some time improving one's game, and the chance to see a different part of the country. If you live in an area that is cold during the winter, a relaxing gold vacation in a warmer climate may be what you have been looking for. In Phoenix, for example, you will be able to choose from over 100 golf courses. When you are not golfing, there is much to see. Museums, galleries, ancient ruins, and beautiful desert landscapes are available for you to see. 

If you want to gold near the ocean, you should head out to Hilton Head, South Carolina. With over 22 gold courses, you will never be bored. Hilton Head is a small island off the coast of South Carolina. It is also home to historic landmarks such as the Palmetto Dunes Plantation and the Pinckney Island National Wildlife Preserve. You will be able to take a break from golfing and enjoy some of the beauty of Hilton Head. 

Las Vegas offers many activities for you to engage in besides golf. While the golf courses are challenging, you may be distracted by the casinos, clubs, and shows that are taking place around you. Staying in one of the casino hotels will give you a front row seat to everything that is happening in Vegas. 

While most people enjoy golfing in warm weather, if you are looking for crisp autumn breezes, golfing in Chicago or Colorado may be the answer. If you want to travel and golf, visit places that are far from home. This will give you a great opportunity to challenge yourself and improve your game while seeing the many sites that these towns and cities have to offer. If you are traveling with people who are not as passionate about golf as you are, they will have plenty to do while you hit the green. 

Golfing on different courses is a good way to improve your game. Since each course has its own terrain, you will be able to gain experience playing on flat and hilly surfaces. This is a good experience for anyone who is serious about their golf game.


