Title: 
Xbox 360  Kameo: Elements Of Power

Word Count:
333

Summary:
Kameo Elements of Power by Microsoft Game Studios is a fantasy adventure themed action game. It showcases the Xbox 360’s graphic muscle. You control Kameo and her power to assume the form of various elemental warriors. Each warrior has their own unique power and abilities. The creature’s abilities are connected to the elements such as fire, earth and water.

When I first got the Xbox 360 this is one of the titles I bought with it. It was money well spent. This game takes a ...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Kameo Elements of Power by Microsoft Game Studios is a fantasy adventure themed action game. It showcases the Xbox 360’s graphic muscle. You control Kameo and her power to assume the form of various elemental warriors. Each warrior has their own unique power and abilities. The creature’s abilities are connected to the elements such as fire, earth and water.

When I first got the Xbox 360 this is one of the titles I bought with it. It was money well spent. This game takes a unique approach to the fantasy action platform type of games. You can control many different elemental warriors. You usually have to use two or three of them together in order to solve the puzzles or progress through the levels. A good thing about the different warriors is their different abilities are fun to use. Often characters are thrown in for a specific purpose of a game and not needed later. Each of the warriors are fun and useful during most parts of the game.

To give you an idea of some of the creatures you control I’ll list a few of my favorites. The first character you receive is Pummelweed. He is a vine-like plant creature whose tentacles have red flowers that he uses as boxing gloves. You will continue to go back to him because of his ability to do melee combat. He can also crouch into the ground and then pop up in a super powerful uppercut move. One of my other favorite characters if Major Ruin. This character is an armored creature that looks something like an armadillo. His power involves rolling forward at high speed. This is useful in jumping over gaps and can be useful in defeating enemies. Lastly I would like to mention this game has incredibly fun coop mode. You unlock the multiplayer missions as you play through the single player story mode. You can also play online making this a must have for any fantasy/platform video game fans.


