Title: 
You Are The Chosen One

Word Count:
560

Summary:
Yesterday I was watching a rerun and it reminded of a movie going experience a few years back.

While we were all flooding out of the theater after The Matrix, I turned to Oscar, one of the kids I mentor, and asked, "Do you think YOU are chosen for greatness like Neo was?"

His answer, without hesitation, was "Yes."

For the next week, I asked everyone I spoke with the same question, and I ran into the same answer time and time again.

It wasn't long before my mind st...


Keywords:
greg reid, always good,pass it on,gregory scott reid,greg s reid, millionaire mentor,live the life


Article Body:
Yesterday I was watching a rerun and it reminded of a movie going experience a few years back.

While we were all flooding out of the theater after The Matrix, I turned to Oscar, one of the kids I mentor, and asked, "Do you think YOU are chosen for greatness like Neo was?"

His answer, without hesitation, was "Yes."

For the next week, I asked everyone I spoke with the same question, and I ran into the same answer time and time again.

It wasn't long before my mind started asking me, "Are we all headed for greatness? Do we all have a larger purpose?" That would mean everyone on this earth was the "chosen one." Could that be true?

This question, or to be more accurate, the interpretation of the answer to this question, leads me to the topic of this month's newsletter.

Yes,

YOU are the chosen one!

Think about it. Right now as you read this, I'm sure there's something you're an expert in, something you have a true passion toward, perhaps in a sport you play, the company you run, your community involvement, or simply in finding great fulfillment in the family you hold together.

When all is said and done, haven't we all pondered the age-old question, what is the meaning of life? Well, perhaps it's not so much the meaning of life itself that's so puzzling, but the more personal questions of, what is my purpose? And, What is the meaning of my life?

I believe we were all put on this earth for a purpose. It's our job to find out what that purpose is and then, even more important, to fulfill that purpose by taking action toward it.

Have you ever wondered how and why Green Peace activists throw themselves in front of freightliners? Or why firefighters run into places that others are escaping? Or why some doctors spend their whole lives in pursuit of health for everyone? This is their passion, this is their purpose. And in pursuing that passion, these people are separated from the masses by just one thing: they are living the life they love.

Now, since we all agree that you have been chosen for some purpose greater than yourself, I challenge each and every one of you to look inside and start living the life you dream of, the life you're destined for, because after all . . .

YOU are the chosen one!

For More Information and Free Movie Trailer

Learn more from The Millionaire Mentor Greg Reid, a Well-Known Speaker and two-time #1 best-selling author of, "The Millionaire Mentor" and "Wake Up: Live the Life You Love" based at AlwaysGood(dot)com. And see the new movie trailer he's in called, "Pass It On" at PassItOnToday(dot)com at no charge.

The groundbreaking inspirational film Pass It On features over 60 of the nation’s top leaders, who have joined forces to share the blueprint for success.

Robin Leach hosted the Pass It On Red Carpet Gala on May 10 at Brenden Theatres at The Palms in Las Vegas. Mayor Oscar Goodman even proclaimed the date “Pass It On Day” in the city of Las Vegas.

Pass It On, created by WISH Entertainment Inc., is an evolutionary success tool that teaches a proven success equation for achieving a life of Wealth, Inspiration, Success & Happiness.

Enjoy and here's to your success!


