Title: 
Asbestos Settlement- The Grim Reality

Word Count:
406

Summary:
Reasons for Asbestos Settlement

In the recent years, there has been a drastic increase in the number of asbestos settlement cases, owing to the increasing number of people suffering from asbestos related diseases. Studies reveal that a majority of people developed several lung diseases like mesothelioma due to asbestos exposure. The owners of manufacturing industries that use asbestos now find themselves in legal battles because of the overuse of asbestos. The owners persi...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Reasons for Asbestos Settlement

In the recent years, there has been a drastic increase in the number of asbestos settlement cases, owing to the increasing number of people suffering from asbestos related diseases. Studies reveal that a majority of people developed several lung diseases like mesothelioma due to asbestos exposure. The owners of manufacturing industries that use asbestos now find themselves in legal battles because of the overuse of asbestos. The owners persistently used asbestos materials despite being aware of the ill effects of asbestos on the human body. Several people are suffering from mesothelioma cancers, asbestosis, cancer or some other kind of asbestos related lung and stomach disorders because of their negligent behavior. This negligence is the reason for growing cases of asbestos litigations and asbestos settlements.

Asbestos- A Silent Killer

Asbestos is a natural fibrous material that was widely used in shipyards, insulation, railroads, construction processes, building materials and many other manufacturing industries for more than a century. Exposure to airborne asbestos fibers is dangerous for human health and can cause some serious damage to the lungs. It results in diseases like mesothelioma cancers, asbestosis and other dangerous diseases. Most of the diseases caused by asbestos show their symptoms in very late stages making it very difficult to treat.

Mesothelioma- An offspring of Asbestos

Mesothelioma is a type of lung cancer that is caused by asbestos. It is very difficult to diagnose mesothelioma in early stages and by the time the disease has been diagnosed, it becomes nearly impossible to treat and cure. Mesothelioma cancers can also damage the abdomen, the reproductive organs and even the heart. Almost 70 to 80 people diagnosed with mesothelioma have a history of exposure to asbestos. The asbestos workers and even their families are vulnerable to mesothelioma cancers. Asbestos litigation and asbestos settlement are necessary for mesothelioma victims because the treatment of mesothelioma involves huge expenses.

Asbestos Litigation vs. Asbestos Settlement

To select between asbestos settlement and asbestos litigation is a difficult task. Both the methods have their own pros and cons. The attorneys favoring settlement place an argument that settlement is a faster process and helps in getting compensation without a troublesome lawsuit. However, the ones favoring litigation say that the average amount of compensation in asbestos lawsuits is much higher than the average amounts paid in asbestos settlements. You can select the right mode for you in consultation with your asbestos attorney and the merits of your case.


