Title: 
Mesothelioma - What are the treatments?<

Word Count:
300

Summary:
The location, stage of the disease along with the paitent's age and general health all play a role in determining the treatment of mesothelioma.  Options for treatement generally include surgery, radiation therapy and chemo therapy.


Keywords:
mesothelioma, medical treatments, asbestos cancer


Article Body:
The location, stage of the disease along with the paitent's age and general health all play a role in determining the treatment of mesothelioma.  Options for treatement generally include surgery, radiation therapy and chemo therapy.<br>
Surgery is a common treatment for mesothelioma. The doctor may remove part of the lining of the chest or abdomen and some of the tissue around it. For cancer of the pleura (<i>pleural mesothelioma</i>), a lung may be removed in an operation called a pneumonectomy. Sometimes part of the diaphragm, the muscle below the lungs that helps with breathing, is also removed.<br>
Radiation therapy, also called radiotherapy, involves the use of high-energy rays to kill cancer cells and shrink tumors. Radiation therapy affects the cancer cells only in the treated area. The radiation may come from a machine (external radiation) or from putting materials that produce radiation through thin plastic tubes into the area where the cancer cells are found <br>
Chemotherapy is the use of anticancer drugs to kill cancer cells throughout the body. Most drugs used to treat mesothelioma are given by injection into a vein (intravenous or IV). Doctors are also studying the effectiveness of putting chemotherapy directly into the chest or abdomen (intracavitary chemotherapy). <br>
To relieve symptoms and control pain, the doctor may use a needle or a thin tube to drain fluid that has built up in the chest or abdomen. The procedure for removing fluid from the chest is called thoracentesis. Removal of fluid from the abdomen is called paracentesis. Drugs may be given through a tube in the chest to prevent more fluid from accumulating. Radiation therapy and surgery may also be helpful in relieving symptoms.<br>
To learn more about <a href="www.mesothelioma-resource-network.com">peritoneal mesothelioma</a>, visit www.mesothelioma-resource-network.com


