Title: 
What You Should Know About Mesothelioma

Word Count:
501

Summary:
Mesothelioma has been slow in coming. But once it did come, it caught the attention of everybody, including those in the medical and law professions. This article clarifies the extent of the disease.


Keywords:
mesothelioma, mesothelioma attorneys, mesothelioma symptoms,mesothelioma directory, mesothelioma articles


Article Body:
Let me make this clear at the outset. I'm not a doctor. And the word mesothelioma is some kind of a tongue-twister to me.

This article is an ofshoot of my web site - mesothelioma.googlingprofit.com - that lists all the resources about this disease, and includes useful articles, symptoms, treatments and mesothelioma lawyers.

But let me start off with this article with a definition of the term from Wordweb.

Mesothelioma is " a rare form of carcinoma of the mesothelium lining lungs or abdomen or heart; usually associated with exposure to asbestos dust."

So there you are. Mesothelioma and asbestos have a common denominator. Asbestos is the root cause of a disease widely known as mesothelioma. In fact, those who breath asbestos dust have high probability of acquiring this disease. 

The most common form of mesothelioma is known as pleural mesothelioma, which affects the membrane that lines the chest cavity and the lungs. 

There are about 2,000 cases of mesothelioma that are reported yearly in the United States alone.

The sad part is that mesothelioma symptoms may not appear until about 30 years from first exposure to asbestos. The use of asbestos was as wide and common as late as thirty years ago, and those that have recently manifested their mesothelioma symptoms got exposed to asbestos from the 1950s to the 1970s. 

Mesothelioma Symptoms

Mesothelioma is usually found among people with long exposure to asbestos. Because asbestos had been widely used for industrial and construction applications until thirty years ago, those affected by the disease were those that have worked in the manufacturing and construction industries.

By the way, not all reported cases of mesothelioma had worked in either manufacturing or construction industry. Some mesothelioma cases were reported from those who at one time or another were exposed to clothing materials that had asbestos dust on them.

Unlike the AIDS virus, mesothelioma takes a very long time to manifest itself. Most people are diagnosed with the cancer 30 to 50 years from first exposure to asbestos. Evidence of mesothelioma cancer is difficult at the start, because it has the same signs as pneumonia. 

Other symptoms of the disease include cough, loss of weight, pain in the abdomen, anemia, fever, and shortness of breath. Check out mesothelioma.googlingprofit.com for a comprehensive information on mesothelioma symptoms.

Fighting the Disease

Mesothelioma treatment usually starts with a physical examination, including x-rays, CT scan, MRI, and biopsy. 

If the cancer is detected, the extent of the cancer is determined. Like any form of cancer that is earlier diagnosed, mesothelioma cancer can be cured. Treatment includes surgery and chemotherapy, among others. For a comprehensive information of mesothelioma treatment, please refer to mesothelioma.googlingprofit.com.

Mesothelioma Lawsuits

There has been an increasing number of lawsuits involving mesothelioma cases during the last few years. Lawyers specializing in mesothelioma cases usually demand higher fees from complainants, because they demand higher damages from defendant industrial, construction and eering firms.

Get yourself equipped with a comprehensive information on mesothelioma attorneys from the website, mesothelioma.googlingprofit.com.


