Dining Options at the Beijing Olympics

Besides being the country hosting the 2008 Summer Olympic Games, China is notable for many things: it’s cultural and architectural wonders, the friendliness of its people, and of course, delicious food!  Those that count themselves among the fortunate enough to be attending the 2008 Beijing Olympics will want to be prepared to choose from the many tasty options available during their stay.  Here’s a brief overview of some of the options that will present themselves to this summer’s Olympic enthusiasts who visit Beijing.

Beijing is a great place to dine, because as the cultural center of China, there is a surprising blend of cuisine types there.  You can find local cuisine, but also cuisine from all different cultures and locations, so there’s bound to be something that you will love.  The hardest part is probably having to pick where you’ll go to eat out of all the great choices available!

If you want to sample the local fare, make sure to stop by Ruibinlou.  Ruibinlou offers, among other things, the popular local snack of Dalian Pie Stuffed with Meat.  The snack is very popular for its thick stuffing and ability to fill you up quickly!  The restaurant itself has been around for over 130 years, and continues to please visitors and locals alike to this day.

If you would like to have Korean food, give the Yanji Restaurant a chance.  The Yanji Restaurant specializes in Korean cuisine, including Yanji cold noodles, which give a distinct set of five flavors for those who try it.  Dog meat in chili sauce is also a very popular dish, as are other favorites such as fried crisp sliced fish and fried beef covered with bread scraps.  The Yanji Restaurant was established over sixty years ago.

Another exotic and delicious dining option is Youyishun.  Youyishun is a moslem restaurant that has been around since 1948 and is famous for integrating East and West style foods.  Some examples include incorporating stir-fried roasts with delicate elements of West foods.  Shark’s fin and Moslem roast duck are among the specialties, so if you’re feeling adventurous, you should give it a shot!

If you want something a little more familiar, consider the Dadi Western Restaurant.  Dadi Restaurant has been around for over sixty years and offers such dishes as fried pork chops and chicken rolls with butter.  Much of the food has a Russian flavor to it.  The Dadi Western Restaurant is also popular for providing a good value to those who eat there and being relatively affordable.

Of course, these are just a few of many, many options that you’ll have when you get hungry in Beijing.  If none of these sound appealing enough, you can have a lot of fun just exploring what Beijing has to offer on your own!  Finding a great restaurant can be as simple as speaking with those who have visited before, or taking a walk around until you find something interesting to try!

As mentioned earlier, there is a wide variety of food, and you’re more than likely to find something that you’ll fall in love with.  There are great restaurants in Beijing at every price level and with all kinds of signature tastes.

Or, of course, you could just look for a McDonald’s.  But where’s the fun in that?

PPPPP

Word Count 554