Inside the Beijing National Indoor Stadium

During each edition of the Olympic Summer Games, much of the attention goes to competitors in sports like gymnastics, and rightfully so.  The sport of gymnastics in many ways represents the pinnacle of athleticism, grace, and hard work, the combination of which represents the ideal of the Olympic athlete as a whole.  Therefore, it’s only appropriate that at the 2008 Beijing Olympic Games, gymnastic events (along with select other events) will take place at a venue worthy of their rich history and tradition- Beijing’s National Indoor Stadium.

The National Indoor Stadium immediately catches your eye with its strikingly-curved roof and modernly sleek look.   Beijing’s National Indoor Stadium, while still relatively newly constructed, has already been called a marvel and an architectural triumph by many.  Along with gymnastics, events such as handball will be hosted at the National Indoor Stadium.  

The stadium itself can be found in the Olympic Green, to the couth of the National Convention Center, and not far from National Stadium.  The National Indoor Stadium contains a full warm-up gym in addition to the main competition area, and in total, takes up a space of over 81,000 square meters.  This space allows the stadium to contain over 18,000 gymnastics fans.

Perhaps the best thing of all about the impressive structure is that it has been designed to be environmentally friendly.  National Indoor Stadium will take advantage of solar energy as much as possible, leading to conservation of coal and reduced pollution as a result.  Glass curtain walls will help to insulate the stadium, reducing loss of heat from the venue.  Over 100 kilowatts of electricity can be produced by the stadium each day, amazingly enough.

The marvelously efficient form of National Indoor Stadium will be matched only by the grace and ability of the athletes that will compete inside of it during the 2008 Beijing Olympics.

With each installment of the Summer Olympic Games captivating the entire world’s attention, it’s important to consider that there will be a remarkable amount of visitors to Beijing, all who will need convenient transportation, or even parking, to access National Indoor Stadium and the historic events that will take place there.  Luckily, National Indoor Stadium, along with the other venues on the Olympic Green, is easily accessible through public transportation, and even has available parking for those who would rather transport themselves to the day’s events.

The people of Beijing, like the hosts of Olympic Games in the past, have a great deal of pride in their city and country.  Venues like the National Indoor Stadium serve to make an impression on sports fans the world over, while presenting the beauty and the culture of the people who host the Olympic Games.  For the city of Beijing, National Stadium is not just a venue for competition, but a symbol of their very culture, from its impressive visual appeal to its environmentally friendly features.

It’s worth noting, then, that with the National Indoor Stadium, the people of Beijing have a structure worthy of both their own culture and the incredible competitors who will be lucky enough to perform within its walls.  With inspirational athletes like those that will comprise this year’s Olympic Games, and the awe-inspiring venues that have been designed for them to compete in, this year’s Summer Olympics in Beijing are bound to be memorable.

PPPPP

Word Count 560