Lodging Options at the Beijing Olympics

If you’re among the many that will be traveling to Beijing, China to be part of the 2008 Summer Olympic Games, you’ll have to consider where you will stay as you make your plans.  Luckily, there are many options available in the Beijing area as well as in nearby surrounding cities.  Between high class hotels, guest houses, hostels and other accommodations, there is bound to be something that will suit your needs during the 2008 Beijing Olympics.

The Beijing Hotel is among the five star hotels available for those visiting Beijing during the Olympic Games.  It’s located conveniently in downtown Beijing, near shopping centers and other places you’ll likely want to visit.  In addition, it’s a short walk from the famous Tian’anment Square as well.  Rooms are known for being very large and spacious, and a variety of amenities, including laundry service and meeting facilities, are available.  

Other five star accommodations include the romantic Grand Hotel Beijing, which is a posh hotel that features fine dining and artistic design and decorating.  The Beijing International Hotel provides five star comfort in a more modern setting, and is located in the center of Beijing.  There is a shopping area and spa on site to add to the enjoyment of your stay.

If you are a football (that’s “soccer” to you U.S. fans) fan, you may be willing to stay outside of Beijing in a neighboring city, like Tianjin, Shenyang, Shanghai, or Qinhuangdao.  These cities are a quick trip from Beijing and offer you convenient access to football matches throughout the Olympic Games.  These cities, particularly Shanghai and Tianjin, also provide excellent tourism opportunities and will give your trip to China for the Beijing Olympics a different flavor.

Similarly, sailing enthusiasts may want to stay in a hotel within the beautiful city of Qingdao.  Qingdao and its Qingdao Olympic Sailing Center is home to sailing events during the 2008 Beijing Olympics.  Qingdao features very favorable weather conditions during the summer months, and also boasts a variety of lodging options for those who are interested.

If equestrian sports are more your style, consider staying outside Beijing in one of the many hotels in Hong Kong.  Hong Kong’s  two equestrian centers will be hosting all equestrian events during the 2008 Beijing Olympics, so you might as well stay there if those are your biggest interests!  Hong Kong is an internationally known city that is a center of culture and commerce in China.  You are sure to find a great place to stay there, and you will have much to do aside from attending the actual Olympic Games themselves.

Of course, you’ll have to be willing to do some research if you want to find the most appropriate lodging choice for you or your family during the 2008 Beijing Olympics.  Luckily, the internet makes this easier than ever, as you can usually view hotels inside and out and compare prices without leaving your computer desk.  You’ll want to hurry up and make reservations quickly if you haven’t already, so make sure to complete your research soon!

China has a lot to offer culturally, and with the 2008 Summer Olympic Games belonging to the city of Beijing, now is the perfect time to explore China and its great cities.  With a little effort, you can find the perfect lodging choice for you, and get ready to enjoy your Olympic experience!

PPPPP

Word Count 569