The Venues of the 2008 Beijing Olympics

The 2008 Beijing Olympics will take place, depending on the event, in a variety of breathtaking and state of the art venues.  These locations are not just representing the pinnacle of modern architecture and design, but will also become the places where athletic and Olympic history is made in the Summer Olympic Games.  If you want to become more familiar with just where some of the most important moments of the Beijing Olympics will take place, read on.

First and foremost is National Stadium, which is located in Beijing on the Olympic Green.  The stadium seats nearly 100,000, and will be home to the Opening as well as Closing Ceremonies.  The National Stadium contains a shopping center and a beautiful “green area” outside the stadium, and is notable for its modern and distinctive design, which has earned the National Stadium the nickname of the “Bird’s Nest”.  National Stadium will host some of the most-watched events of the entire Beijing Olympics, including track and field events.

The National Aquatics Center is an amazing structure that is notable for its futuristic design and aesthetic appeal, along with its environmentally friendly features.  From afar, the National Aquatics Center resembles a giant cube of water, and in fact, is nicknamed the “Water Cube” as a result.  It can either glow a translucent blue or a greenish color, depending on the time of day and other factors.  The outer surface can collect water, which will lead to up to 140,000 tons of recycled water per year.  The National Aquatics Center will be home to swimming and diving events, of course.

The National Indoor Stadium, with its appealing curved roof design and modern look, is a marvel of modern architecture that will host gymnastic events, trampoline and handball competitions in the 2008 Beijing Olympics.  The stadium is located in the Olympic Green and is north of the National Aquatics Center, south of the National Convention Center.  The National Indoor Stadium is comprised of a main area as well as a gym for warm-ups, and covers a total of nearly 81,000 square meters!  Many gymnastics fans will be able to be part of the history-making action, as the National Indoor Stadium seats 18,000 people.

Like so many of the 2008 Beijing Olympic venues, the National Indoor Stadium was made to be environmentally friendly.  A “glass curtain wall” covers the stadium, allowing improved energy efficiency while providing insulation to reduce heat transfer.  Solar panels also help power the National Indoor Stadium.

Some of the most watched competition in the entire 2008 Beijing Olympic Games will take place at the Beijing Olympic Basketball Gymnasium.  The Olympic basketball tournament is always the focus of much attention around the world, with the sport having become a global phenomenon, and in the Beijing Olympics, the tournament will have a facility worthy of the sport’s popularity.

The stadium, which seats up to 18,000 people, has a LED display system that is the first in China that meets NBA (National Basketball Association) regulations.  The Beijing Olympic Basketball Gymnasium will also be a hit with spectators, thanks to the upholstered seats and availability of luxury boxes.  Also, the Beijing Olympic Basketball Gymnasium continues the trend of “green” venues at the Games, as the stadium has a rainwater recycling system in place.

As you can see, the people and city of Beijing, China have done a great job in getting ready for the world’s biggest athletic stage this summer.  With breathtaking architecture and environmentally friendly features, the venues of the 2008 Olympic Games will be nearly as amazing as the competition itself.

PPPPP

Word Count 603