The Co-Host Cities of the 2008 Beijing Olympics

With an event that is as large in magnitude, tradition, and importance as the Summer Olympic Games, it’s understandable that not even a huge city can hold it on its own.  Each Olympic Games has co-host cities that assist in holding events, and Beijing’s 2008 Olympic Games are no exception.  If you would like to know more about the co-host cities of the 2008 Beijing Olympics, look no further!

The co-host cities of the 2008 Beijing Olympics include Qingdao, Hong Kong, Tianjin, Shanghai, Shenyang, and Qinhuangdao.  These cities were selected to assist with the hosting of the 2008 Summer Olympic Games not only for their proximity to Beijing, but also for their distinctive features and beauty.

The beautiful city of Qingdao will be home to sailing events during the 2008 Beijing Olympics, and rightfully so.  A state of the art sailing center (the Qingdao Olympic Sailing Center) will appease sailing competitors and fans alike, and the city of Qingdao itself is known for being a great summer resort.  The city is also very pleasurable during the months of July through September, which are considered the most comfortable weather months for Qingdao.

The famous city of Hong Kong will play host to the always popular equestrian events.  Equestrian enthusiasts and competitors alike will get to know Hong Kong much better, as well as the two equestrian venues where competition will take place.  Hong Kong is a large city with much to do and ee, and is one of the cultural centers of China, so those who take in equestrian events will be pleased with other available activities as well.

Some of the football (soccer if you’re from the U.S.) matches will take place in Tianjin, at the Tianjin Olympic Center Stadium.  Tianjin is a comfortable distance from Beijing, which will please fans of “the beautiful game”, as it can be reached with about a one-hour train ride.

Other football, or soccer, matches will take place in the world famous city of Shanghai.  Shanghai, also a comfortable distance from Beijing, is one of the largest cities in China and is a modern and fashionable city.  It is one of the larger seaport cities in this part of the world, and provides plenty of opportunities for great food and entertainment.

Another of the football venues is found in Shenyang, home of the Shenyang Olympic Sports Center Stadium, which is a newly constructed venue that holds up to 60,000 people!  Shenyang itself is notable for having four distinct seasons, and for being cooler than other parts of China during the summer months.

Finally, the last host of football matches is the city of Qinhuangdao, which is only about 220 kilometers away from the host city of Beijing.  Qinhuangdao boasts a new stadium called the Qinhuangdao Olympic Sports Center Stadium, where matches will be held for excited fans and players.

Co-host cities provide additional venues for Olympic events, but they also provide more cultural and tourism options for those that are able to attend the Olympic Games.  Although Beijing has a lot to offer, the six co-host cities of the 2008 Beijing Olympics also have much to offer in the way of culture, dining, sight seeing, and experiences to be had.  If you’re one of the lucky persons who will be attending the Beijing Olympics, make sure to explore the co-host cities as well!

PPPPP

Word Count 566