Title: 
Wisconsin Real Estate – Making The Dairy Land Look Good

Word Count:
353

Summary:
It might surprise you, but Wisconsin is home to one of the highest rated and most in demand towns in the United States. More and more people are starting to realize the Dairy Land is a good place to live.


Keywords:
wisconsin, madison, real estate, home, homes, relocation, dairy lnd, milwaukee, sell, buy,


Article Body:
Wisconsin Real Estate – Making The Dairy Land Look Good 

It might surprise you, but Wisconsin is home to one of the highest rated and most in demand towns in the United States. More and more people are starting to realize the Dairy Land is a good place to live. 

Wisconsin Real Estate – Making The Dairy Land Look Good

Wisconsin likes to promote itself as America's Dairy Land and it isn't far off. The state has a strong rural, farming influence. This leads to friendly people and communities living at a pace of life you will not find in more stressful states such as New York and California. Wisconsin, however, does hold a gem of a small city within its borders. 

Madison is the capital of Wisconsin and home to the University of Wisconsin. A sleepy college town for years, Madison has long offered a great way of life. National publications started noticing it a few years back and it is regularly listed in top 10 rankings for desirable places to live in the United States. The reputation is well earned as Madison manages to have all the amenities of a large city while maintaining a small college town field. Madison gets a big thumbs up from us. 

If you prefer living in larger cities, Milwaukee is as big as it gets in Wisconsin. It is located on the shores of Lake Michigan and is roughly 90 miles from Chicago, a city with which it maintain a natural rivalry and love-hate relationship. Over the last few years, the city has undergone major redevelopment and upgrades which is making it an attractive place to live after long periods of stagnation and decline. 

The Wisconsin real estate market is vibrant and compares with any in the country. A single-family home in Madison will set you back roughly $160,000 while the same home in Milwaukee will run you roughly $110,000. Appreciation rates are a steady six to seven percent across the state. 

All and all, Wisconsin offers a both a good place to raise a family and real estate market you can afford. The Dairy Land has never looked so good!


