Title: 
Wyoming Real Estate - Wide Open Spaces

Word Count:
308

Summary:
If you're tired of living in close quarters, Wyoming may be the answer for you. Wyoming real estate is also appreciating at a nice pace.


Keywords:
wyoming real estate


Article Body:
If you're tired of living in close quarters, Wyoming may be the answer for you. Wyoming real estate is also appreciating at a nice pace. 

Wyoming

Wyoming is the least populated state in the United States, but also one of the most beautiful if getting back to nature is your thing. While the cattle industry dominates the state, you also find bears, moose and a variety of large beasts roaming freely in the state. This is particularly true in the two major national parks located in Wyoming, Yellowstone and Grand Teton. 

Jackson Hole

Located in the foothills of Grand Teton lies the valley of Jackson Hole and the town of Jackson. The town has a suedo Wild West feel to it, but is heavily populated with the nuevo rich. Historic facades front trendy boutiques, but the area somehow manages to maintain a local feel. 

If you're an avid skier, Jackson just may be the place for you. The Jackson Hole Mountain Resort is not for the faint of heart. There aren't really any bunny slopes at this place. Instead, you have to have a passion for more or less throwing yourself off a cliff with no parachute!

Laramie 

At first, Laramie appears to be a typical cowboy town, but first appearances are deceiving. Home to the University of Wyoming, Laramie has a definite college feel with the stereotypical college lifestyle. The town is located in a prairie setting. 

Wyoming Real Estate

Wyoming real estate prices vary wildly depending on the specific location. Homes in Jackson Hole are going to be pricey with average prices in the $600,000 range. In contrast, the average home price in Laramie is roughly $150,000. For the last 12 months, Wyoming real estate has appreciated at a rate of a little over 11 percent.

If elbow room is critical to your lifestyle, Wyoming definitely offers plenty of it.


