Title: 
A Review Of Bontonmairimnam Restaurant

Word Count:
467

Summary:
One of the things that I look forward to on my visits to Khon Kaen, Thailand is eating.


Keywords:
food, restaurant, thailand, shrimp, breeze, khon kaen, couple, order, cool, baht, thailand, review


Article Body:
On my current vacation in Khon Kaen, Thailand, I had the opportunity to visit one of my favorite restaurants.

I wanted to take my girlfriend's mother out to dinner and was told lunch would be a better idea.  Not one to argue, I agreed.

My lady asked me where I wanted to take her mom for lunch and the choice was simple.  Having been to Khon Kaen a few months ago, I told my girl that I wanted to go to Bontonmairimnam Restaurant.

This is a small restaurant just outside the city limits and right on the bank of a river.  It is cool and peaceful and has small, individual eating areas in gazebo-like wooden structures.

There is usually a cool breeze running through this outdoor restaurant and today was no exception.  After ordering a couple of cokes, some water, and a cold beer, it was time to study the menu.

Fortunately for me, the menu is in Thai and English.  This is unusual for the area and especially for a restaurant so far away from the few English-speaking tourists that visit Khon Kaen.

After poring over the menu, decisions by all were made.  We placed out order to the very attentive young lady servers and chit-chatted while we waited for our lunch.

Within 5 minutes or so, the parade of food started to arrive.  Boiled eggs, spicy papaya salad, oyster salad, squid, vegetables, and steamed rice arrived.  I had to wait a couple of more minutes for my fried dishes.

Soon, my fried shrimp and onion rings and spring rolls arrived.  I had already started with the food that the ladies ordered, as all is shared.

Picking from eight different plates and complimenting them with the rice on my plate, the food just kept on coming.

Conversation and drinks continued to flow and we ate and ate and ate.  The pace was slow, the breeze lightly setting off the wind chime, and the river flowed behind me.

Continuing to eat, it was time to order another beer from one of the girls hovering near our table.  She got it in an instant, and poured me another cold one.

After dinner goodies were available, but none of us could eat another morsel.  From veggies to seafood, to salads and friend shrimp, it was all delicious.

A final bottle of water was ordered to wash it all down and some more relaxing conversation continued.

It was time to head back to the hotel so I called for the bill and since I had been here before, was not surprised.  The grand total was 860 Baht, or roughly, 27 US dollars for 8 dishes, 2 large beers, 2 cokes, and a bottle of water.  Adding a small, 40 baht tip and we had a feast for under 30 dollars.

One of the many reasons I love Thailand.


