Title: 
Bits of Pepper Spray Facts

Word Count:
557

Summary:
Bits of Pepper Spray Facts


Keywords:
news, blog, articles, pepper spray


Article Body:
Pepper spray is non-toxic, non-inflammable, legal self-defense equipment. The active ingredient of which is the same pepper content that we get from hot cayenne peppers used for cooking.

Capsaicin, the active ingredient, is oil extracted from the tissue of the cayenne pepper, which is located just below the stem.

What are the effects of pepper spray contents?
The immediate effects of pepper spray are as follows:

    * Temporary blindness
    * Tearing and burning sensation in the eyes.
    * Shortness of breath
    * Choking and coughing
    * Feeling of light-headedness
    * Confusion and disorientation

Is it Fatal? Pepper spray was not designed to be fatal and there are no questionable contents that are to be found in pepper spray that may show evidences of becoming fatal. However, there are cases of deaths recorded that are associated with pepper sprays. This is primarily due to the allergic reaction, termed as anaphylaxis. Symptoms of anaphylaxis include fainting, shock and swelling. Asthmatics must also keep watch since they are likely to become infected with contact to serious dose of pepper sprays.

Is pepper spray training required? It is not a standard set for people using pepper spray to attend training regarding the use of the item. However, for the user’s safety and more effectivity of use, they are advised to enroll on such programs.

What is the strength of pepper sprays? The standard pepper spray strength is 15% active ingredients and 2 million HSU or Scoville Heat Units. The rating for HSU is much more essential than that of the rate for the active ingredient.

Is this the best non-lethal self-defense weapon? We cannot tell exactly if this is the best yet the truth is, it has produced more desirable results as compared with other tear gasses.

Is it safe to use? It is generally safe to use since it does not have long lasting effects and there is no known dosage that rise to the level of being fatal. The sprayed person will have to suffer around 20 minutes or more of excruciating eye pain and temporary blindness along with other things. Just enough to help you getaway from your attacker to call the police and escape.

What are restrictions for using pepper spray? For now, there are no established restrictions in using pepper sprays. However, offensive use is extremely prohibited.

What must be done when the spray affects you? The affected area must be immediately rinsed with cold water and baby shampoo. The clothes must be washed separately to avoid contact with other items.

Is it the best solution? In actuality, it is not but this is rather dependent on the case. If for example your assailant is loaded with lethal weapons, he may have already injured you even before you successfully take out your pepper spray. In this case, it is best to avoid using it or you may end up being sprayed with your own pepper spray. You may also use it but be assured that it ill not backfire at you and keep it away from your assailant’s reach. The wisest thing to do is to refrain from unnecessary risks as much as possible.

Children must be kept away from pepper spray since they are fond of playing with novelty items. Many will attempt spraying the item to the air or at any object, including live things and most end up spraying themselves.


