Title: 
Cheese

Word Count:
266

Summary:
Legend has it that an unknown Arab nomad accidentally discovered cheese. He embarked upon a horseback journey across the desert filled with a saddlebag of milk. When he stopped to rest, the milk had separated into curds and whey. The logical explanation to this occurrence is the functioning of rennin. The bacteria were present in the saddlebag, which was made from the stomach of a young animal.


Keywords:
Cheese, Macaroni And Cheese, French Cheese, String Cheese


Article Body:
Legend has it that an unknown Arab nomad accidentally discovered cheese. He embarked upon a horseback journey across the desert filled with a saddlebag of milk. When he stopped to rest, the milk had separated into curds and whey. The logical explanation to this occurrence is the functioning of rennin. The bacteria were present in the saddlebag, which was made from the stomach of a young animal.

Cheese has been a popular food for centuries and has also been mentioned in the Old Testament. Even today, inducing various types of bacteria into milk transform it to cheese. The bacteria in time works on the milk and, depending upon the different types used, specific textures and flavors of cheese are determined.

Cheese is always manufactured from milk. Milk from cattle (cows, sheep, goats) is used at all times. Cheese textures vary from hard to semi-soft, and from mildly acidic to sharp. There are hundreds of different types of cheese available. Primarily, they are classified based upon 4 factors. These include type of milk used (raw, skimmed or pasteurized) and the source of the milk (cow, goat, sheep, buffalo, horse, yak or camel). Other factors include type of bacteria or acid used and the country it is made in.

Since cheese is available in such a wide variety, it can be confusing for the consumer to decide what to buy. Stored cheese is a good travel food. It has a long shelf life and contains high fat, protein, calcium, and phosphorus. Cheese can also be eaten in various forms. These include consuming raw, cooked, cold or warm cheese preparations.


