Title: 
Chinese Oolong Tea Processes And Benefits

Word Count:
554

Summary:
Chinese oolong tea is in the first place a class as well as a kind of tea. It is one of the most famous teas in the world. According to many experts, the Chinese oolong tea is half way between green tea and black tea in a sense that it is half-fermented.  It is as clear and fragrant as green tea and as refreshing and strong as black tea.  As often said, if you drink oolong, the natural aroma may linger into your mouth and make your throat much comfortable.

The name of “ool...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Chinese oolong tea is in the first place a class as well as a kind of tea. It is one of the most famous teas in the world. According to many experts, the Chinese oolong tea is half way between green tea and black tea in a sense that it is half-fermented.  It is as clear and fragrant as green tea and as refreshing and strong as black tea.  As often said, if you drink oolong, the natural aroma may linger into your mouth and make your throat much comfortable.

The name of “oolong” is said to be an enigma to Chinese tea history. Nobody knows if it is named after a place or any variety of the plant. And, although the pinyin for oolong is “Wu Long”, which means black dragon, nobody can tell if the name “oolong” has any relation with “dragon”, which traditionally taken as the Chinese lucky indication.

The Processing of Chinese Oolong Tea

When it comes to the procedures involved in the processing of Chinese oolong tea, experts have shown six procedures that are usually considered. These include sunshine withering, tedding fresh leaves, rocking green, stir-fry green, rolling, and drying. With these procedures, many have considered oolong as one of the most complicated teas, if not the most complicated whole food beverage produced.

Usually, after picking, the leaves undergo withering, then bruised and dried.  The leaves are either rolled or twisted by hand depending on the variety of oolong. While those may seem like straightforward steps, the number of different techniques as well as the precision timing employed give this partially-oxidized Chinese tea an enormous range of flavors, other than fragrances and liquor colors.

Types and Flavors

The Chinese oolong teas generally offer a spectrum of flavors that impart distinct notes and elegant bouquets.  Some Chinese oolong teas are light and sweet. Perhaps a good example of this type is the Formosa oolong.  This tea boasts beautiful large leaves that are tightly rolled.

Another great example of this type is the Tieguanyin, which presents a thick and shiny dark green leaves that release a flowery, amber brew.  This type of Chinese oolong tea is also balanced and a great all-purpose tea.

There is also the Wuyi Cliff Chinese oolong tea that is grown in Fujian province where the weather is mild all year and the mountains are misty and cool.  This variety is said to offer rich lasting flavors. The leaves are highly fermented before they are twisted and dried. According to experts, this more fermented Chinese oolong tea can aid digestion. It even offers a great complement to the pu-erh teas for a balanced weight loss program.

Benefits of Chinese Oolong Tea

Just like any other types of Chinese tea, the Chinese oolong is said to be helpful in anti-aging, bringing blood pressure down, improving the immuno-competence, and anti-heart disease.  Many studies also revealed that the oolong can help you digest food, refresh yourself and sober up. What’s more, it is said to be helpful in prolonging your lifespan. And, recent researches have noted that the Chinese oolong tea is best for a balanced weight loss. It is said that if you increase your daily oolong tea consumption to 4 to 10 cups, the body will perform at an optimum level with an increased feeling of energy and vitality.


