Title: 
Craps: Books for Beginners and Advanced Players

Word Count:
544

Summary:
Considered complicated, Craps is anything but that. And, to break this notion, here are reviews of the top four books on craps.


Keywords:
craps,betting,casino,casinos 


Article Body:
Although craps is not a very complicated game, many people find themselves confused by its strange terminology and large numbers of betting options. This article focuses on the most recommended craps books available in the market including beginners books, strategy books for the advanced player and books that introduce the concept of dice control.

1) Craps for the Clueless: A Beginners Guide to Playing and Winning by John Patrick
As its name indicates, it provides basic information on playing craps. The book is written in simple language that makes the terminology easy to understand even if you have never seen a craps table before. In addition to the object of the game, Craps for the Clueless, reveals the winning secrets of professional gamblers.

John Patrick is a professional gambler, an author of many gaming guidebooks and the former host of the TV show "So You Wanna be a Gambler", which was aired on national cable network for over a decade. According to Patrick, a successful gambling is a result of four essentials, he calls "The Big Four", which are a proper use of the bankroll, knowledge of the game, money management and discipline.

2) Beat the Craps Out of the Casinos: How to Play Craps and Win by Frank Scoblete
This book supplies useful information for the newbie as well as for the experienced player. The book explains how the game can be beaten including explanations on which bets can lower the house edge and which bets should by avoided by the smart player.

Frank Scoblete is one of the top selling gambling authors in the US and the director of Golden Touch, which offers seminars on craps and blackjack. Other recommended books by Scoblete are "The Captains Craps Revolution", "Forever Craps" and "Get the Edge at Craps".

3) Craps: Take the Money and Run by Henry J. Tamburin
Take the Money and Run focuses on how to make fast profits from playing at casinos. In addition to introduction on the mechanics of the game and recommendations on best bets, the book offers the Increased Odds craps betting system and the Take the Money and Run discipline, which both promise to maximize the profits. The book also provides a special chapter on using the <a href="http://www.gambling-portal.com/pass-line.html">pass line bet</a> for maximizing your profits. Take the Money and Run has special chapters on tournaments and new variations.

Dr. Henry J. Tamburin has been playing for over 25 years, and his betting system and discipline are based on his winning experiences.

4) Dice Control for Casino Craps by Yuri Kononenko.
This guide book offers an easy to understand introduction to the concept of dice control from the mathematical and mechanical points of view.

Other recommended books that teach how to gain advantage over the house by using dice control are Frank Scoblete's "Golden Touch Dice Control Revolution" and "Craps Underground: The Inside Story of How Dice Controllers are Winning Millions from the Casinos", which offers a fascinating inside look on the game system.

Conclusion:
Unlike poker or blackjack, this game is not very popular, but in that lies the biggest opportunity. The casinos focus on getting a profit from the popular games. Take advantage of this, and make your profit at this game instead.


