Title: 
Delivery? Make Your Own

Word Count:
563

Summary:
This article offers the benefits of making a pizza at home instead of calling up the local pizza joint for delivery. Besides being easy, making your own pizza is healthier, cheaper, and much more fun than waiting on the delivery guy.


Keywords:
chicago style pizza, pizza delivery, home made pizza


Article Body:
Pizza is one of the most popular foods on the planet. It definitely has had a rich history and journey from Europe to the United States. Not only is pizza delicious, fast, and great at the end of a long work day when you don’t want to cook, it is so popular that it is not uncommon for the nearest and dearest pizza joint to be Number 1 on the speed dial. You are dead on your feet, but before you pick up the phone tonight to dial that oh so familiar number, think for just one second. What if you made your own pizza tonight? Would it really be that hard? The answer is no. This is one of the great things about making your own pizza. It is easy. It is also healthier than the pizza joint, cheaper than the pizza joint, and more fun than waiting for the pizza joint to deliver the pizza.

One reason you should make your own pizza is because making pizza is easy. With the basic tools that you could probably find in your kitchen right now, you can make your own pizza dough. Basic pizza dough is made of flour, yeast, water, and salt. Some use olive oil or vegetable oil, depending on the recipe. Different ways to enhance this basic dough can make a pizza truly unique, such as folding herbs or cheese right into the dough.

Another reason you should try making your own pizza is it is far healthier than the neighborhood pizza joint you get your pizza from. By making your own pizza, you are in total and complete control over your own ingredients. That means you know exactly what is and is not going into your pizza. Use your favorite fresh ingredients for toppings. Vegetables are a healthy part of a pizza. Poultry, beef and seafood can also be used to make a uniquely topped pizza. You are only limited by your imagination and tastes.

The amount of money you save is another reason to make that pizza on your own. Pizza places charge upwards of $25 to $35 just for one pizza and some soda. This is absolute ridiculous when you can make your own healthier pizza with completely fresh ingredients for a fraction of the cost. You can especially save a chunk of change by buying produce and other ingredients that are on sale at your local grocery store. The savings are substantial.

One final reason to make your own pizza instead of ordering delivery is that it is fun to make pizza. Get your children and spouse involved in the process. Everyone has a job when you are making pizza. Even younger children can help by spreading the sauce or cheese onto the pizza. This is a great way to get the family together, which is hard to do this day and age.

If you are still not convinced to make your own instead of buying, try pizza with store made dough. Many bakeries now make and sell pizza dough by the ball. It is fresh and inexpensive. Start out trying one of these. It’s not as messy as making your own. Another short cut is to buy frozen or prepackaged dough. If you still insist on picking up the phone, that’s ok. Just keep in mind the benefits of making your own instead of ordering.


