Title: 
Delicious Coffee Ideas

Word Count:
416

Summary:
Ok so how many of you love a cup of coffee? I know I do! Below you can see 6 of the best recipes to enjoy your coffee a different way. We hope you enjoy it.


Keywords:
food, drink, coffee, recipe


Article Body:
Ok so how many of you love a cup of coffee? I know I do! Below you can see 6 of the best recipes to enjoy your coffee a different way. We hope you enjoy it. 

Irish Coffee 
	1 teaspoon of sugar 
	1 jigger of Bushmills Irish Whiskey 
	2/3 cup of coffee or flavoured Irish Creme coffee 

	1/4 cup of heavy cream, lightly whipped 
Preheat the glass with hot water. Dump the water out and add the hot coffee with the teaspoon of sugar and stir. Add the jigger of whiskey, and top with the whipping cream. Dark coffee's are best for this recipe. 

Spiced French Coffee 
	1 teaspoon fresh, grated orange peel 
	1/2 teaspoon cinnamon 
	1/4 teaspoon nutmeg 
	5 whole cloves 
	Regular amount of your usual coffee or try Swiss Chocolate Orange flavored coffee 

Add the above ingredients together and brew as normal. Place a slice of orange at the bottom or your cup. Pour in coffee and add sugar and cream to taste. Top with whipping cream and sprinkle with a dash of nutmeg and cinnamon if so desired. 
Mint Chocolate Coffee 

	1 ounce of chocolate mint liqueur 
	Dash of shaved chocolate 
	Whipping cream (optional) 
	Regular coffee or try Dutch Chocolate Decaf 

flavoured coffee 
Brew your regular coffee, add the 1 ounce of liqueur into your cup. Add some whipping cream if desired and sprinkle with shaved chocolate. 
Coffee Flavoured Milkshakes 

	1 pint of coffee ice cream 
	2 teaspoons finely ground coffee 
	1/2 cup light rum (optional) 
	4 to 6 scoops vanilla ice cream 
	Instant coffee powder 

Spoon coffee ice cream into blender. Add rum and finely ground coffee. Blend on high until creamy smooth. Pour into tall glasses, adding a scoop of the vanilla ice cream to each glass. Sprinkle lightly with instant coffee powder. 
Frosty Mocha Coffees 

	1 cup of freshly brewed coffee 
	1 pint of vanilla ice cream, softenend 
	6 tablespoons of chocolate syrup 
	1 cup prepared cold coffee 

Blend hot coffee and chocolate syrup in blender. Blend until smooth. Cool the mixture to room temperature. Pour the mixture into a medium bowl. Add the softened ice cream and cold coffee. With a rotary beater, beat until smooth. Spoon into tall glasses and serve immediately. 
Egg Nogg Coffee 

1 cup of coffee or try Pumpkin Spice flavoured coffee 

	1 egg yoke 
	1/2 cup of cream 
	Dash of nutmeg 
Beat the suger and egg yoke together. Place cream in a saucepan and heat over low setting, do not burn. Wisk the egg mixture into the warmed cream, heat until hot. Add coffee to mugs and top with the cream mixture. Garnish the coffee with nutmeg.


