Title: 
Eight Reasons Why Menu Planning Is A Terrible Idea

Word Count:
302

Summary:
Have you heard about meal planning lately? Families are busy and getting busier all the time. As families work on getting organized, many home managers are turning to meal planning as a way to eliminate the evening stress in their homes. 

However, meal planning is not for everyone. Here are eight reasons why meal planning just may be a terrible idea for you and your family. 

1. You enjoy eating unhealthy fast-food three to five times per week.

2. You love the taste o...


Keywords:
menu planning, menu planner


Article Body:
Have you heard about meal planning lately? Families are busy and getting busier all the time. As families work on getting organized, many home managers are turning to meal planning as a way to eliminate the evening stress in their homes. 

However, meal planning is not for everyone. Here are eight reasons why meal planning just may be a terrible idea for you and your family. 

1. You enjoy eating unhealthy fast-food three to five times per week.

2. You love the taste of pre-packaged preservative packed frozen convenience food. 

3. Spending $200 and 2 hours at the grocery store, only to come home to discover that there is nothing to cook for dinner is one of your favorite things to do. 

4. You enjoy the stress of running around like crazy at dinner time trying to figure out what to cook while your children and husband are hungry and crabby. 

5. You like your food rut of spaghetti, hot dogs, pizza, repeat. 

6. You have no other way to spend the extra $100 you spend each week eating out. 

7. You have nothing better to do at 5 o’clock every day then to go to the grocery store. It’s enjoyable to daily spend extra money on groceries as additional items “fall” into your cart.
 
8. You have no desire to enjoy a home cooked meal around the dinner table with your family. You feel spending time with your family is a complete waste of time.

If you agree with the above statements please do not ever try meal planning – it is probably a terrible idea. On the other hand, if you possibly disagree with at least one of the above statements perhaps it is time to give menu planning a try! 

If you would like a weekly menu plan delivered directly to your e-mail box we’d be happy to help.


