Title: 
Fairtrade And The Christmas Hamper

Word Count:
488

Summary:
The art of selecting just the right gift for the corporate client or personal friend is enhanced by the chance to include Fairtrade chocolate, an organic Christmas pudding or an award winning wine.


Keywords:
Fairtrade Christmas Hamper


Article Body:
The art of selecting just the right gift for the corporate client or personal friend is enhanced by the chance to include Fairtrade chocolate, an organic Christmas pudding or an award winning wine. A hamper should impress, delight, and surprise the recipient. The days of ordinary fayre are no longer the norm. Hampers can be very specialised.

Fairtrade is now an important factor when sourcing products for hampers. Gone are the days when the packaging was poor and a bit crumpled. It now looks really good eg the Divine chocolate range has vibrant designs on their chocolate bars based on African culture.

A classic example of Fairtrade at work is the Fair Valley Estate in South Africa. It was set up with government backing and today these wines  compete with the best from the wine world.  Ethical shopping ticks quite a few boxes in the psychology of consumers. You don’t have to buy gift vouchers for donkeys anymore! 

A Fairtrade hamper means you get to taste great products and also support emerging manufacturers on the ground. They don’t have to cost a lot either - Fairtrade hamper prices start from £16.95 upwards. 

Organic is now readily available within the mainstream retail market. However very few hamper companies supply a thoroughbred "organic" hamper. It is worth searching on the internet using the specific description so that you can be guided to the correct suppliers. Spicers supply an Organic breakfast hamper and an Organic Christmas hamper.  So for example,  Traidcraft plain chocolate is a great tasting product at a reasonable price and illustrates the fusion of a quality food that is also Fairtrade and organic. 

What is meant by Award Winners?  When faced with a wide choice of hampers why not go for the "best of the best" - ie hampers that are full of quality, unusual foods that have won awards or international acclaim. Quality Fairtrade hampers come with tasting notes to provide the full story behind the pedigree of each product. If you want your gift to stand out from the average hamper offer then use an Award Winner hamper.

How "green" are hamper companies ? As a responsible supplier it is necessary to strive towards waste reduction and a partnership with recycled or sustainable packaging products. Look for hamper companies whose cardboard, baskets & packaging come from sustainable sources at every opportunity. Ethical companies have moved over from polychip to corn chip void fill - this protects the items inside the hamper and when you have finished with it all you need to do is pour water on it and they dissolve ! A totally biodegradable product that comes from an annually renewable resource. It is also quite fun to watch it dissolve !

So take the opportunity this Christmas to not only buy a hamper but also to buy one which offers genuine benefits to the environment and those less fortunate than yourself.  A that is something especially worth doing at Christmas.


