Title: 
Food Shop Online

Word Count:
523

Summary:
Food shopping online is the greatest thing since pizza delivery.


Keywords:
food, food shopping, shopping, online shopping, internet shopping


Article Body:
The Internet is a wonderful world within itself. Even though it has its problems, the benefits far outweigh the set-backs. With its apparently unlimited amount of websites on every subject and topic, no matter what your interest is you can find millions of sites. In the real world you can't come close to experiencing all of the stores or shops that sell the widgets that you are interested in.  How many times in the real world have you visit a restaurant or little store in your hometown for the first time that has been in the same location for years?   If it is a pleasant experience you wonder why you had not tried their business sooner. 
You might have driven past their location for years, and then one day you decide to go inside, only to find out that they offer something that you absolutely love or have to have.

The Internet is exactly the same way, I have been on the Internet for about 10 years and I just recently decided to try food shopping online. I have been an online shopper from the beginning.  I never had a problem with trusting the merchants that I purchased from. That's why I cannot understand what took me so long to try online food shopping.  Don't get me wrong, I don't mind the supermarket, even though it's not one of my favorite things to do, but I don't mind going to the market. My wife has told me that there is something sexy about a man that food shops.  So that alone is enough incentive for me to go with her.  Going by myself is another matter all together.  

One day the food shopping needed to be done, and I drew the assignment.  I decide to check online to see if any of the local supermarkets had a website or offered delivery.   Approximately 20 minutes later I had schedule for delivery $175 worth of groceries from the very supermarket that I was going to be going to. They had every item on the list that my wife had given me.  For a nominal fee of $6.95 they would bring our groceries to our house at a day and time that I specified.  The whole time I'm thinking that this is worth every penny of 7 bucks, no shopping carts with a bad wheel, no crying babies, no long check out lines, no price checks, clearly the only way to food shop.

The delivery was scheduled for the next day, our delivery man was on time and courteous.  
He also did not drop the 10 bags of groceries  at the door, he carried all of the bags to our kitchen. I'm not sure, but I think he would have put them away if I asked. I was more than happy to give him the $7 tip that I gave him. The surprise of the whole thing is that I did not tell my wife that I had scheduled the delivery, after the delivery guy left, come to find out that, figuring out a way to do the food shopping without going to the supermarket is even more sexy.
    

http://www.TheFoodNetworkonline.com


