Title: 
Food Glorious Food

Word Count:
434

Summary:
The most enjoyable events are often those in which the food is divine. Oliver Twist said, “Please Sir, can I have some more?” And although it is doubtful that you will be serving gruel at your next catered event, you’ll want your guests feeling pleased.


Keywords:
catering, caterer, wedding, party planning, event planning


Article Body:
The most enjoyable events are often those in which the food is divine. Oliver Twist said, “Please Sir, can I have some more?” And although it is doubtful that you will be serving gruel at your next catered event, you’ll want your guests feeling pleased.

If Woody Allen is on your guest list, be certain to alert your catering service when you sit to menu plan. Allen has made it very clear, “I will not eat oysters. I want my food dead. Not sick, not wounded, dead." Perhaps Woody Allen would prefer to eat your mother’s fruitcake; some caterers will prepare ‘family favorites’ upon request.  According to Harper's Index, 1991, the ratio of the density of the average fruitcake to the density of mahogany is 1:1.

Henry miller wrote, "Americans will eat garbage provided you sprinkle it liberally with ketchup." Well, maybe not exactly garbage but Richard Nixon liked ketchup on his cottage cheese.

President Franklin D. Roosevelt’s catering service knew that the English adored their sausages when hot dogs were served to King George VI of England during his 1939 visit to the United States.

Jimmy Carter is pleased that It takes about 550 peanuts to make a 12 ounce jar of creamy peanut butter. People who become hysterical when peanut butter sticks to the roof of their mouth have 'arachibutyrophobia'. If someone attending your catered event has a tendency to suffer from this condition, be certain to alert your caterer about this dietary restriction.

If you are planning to request that your catering service provide ice cream at your event, remind your guests not to eat too quickly because they may get a very painful headache. This is caused by blood vessel spasms which are triggered by the intense cold from the ice cream. The resulting headache is much the same as a migraine - the spasms interrupt the blood flow and cause the vessels to swell.

Quiche is a popular item to serve at events. Depending on how many guests will be attending your event, it is good to know how large a quiche can be: The largest being a quiche made in Paris, November 22, 1997. Chef Alain Marcotullio used 125 quarts of milk, 1,928 eggs, 156 pounds of bacon, 134 pounds of butter, and more than 140 pounds of flour to make the world's largest quiche. It baked for over 18 hours and fed more than 125 people.

Since you cannot book the late Chef Boyardee (born in Italy, worked at the Plaza and the Ritz-Carlton in New York) to cater your event, browse the The <a href="http://www.catering-services-directory.com">Catering Services Directory</a> for a caterer near you.


