Title: 
How to Make French Toast - You Can Do That

Word Count:
417

Summary:
Let me explain. I run a do-it-yourself blog and most of the time I tend to write or find articles on DIY projects that relate to home improvement or auto repair. I thought it would be fun to write an article on something a lot different, like cooking. I chose this topic because my wife makes the best french toast and I thought there may be folks out there wanting a few pointers.


Keywords:
How to Make French Toast


Article Body:
Copyright 2006 Dennis Watson

Let me explain. I run a do-it-yourself blog and most of the time I tend to write or find articles on DIY projects that relate to home improvement or auto repair. I thought it would be fun to write an article on something a lot different, like cooking. I chose this topic because my wife makes the best french toast and I thought there may be folks out there wanting a few pointers. It's an easy and fun project for the kids as well, they will have fun coming up with different toppings. So sit back and feel your mouth start to water.

As I mentioned making french toast is an easy and tasty breakfast. My wife always makes french toast when she needs to use up bread that's on the verge of becoming just a little too old. The ingredients listed below will make 5 or 6 slices french toast.

Ingredients: 2 eggs - 1/2 c. milk -  1/2 tsp. vanilla - 1/8 tsp. cinnamon - 6 slices bread - 1 tbsp. (or more, as needed) butter - maple syrup, jam, powdered sugar, whipped cream, or chocolate syrup (for topping)

Go ahead and put the oven on to warm in order to keep the first few pieces hot. Then beat the eggs, milk, vanilla and cinnamon in a shallow bowl or small baking pan. Dip bread into egg mixture and coat both sides. Melt butter in skillet over medium heat. Don't get the skillet to hot. Add bread in batches and cook 2 to 3 minutes on each side, or until golden brown. Add more butter as needed. As mentioned in step 1, keep the cooked slices warm in the oven until all the toast is ready. Serve the toast warm with maple syrup, jam, powdered sugar, whipped cream, or chocolate syrup. For a different flavor, add a pinch of nutmeg to the listed ingredients. Just a pinch though because nutmeg has a strong flavor. You can substitute pumpkin or apple pie spice in the place of the cinnamon if you are feeling frisky.

Here is a tip staged from the wife, be careful to not over saturate the bread in preparation. It can make the bread stick to the skillet if you are not careful.

That's all there is to it. This simple and easy dish is great for when you have over-night guest and want to break from the normal eggs and bacon routine and it also makes a great change from your normal dinner planning. So put on your apron and get cooking...enjoy and have fun.


