Title: 
Jello Shot Dessert

Word Count:
378

Summary:
It's very simple to produce tasty jello desserts for your diabetic partner. When it comes to the crunch finding good ingredients to go with your jello is easy just look in your cupboards.


Keywords:
food, drink, jello, shot, recipe, alcohol, liquor


Article Body:
It's very simple to produce tasty jello desserts for your diabetic partner. When it comes to the crunch finding good ingredients to go with your jello is easy just look in your cupboards.

Here are a few of the favorites for jello desserts: 
Easy Orange/Banana Parfait 
1 package Light Orange Jello (no sugar) 
2 cups vanilla yogurt (fat free, no sugar but artificially sweetened) 
1/2 tsp vanilla 
2 tsp Splenda 
1 banana 
1/8 cup Light cream cheese 
Makes 4 servings 

Prepare the jello per the package directions. When it is partially set, slice and drop your banana pieces into the jello and mix gently so the banana pieces are covered by the jelly. Leave to set firm in the refrigerator. 
Beat the remaining ingredients well together and set aside in the fridge. 

Just before dinner put your dessert together. I use parfait glasses, they add to the fun and look of the dessert. 
Drop a dollop of yogurt mixture into the bottom of each of 4 dishes and a scoop of the jello and then the yogurt mix again and so on to the top. 

I have tried different flavors and different fruit, but, hubby likes the orange banana the best. 
Faux Apple Crisp 
3 large apples (jona golds are the best, in my opinion) 
Cinammon 

Sprouted wheat bread (I use Ezechial cinammon raisin from the health food store - 2 slices, they are small) 
9" square casserole dish 

Makes 4 servings 

Preheat oven to 375F. Spray your casserole dish with a non stick spray. 

Peel, core, and slice your apples thinly into your baking dish. Sprinkle with cinammon (as much or as little as to your taste). 

I take my bread from the freezer and grind it into crumbs in the blender. Now sprinkle evenly over your apples. Take a spoon and dish down here and there through the apples, so that some of the crumbs fall between the apples. 

Bake uncovered in your oven 40 mins. or until your apples are cooked tender. 

Cool and serve with flavored yogurt, artificially sweetened. 
You can swap out the apples for blueberries, fresh or frozen. Just coat the berries first with 2 tsp flour. 

It's not been as hard an adjustment as we thought it would be and we are both eating healthier than before, that has been a bonus for us both.


