Title: 
Jello Shot Making Guide and Jello Shot Recipe

Word Count:
281

Summary:
How to Make Jello Shots

Making a Jello shot is like making regular Jello but instead of adding water, alcohol is the major fluid added instead. The mixture is then poured into glass or plastic shot glasses or tiny cups instead of using big bowls.


Keywords:
Food, drink, recipe, jello


Article Body:
How to Make Jello Shots

Making a Jello shot is like making regular Jello but instead of adding water, alcohol is the major fluid added instead. The mixture is then poured into glass or plastic shot glasses or tiny cups instead of using big bowls.

For a basic selection of jello shots a simple jello shot recipe has been drawn up for you to make at home. The recipe is as follows:

1 - 6 ounce package of gelatine – any flavour of your choice

16 fl ounces or boiling water 
6 fl ounces cold water 
10 fl ounces 80-proof Alcohol - 40%(ABV) or higher

Grab yourself a mixing bowl and add the gelatine powder together with the boiling water. Let the jello mix sit for approximately one minute to fully dissolve the gelatine. Stir for another minute to get the mix well circulated then let the gelatine cool for 5 to 10 minutes. Stir in cold water and alcohol. 

Place the shot glasses, jello moulds or cups and place onto a tray in the fridge for at least 2 hours.


Tips 
Depending on the strength of alcohol, you need to adjust the ratio of alcohol to cold water to ensure that the jello sets properly. Use the following ratios to ensure proper setting jello shots: 

13 ounces of 30-50 proof alcohol - 20/30% abv - to 3 ounces cold water 
10 ounces 80-100 proof alcohol - 40/45% abv - to 6 ounces cold water 
6 ounces 150-200 proof alcohol - 75/100% abv- to 10 ounces cold water 
If you would like more "potent" shots, you can amend the recipe a bit. This variation makes 6 large cups with 2oz (2x"shots") of alcohol each, or 12 small cups with 1oz of alcohol each, yet still sets hard and tastes great.


Key 
Fl=Fluid Ounce

1 Cup=8 fl

(ABV)=Alcohol By Volume


