Title: 
Juicers – your source for ambrosia!

Word Count:
605

Summary:
We all love to drink a glass of natural juice, full of minerals, vitamins and other healthy nutrients. This is the single most important reason why juicers, the household appliances specialized in juice squeezing, have advanced so much in the past few years. Manufacturers have understood the increased demand for juicers that are easy to use and just as simple to clean, providing efficient juice extraction, no matter if you are keen on fruits or vegetables.


Keywords:
champion juicer, juicers, omega juicer


Article Body:
We all love to drink a glass of natural juice, full of minerals, vitamins and other healthy nutrients. This is the single most important reason why juicers, the household appliances specialized in juice squeezing, have advanced so much in the past few years. Manufacturers have understood the increased demand for juicers that are easy to use and just as simple to clean, providing efficient juice extraction, no matter if you are keen on fruits or vegetables.

The Omega juicer is just one of the many examples that could be given when it comes to proficient juice extractors. All the models pertaining to this category share the same traits, being designed for long-term use and increased efficiency. An <a href="http://www.kitchengadgetry.com/kitchen/gadgets/omega-masticating-juicer-white-8003-p-411.html ">Omega juicer</a> will always impress with the operating mechanism but also with silent, efficient motor included. Many people are looking for household appliances that offer functionality while maintaining a low consume of energy; this is exactly what this particular utensil offers.

Probably one of the most attractive features of the Omega juicer is represented by the metal parts, all made from stainless steel. The functionality of such a product is greatly enhanced by the single gear extractor. This is advantageous as it produces less foam, unlike products that are based on double gears operating mechanisms. As a user of such a product, you will definitely be impressed with the number of uses the Omega juicer is good for, defeating all existent competition by far. Even though it runs at a low rotation speed, the motor demonstrates its power by extracting an impressive amount of juice from the fruits or vegetables inserted into the machine. This way you can be certain that you benefit from minerals, vitamins and all the delicious content a glass of natural juice possesses.

Other attractive features of Omega juicers are represented by the automatic pulp ejection, high percentage of juice extracted (you can notice that yourself after you take a look at the dry pulp), no heating and certainly no noise. These juicers meet the demands of modern and sophisticated shoppers, being widely presented online along with all their features and available prices. They entice potential clients with the high quality standards presented, the 10-year warranty and the simplicity of use.

As the Internet is the leader for shopping nowadays, it’s no wonder that we can find so many attractive products online, including household appliances and juicers. The models presented are varied, all of them demonstrating best juice yield. The <a href="http://www.kitchengadgetry.com/kitchen/gadgets/champion-home-juicer-g5ng853s-p-1423.html">Champion juicer</a> is a particular favorite of many people, having a 1/3 HP electric motor that offers great functionality while maintaining a low operation mode. The features of this juicer include an increased starting force, with parts made from stainless steel (including motor shaft) and special elements for smooth operation. 

No matter if you are interested in the Omega or Champion juicer, you can be certain that the latest generation of <a href="http://www.kitchengadgetry.com/kitchen/gadgets/juicers-c-105_39_65.html ">juicers</a> impresses by quality and functionality on equal levels. If purchased online, the prices are truly affordable and the variety suggested even more impressive. Customers feel attracted to the opportunities presented by online shopping, especially since they do not have to spend so many hours rambling from store to store, wasting important time. It’s a great shopping experience and if you are not convinced, you should give it a try. Who knows? You might find an Omega juicer ready to take care of your juicing needs!


