Title: 
Living On A Fruit Diet

Word Count:
765

Summary:
These days everyone seems to be looking for a healthy diet. Why? Because there is too much of stress in our lives as a result of which, lifestyles have changed and so have food habits.


Keywords:
fruit, diet


Article Body:
These days everyone seems to be looking for a healthy diet. Why? Because there is too much of stress in our lives as a result of which, lifestyles have changed and so have food habits. More and more people have opted for fast food or junk food that does more harm than good. In such an environment, the human body will not get any or proper nutrients and this will lead to diseases or medical problems like cholesterol, high blood pressure, heart problems etc. 

The best way to fight it is by going on a healthy diet. Fruits are considered to be extremely healthy as they can provide you with important nutrients.

The need for fruits

If your diet consists of vegetables and fruits then it will automatically become a balanced diet plan and you will not develop conditions severe medical problems like coronary heart disease, stroke, high blood pressure, bone loss, type 2-diabetes, and cancer. Fruits have a high nutritional value, which will also reduce any risk of kidney stones.

The best way to have fruits is take them fresh and you can take them whole or even sliced. You can even do a little experimentation and transform your regular fresh fruit like blackberry or banana into special snacks or side dishes and then you can even add them in your desserts. If you are open to experimenting with fruits then here are some options that will not only keep your diet healthy but also add some flavors to it:

1. A spread with peach and honey: Take a bowl and add 1 sliced peach, 1/2 teaspoon cinnamon and 2 tablespoons of honey. Mash all the three together using a fork until the mixture looks consistent in appearance. Serve it as a topping on French toast or pancakes or you can even serve it on grilled pork or roasted chicken.

2. Fruit slices: Fruits slices can be used for creating many dishes. One of the best ways to have fruit slices is by making a salad out of different fruits instead of vegetables. You can take slices of pears, apples, peaches and mangoes and then gently brush them with some canola oil. After wards sprinkle some cinnamon and place the bowl in skewers. Alternatively you can wrap it in a foil. Grill this fruit mixture in your over on low heat for around 3 to 5 minutes. Viola! you will have a great fruit mixture that is ready to eat.

3. Lemon fruit dip: The lemon fruit dip is a fairly uncommon dish. To prepare it, you will need to mix sugar-free lemon yogurt, 1/2 cup low-fat, 1 teaspoon fresh lime juice and a teaspoon of lime zest in a bowl. Add a few slices of pineapple, diced kiwi, strawberries, bananas and a few grapes. You can choose between black grapes and the green ones depending on your liking. You can serve it before meal or after meal. Either ways it will be good for health and great for taste.

4. Fruity pops: This is a great recipe that tastes good when served frozen. You will need a blender to do the job. Take some sliced bananas and strawberries and add 1/4 cup of orange juice as well as 3/4 cup of low-fat strawberry yogurt. Blend all the ingredients together and then pour them into a 2 to 3-ounce cups. Freeze the mixture for at least 3 hours and then serve.

5. The Banana-Blueberry Mix: This is quite simple to make and it will stir your taste buds. You can use a blender to mix 2 fresh bananas, 1/2 cup of fresh blueberries, and 1 cup of low-fat vanilla yogurt. Once they have been mixed well, all you have to do is taste it.

6. Fresh strawberry salad: Talk about fruit salads and here is one. The ingredients that you will require are 1/2 cup of sliced strawberries and 2 cups romaine lettuce. Put them in the same bowl and add 1 1/2 teaspoon of raspberry vinaigrette as a dressing. Toss it well and then sprinkle some cashew nut on the top. It is ready to be served.

7. Mango salsa pizza: You may have never heard of this before but this is a great dish.  You will have to start by mixing 1 cup of chopped green or red bell peppers, 1/2 cup of chopped mango, 1/2 cup of chopped onion, 1/2 cup of chopped pineapple, 1/2 cup of fresh cilantro and 1 tablespoon of lime juice. Spread the mix over your pizza crust and bake it at 4250F. Once the crust is brown, it will be ready to serve.

These are some of the fruit recipes that you can try at home. The important thing here is to eat healthy and be healthy!


