Title: 
Lobster Was Not Always The King Of Seafood

Word Count:
361

Summary:
Lobster wasn't always a top dish.... 

The succulent shellfish started out branded as a scavenger, bottom feeder and food for the impoverished. However, thanks to the progress of modern transportation, lobster could be shipped from Canada to the upper northern states to become the luxury food we now appreciate. These days the finest restaurants take pride in their lobster recipes and Surf and Turf presentations. 

Besides being a versatile and delicious meal, shellfish su...


Keywords:
lobster,king,seafood,eating,cook,succulent,shellfish


Article Body:
Lobster wasn't always a top dish.... 

The succulent shellfish started out branded as a scavenger, bottom feeder and food for the impoverished. However, thanks to the progress of modern transportation, lobster could be shipped from Canada to the upper northern states to become the luxury food we now appreciate. These days the finest restaurants take pride in their lobster recipes and Surf and Turf presentations. 

Besides being a versatile and delicious meal, shellfish such as lobster, shrimp and oysters, have a good taste for health. Recent studies have dismissed the connection between higher blood cholesterol and the consumption of shellfish. Milligram for milligram, lobster is only slightly higher with 81 milligrams per 3 ounce serving compared to lean ground beef and chicken at 78 milligrams per 3 ounces. Lobster and shrimp are low in fat and coupled with moderate portions it can be enjoyed up to three times a week. Remember that it's the sauces and butters that increase fat and cholesterol. Try different methods of cooking, such as steaming or in salads and soups or even on the grill. 

It is best to cook the lobster alive, don't worry too much about being cruel; lobsters and most shellfish can not feel pain because of their underdeveloped central nervous system. A good trick is to drop the lobster in a pot of boiling water upside down... that is head first. This stops the tail from splashing hot water out of the pot. A live lobster will have a better sweeter flavor. You can tell if the lobster has been cooked alive if the tail curls under. 

The old adage is that if it tastes good ... it can't possibly be good for you. Lobster, shrimp, oysters and other shellfish not only taste good but also keep you healthy. So enjoy! Including shellfish in your diet can provide you with the recommended supply of important essential trace elements such as selenium and copper. Selenium, a major antioxidant can rid the body of free radicals and cleanse the body of toxic metals such as mercury, cadmium and arsenic. Copper keeps your bones, blood vessels and nerves healthy. 

*If you have gout, you should limit your intake of shellfish.


