Title: 
Oatmeal Has Great Benefits To Cholesterol Watchers And Weight Watchers.

Word Count:
421

Summary:
The Roll of Oatmeal (Porridge) in a Healthy Diet

Oatmeal, or porridge if you live outside the US or Canada, play a major role in our modern diet yet few seem to know the true health benefits it gives. Oatmeal provides two of the required three daily servings of whole grains required in a healthy and balanced diet and this alone should help convince you to use it. However there is an added bonus because oatmeal (porridge) is the only whole grain recognized by the US FDA to ...


Keywords:
oatmeal, porridge, weight watchers, weight loss, weight control, cholesterol, diet, healthy eating


Article Body:
The Roll of Oatmeal (Porridge) in a Healthy Diet

Oatmeal, or porridge if you live outside the US or Canada, play a major role in our modern diet yet few seem to know the true health benefits it gives. Oatmeal provides two of the required three daily servings of whole grains required in a healthy and balanced diet and this alone should help convince you to use it. However there is an added bonus because oatmeal (porridge) is the only whole grain recognized by the US FDA to help reduce cholesterol and reduce the risk of heart disease.

Can’t you imagine all the Scots jumping in the air, waving their Sporrans in glee telling the world: “We told you so!!!” (Sorry I can’t type in a Scottish accent.)

There is also a school of thought that claims that by eating filling foods in the morning you actually suppress appetite later in the day and this makes oatmeal an ideal breakfast for weight-watchers. Research clearly indicates:

People who eat breakfast, like a bowl of oatmeal for instance, tend to weigh less than those who skip it.

Adults that eat cereals, cooked or cold, have a lower body mass index than those who eat a combinations of meat and eggs, or those who skip breakfast altogether.

On the subject of healthy eating and weight control - don’t forget that you need seven daily servings minimum of fruit and vegetables to maintain health. Again this is also good advice to weight watchers.

The biggest problem you are likely to face if you are trying to lose weight is serving sizes. I’ve lost count of the number of weight watchers who have told me that they follow a strict diet regime but never seem to lose weight, then they serve themselves at least double recommended serving sizes. Hey it doesn’t work that way. Serving sizes are the biggest problem that most weight watchers must contend with and when they come to terms with serving sizes they not only start losing weight they keep it off too.

Quaker has recently introduced Weight Control instant oatmeal, no doubt there are equivalents in all parts of the world and you can get some good tips at www.weightcontrol.quakeroatmeal.com

You can also find a free weight control program at:
http://www.recipesmania.com/weightlossprogram.html

Sometimes all it takes is a change in your daily habits to regain health.

This article is © Copyright David McCarthy 2005. It may only be reproduced in its entirety.


