Title: 
Orange A Great Skin Product

Word Count:
440

Summary:
Orange in all forms has been used to make great skin care products…nay make that a wonderful concoction for your skin. From the peel, juice to the oil you can use every by-product of orange to make a great skin-care recipe. It is being greatly used to fight diseases like Alzheimer’s disease, Parkinson’s disease, macular degeneration, diabetes, gallstones, multiple sclerosis and Crohn’s disease. It is also useful for clearing many of your skin problems like acne, wrinkles and ...


Keywords:
Orange skin care, Orange fight acne, pimple, Orange anti-aging product


Article Body:
Orange in all forms has been used to make great skin care products…nay make that a wonderful concoction for your skin. From the peel, juice to the oil you can use every by-product of orange to make a great skin-care recipe. It is being greatly used to fight diseases like Alzheimer’s disease, Parkinson’s disease, macular degeneration, diabetes, gallstones, multiple sclerosis and Crohn’s disease. It is also useful for clearing many of your skin problems like acne, wrinkles and aging.

Following a healthy diet is very important for your skin. Our skin reacts to whatever we eat, so we should be careful what we dump in our body. If we keep feeding our body with junk it is bound to create problems. Many a times we tend to forget that we need not impose too many things on our body. Having fruits and vegetables creates a new path for better. Many may not able to have fun in life by just having fruits and vegetables. A well-balanced diet is what you always need. Maintaining a proper diet of vitamins, minerals, proteins, carbohydrates, energy and many more is very important.

The anti-inflammatory, anti-tumor and blood clotting avoiding properties will do wonders for you. Having one orange a day can provide you a 12.5% of fiber content. This helps to reduce your high cholesterol level and also prevents atherosclerosis. It even helps to maintain your sugar levels. It has good supply of thiamine, folate, and vitamin A in beta-carotene form, potassium and calcium. It also helps to bring down high blood pressure.

Home Remedies

Getting wrinkles at an early age, you can treat it by using rose, patchouli or orange oil.

You can cure eczema by using chamomile, geranium or orange oil.

Cellulite problems can be treated by using grapefruit, tangerine or orange oil.

Palmarosa or neroli oil is highly recommended for stretch marks.

Some commonly used home remedies to cure acne are orange, garlic and cucumber. For example you can make orange peel paste which can be applied on your pimples.

You can make a great hand lotion by using 1 ounce warm olive oil, 1 ounce orange juice, 1/2 ounce melted cocoa butter and 2 drops of orange flower oil. Blend all the ingredients till it is a fine and soft paste. Store this mixture in an airtight container and start using it for your daily purpose.

Warning: The reader of this article should exercise all precautions while following instructions on the recipes from this article. Avoid using any of these products if you are allergic to it. The responsibility lies with the reader and not with the site or the writer.


