Title: 
Our Pleasant Meal At C&C Supper Club In Door County Wisconsin

Word Count:
554

Summary:
My husband, oldest son, and I had the pleasure of enjoying a meal at C&C Supper Club in Fish Creek, Wisconsin (in the heart of Door County) during a recent trip to Door County. 

The building houses a supper club for dining along with a bar with games and live entertainment on many weekends. 

We were very hungry when we arrived so we went directly to the dining room to eat. We were offered a table near the large fireplace in the dining room. It was a nice cozy place to s...


Keywords:
Door County, Door County Wisconsin, Door County restaurants, place to eat in Door County


Article Body:
My husband, oldest son, and I had the pleasure of enjoying a meal at C&C Supper Club in Fish Creek, Wisconsin (in the heart of Door County) during a recent trip to Door County. 

The building houses a supper club for dining along with a bar with games and live entertainment on many weekends. 

We were very hungry when we arrived so we went directly to the dining room to eat. We were offered a table near the large fireplace in the dining room. It was a nice cozy place to sit on the cool fall evening we dined there. 

The dinner entrees at the restaurant come with a choice of potato, soup or salad, and bread. In addition, the supper club has an extensive wine collection they have a suggested wine for each of the entrees they offer. 

One of our diners opted for soup with his meal and ordered the French Onion soup. He said it was delicious and that it tasted how French onion soup should taste, with a thick hearty soup base, a piece of crusty French bread placed on top of the soup, and topped with bubbling hot cheese.

The other members of our dining party had salad instead of soup. The restaurant has 4 distinct salad choices; a house salad with your choice of 12 dressings; an iceberg wedge with choice of dressing; beefsteak tomato slices with bleu cheese; and a spinach salad with hot bacon dressing. We had the house salad and spinach salad. Both were very good and had a pretty presentation. 

Two of us decided on the Alaskan King Crab Legs as our main entrée. They were a great choice. The crab legs come pre-split so which makes it much easier to pull out the sweet crabmeat and dip it into the melted butter that was provided. Our only complaint was that we couldn’t get all the crab legs finished before they started to get cold. 

The other member of our dining party had the surf and turf, of which there were several options. He chose prime ribs and shrimp. Both items were cooked to perfection and tasted very good. The rosemary baby red potatoes that he chose to have with his meal were also very good. 

The bread that came with the meal was also very good. Our only complaint was that it was served cold. The bread would have tasted even better had it been served warm. 

For dessert one of our dining party had an ice cream drink, the restaurant’s purple hooter which was a combination of vanilla ice cream, raspberry liquor, and crème de cocoa. It was served in tall glass and was topped off with whipped crème and red sprinkles. The other two members of our dining party tried the raspberry éclair cake for dessert. It was a rich dessert that tasted a lot like cheesecake. It had a mousse filling, raspberries, and éclair puffs in it, and was topped with pecans. It was very good. 

The meal, including dessert and beverages and tip was a little over $100 for three people and we felt it was well worth the money. Everything we had tasted good and was of good quality. It’s a good place to have a relaxing dinner when you’re in Door County.


