Title: 
Salmon

Word Count:
272

Summary:
Salmon is the common name for the several species of fish from the Salmonide family. Their flesh is generally red, but there are some white-fleshed wild salmon.


Keywords:
Salmon, Salmon Recipes, Salmon Fishing, Smoked Salmon


Article Body:
Salmon is the common name for the several species of fish from the Salmonide family. Their flesh is generally red, but there are some white-fleshed wild salmon. 

There are several species of salmon, divided into Atlantic and Pacific Ocean species.  The two groups are as follows:

Atlantic Ocean species

Atlantic Salmon is the species after which all the others are named.

Land locked Salmon

Salmon Trutta is another Atlantic species, also known as trout

Pacific Ocean species

Sockeye salmon is known locally as "red salmon" or "blueback salmon."

Chinook Salmon is also known locally as king, tyee, spring Salmon, quinnat, tule, or blackmouth salmon.

Coho Salmon or silver Salmon

Cherry Salmon

Salmon is a popular source of food, and is the most popular among all consumed fish. This could be due to the fact that salmon is one of nature’s healthiest foods as it contains well-balanced, easily digestible protein (known as polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA)), omega-3 fatty acids, potassium, vitamin D, the B vitamins, and phosphorus. Salmon are also extremely healthy, as they contain a lower level of cholesterol than previously thought. Of course another factor that makes salmon the most popular fish, is its delicious taste and the various ways it can be prepared. 

Omega-3 fatty acids are the oil found naturally in fish, and salmon has a higher quantity of this acid compared to other fish.  This plus the other essential nutrients and its exquisite flavor make salmon the most popular fish. Eating a balanced amount of salmon can potentially reduce heart disease, relieve rheumatoid arthritis, promote healthy brain function, fight colitis and cancer, and control blood triglyceride levels.


