Title: 
Specialty Coffee And Tea Shops Emerging As The Next Reception Room

Word Count:
403

Summary:
On a business perspective, the sprouting of the next wannabe corporate coffee name is just a step away from the office, the school, and the library.  This means that over the years, specialty coffee and tea drinkers have multiplied by leaps and bounds.  Many of these specialty coffee and tea drinkers go to specialty coffee and tea shops to unwind and chat with friends and colleagues.


Keywords:
coffee, coffee makers, coffee equipment


Article Body:
On a business perspective, the sprouting of the next wannabe corporate coffee name is just a step away from the office, the school, and the library.  This means that over the years, specialty coffee and tea drinkers have multiplied by leaps and bounds.  Many of these specialty coffee and tea drinkers go to specialty coffee and tea shops to unwind and chat with friends and colleagues.  

How Specialty Coffee and Tea Shops are Affecting our Lives

Sprouting Specialty Coffee and Tea food service businesses have been growing all over serving on the go breakfast consumers to professionals who hold meetings out of the office setup.  One thing is for sure, the culture of the modern world is evolving and is opening new doors and market niches for people who dream of having special places to drink, enjoy and experience a great serving of specialty coffee and tea.  The specialty coffee and tea service retail industry though is somewhat saturated already by the big coffee and tea moguls that gobble up market shares by closely and strategically locating shops at corners and shopping malls.   

There is still an open and untapped market of coffee drinkers that want only the best brews.  Brews that come from freshly roasted and full flavored specialty coffee and tea that is not commercially prepared.  This is usually done by local coffee aficionados who have turned their passion of coffee into a social oriented business.  

The Specialty Coffee and Tea Experience

People flock to specialty coffee and tea shops to enjoy the whole experience.  Preparing good coffee is only half of it.   A good percentage of the attraction for the specialty coffee and tea drinker segment is about the shop’s ambience.  Since it has been perceived as an extension of the house or office’s receiving area, it must feel homey and comfortable.  The chairs, tables, ambiance, lights and even the music can make or break your specialty coffee and tea shop.  There is a trend for coffee shops nowadays to offer free wi-fi internet access for their business minded customers who want to keep themselves up to date on stock trades, etc. or for a traveling journalist who just wants to unwind and do his job outside the hotel room.  

Specialty coffee and tea drinking is not just for getting a good kick in the morning, but an experience that is shared with friends, colleagues, and the environment.


