Title: 
Super Quick Pea Salads

Word Count:
309

Summary:
Making a pea salad is quick and easy. Here is the basic recipe with some options to tweak it up a little.

If you're putting a meal together and need something quick to go with it, a simple pea salad recipe may be the answer.

It's very simple, just drain the water from a can of peas and put peas into a bowl. Add a little chopped vegetable and a tablespoon or so of mayonnaise and mix.

That's the basic recipe, here's a few suggestions to spice it up a little:

1 - Add...


Keywords:
 pea salad, pea salad recipe, mayonnaise, garlic, vegetables, spice.


Article Body:
Making a pea salad is quick and easy. Here is the basic recipe with some options to tweak it up a little.

If you're putting a meal together and need something quick to go with it, a simple pea salad recipe may be the answer.

It's very simple, just drain the water from a can of peas and put peas into a bowl. Add a little chopped vegetable and a tablespoon or so of mayonnaise and mix.

That's the basic recipe, here's a few suggestions to spice it up a little:

1 - Add a slice of finely chopped onion. You don't need much and it really adds flavour.

2 - Mince a small garlic clove and add to salad. Do this only if you like garlic.

3 - Add other vegetables. Cucumber, cherry tomatoes, bell pepper, celery and more. Chop them up very fine and add sparingly. Like the onion you don't need much.

4 - Cheese it up. Shred or cube some cheese and throw it in. Any kind will do. You could also use some 3 cheese ranch dressing rather than mayonnaise for the dressing.

5 - Add a hard boiled egg, peeled and chopped of course. This mixes very well with the mayonnaise.

6 - Chopped sweet pickle or relish will sweeten it up and add a little crunch.

7 - Enhance the mayonnaise dressing with a little shot of mustard.

8 - Add a pinch of spice. Oregano, dill, cilantro, any others you may like.

9 - A pinch of salt will bring the flavours together.

10 - You may want to add a can of beans such as green, waxed, garbanzo, kidney etc. Any type of salad bean will do. This is a great way to make your salad more interesting.

When you have your ingredients all together, gently mix and refrigerate. If you are in a hurry to get it on the table just chill it in the freezer for 5 minutes or so.


