Title: 
The Food In Trend

Word Count:
543

Summary:
Fire was discovered.

This discovery enabled him to the means of preparing food for eating. We call it cooking. Man used stones, used wood, used stove and now, he captivates the appetite of anyone-anywhere. Food now is not only considered as a basic need but also a means of business, profit, expression, culture, and catharsis.

As an element of business and profit, restaurants and eateries have been the form of livelihood for many. As an expression, cooking food is a way ...


Keywords:
Cooking


Article Body:
Fire was discovered.

This discovery enabled him to the means of preparing food for eating. We call it cooking. Man used stones, used wood, used stove and now, he captivates the appetite of anyone-anywhere. Food now is not only considered as a basic need but also a means of business, profit, expression, culture, and catharsis.

As an element of business and profit, restaurants and eateries have been the form of livelihood for many. As an expression, cooking food is a way of experimenting with what you know and what you want to know more. It is also a good skill if mastered. As culture, menus tell the country’s name. As a catharsis, you can just eat a lot on a depressed day.

Food comes in many trends in all parts of the globe. There are really these popular trends common for the white, brown and black.

We call the tenth food trend as convenient or ready-meals. They are becoming so popular these days. They come in handy packaging and may be chilled or ready-to-eat food products. Americans and Southeast Asians are among who take out these pouches for most number of times a week.

The next one is something one cannot munch but drink. These days, healthy juice drinks, energy drinks and so forth are hitting the customers’ fridge. They come in really cool containers commonly tin cans.

Low-fat and Non-fat food are now in. People now are more conscious and particular about their health. Their body figure is also a big factor. These days, people are now more conscious about their health and wellness so they prefer healthy drinks.

The seventh spot is taken by the healthy low-carbohydrates snack. Between meals, people commonly eat something like junk food. As mentioned, people now try to consider healthful factors for their very selves. A pack of a multi-grain snack and the like are one of the trends and they are liked by people of all ages.

Cheese, condiments and ethnic food flavors like that of exotic fruit takes the 6th spot. On the other hand, farm products like meat, milk and others are always in trend no matter what the season is, it holds the 5th place for food trends.

Meeting friends while pouring a bottle of liquor is a usual sight. As social creatures, we need to meet people. Social drinking bonds people to deeper acceptance of each other. The fourth in trend is the liquor and other beverages. Wines are good for the health that makes it as one of the most wanted. Liquor and its other forms are the third one...

Drive-through in every fast food restaurant. It is more convenient and hassle- free for people especially those who are on the go. Today’s fast way of life really finds this form as in trend. It is the second most popular food trend these present times.

Instant-prepared food is on the top rank. This type includes food which is easy to prepare and are still not so lacking the “full” factor. All over the globe, this is the number one food in trend.

Like fashion styles, food trends also vary and if one is in trend, it does not mean that it is the well-balanced diet our body needs.


