Title: 
The Inn At Kristofer's In Sister Bay Wisconsin Offers A Great Dining Experience

Word Count:
521

Summary:
Door County, Wisconsin is a popular destination for tens of thousands of travelers every year. Small villages with populations of less than 500 people swell to large crowds during the summer weekends as people head to Door County for some rest, relaxation, time on the water, and good food. 

The Inn at Kristofer’s, located on Bay Shore Drive in Sister Bay, Wisconsin, is a wonderful place to go for a special meal. My husband and I treated ourselves to dinner there during our...


Keywords:
Door County, Door County Wisconsin, Door County restaurants, place to eat in Door County


Article Body:
Door County, Wisconsin is a popular destination for tens of thousands of travelers every year. Small villages with populations of less than 500 people swell to large crowds during the summer weekends as people head to Door County for some rest, relaxation, time on the water, and good food. 

The Inn at Kristofer’s, located on Bay Shore Drive in Sister Bay, Wisconsin, is a wonderful place to go for a special meal. My husband and I treated ourselves to dinner there during our latest trip to Door County and we were very glad we did. We had a great meal. 

The first thing we noticed after being seated was the beautiful view of the water. The restaurant is directly across the street from the Bay in Sister Bay and large picture windows along the front wall of the restaurant showcase the water view.

Immediately after being seated our water glasses were filled and a wedge of fresh lime was added. We were given menus and fresh, warm, multi-grain rolls. The rolls were served with butter rosettes flavored with fresh basil. 

The entrée special that evening was grilled quail which my husband ordered. I had the certified Angus filet mignon, and our oldest son, who had joined us on our vacation, chose the Roast Duck with Orange Grand Marnier sauce. 

Because we wanted to save room for dessert we skipped appetizers, soup, and salad although the featured soup for the evening, maple butternut squash bisque topped with pecans, sounded delicious. 

All three entrees were excellent. The presentation of the plates was pretty and the food tasted as good as it looked. The Angus filet had a Cabernet sauce that was just the right touch with the beef. Homemade garlic mashed potatoes and a garnish of haystack potatoes rounded out the entrée. 

The duck was tender, moist, and very flavorful. It was accompanied by fresh steamed vegetables that were cooked just right, and wild rice that contained dried cranberries and nuts. 

The grilled quail was, according to my husband, cooked to perfection. He really enjoyed it. It was accompanied by the same wild rice as the duck and a crepe filled with a cranberry sauce, which he thought was delicious as well. 

For dessert we split two selections; a pumpkin mousse torte and the crème brulee. The pumpkin mousse torte had a very light pumpkin flavor and was served with a caramel sauce and fresh whipped cream. The crème brulee was flamed at the table with Grand Marnier. The combination of creamy vanilla custard, crunchy caramelized topping, and Grand Marnier was delicious. 

Although the Inn at Kristofer’s is not an inexpensive restaurant, it is a wonderful place to go for a special meal whether it’s for someone’s birthday, anniversary, or just to treat yourself. I highly recommend trying it. The food is excellent and so is the service. Although we didn’t have reservations when we dined there, you may want to call ahead and make reservations, especially if you are heading to Door County during the busy summer months (http://www.doorcountycountry.com/food/innatkristoferssisterbay/).


