Title: 
The Different Coffee Variations And How To Make Them

Word Count:
494

Summary:
Ok, so you like to down to your favourite coffee house and order coffees, cappuccinos, café mochas, lattes and espressos. It isn’t the fancy coffee cups that make this beverage taste so great.


Keywords:
food, drink, coffee, coffee bean, recipe, beverage, caffine


Article Body:
Ok, so you like to down to your favourite coffee house and order coffees, cappuccinos, café mochas, lattes and espressos. It isn’t the fancy coffee cups that make this beverage taste so great. 

It’s the recipe of the coffee and of course the way it looks that factors into the equation. We all have a favourite style of coffee and every cup will taste different because of the roast of the coffee bean, the grind, the amount used, the water, the temperature and a variety of other factors. 

We have all had a go trying to reproduce the coffee goodness from the coffee houses at home, the way we imagine they are supposed to be done, but do we actually know the proper method to use in order to extort the captivating flavours perfectly? Below is the basic list of how to make these excellent coffees.

Cappuccino: This coffee product consists of equal parts steamed and frothed milk and shot of coffee. The milk then gets poured on top of the coffee shot and dusted with nutmeg, cinnamon or chocolate powder. 

Café Mochas: The easiest way to do this is to make it with quality hot chocolate, add a shot of coffee with steamed milk poured in and top with whipped cream, then lightly dust with chocolate powder. To achieve to best effect, use a clear glass-mug with a long stemmed spoon.. 

Lattes: Foam and steam milk to 75 degrees (C). The ratio is worked out as 50% coffee and 50% milk. Slowly pour the milk down the side of the coffee cup or glass so it infuses with the coffee shot. The main differentiation between a latte and a cappuccino is a latte blends the milk and coffee together, whereas the cappuccino keeps the 2 apart. 

Espressos: We have all had a foul espresso, right?. There are a number of reasons for this. The No.1 reason being an unfavourable coffee bean being used. If you like espressos you are most likely a lover of all things coffee and know what makes a good coffee bean. So with this in mind, to make a good espresso coffee you need to follow these instructions: 

• Finely grind the coffee beans 
• You must pack the espresso down firmly 
• You must use a high pressure coffee machine or stove top model 
• You must not try to make too much coffee at once 
• You must see the crème floating on the top of the coffee shot, which is a golden-brown foam 
• You must use an appropriate espresso cup to keep the coffee warm

When all is said and done, making coffee correctly is all up to you and the way your flavour buds take to the coffee taste. If you like coffee in a particular way, then make it that particular way. However, if you have guests over they may just like the basics. So do yourself a favour and learn the correct way to make coffees, lattes and espressos.


