Title: 
The Elegant Designs Of The Wooden Bar Stool

Word Count:
499

Summary:
Wooden bar stools come in lots of varieties; If you are considering buying a wooden bar stool, you have a huge range of options to blend into any style of interior at home, bar or restaurant.


Keywords:
furniture, stools, bar, food, drink, design, interior, decor


Article Body:
Wooden bar stools come in lots of varieties; If you are considering buying a wooden bar stool, you have a huge range of options to blend into any style of interior at home, bar or restaurant. A few of the further admired bar stool styles incorporate: Mission, Queen Anne, Shinto, and Metropolitan. Each design is noticeably different from every other style, giving bar stool buyer an abundance of choice.

Mission Stools

The Mission furniture design has been up there with the best for a lot of years. With its basic lines and traditional looks, wooden bar stools in this scheme often blend in to any background. Mission bar stools feature straight angles, level seats, and back rests with numerous vertical groves, but they have no arms.. The type of wood used will fluctuate from bar stool designer to bar stool designer, but almost all kinds are appropriate. The 2 most common types of wood supplies to be used are oak and cherry. You'll find most Mission wooden bar stools are painted or darkly stained, or you can have them au naturelle.

Queen Anne Stools

For an complex, chic look, a lot of people opt for the Queen Anne bar stool. This style of stool boasts legs that steadily broaden at it’s base, as well as this the arms and back rests incorporate a lot of complex detailing. This kind of bar stool is perfect in the home no matter if you have generic or lavish designed furniture. One of the only things to be careful about is not to try and mesh these bar stools in to a completely different furniture back ground. 

Shinto Stools

Shinto is a Japanese design of furniture which finds its name from the well practiced religion from the area. These bar stools are of a basic design, which include heavy wooden legs that diminish to wide ends where they meet both the seat and the floor. The seats also extend out to wider ends and over lap the legs. These bar stools are usually covered in wood stain or painted, a couple of the best colours to choose are red or a nice shade of brown. Their straightforward design makes these bar stools an excellent match for a wide variety of interiors, this probably the one of the main reason for the growing popularity.

Metropolitan Stools

The design focus of the Metropolitan wooden bar stools is on the arms and backrests. The arms have a very individual look that is curled around the end. The backrests boast an extravagant stylish pattern that is only found on the particular model of bar stool. The design of these bar stools are of a light frame and dark seats, the 2 shades that really compliment each other brilliantly. This style is bar stool is very fashionable, not only because the look is quite unique, but also because it blends in very well with most designs of interiors whether its formal, classic, even the more modern designed wooden furniture.


