Title: 
The Food Guide Pyramid

Word Count:
442

Summary:
The Food Guide Pyramid is  one manner for Americans to read how to eat healthy. A rainbow of colored, vertical stripes stands for the five food groups plus fats and oils. Here is what the colors stand for:


Keywords:
rwa food,health,diet


Article Body:
The Food Guide Pyramid is  one manner for Americans to read how to eat healthy. A rainbow of colored, vertical stripes stands for the five food groups plus fats and oils. Here is what the colors stand for:

orange = grains 
green = vegetables 
red = fruits 
yellow = fats and oils 
blue = milk and dairy products 
purple = meat, beans, fish, and nuts 

The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) modified the pyramid in spring 2005 because they wanted to do a more enhanced job of narrating to Americans how to be healthy. The agency later released a special variation for children. On this website you will observe a girl ascending the staircase up the side of the pyramid. That is an example of showing kids how important it is to exercise and be active every day. From another perspective, play a lot! The stairs are also a way of showing that you can make changes in stages to be more healthy. One step at a time, understand?

The Pyramid Speaks to us in several ways. Let us all confront a few of the additional topics this new symbol is trying to pass on:

A person should eat a wide variety of foods. A balanced diet is one that makes use of all the food groups. From another perspective, have foods from every color, every day.

We should eat less of some foods, and extra of others. You can see that the bands for meat and protein are purple and oils are yellow and less pronounced than the other ones. The reason is because you need less of those varieties of foods than your need of fruits, vegetables, grains, and dairy foods.

Your family also can see the bands start out fatter and get skinnier as they approach the top side. That is designed to show you that not all foods are made as good as others, even within a fit food group like fruit. Sometimes, apple pie might be in that thin section of the fruit band because it has a lot of added sugar and fat. A whole apple would be turn up in the broad part for you can eat more of those in a fit eating regimen.

We should all make nutrition personal. Through the USDA's MyPyramid website, families can get personal recommendations about the mix of nutrients they need to have and how much he or she must be eating. There is a children’s’ variation of the website available as well. To understand better way s of applying the food pyramid get access to Super Food Seminars and interviews with Famous <a href="http://www.bestdayever.com/">Raw Food </a>Authors!


