Title: 
The Benefits Of Green Tea

Word Count:
426

Summary:
Green tea, which has greatly increased in popularity, is a genuine tea. Although it has always been popular in China, Japan and Taiwan, green tea has recently undergone a surge in popularity throughout the rest of the world.

Historically, green tea has always been thought to have special healing properties. Modern studies and research have concluded that, to this day, green tea possesses undeniable health benefits. Physicians do not have to prescribe it and patients are ea...


Keywords:
green tea


Article Body:
Green tea, which has greatly increased in popularity, is a genuine tea. Although it has always been popular in China, Japan and Taiwan, green tea has recently undergone a surge in popularity throughout the rest of the world.

Historically, green tea has always been thought to have special healing properties. Modern studies and research have concluded that, to this day, green tea possesses undeniable health benefits. Physicians do not have to prescribe it and patients are eager to learn about it’s historic healing properties.

Alzheimers Disease, which is a neurological illness commonly affecting the elderly, gradually causes one’s memory to be reduced until there is sometimes nothing familiar about their environment. Green tea is believed to stop certain neurodegenerative illnesses, including Alzheimers.

Cancer is one of the most devastating illnesses in the United States. For years, researchers have sought a way to prevent or cure the disease. Current treatments include radiation, chemotherapy and various forms of medication. Green tea is also believed to aid in the prevention and/or treatment of cancer.

Arthritis is a painful ailment that affects the body’s joints. It can be painful to walk, stand up or make even the slightest movements that would otherwise go unnoticed. While there is no known cure for arthritis, green tea is believed to aid in it’s treatment.

MS, which is the abbreviated usage to describe Multiple Sclerosis, is also a very painful illness that gradually takes away usage of movement. Green tea is thought to possibly aid in the treatment of MS.

As mentioned earlier, green tea has been long since linked to the treatment or healing of certain illnesses. It requires no prescription, is readily available at most retail and online stores and is very affordable. Green tea is also found online at many specialty and health stores, which may offer special discounted pricing or bulk availability. With a taste that is unique and unmistakable, green tea was used in ancient medicine and is believed to help in traditional treatments as well.

This article is intended to be used for informational purposes only. It is not to be used in place of, or in conjunction with, professional medical advice or a doctor’s recommendation. Prior to beginning any green tea treatment regimen, individuals should consult a physician for proper diagnosis and/or treatment. The use of green tea may cause some individuals to experience an upset stomach, so moderation is the key here. If you have any stomach problems or become extremely sick after using green tea, consult a physician.


