Title: 
Turkey Cooking

Word Count:
551

Summary:
How to cook a turkey without killing anybody


Keywords:
cooking, kitchen, knife


Article Body:
Turkey Cooking Times Oven

Make sure the turkey is fully thawed as microwave thawing followed by microwave cooking crates uneven cooking. Safe storage, handling, cooking methods, and approximate cooking times for chicken. Cooking time can be reduced by as much as 30 minutes to an hour compared to traditional roasting timetable. Oven Cooking Bag Method Preparing a turkey in an oven cooking bag can be a safe and a delicious alternative to the traditional roasting method. Paper Bag Method This method involves placing the turkey in a large brown paper bag, the type used in grocery stores, and cooking the bird at a very low temperature. Pour off the wonderfully flavourful cooking liquid that accumulates in the bottom of the pan and use it for a side dish of dressing. Many variables can affect the roasting time of the whole bird: A partially frozen bird requires longer cooking. 

Turkey Cooking Temperature

Cooking time may vary depending on temperature of the fire, wind and outdoor air temperature. When preparing turkey, use the chart of turkey cooking times below as a guide to how much time to cook the turkey. Plug in electric smoker or ignite charcoal about 30 minutes before cooking. To stop the meat drying out, baste it every 30 minutes during cooking. Instant read thermometers have plastic heads and cannot go into the oven while the turkey is cooking. Cooking time takes longer for a stuffed turkey. Tip: Cover your turkey with foil during cooking and uncover for the last 30 minutes to brown the skin. This is a much more assured way to achieve a proper kill of the vegetative bacteria as opposed to cooking the bird uncovered. Decisions about turkey size, cooking method, fresh or frozen, and other factors all come up in the weeks before the holidays. Cooking times will vary depending on wind, weather, altitude and type of equipment. It will allow you to check the internal temperature of the turkey while it is cooking. Allow ample space for the bag to expand during cooking so that it does not touch the top or sides of the oven or it will melt. Paper Bag Method This method involves placing the turkey in a large brown paper bag, the type used in grocery stores, and cooking the bird at a very low temperature. The use of a foil tent for the entire time can slow cooking. 

Cooking Thanksgiving Turkey

I dusted the turkey and sprayed it with olive oil, no basting while cooking. The issue with a large bird is that the internal temperatures might be much different from the surface temperatures and cause uneven cooking and dryness (especially at the breast). No more overcooking while waiting for the stuffing to reach safe temperatures. As I was killing on Wednesday and cooking on Thursday, the turkey never even got chilled thoroughly. Are you a busy person who just never got around to learning the basics of cooking? I now recommend limiting using this method for cooking turkey to turkeys of 20 lbs. It is true that stuffing will increase the cooking time. By reducing the overall cooking time, you get a cooler kitchen and energy savings. Many variables come into play when cooking a turkey. Whatever happened to the old timey way of cooking the bird slowly and for a long time?


