Title: 
Turn Back The Clock – Antioxidant Best Food That Slow The Aging Process

Word Count:
423

Summary:
As we grow older, we often wish we could turn back the clock and have the vitality of your younger days. In this article you will learn what is the best food that slows down the aging process, but first you have to learn what happens to your body when you grow older.

Free radicals pose one of the greatest threats to our health, as we grow older. Free radicals are renegade, unstable oxygen molecules that collide with other particles and tissues in our bodies. When there are...


Keywords:
Antioxidant food,Antioxidant best food


Article Body:
As we grow older, we often wish we could turn back the clock and have the vitality of your younger days. In this article you will learn what is the best food that slows down the aging process, but first you have to learn what happens to your body when you grow older.

Free radicals pose one of the greatest threats to our health, as we grow older. Free radicals are renegade, unstable oxygen molecules that collide with other particles and tissues in our bodies. When there are too many free radicals in your body, they run wild attacking not only unhealthy but also healthy parts of the body. This causes such diseases as heart disease and cancer.

Antioxidants have been found to be a successful shield against these free radicals. They alter cancer growth and act as anticarcinogens. Antioxidants are chemical substances that donate an electron to a free radical and convert it to a molecule that is harmless. Antioxidants intercept free radicals to keep them from damaging blood vessel membranes. This helps the flow of blood to the heart and brain and can against cancer causing damage.

Now to the good news - the best antioxidant food is normally consumed for enjoying life. So why not get started today with a healthier eating lifestyle.

There are various types of antioxidants. So it is important to balance all the following foods to reap the healthy rewards as part of your everyday diet.

Two glasses of red wine a day provides a great source of antioxidant. If you don’t drink vine you need to drink 7 glasses of orange juice to get the same effect.

Dark chocolate provides one of the richest sources of antioxidants. What you must not forget is that chocolate is high in fat and if you are on a diet – bee careful.

Apple juice is rich on antioxidants and has some pleasant side effects. Apple juice helps prevent against heart disease, as it helps stop fat turning into cholesterol.

Many people eat carrots. What they don’t know is that carrots are a valuable antioxidant. Five or more servings on a week is recommended to take the strain of the immune system.

Green tea is a much healthier choice than black tea. Drinking green tea is can cut hypertension by 65% or more.

You have in this article learned about some of the best antioxidant food that slows the aging process. You have no excuse not to start today. Make smart food choices while still enjoying your life and your family.


