Title: 
Wedding Cakes

Word Count:
528

Summary:
When planning a wedding reception, be sure to give special attention to the wedding cake. There is, of course, a certain chain of events and best practices that are good to follow.

When you are ready to select a wedding cake, you should arrange to meet with three bakers and taste their products. If you have attended or are planning on attending a bridal show, you can easily and quickly take care of this task at the show.

If you have a certain look you are going for with...


Keywords:



Article Body:
When planning a wedding reception, be sure to give special attention to the wedding cake. There is, of course, a certain chain of events and best practices that are good to follow.

When you are ready to select a wedding cake, you should arrange to meet with three bakers and taste their products. If you have attended or are planning on attending a bridal show, you can easily and quickly take care of this task at the show.

If you have a certain look you are going for with your wedding cake, be sure to bring a picture of what you would like when meeting with bakers. It is also a good idea to bring along your cake topper if you already have it as well as fabric swatches of the bridesmaid’s dresses. Also, be prepared to give the baker an estimated number of guests that you are expecting.

When you meet with the baker, be sure to ask to see a portfolio of pictures that have been taken of the baker’s previous work. In addition, always check references before making a final decision.

When you are interviewing the bakers, ask each one the same questions so that you do not forget anything and so that you can make an accurate comparison. Some things to inquire about are the set-up and take-down of the table where the cake will be, who will put the cake topper on the cake, who will place napkins, plates, flowers, etc. on the table, and who will direct the cutting of the cake.

Also, find out where the cake will be stored (it must be out of direct sunlight), who will be in charge of boxing up the cake top and giving to a previously designated person, what arrangements will be made for the left-over cake, and who will cut the cake and distribute it. Cutting a wedding cake is much trickier than it looks and must be done by someone who is familiar with the process.
When you are reviewing a baker’s contract, be sure to note several things. For instance, you should immediately see the name, contact person, location, and phone numbers for the bakery. The cake size, shape, and number of tiers must be on the contract. Be sure that the cake flavor(s), fillings, and icing are noted and that returnable items are clearly stated.

Be sure that the number of guests the cake is to serve is on the contract as we;; as when the cake was ordered, when the cake will be delivered and assembled, what the set-up fee is if applicable, and the due dates for deposits and balances. For more information on wedding cakes and other wedding ideas, be sure to go to www.bridalblog.info.

In closing, choosing a cake can really be a lot of fun. You have the chance to sample some goodies and make some light-hearted decisions about fillings, flavors, and decorations. However, in the process, make sure you are noting all of the details that need to be covered so that you are confident in your baker’s ability to deliver the product that you are expecting.


