Title: 
What You Should Know About Specialty Coffee and Tea

Word Count:
431

Summary:
Coffee and tea has long been a traded commodity in the orient.  It has been considered as a drink only for royalties and kings.  These two commodities are processed in almost the same manner for it to become a soothing and relaxing drink.


Keywords:
coffee beans, coffee maker, coffee makers, coffee machine, espresso maker, latte, cappuchino


Article Body:
Coffee and tea has long been a traded commodity in the orient.  It has been considered as a drink only for royalties and kings.  These two commodities are processed in almost the same manner for it to become a soothing and relaxing drink.

Knowing Good Quality Specialty Coffee and Tea

Specialty coffee and tea should be made from the best coffee beans and tea leaves in the market.  Coffee and tea experts believe that the best brews come from homegrown and handpicked batches.  But this handpicking process can just be a myth since it really does not affect how the taste and texture comes out.  The one thing that could affect the flavor and texture of coffee and tea is the climate since this can affect the humidity and moisture of the raw products.  

It is important to know the quality of specialty coffee and tea since top quality produce are prized at a bigger rate than that of mediocre quality ones.  Having to know the difference can give you the edge in the specialty coffee and tea market by going to specialty coffee and tea shops that are willing to give you the right value for your money. 

A good hint to detect a medium or a mediocre type of specialty coffee and tea commodity is the smell of burnt beans from roasting.  These kinds of produce are intentionally burnt because it gives out a good flavor if it is in this state.  

Adding Flavor to Your Specialty Coffee and Tea

In the past decade the specialty coffee and tea business has exponentially grown.  Many specialty coffee and tea shops have been sprouting and eating up each other’s neighborhood market shares; each of then brewing and concocting their own original flavors and mixes.   

The way coffee and tea is consumed has drastically changed over the years.  Before coffee and tea was only taken hot and straight out of the coffee maker or from an instant foil pack.  Now, specialty coffee and tea drinks are made hot or cold depending on the consumer’s preference.  Vast variety of flavors and other ingredients such as grounded biscuits and whip creams are added to the drink to have that perfect specialty coffee and tea concoction. 

But these are just flavors and ingredients to enhance the specialty coffee and tea experience.  A good flavored specialty coffee and tea should not be overpowered by the taste of its other ingredients.  The aroma, texture and flavor of the original coffee and tea must still be present to give coffee and tea drinkers the full experience.


