Title: 
Whisk It All Out! – An Overall Guide to Whiskey

Word Count:
592

Summary:
Unless you’re one of the few nice people around who hasn’t even savored a drop of liquor in their whole lives, chances are that you’re at least marginally familiar of the drink whiskey.


Keywords:
whiskey,whisky,Scotch Whiskey,Irish Whiskey,American Straight Whiskey,Malt Whiskey,Blended Whiskey


Article Body:
Unless you’re one of the few nice people around who hasn’t even savored a drop of liquor in their whole lives, chances are that you’re at least marginally familiar of the drink whiskey. Whiskey – which is also spelled by other without the letter E – is the name used for a wide variety of delicious and distilled liquors that are produced from grains and later on aged in oak casts. Due to its grain content, a lot of people believe that whiskey is a good type of liquor to drink. In fact, there are numerous couples both in the United States and Europe who prefer to feed their babies whiskey rather than milk or water.

Whisk It that Way: How to Drink Whiskey

In the old days, Puritans had a very specific etiquette when it comes to drinking whiskey. For them, whiskey must be purely enjoyed from a tulip-shaped glass with a dash of still water. The addition of still water is necessary to maximize the uniquely delicious aroma of whiskey. Keep in mind that ice actually mutes rather than strengthens the aroma of whiskey.

Examples of whiskey-containing cocktails are the Manhattan, Whiskey Sour, Irish coffee and the very much simple ginger ale for people who are not used to drinking whiskey or any liquor for that matter.

How Do You Whisk It: The Different Kinds of Whiskey

The type of grain used in a certain mixture is usually the sole differentiating factor for the various kinds of whiskey available in the market today.

Scotch Whiskey – these drinks are usually distilled twice and aged for at least three years

Irish Whiskey – whiskey of this type would have to undergo distillation thrice and then spend at least four years in oak casts before it can be considered “drinkable”

American Straight Whiskey – these drinks require the use of a mash bill containing at least 51% or anything less than 80% of a single grain. The aging process must take place in new barrels made from American white oak that are charred prior to use.

Malt Whiskey – this term is only used for whiskeys made from 100% malted barley and nothing else. A single-malt whiskey on the other hand is exclusively produced by just one distillery and is the most expensive type of whiskey that’s out in the market. Its one-distillery production makes it taste highly distinguishable from other malted whiskeys.

Pure Pot Still Whiskey – a kind of Irish whiskey, pure pot still whiskey is produced mainly by combining malted and unmalted barley.

Blended Whiskey – this is the name used to describe whiskies of different kinds that are blended together and contains straight whiskey as well as neutral spirits; its production process permits distilleries to preserve quite a consistent flavor and mellower than single-malt whiskeys.

Places to Whisk It: Significant Geographical Locations in the History of Whiskey Production

Scotland – Although all types of whiskey are made in Scotland, their favorite type of whiskey would be single-malt Scotches. Scottish people also prefer to call whiskeys as “whisky”. Well-known Scottish brands of whiskey would be Glenmorangie, Chivas Regal and Glenlivet.

United States – The producers of whiskeys such as Bourbon, Tennesee and even the home brewed whiskey version called Moonshine, North America is also fond of calling Scotch whiskeys simply as “Scotch”. Jim Beam Black Label and Jack Daniels are examples of Popular American brands of whiskey.

Ireland – Because of their triple distillation and 4 year aging process, Irish whiskeys are acclaimed for their extra smoothness and flavorful taste. Famous Irish whiskey brands would be Connemara and Tullamore Dew.


