Title: 
'Buddy Bracelet' Spreads Awareness of Colorectal Cancer

Word Count:
264

Summary:
Colorectal cancer is 90 percent preventable and 90 percent treatable when detected early, yet it continues to be the second leading cause of cancer-related death in the United States.


Keywords:
'Buddy Bracelet' Spreads Awareness of Colorectal Cancer


Article Body:
Colorectal cancer is 90 percent preventable and 90 percent treatable when detected early, yet it continues to be the second leading cause of cancer-related death in the United States.

To help spread the message about the importance of early detection, the Cancer Research and Prevention Foundation and its 54 partners have joined together to celebrate National Colorectal Cancer Awareness Month by introducing the "Buddy Bracelet," a unique and powerful way to promote public awareness of the disease.

"Today, in a sea of colored bracelets, the blue Buddy Bracelet stands out by creating a clever way for people to take their health into their own hands," said Carolyn Aldigé, president and founder of the Cancer Research and Prevention Foundation. "The bracelet spreads the message that colorectal cancer is preventable, treatable and beatable."

Launched in 2004 to celebrate National Colorectal Cancer Awareness Month, the Buddy Bracelet reminds those who wear it to get screened for colorectal cancer. After the person is screened, he or she gives the bracelet to a family member, friend or colleague, passing on the powerful message about talking with a health care professional about colorectal cancer. The bracelet then is transferred from that person to another person and so on.

The bracelet's theme, "Wear it, share it, because you care," is a message that could save thousands of lives.

People at average risk for 

colorectal cancer should get screened starting at age 50. Younger people can help support the Buddy Bracelet effort by learning about their families' medical histories, starting a dialogue about colorectal cancer with their health care professionals and reminding loved ones to get screened.


