Title: 
Colon Cancer and Colon Cancer Prevention

Word Count:
329

Summary:
The colon is one of the most important organs in the body.  It’s intended purpose is to return water and nutrients into our bodies and help us eliminate waste. American diets are low in fiber and digestive enzymes. This causes the body produce digestive enzymes at the expense of immune system enzymes.


Keywords:
detox, detoxification, colon cleansing, colon cleanse, colon cancer


Article Body:
The colon is one of the most important organs in the body.  It’s intended purpose is to return water and nutrients into our bodies and help us eliminate waste. American diets are low in fiber and digestive enzymes. This causes the body produce digestive enzymes at the expense of immune system enzymes.

The low level of fiber prevents the colon from cleaning itself and causes a buildup of toxic matter in the colon.  The buildup of toxic matter in the colon can lead to many health problems, the most serious of which is colon cancer.  The weakened immune system is unable to fight the disease.

Colon cleansing helps the body rid itself of toxic matter.  This in turn allows the colon to aid in the digestive process and allows the production of immune system enzymes to return to normal. 

There are several ways to cleanse your colon. One is hydrotherapy, where a small disposable plastic hose is used to irrigate the colon.  A licensed professional must perform this procedure.  Similarly, enemas are often thought to cleanse the colon, but they have been shown to only clean the bottom portion and rectum.

Herbal supplements are often used in colon cleansing as well.  A plant product called psyllium is most usually the base of these treatments.  The psyllium’s fiber expands when it comes in contact with water, and the bulky material causes the bowel to contract and expel waste.

There are also oxygen based cleaners that turn the waste into liquid or gas and help it to be expelled.

Another way is to do juice fasting.  Juice fasting gives the entire digestive system a much needed rest and for optimal functioning to take place once again after the break.

In a nutshell, colon cancer can be preventable. If you find yourself having meals that are low in fiber, try doing a colon cleanse.  A clean colon will mean a healthy colon and a better immune system for your body.


