Title: 
5 Tips for Mom Entrepreneurs: How to Make and Take Time for You

Word Count:
498

Summary:
Tips from Mom Entrepreneurs on how to make time for you.


Keywords:
Work at home, entrepreneurs, home-based business, Terilee Harrison, The Business Mom Guide Book


Article Body:
You are busy at both work and at home.  Some days it may seem impossible to find time for YOU.  You may wonder how other busy Mom Entrepreneurs make time for themselves, but you don’t have time to stop and ask.  Here are four quick tips:

If it’s too late and you are already stressed…

1.  Take a break.
Have you ever been overwhelmed and feel you can’t stop for fear you will fall further behind?  When you’re in a high-stress situation, your thinking is often cluttered making you less productive.  Michele Dortch, The Integrated Mother, suggests that you take a break when you become stressed.  Whether you choose a 15-minute nature walk or a full day doing activities you love, stopping can actually provide amazing clarity and help you complete your tasks on time.  This may seem counterproductive, but it really works!  

To prevent going on overload, try the following tips on a regular basis…

2.  Take time out to socialize each week.
Alice Seba of Mom Masterminds advises taking time out is invaluable to the Mom Entrepreneur.  Alice makes a point to have a few opportunities to socialize each week—with girlfriends, her partner, or to just have some time alone.  It revives her and makes her more focused when she comes back to being a mom or a businessperson.  Alice says, “All work and no play not only makes you a dull mama, but it makes you a stressed out and ineffective one, too!”  

3.  Take a few “Mommy Minutes” as often as possible.
Ponn Sabra, author of Empowering Women to Power Network, puts herself on “time out” and takes “Mommy Minutes” as often as possible.  Ponn sits in a self-made sauna in the bathroom with the hot shower running or enjoys a favorite goodie (she sometimes hides special ice cream sandwiches in back corner of her freezer where no one, even her husband, can find them.)  

Ponn also insists that “adults need naps, too!”  Whether for ten minutes or forty-five, it is important just to take a nap.  The revitalization you receive from a catnap is very powerful.  If you are unable to nap in the middle of a chaotic day, it is important to take yourself out of the situation to regain focus.  You will have more energy if you meditate and clear your head.  

4.  Go “off duty” regularly.
In Linda Goodman Pillsbury’s Survival Tips for Working Moms, she recommends choosing a regular time when you are “off duty.”  For example, you might say that after 8:30 every night, the kids cannot bother you with “Where are my blue jeans?”  “I need cookies for a school party tomorrow,” etc.  (Of course, you are there for emergencies.)  Children will soon learn to ask for what they need before you go off duty or wait until the morning.  This works on very young children up to teenagers--but you should make exceptions for talking to the kids when they come in from a date!


