Title: 
Benefits of Virtual Assistance

Word Count:
741

Summary:
A virtual assistant is an individual who provides business services to other professionals.  As a business owner, you can save time, money, and energy by hiring a virtual assistant.  Best of all, you'll have more time to do what you do best - running a business!


Keywords:
business, time management, entrepreneurs, home office, flexibility, virtual assistant


Article Body:
A virtual assistant is an individual who provides business services to other professionals.  They're considered virtual because they perform their services from a remote location.  Communications with their clients take place through telephone, fax, email, and snail mail.  As a business owner, you can save time, money, and energy by hiring a virtual assistant.  Best of all, you'll have more time to do what you do best - running a business!
 
1.    You do not need to provide a physical workspace.  A virtual assistant works from their own home or office.  This is especially convenient if you are running a business from home or if you have limited space at your own office.
 
2.    You do not need to provide costly equipment.  Virtual assistants use their own equipment to provide services to you.  This can result is tremendous savings especially if the virtual assistant has access to equipment that you don't already own.  Also, you don't have the worries of dealing with the maintenance and upkeep of office equipment.

3.    You save valuable time not performing tasks you don't have time for or are not able to do.  As a business owner, the highest and best use of your time is to work in your business.  Delegating important and necessary administrative tasks like web design and maintenance, bookkeeping, writing, shopping cart setup, and other tasks will allow you to spend time developing your business and building relationships with your customers or clients.
 
4.    You do not have to deal with payroll, taxes or benefits.  You can hire a virtual assistant as an independent contractor which frees you from spending time dealing with tax filings and compliance issues.  You also have the added benefit of hiring them just for the task at hand, paying them at an hourly rate or by the project.  This is much more cost efficient than having a full time employee who you might not be able to fully utilize.

5.    You can accelerate growth by finally having the time to focus on the most important issues of your business.  The administrative tasks related to running a business are overwhelming, even for a one-person business!  The best way to grow your business fast is to concentrate your energies working on your business and leaving everything else to your virtual assistant.  

6.    You have the freedom to work on growing and improving your business/life skills, knowledge, and relationships.  We have a vision for our business.  We are constrained by time which limits how quickly we can move towards achieving the goals which underlie that vision.  With the help of a virtual assistant, we'll have more time to do the things that matter most to us, the things that will bring richness and enjoyment to our life.
 
7.    You are able to make better decisions by having a partner to “bounce” ideas off.  Having an assistant is a great benefit especially if you are a solopreneur.  Their strengths, background, and expertise can provide fresh eyes through which to view your business problems and projects.  There's a lot of truth to the saying, "Two heads are better than one."

8.    You have peace of mind knowing that the details are being handled.  Most business owners find themselves swimming in details.  There are so many things to handle, from paying the rent, to returning calls, from updating the customer data base, to sending out products.  There are literally dozens and dozens of details to remember and juggle which leads to mental and physical exhaustion.  By turning over these tasks to your assistant, you'll get more done faster and with a lot less stress.

9.    You are finally able to run your business instead of it running you.  At some point during the progression of our business, we start feeling like our business is running us instead of the other way around.  Feelings of overwhelm from the countless tasks we must complete can make it difficult to do anything at all.  Partnering with a virtual assistant can help us avoid getting stuck.  Instead, we can then stay focused on our goals and in control of our business.   

10.    You have flexibility to assume new, challenging opportunities.  With the administrative details handled by your virtual assistant, you'll automatically be more open to taking on new projects that can benefit you and your business.  Your talents and creativity can really shine when you aren't bogged down in details, overworked, or distracted by things that aren't directly related to serving your clients.
 
© Copyright 2004 by Alicia Smith


