Title: 
Can any Tom,Dick and Harry Start A Home Business?

Word Count:
719

Summary:
Every Tom, Dick and Harry can start a home business but not every Tom, Dick and Harry can grow and maintain a home business.
So what differentiates between the successful home business owners and the failures? The eleven qualities that bring about the differentiate are explained in this article.


Keywords:
Home Business, Home Businesses


Article Body:
First, my apologies to who ever is offended by the title of this article on home business.

Okay back to the question. Can every Tom, Dick and Harry start a home business?
I know you may have a different view from mine. But let me first tell you that just like a candle lights up a room, this article was written with the intention of providing some light on home business.

So my answer is that “YES” every one can start a home business. It does not matter where you are from or your  level of education. Every Tom, Dick and Harry can start a home business.

BUT, not every Tom, Dick and Harry will maintain and grow a home business. This is where many people fail. 

What do you need to maintain a home business? You will need to have qualities for home business oriented people.
Below are some of these qualities that will help you to maintain and grow your home business:
 
1-Home business people are careful about money.
They always know how much money they have. They know the value and cost of things so they can recognize a real bargain. That is why they can maintain their home business.

2-Most home business entrepreneurs earned money when they were teenagers— babysitting, mowing lawns, delivering newspapers, sacking groceries etc. They got their patience from here that helps then grow their home business. 

3- home business people are competitive by nature.
Many were active in sports and other competitions in high school and college. Others were competitive in wanting to make good grades, earn the respect of their parents and teachers and achieve their goals. This quality is very important in a home business.
 
4- Home business owner believe in the old adage, "the early bird gets the worm.” They sleep and eat enough to maintain their energy levels but they don't usually linger over non-productive tasks. This helps them focus important energy on growing their home business.

5- Successful home business people are risk-takers who trust their hunches and act on them. Taking risks can be small first steps, like placing your first ad in a mail-order publication. Without this quality, you may not even be able to start a home business, let alone growing a home business.

6-They have a "head for home business.
"They are always thinking of new ideas and new ways to make money or increase their home business. They are not afraid to put these ideas to use. 
7-Home business entrepreneurs are usually loners rather than joiners.
That's one reason why the home business, mail-order business is so appealing to many entrepreneurs. They prefer a solitary work environment (home business) 	

8- Successful home business are usually honourable people.
They do business based on a handshake or a promise. They tend to form strong associations with others who share this work ethic.

9- Home business people do set aside time for leisure activities and family. Their principal form of relaxation is their work, but they do realize the importance of downtime and spend time with their family. 

10- Home business people don't retire. They may sell or change their business, thinking they will retire, but they always jump back in with a new project or get a new idea that they just can't ignore. 

11-Successful home business is professionals. Whether working from their bedroom, the kitchen table or a modern, well-appointed home office, they operate just as they would if they were in an expensive office building in a major city. When they are working, they don't let outside influences distract them.

In general, successful home business is people who have high energy; feel self-confident, set long-term goals, and view money and financial security as a measure of accomplishment and piece of mind. They persist in problem solving, take risks, learn from failures (their own and from others), take the initiative, accept personal responsibility and use all available resources to achieve their success. Successful home business people compete with themselves and believe that success or failure lies within their personal control or influence

Well, I hope this article will benefit who ever wants to start a home business.
Just keep in mind that every one can start a home business, but what differentiates between the successful home business owners and the failures are as out lined above. Take care.


