Title: 
Change To A Bigger Mailbox To Receive Truckloads Of Commission Checks From Clickbank Now!

Word Count:
333

Summary:
It is not difficult to make money from clickbank but it is not kid’s stuff either. There are some existing problems with clickbank – Affiliate link hijacking, payment leaks, refunds and chargeback etc…But here, I present to you 3 sure fire methods to profit wildly from Clickbank.


Keywords:
Clickbank, clickbank affiliates, money clickbank, make money clickbank, cash clickbank, affiliate money clickbank, clickbank profits, make money from clickbank, make money with clickbank, get rich cli


Article Body:
Number 1 – Choosing the right product to promote
There are several factors to consider there. I shall list a few. For me, I never choose a product with commission below 50% and a sale which results in less then $19. I only promote products which I have mailed the vendor and he has replied. I visit the sales page and rate it upon 10 on persuasiveness and would not promote products with a rating below 6.5

Number 2 – Create a mini course
It is a know fact that on average a person needs to see an advertisement for about 7 times before they decide to buy the product or not. So what do you do for those who visit the site only once? Simple you create a mini course! A 5 day or 7 day mini course which offers them some valuable information on the product you are offering. Of course, for every mail you send, you must include your affiliate link in it. There are many auto responders that can do the job for you. Do a search around Google for them.

Number 3 – Create a mini review
It would be best if you buy that product and review it yourself so you would know you are promoting and would give better reviews. Another way of doing this is to lift off a few of the most outstanding testimonials from the vendor’s site to use it on your own. Keep it short and keep it sweet, do not overkill and overdo the reviews. A review is a good way to “soften” the visitors and make them more likely to buy. It is also in this review page that you should incorporate your mini course.

A tip, if you have made some sales already, you can email and ask them customers to give you a review in exchange for a bonus ebook or resource you give. This way, you would have testimonials that the vendor do not even have whilst your customers and happy with their extra bonuses. Truly a win-win situation!


