Title: 
Great Ideas And Tips For Entrepreneurial Success From Jeff Bezos Of Amazon.com

Word Count:
553

Summary:
For ten years the world has been watching with Awe and Admiration the Phenomenal success of Jeff Bezos the Founder and CEO of Amazon.com. 

The goal of each and every Entrepreneur be they Home Based Business or not is to achieve success and rise to the top. 

Success does not come easily. It requires Hard Work, Commitment and Dedication to reach the top as an Entrepreneur. Attaining your goal is often easier if you can follow the path already trodden by Brilliant Entrepre...


Keywords:
Entrepreneur, Home based business, Jeff Bezos, Amazon.com, entrepreneurs,king of cybercommerce,


Article Body:
For ten years the world has been watching with Awe and Admiration the Phenomenal success of Jeff Bezos the Founder and CEO of Amazon.com. 

The goal of each and every Entrepreneur be they Home Based Business or not is to achieve success and rise to the top. 

Success does not come easily. It requires Hard Work, Commitment and Dedication to reach the top as an Entrepreneur. Attaining your goal is often easier if you can follow the path already trodden by Brilliant Entrepreneurs. Pick up some Great Ideas and Tips that rocketed them to Fame and Fortune and try to implement them. 

In this respect the Phenomenal success of Jeff Bezos, dubbed by Time Magazine as the " King of Cybercommerce" comes to mind. His spirit of Adventure, Imagination, Innovation and Creativeness are some of the qualities that have made Amazon.com what it is today. 

In 1994 he set up his Home Based Business in a two bed roomed house in Seattle with extension leads running to his garage. There was no turning back and the tremendous progress he made is history. 

Today Amazon serves over 45 Million customers and well over 600,000 Associates. Amazon.com is the Internet's most popular brand name. It is the largest Internet retailer in the world. Jeff Bezos the founder and CEO is a multi-billionaire and one of the richest men in the world. 

A few quotes of Jeff Bezos will display the characteristic thinking behind the success of this brilliant entrepreneur and the dominance of Amazon.com. 

1."A brand for a company is like a reputation for a person. You earn reputation by trying to do hard things well." 

2."If you do build a great experience, customers tell each other about that. Word of mouth is very powerful." 

3."There are two kinds of companies, those that work to try to charge more and those that work to charge less. we will be the second" 

4."We see customers as invited guests to a party and we are the hosts. It's our job everyday to make every important aspect of the customer's experience a little better." 

5." What we want to do is something completely new. There is no physical analog for what Amazon.com is becoming." 

About his vision Jeff Bezos says “Our vision is the world's most customer-centric company. The place where people come to find and discover anything they might want to buy on line.” 

To top it up he places great emphasis on the importance of the six core values-he insists on. 
1. Customer obsession. 2. Ownership. 3. Bias for action. 4. Frugality. 5. High hiring bar. 6. Innovation. 

Here are some very useful Ideas and Tips that all Entrepreneurs including the Home Based Business Entrepreneur can pick up from Jeff Bezos. 

You have to be:

1. A Dreamer and never give up your dream 
2. An Optimist and be Confident in what you do. 
3. A Strategist, ready to meet all situations and circumstances. 
4. Prepared to tread into areas where others have never trodden before. 
5. Customer focused more than Marketing focused. 
7. Obsessed about customers not competitors. 
8. Innovative and keep on innovating. 
9. Always thinking Big. 
10.Working hard and charge less. 

Finally a tip from Jeff Bezos for all Entrepreneurs,” Work hard, have fun, make history". Yes,That's what the "The King of Cybercommerce" has done with Amazon.com.

Copyright © 2005 Kanaga Siva.


