Title: 
How to grow a money tree

Word Count:
436

Summary:
They say money doesn't grow on trees, but I think you can grow it on something even better! Your home computer. To make your money tree grow, you will need to give it a home and a place to grow. You can do this by creating your own  website. Here are some basics steps to creating your own website:


Keywords:
Internet, Internet marketing, website, web site, online, online business, marketing, tips, marketing tips, free, free ebook, advertising, business


Article Body:
They say money doesn't grow on trees, but I think you can grow it on something even better! Your home computer. To make your money tree grow, you will need to give it a home and a place to grow. You can do this by creating your own  website. Here are some basics steps to creating your own website:

1.Pick a domain name. Make sure the name relates well to the information on your website. If you can, make it short and easy to remember. 
2.Create your web site using a web site creator, hand coding your own html, or a combination of both.
3. You will need to sign up for a hosting account to get your website online. 

Next you will need to plant the money tree seed by developing your product so it can grow:
1.The fastest and easiest way to create a product to sell on your new web site is to create a information product (e-book, audio, etc.). Its very low cost or free to create, and everything is automatic and electronic. That means there is no overhead and no products to ship! 
2.You may also want to consider borrowing some seeds while you make your own. You can do this but signing up with other companies that sell information products and selling their products for a commission. This is a great way to get started and test the markets to see whats selling.  You also build relationships with companies and that very well could be a marketing advantage after you finish your product.


Finally you will need to nourish your tree by watering it with traffic.
There are three main way to get traffic to your website
1.Your can buy traffic through sites like google. With this method you pay each time someone searches for your key words and they click on your link to your site. Through google you will be paying $.05 each click and up.
2.You can email you mailing list you made over time. Send out a promotional email and and get your previous traffic coming back. Just be careful not send out too many, or they will become annoyed and turned off to all your other emails. 
3.Partner up with your competition. You can get your competitors to send out your promotional emails by offering them a commission. Your competitors can become one of your best assets! 

Maintain your tree by watering it with plenty of traffic, and give it plenty of love by updating your material! Fallow these easy steps and your money tree should be ready for harvest in no time. 

Best Wishes! 

Maranda 
Mann


