Title: 
How Well Do You Know Your Prospects? Take this 10-Point Quiz to Find Out

Word Count:
292

Summary:
It’s crucial to know your prospects if you want to market effectively to them.  Take this 10-point quiz to find out how well you know them.


Keywords:
marketing, prospects, effective marketing, small business marketing


Article Body:
It’s crucial to know your prospects if you want to market effectively to them.

Take this quick quiz to see how well you know and understand your prospects. If you can't answer these questions, how can you be sure you are connecting with your audience in a relevant and meaningful way? 

How can you be sure you are reaching them with a compelling message about your product or service? 

How can you be sure you are tapping into the conversation they are already having inside their own head with respect to your product or service? 

I would argue you can't. And if you can't do these things, your marketing will not be effective.

1. Who are they?

2. Where do they live ... work ... play?

3. What problem do they have that you can solve?

4. How does your product or service fit into their life?

5. What else do they buy in your product or service category?

6. Where do they get information regarding your product/service?

7. What is most important to them?

8. What are they most afraid of?

9. What is their emotional connection to your product/service?

10. How will they rationalize purchasing your product/service?

How’d you do?  If you can’t answer these questions, odds are your marketing message isn’t connecting with your prospects. And if your message is not connecting with them, you won’t be very successful in selling them on your product or service.

Take the time to get to know your customers and prospects. Learn all you can about them. Use this quiz as a guide. When you do you’ll be able to speak directly to their needs and concerns with your marketing, they will respond. And your business will thrive.

© Copyright 2005 Debbie LaChusa, 10stepmarketing


