Title: 
Partnering: Joining a Formal Partner Program

Word Count:
334

Summary:
Partnering by joining a formal partnering program isn't the sure thing it used to be. You may be better off doing your own promoting of your business than formal partnering


Keywords:
partnering, partnership, partnerships


Article Body:
Formal partnering programs. They can be good, bad, and indifferent. They just aren’t that huge. In this day and age, most people aren’t choosing to join partner programs just based on the benefits that they looked for 10 years ago.

Formal Partnering Programs Benefits

These benefits include: high margins, dedicated partner representatives, unlimited toll free support, four percent MDFs, market development funds, 30-day end user money back guarantee, no quotas, no inventory stocking. If, however, you are moving towards the service model, formal partnering doesn’t do as much for you.

Which Formal Partnering Programs are Best?

VAR BUSINESS, a trade magazine, does all kinds of studies and surveys on the best partner programs.  It rates them constantly on vendor satisfaction on all different issues: technical support, sales support, margins, business opportunities, perceptions of small business clients. They’re an incredible resource for looking into different partner programs. 

Naturally you can read about the big ones. You can read about the Microsoft Certified Partner Program, and IBM Business Partner, but you’ll also find out about some lesser known programs and what’s going on in general.  What you will find is that not a lot of consulting firms are putting a ton of stock and energy in advertising their vendor relationships anymore.  The tide is definitely turning more towards advertising yourself, your company, your brand, the expertise and service you bring to the table as opposed to advertising the brands that you represent.

Are Formal Partnering Programs a Fit for You?

Before you decide whether you want to invest any time or money with any particular programs, I would first think through what services and solutions you want to provide for your customers. These partner programs involve both a financial and time commitment. Be certain that the partner program offers your clients what you want to offer before investing!  

Copyright MMI-MMVI, Small Business Computer Consulting .com. All Worldwide Rights Reserved. {Attention Publishers: Live hyperlink in author resource box required for copyright compliance}


