Title: 
Personal Health: Your Most Important Business A

Word Count:
418

Summary:
Don’t let poor personal health rob you of your business. You can take steps today to take maintain or improve your well-being.


Keywords:
health, work, prevention, exercise, nutrition, self-improvement, business, asset


Article Body:
We often take our health for granted. When people are in their teens and twenties, it’s common for them to not even think about health issues or to neglect proper nutrition, exercise and sleep. As they get older, this neglect may catch up to them, resulting in deteriorating health. 

Unfortunately by the time your health declines, it is often too late to recover. Poor health will rob you of energy, quality of life, and ultimately your business. As an entrepreneur, you can’t afford to neglect your health.

From the start, you should be developing good health habits. Just as you have developed a solid plan for your business, you need to have an effective plan for your well-being. You need to be proactive with your health. This means taking time away from work to exercise, eat healthy and get enough sleep. Developing good habits takes time and a conscious effort. 

Start by writing down your goals on paper. What fitness level do you want to achieve? How are you going to exercise? What healthy foods are you going to eat? What time do you want to get to bed and how long do you want to sleep? Don’t put too many goals on the sheet of paper, otherwise you’ll get frustrated or discouraged. 

Next implement your plan. I would choose one goal at a time, like exercise, for example. As a rule of thumb, it takes 21 days to develop a good habit. So, over the next 21 days, make a graduated effort to exercise. 

Start slow and set realistic goals. For the first few days, consider it a success just to get your gym clothes on. Gradually work up your exercise regimen from there. Don’t get obsessed about personal performance, but focus more on consistency. Have a simple goal for that day and make sure that you have made an effort to achieve that goal. 

Another factor that can help is accountability. Make sure that you have talked to another person about your goals. Whether that person is a spouse, relative, friend or co-worker, they can be helpful in reminding and encouraging you to continue with your plans for self-improvement.

The investment in your health will pay dividends in the long run. You will enjoy increased physical energy, enhanced mental focus, and more effective handling of stress. Don’t ignore your well-being until it is too late. Be proactive. Take time out to take care of yourself. Health is your most important business asset.


