Title: 
Relationship Marketing: 10 Tips for Keeping Clients Happy

Word Count:
668

Summary:
You've probably heard the saying "It's easier to keep an existing 
customer than to get a new one."  Well, it's more than just a saying, it's true.


Keywords:
low-cost marketing, clients, marketing, marketing plan


Article Body:
You've probably heard the saying "It's easier to keep an existing 
customer than to get a new one." 

Well, it's more than just a saying, it's true. 

That's why you want to take very good care of your current 
clients or customers and do whatever you can to give them 
lots of reasons and opportunity to buy from you over and over again.

Who wants to constantly be out there pounding the pavement 
looking for new clients and customers? That's a lot of work. It's much 
easier to up-sell or cross-sell to people who already
know and love you.

Here are 10 tips you can use to put a successful Relationship 
Marketing program into place so you can reap the benefits for
years to come.

#1  Create a customer database or file

Whether you have many clients or customers or just a few, 
make sure you keep records with important details about them. 
These details may vary depending on your line of business, 
but they may include their purchase history, special dates 
such as their birthday or anniversary,  family member names 
or their favorite restaurant or leisure activity.

#2  Never take your customers for granted

Your customers are the reason you are in business. 
Never assume they will always be there. Continue to earn 
their trust and show them you care and value their business.

#3  Show your appreciation

Do little things to show how much you appreciate having 
them as a client. Send them a thank you card or token of appreciation. 
Do something nice for them. Sometimes its even as simple 
as just saying "thank you."

#4  Stay in touch

Find ways to stay in touch with your clients. Send out a regular 
newsletter. Clip and send them news articles about their 
industry or issues they are concerned about. Make regular 
telephone calls or send email. Send holiday cards. Use these 
tools to remind them you're still around and that you still care.

#5  Take an interest in them and their business

Ask questions. Find out what their challenges are and see 
if you can help them. Show them you understand their business 
or their issues and you're interested in more than just their 
last purchase.

#6  Serve them

Make it a priority to go out of your way to provide services that 
truly deliver and make your customers' lives or their businesses
better.  Provide great customer service. Do whatever you can 
to help them achieve their goals.

#7  Give extra value

Exceed expectations. Give more than your clients are expecting 
so they are dazzled and anxious to work with you more. Act as if
their business is your business and their problems are your 
problems and help them any way you can.

#8  Ask them what else you can do for them

Find out how else you can serve them. Other products or services 
you might be able to provide to help them reach their goals
and be more successful. Take an interest in looking beyond 
your last sale into how you can help them even more.

#9  Be responsive

Always respond in a timely manner to your clients. Get back to 
them quickly when they have a question or need help. Return
phone calls and emails promptly.  Be on time, or better yet, be 
early for meetings and appointments. Being responsive tells your
clients you think they are important and that you respect them 
and their time.

#10 Make things easy for them

Always be looking for ways you can make things easier for them. 
If you meet with clients in person, go to them instead of always
making them come to you. Make it easy for them to use your 
services or buy your products in ways that are convenient for them.
Give them options and choices.

If you put these steps into action, I promise you your customer 
relationships will be strong.  And, when you make your customer
relationships your top priority you'll be rewarded with long-term, 
profitable clients. 

(C) Copyright 2005 Debbie LaChusa


