Title: 
Strange and Innovative Ideas

Word Count:
395

Summary:
How many times have you done a search on the net looking for some place somewhere on the net where you can find your name? And how many times have we been disappointed on not being able to find it. Here is a site which helps us to get our name on the internet for just $3.


Keywords:
name, names, online, internet, 50000


Article Body:
People seem to be coming upwith strange and very innovative ideas to promote their sites and also come up with sites to promote businesses and their brand names. Just a few months back, we had this euphoria where a student got a website up and was selling pixels on his website at the rate of $1 per pixel. Many rip-offs followed this and they too proved quite a bit successful thus making everyone associated with the site very happy. The businesses which put their ads on the site, however invisible they seemed to be in the muddle of ads, also seemed to be happy with the visibility that they got.

Now a slightly different and improved version seems to be doing the rounds on the net. It is called the 'One in hundred thousand' website and it can be found at http://oneinhundredthousand.com.

This site is based on the concept that they get your name on the internet (rather, on this site) for $3. The name can be that of an individual or that of a business. And they also link to your homepage (if you have one) as part of the name. To maintain some exclusivity (after all, they cant get the names of 6 billion people on to the site), they have restricted themselves to only 50,000 names and promises to be up for 5 years.

This site seems to have been started by a young man and though it seems a bit similar to the million dollar home page idea, it has its own uniqueness and its advantages. For businesses, it is like having an ad on the net, that too at a place with high number of visitors and for individuals, its just a chance to get the thrill of seeing their name on a website and to see their name when they do a search on google.

The webmaster asks us to view this as another home, a home on the internet for our name and which would be well maintained by him for the next five years. Its a strange idea but it is indeed something that might catch on in due course of time.

People, especially young ones, seem to be coming up with strange and innvovative ideas to keep themselves and help others keep ahead of the competition. Things are sure getting interesting. So what next? A website on the moon??


