Title: 
Success Factors

Word Count:
424

Summary:
Their is a difference between successful people and non-successful people. Successful people think about "HOW" they are going to accomplish their goals!


Keywords:
Success Factors, success, online success, business success, successful life


Article Body:
What is the difference between successful people on non-successful people? Are successful people more intelligent or do they just have better opportunities than non-successful people? 

I heard Brian Tracy say, "Only Difference between successful people and non successful people is this: "Everybody thinks about what they want, but successful people think about what they want, and HOW to get it!"

The most important things is the HOW.

The only way I ever accomplish anything is to figure out what it is I want, then how I am going to get it. Ever since wrestling, my life has been driven by goals and what I want in life, the only way I ever achieve anything is by laying out a plan and working on that plan until I accomplish it. 

Another way to look at it is to start backwards, think of the house you want to live in, the cars you want to drive, the lifestyle you want your family to live. You have to lay out a game plan to get their, it is not going to miracously show up on your door step someday. This means each day of your life you need to be doing at least one thing that will help you accomplish that goal. 

I love how Robert Kiyosaki explains this concept in his book "Rich Dad Poor Dad": 
"Because I had two influential fathers, I learned from both of them. I had to think about each dad's advice, and in doing so, I gained valuable insight into the power and effect of one's thoughts on one's life. For example, one dad had a habit of saying, "I can't afford it." The other dad forbade those words to be used. He insisted I say, "How can I afford it?" 

One is a statement, and the other is a question. One lets you off the hook, and the other forces you to think. My soon-to-be-rich dad would explain that by automatically saying the words "I can't afford it," your brain stops working. By asking the question "How can I afford it?" your brain is put to work. He did not mean buy everything you wanted. He was fanatical about exercising your mind, the most powerful computer in the world. "My brain gets stronger every day because I exercise it. The stronger it gets, the more money I can make." He believed that automatically saying "I can't afford it" was a sign of mental laziness."

So remember, the question isn't what you want… It's HOW are you going to get it?


