Title: 
The Art Of Fast Money Making

Word Count:
750

Summary:
Fast money is not made by mindless time counting. Fast money is made by delivering solutions.


Keywords:
making fast money


Article Body:
In the immortal words of the great Zig Ziglar, "Money isn't the most  important thing in life, but it's reasonably close to oxygen on the "gotta have it" scale" I am going to, in this article, refine your understanding about money. One of my greatest insights and valuable observations is to accept that money is not all the same. There are different species of money, you can divide money into 3 groups. Fast money, hourly money and credit money. The first is not based or connected to time, the other two are completely based around time.

Immediately we can observe when looking at these three species of money that one is very desire-able and the other two are worse and much worse. One stands head and shoulders above the other two and is the key to wealth. The other two lead to a life of daily roil and the poor house respectively.

Credit money, money you borrow to buy certain pleasures in life is the worst kind of money. Not surprisingly it is very closely connected to "hourly money" because to get credit money you must prove that you have hourly money....a job. Then you can have access to credit money.

The point of credit money is to exchange time for the interest you pay. In other words, you can buy that car today and pay for it later. For a compounded interest rate of 10% to 20% you buy tomorrow's savings today. For people that prefer "hourly money" this type of transaction can seem highly desire-able. You don't have to wait 5 years to save for that car because you can have it now. The problem with "credit money" is the same problem that one gets with "hourly money" but much worse. Not only are we selling our precious time for money, but now we are selling and committing tomorrow's time for money today.

Hourly Money is the most obvious way to make money for people. Hourly labor for hourly money. 90% of the worlds population gets their money this way. A very inefficient way to get your money but you get it for sure. Security of a pay check is the number one reason why people strive to get hourly money.

Before reading this article, you may have never even thought about the three species of money. You may have not even considered that there is another type of money but hourly money and credit money. But there is. Fast money is what the 10% wealthy people strive for. The financial owners of planet Earth, the 10% cream of financial circles create money they dont work for it.

Fast Money - The art of authentic creation The art of fast money can be boiled down to one specific and it's that it's not connected to time. In this strange world, $100,000 in 10 minutes is nothing unusual. A million dollars in an afternoon is typical. $30,000 in 2 days is nothing special. You may balk at these time frames and amounts but that is the point of this species of money. The TIME component is totally irrelevant.

So if hourly money and credit money are instrinsicaly centered around time...what is fast money centered around?

SOLUTIONS

Fast money is not made by mindless time counting. Fast money is made by delivering solutions. An example of this can be found in the old dentists joke. A guy goes in to have a tooth removed and the dentist tells the fellow it will cost $1200 to remove. The fellow replies, well how long will it take? The dentist replies 2 minutes. The poor guy is incredulous, you mean to tell me that you want $1200 for 2 minutes work? The dentist replies, well sir, if u want me to take an hour doing it I can do that too.

You see the old fellow needed a solution to his problem. The dentist had that solution and had the tools to achieve the solution in 2 minutes. The fellow wanted a solution to his problem and THAT is what he was paying for, not the time spent, as his dentist adeptly pointed out.

Fast money and the art of finding and getting fast money can be found by finding people with urgent and pressing problems.

To get involved in this amazing fast money world, you must seek out these types of people. Find these types situations and begin providing your own unique and authentic solutions to get paid fast.

If you want to find thouands of Million Dollar Corporations with problems that need your help right now.


