Title: 
The Great M’s of Success

Word Count:
664

Summary:
Did you ever wonder what the secrets are of the successful people in the world? The Great M’s top the chart as some of the reasons. They 

are Mentoring, Masterminding, Marketing and Motivation.  Discover why and what you can do.


Keywords:
Mentoring,Masterminding,Marketing,Motivation,SuccessSecrets, synergy,copywriting,benefits,Henry Ford,Firestone,Napoleon Hill,Andrew Carnegie,ListBuilding,Traffic


Article Body:
People who have studied successful people over the last 300 or more years have found certain traits that accounted to their achievements. 

These success techniques not only helped them forward but also kept them there even in times of depression, recession or other personal disasters.

Four of them are The Great M’s of Success in business and life.  
<b>Mentoring, Masterminding, Marketing & Motivation</b>

I have heard it repeated over and over again, "Get Yourself a Mentor."  Get help, advice and guidance by someone who has already been there and made it. A mentor can save you years to a lifetime of mistakes.  They can excel you forward, in ways you never could on your own. You’ll have a much greater ability to achieve your goals because you will have a blueprint to guide your way.

Surprisingly, many people if not most will go to a friend or relative for advice. People who have never succeeded and have no ambition to go anywhere, and then these same people are surprised when they too don't succeed or even get very far. Then they look for excuses and reasons outside them selves for the failures. Such as recession, location, or even competition muscling in.  

Accomplished people also belonged to a <b>Mastermind group.</b> They are people like you, entrepreneurs working towards a better life. 

The collective power of the group brings increased knowledge that can help you resolve challenges that you may have. They also keep you motivated and accountable. The power or synergy of the mastermind group has shown over and over its ability to help people overcome any problems. 

Each week, each person in the group would state what they have accomplished, what they are doing next and ask for assistance with any matters.  The group as a whole then works together to come up with solutions.  Discover just how powerful this is in moving you forward and achieving your desires. It also gives you the very important ability to give back to the group by helping them.

A small sample of people in or were in masterminds are: Henry Ford,  Firestone, Napoleon Hill, Andrew Carnegie, Anthony Robins, Mark Victor Hansen, Jack Canfield, Joe Vitale, Joel Christopher and so many more.

The third M is <b>Marketing.</b> No matter what your business is, if you don't market yourself or business, you won't get very far. You can't expect to hide under a blanket in the corner and hope that someone finds you.

Marketing is more than just advertising. It's understanding your target market and knowing how to promote to them and the benefits that your product or service will provide them.  Without this knowledge, you will either not attract anyone to you or you can waste a lot of money with zero results.

It pays to find people who understand this and can help guide you.  They can help you define your niche', explain copywriting and the magic of words. They can show you the difference between features and benefits and why they are so important. And they can teach you how to test everything for positive and increased results.

Finally, the fourth is<b> motivation. </b>Motivation is the juice that keeps you going, that allows ideas to progress and persevere when times are tuff.  No matter how great your product or service is, if you don't stay motivated, you probably won't last through the hard times.

There are many ways to help you stay motivated. One is to be around others that are also moving forward. A second is to write down and post right in front of you, Why You Are Doing This. Get specific and detailed as possible. Then post it in front of your computer or where ever you work the most.  Look at it often to remind your self why and what your motivation soar.

Grasp on the marvelous Ms and jumpstart your own goals dreams and desires.


