Though the trend of wearing belly button rings is not what it used to be, there are still plenty who are getting pierced, or that are still wearing the ones they had done a few years ago. On the right people, these are very cute, but nothing says you have to get one for everyone else to see. You can easily get one just for yourself, and many are doing just that. Instead of rewarding accomplishments with food or dining, some like to do things like this. They can be a lot of fun too.

If you are contemplating belly button rings, make sure you think long and hard about what you want to get. The ones you get will say a lot about you and a lot about who you hope to be. Some like to have belly button rings that are barely visible, and others like to have some that make a statement. Either way, the best thing about them is that they can be interchangeable so that you can wear one type one day, and then change for a night out if you want to do so.

The best types of belly button rings are the ones that are made from hearty types of metal. You will find most of them are made from things like stainless steel because they are often the best to go into the body. You don’t want to put just any metal through a hole in your skin, as you may already know if you have pierced ears. Some metals will react with skin - think about the green skin on your finger after wearing a cheap ring - and those types should never be used for belly button rings.

Beyond the type of metal though, there are hundreds if not thousands of different styles of belly button rings that anyone can get. Remember that you may not want something that will be a lump under your shirt at work, but you don’t want something that won’t please you because it is too small. If you aren’t sure what type of belly button rings you like, but you just know that you want to have one, look around for pictures of people wearing different types. This will help you get an idea of how the different kinds will look when you wear them. You can also browse through shops online to see what is out there. There is a ring for almost any type of taste, all you have to do is find it.