Making cakes and decorating them is a popular hobby and there is lots of advice on how to achieve professional looking results. Magazines and web sites are dedicated to the craft, including the simply titled Cake Decorating Magazine. The issues are bi-monthly and the articles range from basic skills to advanced projects. Readers can seek tips from experts on ideas and technique. The magazine has shared recipes since the first edition in 1956. There are stencils and patterns to copy and the web site gives information on where to find Cake Clubs in the USA and the date and location of upcoming cake shows.

Cake Craft and Decoration is a monthly cake decorating magazine that features several cake and sugarcraft projects each issue. The projects are varied and across all levels of ability. Past features include how to make marzipan, royal icing and sugar modeling. There are clear, step by step instructions and color illustrations. Each issue has articles on baking, competitions and lists of cake decorating suppliers.

CakeJournal.com is a user friendly, cake decorating magazine that has links to other useful web sites. There are how to tutorials on subjects, such as making sugar flowers, poured fondant icing and corn starch dusting bags. Readers' letters share ideas and queries and there are cake and cupcake recipes. The site also explains the purpose of and reviews different items of equipment, such as a sugarcraft gun, textured rolling pin, cupcake pan sets and sugar flower cutters. Gorgeous photographs show beautifully elaborate decorations. CakeAnswers.com is another web site with lots of recipes, tips and how to articles. A cake decorating magazine can show good photos but the web site shows video demonstrations. Archive articles include ideas on castle cakes, icing roses, St.Patrick's Day cakes, Mother's Day cakes and how to make buttercream icing.

The art of decorating cakes can seem a bit daunting to the beginner but magazines and the internet show that everyone can do it, they just need clear guidance and inspiration. The feeling of achievement when producing the first decorated cake or batch of cupcakes makes it all worthwhile and they always taste better than shop bought. Decorating at home is also less expensive. Starting with simple birthday cakes can lead to lots of novelty and special occasion cakes. Cakes are needed for wedding anniversaries, christenings and Halloween. There may come a time when a cake decorating magazine can give enough confidence to produce a wedding cake. 
