Holiday destinations in the Caribbean are very popular, especially for those seeking romance or adventure. The white sands and turquoise waters of Bermuda are perfect for relaxation and there are plenty sporting activities to indulge in. Staying at the Cambridge Beaches luxury spa resort makes the experience even more memorable.

Surrounded by beautiful sands, the resort has state of the art amenities and cottage style accommodation with cozy but elegant furnishings. Cambridge Beaches has won awards for its friendly, good service. The accommodation offers a choice of cottage rooms, cottage suites and luxury pool suites. Each room has a terrace, patio or balcony on which to sip a long, cool drink and watch the world go by.

Guests can enjoy private beach dinners by torchlight or they can sit poolside with a view of Mangrove Bay. They can unwind with a spa treatment or a yoga session. For people keen to keep up an exercise regime, the Fitness Center is fully equipped with weights and machines. After a good work out, guests can relax in the solarium, whirlpool bath or sauna.

Special vacation packages are available at Cambridge Beaches, including honeymoon packages. This service includes a bottle of champagne on arrival, a daily gourmet dinner and a couples massage by candlelight. The resort also caters for weddings and organizes everything needed for the day, leaving the bride and groom to enjoy themselves. Staff organise the marriage license, minister, flowers, photography and wedding cake. All this can be done with the help of a personal wedding planner assigned to the happy couple.

The area is renowned for its excellent golfing facilities with six 18-hole and two 9-hole courses. Cambridge Beaches staff can book an advanced reservation for its guests on a local course. The closest one is only ten minutes away and the mild weather ensures that the sport can be played all year round.  There is also a putting green within the resort complex.

Water sports are very popular too from May until October and scuba divers and snorkelers love to dive in the clear waters here. Motorboats, sailing boats and kayaks are available for hire and it's also possible to rent out fishing equipment. The spa has a full length swimming pool with retractable sunroof. Other activities include horseback riding and there are three tennis courts and a croquet lawn. Bikes and mopeds are rented for Cambridge Beaches guests to explore the island and see the historic sights.

Sightseeing trips are also organized through the resort, including ferry trips to the town of Hamilton, sailing cruises at sunset and jet ski excursions. Visitors can also explore the ocean floor in a panorama submarine or go helmet diving. There are also trips to take scuba divers to local shipwrecks.  
