The state of Maine is a terrific place for a vacation. The coast is rugged and there are pinewoods and clear lakes to explore. Getting close to nature is the best way of seeing everything and campgrounds in Maine offer different kinds of accommodation and space for tents and RVs.

There is a sense of living in the wilderness at Angel and Don's Nahmakanta Lake Camp in Millinocket. Cabins by the lake offer a great vantage point to see wildlife and birds and there are hiking trails. The lake is stocked with wild brook trout and salmon for fishing enthusiasts. The famous Appalachian Trail is just a short distance away. In winter, visitors can enjoy cross country skiing and dogsled tours. Austin Cabins in Guerette has lakefront cabins on Cross Lake. Of all the campgrounds in Maine, this is one of the most historic as the cabins were built in the late 19th century and still have antiques in the rooms.

The Wilson Pond Camps in Greenville are situated in a beautiful spot, completely surrounded by mountains. Lower and Upper Wilson Pond have cabins for vacationers who have access to seven miles of water. Eagles and loons are frequent visitors and salmon, lake trout and brook trout live in the ponds and keep the fishermen busy. Boats, kayaks and canoes are available for hire.  Hunting and moose safaris are another activity for the adventurous on campgrounds in Maine. The cottages have electricity supplied and the kitchens are fully equipped.

Patten Pond has cottages and sites for tents and RVs. The 70 acre lake is there for boating, canoeing, swimming or fishing for bass and trout and there is a secluded, private beach. The woods also provide accommodation, in the form of cabins and lodges. It's one of the best campgrounds in Maine for families with young children as there are a lot of organized activities, such as magic shows, volleyball contests and pancake breakfasts. It's a good base for touring the surrounding area and is close to Acadia National Park and excursions are available to see the famous Maine lighthouses.

Paul Bunyan Campground at Bangor is close to Bangor International Airport and the Hermon Meadow Golf Course. The site caters for all sizes of tents and motorhomes and pets are permitted if kept on a leash. There is a heated bathhouse and there are organized activities on summer weekends. The town of Bangor has a salmon pool, waterfront, shopping mall and a stock car racetrack.
