People go to great lengths to get ready for camping holidays. They will research camping sites months ahead of time, buy expensive clothes that they don't really need, watch the weather every day, and plan out an entire weekend of meals. They will haul in beer, portable inflatable mattresses, Coleman grills, and all the rest of it. Sometimes, however, the few basic creature comforts that really enhance the camping trip get left behind. The same people who spend hundreds of dollars on junk that they don't really need will mot bother to bring a camping chair that they can strap onto the back of their hiking pack!

A lot of people don't realize how much camping chairs enhanced your comfort when you are at the campsite. You see, when you're outdoors, finding seating is hit or miss. Sometimes, the ground is particularly muddy, the rocks are uncomfortable, or the camp site is crowded. a camping chair is a great solution, and folds it up into practically nothing. When it is folded up, it is no bigger than a sweater. When you unfold it, however, you can sit in it comfortably and lounge back, staring at the campfire, cooking food, or eating a delicious meal.

Of course, you don't necessarily have to take a dedicated camping chair with you. If you're not going on a very long hike, you can actually take outdoor patio furniture with you. An outdoor folding chair will be more substantial than a camping chair,And therefore more difficult to carry. On the other hand, it will also be much more comfortable to sit in. If you aren't hiking more than 1 mile, or if the hike is low and flat, you might think about taking some standard outdoor furniture with you. If everyone carries one folding chair, no one is seriously burdened.

One of the great things about camping chairs is how versatile they are. Not only can use them for sitting in, but you can also use them for a pillow. If you have a particularly high quality one, you might even be able to jury rig something to set it up like a hammock. I have a friend used to do this all the time, and although it looked treacherous, he never fell! Best of all, your average camping chair doesn't cost very much money. You should be able to find one for under 30 dollars if you look carefully.