Capri Sun purses are ideal for summertime fun. These handy carry alls are colorful and playful and they make the prefect accessory for a day at the beach or a night out on the town. Whether you are a young girl or a full grown woman who wants to embrace her inner child, Capri Sun purses are wonderful choices for housing all of your needs on-the-go.

This may come as a surprise to some who may think that Capri Sun purses are rather small. However, these handy carry alls are commonly made to, well, carry all your goods. They come in an array of sizes and colors so you have a lot of room for your things as well as a lot of room for choices.

The color is the first thing that you will notice about the Capri Sun purses. These items are nothing less than striking in color. Their vibrant hues are wonderful for many reasons. They not only work as a striking accessory but they also are very easy to spot from a distance. 

The recycling theme is wonderful for accessories like this. In the true nature of making the most of the things we have, Capri Sun purses embrace the idea of reusing something in an entirely new and inventive way. This is a great lesson for kids as well. They appreciate that you can make something new out of something that may wind up filling landfills.

Many people choose to make their own Capri Sun purses in this very spirit. There are plenty who find this to be an enjoyable activity and it can make for a wonderful craft project to do with the kids. Crafty people may find this to be a great option for a lazy afternoon. 

Some of us prefer to buy things right off of the shelf. The Capri Sun purses make for great projects but they make for great professional grade products as well. If you’re not crafty, you can still own a colorful and fun Capri Sun handbag, coin purse or tote. These items are available in a number of online stores. 

I chose to get one of these wonderful gems in handbag wear for myself. I’m all grown up but I feel like a kid when I wear one of the Capri Sun purses. The kids love the purse because of its colorful and playful nature. I love it for the very same reasons. 




