Carlsbad California

Californian coastal towns are desirable places to live and Carlsbad California is no exception. It offers culture, sport and the natural world. There are various lagoons in the area that are very important in the preservation of threatened species of animals. Commercial enterprise thrives here too with a mussel production site and a sea bass nursery. There are lots of activities available such as hiking, bird watching, biking, sailing, kayaking, jet skiing and motor boating.

The Flower Fields of Carlsbad Ranch fill the air with wonderful scent. The colorful annual display blossoms every March in 50 acres of gardens, divided into different areas such as the rose garden and orchid greenhouses. The fields are also known for their poinsettias. Visitors can tour the fields on a tractor ride.

The local skate park is a favorite haunt of young people in Carlsbad California. The concrete park has gentle lines and is suitable for novice skaters. Skateboards and roller blades are allowed but bikes are not. Skaters must be equipped with helmets and knee and elbow pads.

Music lovers are fortunate in having an unusual museum in the city. Called the Museum of Making Music, it contains five separate galleries of exhibits that tell the story of American popular music since the 1890s until the present day. There are over 450 vintage musical instruments on display and further hands on instruments to try. An archive of audio samples gives examples of music over the years. The museum is a valuable resource for those interested in the subject in Carlsbad California and it organizes live performances and lectures.

Lots of children and adults too, love to go to a Legoland park. Legoland California, opened in 1999, is the third park of its kind to open. It's a great family day out with rides, shops, restaurants and as much Lego as can be imagined. The park is divided into eight themed areas, which include a Medieval Castle theme. Dino Island has lots of Lego made dinosaurs and a mini roller coaster. One of the most popular areas is Fun Town, where kids get to drive electric Lego cars and steer Lego boats.

The residents of the city are proud of their local heritage and the Carlsbad Historical Society is a non-profit organization with its own museum and collection of memorabilia. This Carlsbad California museum contains furniture from the time of the early settlers and agricultural artifacts. There is also an impressive rose garden and Victorian herb border.
