The choice of cell phones on the market can be a bit confusing but there are companies that guide customers through the maze of different models. Once the phone has been chosen, it's time to look at the appropriate cell phone accessories. These are designed to make life easier for the user and to fit with their lifestyle. 

Some people choose their cell phone, merely as a functional piece of equipment, whereas others think carefully about the design. It's the same for cell phone accessories and they can be both efficient and fun. Owners like to swap ringtones around and it's easy to download favorite tunes, catch phrases or jingles.

The major phone manufacturers all have an extensive range of cell phone accessories, including Sony, Samsung, Siemens, Mitsubishi, Motorola and Nokia. There is nothing more annoying than a phone running out in the middle of a call and a battery charger is required. There are car chargers, universal chargers, emergency chargers and cigarette lighter adapters. When traveling, it's useful to have universal to North American and universal to European wall plug adapters.

Handsfree sets are another item, essential in some countries where it's illegal to talk on a phone whilst driving, unless it's handsfree. They come in lots of varieties, such as regular, earwrap, earhook, flashing or handsfree with a boom microphone. Handsfree also come with phone straps, soft buds or for Bluetooth. It's not always convenient to carry a phone around in a pocket and belts and holsters are popular cell phone accessories. 

Faceplates give the phone some protection and they are also an opportunity for owners to express their personality with different colors and designs. Designs include leopard skin, psychedelic patterns, Elvis, Bart Simpson or Barbie. Cell phone covers will give further protection. .

Bluetooth wireless headsets and dongles are sold in compatibility with the well known phones. There is also a stereo Bluetooth headset, a cell phone car kit and a headset carrying case. Memory Cards are sold as multi media cards, dual voltage, compact flash and USB flash memory cards. Phone straps are another design choice, some coming with balls, beads, hooks, or letters of the alphabet. Cellular batteries are made for different models and come with leather cases and antennas. It's also possible to change a keypad, if it becomes faded or damaged, with another one or a flashing variety. Micro thin screen protectors reduce glare as well as protecting from scratches.
