Your typical American will spend hundreds, or even thousands of dollars on Christmas gifts. Even during lean years, you have to get a Christmas present for everyone. Although few people admit it, most people at one point or another look for cheap Christmas presents. You don't want anyone to know that you are getting a cheap Christmas present, of course. You want your present to look expensive, valuable, and exclusive. Nonetheless, if you can save a lot of money on Christmas gift ideas, it can really help you out in the new year.

One of my favorite solutions is to make cheap homemade Christmas presents. A lot of people don't realize how many fascinating, thoughtful presents can be easily made at home. You can make frames for photos, beautiful collages, organizers, shelves – basically, almost anything that you would want to buy someone, as long as it is not high-tech. And because it is homemade, it has that personal touch to it that your friends and relatives will really appreciate.

Of course, not everyone is crafty. A lot of people just never spend that much time making things, and don't know how to go about it. For these people, making cheap Christmas presents at home is simply not an option. Another good suggestion for finding cheap Christmas gifts, however, may be more fruitful. One of the best things to do is to buy closeout and overstocked items. Often, you can get high quality clothes, furniture, books, and other products if you are willing to choose based on price. You can save even more money if you're willing to buy your cheap Christmas presents online. The earlier you start, the better. After all, the price is bound to increase when it is getting towards Christmas time!

Another way to save money on cheap Christmas presents is simply to agree about it ahead of time. Most people don't like doing it this way, but some families do. One year, me and my sisters were all poor. We decide that we would all get each other cheap Christmas presents. We agreed on a spending cap, and no one went over it. That meant that no one had to feel bad for spending too little money.  Everyone felt happy about the gifts they got and the gifts they gave, and it was a great Christmas holiday. I was glad that we decided to talk ahead of time.