Cheap purses

Recently, I was on a shopping trip to New York City and found myself wandering through Saks. I can’t afford anything in the store but browsing in such a classy store is something that I enjoy doing. I came to the section of the store that has women’s purses. To my surprise, I found that not a single price tag was something that I could even pretend to afford. Why would anyone want to spend such a huge amount on a purse? I looked down at my own cheap purse and just walked away. My cheap purse has suited me perfectly for several years and has never let me down. There is not a single purse in the world that I would even consider spending a small fortune to purchase. 

You’ll see a lot more replicas of Louis Vuitton walking the streets than authentic. Most of the replica cheap purses are identical to the authentic purses that you’ll spend a fortune purchasing. In fact, if you see an average person walking around with a purse that flaunts an expensive brand name – chances are, it is a replica. If you’re in Hollywood and walking among the rich and famous, you won’t find anyone sporting any type of cheap purses. Most people, however, don’t live in that world. We want purses that are affordable, stylish and durable. I mean, let’s face it – women put anything and everything in their purses. I’m always amazed at how many things I find in my purse that I don’t remember putting inside of it. Women want cheap purses in the sense of price but expensive in the sense of durability. Is there a happy medium? Yes, there is. You just have to shop around. The best time to get a new purse, hopefully a cheap purse, is when stores are having their sales. The holidays always bring about good 
discounts and prices and you can find cheap purses almost anywhere. 

Of course, you don’t want to find such a cheap purse that it will fall apart in a few days. You want to find quality cheap purses. That may sound like a cliché but it is possible. Department stores are the best place to shop. They usually have great prices, even before discounts and sales are happening. 

If you want to look stylish and keep up with the modern trends, there are more important things to be purchasing than expensive purses. Find some stylish cheap purses and spend the rest of your money focusing on things that are of much greater importance.
