Check Engine Light

If you find the check engine light in your car keeps coming on, you had better not ignore it. Even worse, you should never get fed up and disconnect the fuse that lights it up just to keep it from coming on. When this light comes on, you have to take your car in to see what is wrong. The longer you ignore the light the more damage you can do to your car. What might have started out as a small problem can grow into something that can cost you thousands if you don’t get it checked out with your mechanic.

The check engine light was designed to help you pinpoint problems before they get out of hand. You can be alerted to things that may have in the past gone unnoticed until they became serious problems. The check engine light is hooked up to many of the systems in your car, and will tell you if something is amiss to the point where you need to get it fixed. Don’t wait too long after it comes on before you get it in to the shop. Once in the shop, the diagnostics should not take that long.

When your mechanic sees that your check engine light is one, they may not pass your car for inspection. They have a machine they can hook up to your car, and it will give them a code. This code tells them what is wrong with the car. This cuts down on time for them and cost for you. Most newer cars now come with the check engine light for this reason, and there are many other features included to help you care for your car, or to alert you to a problem that may be developing. Some problems are simple, while others can be huge.

If your check engine light is one, but the mechanic tells you that nothing is wrong with your engine, you might want to go in for a second opinion. If that mechanic says nothing is wrong, there may just be something faulty with your light. Don’t leave it like this. Make sure you get it fixed. If you drive around with the check engine light on and you assume it’s just faulty, you will not be warned when something does go wrong. If it’s already one, then you will just assume the light is faulty but the car is fine. This could cost you.

