If you have been given a chocolate easter bunny at some point in your life then you know what a pleasant holiday tradition it can be. There is just something about getting a holiday gourmet gift that really brightens the day. In my family, however, we don't save our chocolate holiday gift for easter! Any holiday can be an excuse to get a delicious chocolate miniature wrapped in brightly colored foil.

My favorite chocolate holiday gifts are the ones that come in unexpected shapes and with interesting wrapping. Chocolate easter bunnies and Santa's are okay, but give me a chocolate Christmas train or nutcracker any day! With your average meal, it does not matter how you package the food. With a chocolate holiday gift, however, presentation is everything. Mediocre milk chocolate packaged in a bright foil wrapping will often be a greater pleasure to receive than a delicious dark chocolate in a plain box – at least for children.

Then again, for a more refined palate, there is nothing better than a little taste of something delicious and precious. A dark chocolate holiday gift, a log of well smoked sausage, or perhaps some sharp cheddar will really serve to delight the palate of any sophisticated adult. After all, these are all special foods – things that we do not allow ourselves to eat just every day. The holidays give us a great excuse to treat ourselves to them – especially if a friend makes it easy to indulge.

If you want to, you can even make your own chocolate holiday gift. A lot of the folks I know do just that. Simply buy some baker's chocolate, melt it down, froth it up while mixing in some sugar, and pour it over the filling of your choice. I have always found blueberries, strawberries, and cherries to be great centers for chocolate holiday gifts, but use your imagination. After that, you can decorate it with frosting, shape it how you want, wrap it up, and give it to a close friend. It is one of the best gift ideas for a chocolate lover, combining the delicious taste of chocolate with the personal touch of a handmade gift idea. Just thinking about making a delicious, handmade chocolate holiday gift is making my stomach rumble. As much as I like to give out chocolate gifts, I like eating them even more. I think that it's time for me to go bake! 