One of the most important decorations that most use each year around the holidays is the Christmas light string. These come in many colors and varieties, and even those who do not do a lot of decorating will have a few of these in their home. They always look good on the tree, and they have decorating potential in all areas of your home and even outside. Best of all, they don’t have to cost a lot to look good, and finding them is a breeze in most cases.

A Christmas light string will look great on a tree, though you may have to have more than one. You can get a very long string in one color if you wish, or you can find some strings that have multiple colors. If you only want to have two colors - white and blue, for example - you can get two smaller strings and put them both on the tree. That way you get what you want, but you did not have to search high and low for a specific string of Christmas lights that might have had just the two colors you were interested in having for your tree décor.

When you are decorating the rest of your home for Christmas, you can use your Christmas light string just about anywhere, as long as you have a way to plug it in and it won’t keep you up at night. Some like to have the strings around the ceiling in certain rooms, or they like to line the doorways with them. You can pretty much do anything you want as long as you feel good about the look you have come up with. If electrical outlets are a problem, you can always search for battery powered Christmas lights to take care of that problem. However, then you do have to worry about batteries dying before the season is over.

You can also use your Christmas light string to put some light and color on the outside of your home. When you want to do this, you do have to choose strings that are made to outside in order to be sure your home and your family are safe. If you use the wrong set of lights outside, they could short out and set your home on fire. Always check each string for working bulbs and any frays on any wires so you are sure you are using lights that are as safe as they can be.
