In my family, picking out a Christmas gift for a teenager has never been all that much of a challenge. After all, my teenage son and daughter are very open about telling their parents what they want for Christmas. They are a little bit too old to make Christmas lists, but nonetheless they still find a lot of ways to make it pretty clear. My daughter will start talking about a new belt that she was admiring in the mall, a CD that she had been looking at the other day, or an adorable jacket that she just has to have. My son will start gabbing away about the latest videogame or movie to come out. Weeks before I even begin my Christmas shopping, I will know exactly what I am getting them.

In other families, however, it can take a lot of careful work to pick out the right Christmas gifts for a teen. One of my friends is constantly low on funds. She gets by for the most part, but Christmas is always a pretty stressful time for her. Picking out a Christmas gift for a teenager that will not break the bank is something that always challenges her creativity. 

One of the ways she manages to save a little bit of money around the holiday season is by always buying wholesale Christmas presents when she has the chance. There are many different outlet stores that allow you to get fashionable clothes at low prices if you are willing to shop around a little bit. Kids always like to look good, so this is a great way to get a cheap Christmas gift for a teenager that will still make him or her happy.

Sometimes, it is nice to get a Christmas gift for a teenager that is a little bit unexpected. If you can get a present that will help him or her learn a new skill or become more creative, so much the better. For example, last year I got my daughter a bass guitar. Although she was a little bit dismayed at first, she soon found out that it was just what she wanted. As soon as she picked it up, she could not bring herself to put it down. She was literally playing it day and night for weeks at a time! It is nice to get a Christmas gift for a teenager that they do not get tired of in just a week or two.
