There are a lot of preparations needed for the Christmas holidays, especially if you are entertaining family or friends. Presents and food need to bought and decorations have to be hung. Many people take advantage of the Christmas hamper. Several companies supply these and it is a convenient way of shopping, saving a lot of time. All the family can enjoy them, from standard hampers to those at the luxury end of the market.

In addition to their use in the home, the Christmas hamper can be sent as corporate gifts to associates and suppliers. They are also given to members of staff as a holiday bonus. This kind of bonus is more personal than monetary awards and is good for staff morale. The hamper is usually chosen from a mail order catalogue or web site. Some customers shop around for a good deal but many people stay loyal to one particular company. Another benefit of choosing a Christmas hamper is that many companies offer an installment plan, much appreciated at this expensive time of year.

Most people like to have a traditional Christmas, including festive food that they grew up with. Turkey is still the most popular choice for Christmas dinner, especially for large gatherings. Hampers normally offer a range of tasty stuffing to accompany the bird, such as chestnut or apple and sage. Meat, roast potatoes and sprouts are made more interesting with the addition of sauces, including cranberry, bread sauce or tangy horseradish sauce.

Christmas Pudding is another favorite, accompanied by brandy butter, custard or rum sauce. Some people prefer to finish dinner with cheese and crackers. Port and Stilton is a staple of the Christmas hamper as well as savory biscuits and different kinds of pate. Some ranges include hampers with a Scottish theme, including malt whisky, oatcakes, smoked salmon and shortbread biscuits. The holidays are a time for indulging and everyone enjoys snacking in between meals with nuts, dates, chocolate truffles or mince pies. Wine connoisseurs can also enjoy a range of fine wines from around the world.

Specialist hampers make great gifts and are more personal presents. Breakfast Christmas hampers include jam preserves, English tea, espresso coffee, honey, cereal, apple juice and orange marmalade.   Mulled Wine hampers contain bottles of wine, spices, herbs and chocolates. There are also luxury hampers made for ladies who like champagne, champagne truffles and scented soap and bath oil.
