Finding the right Christmas figurine can really brighten the holiday of a friend or loved one. Although there are many different kinds of holiday gifts out there, Christmas miniatures  have always seemed like the traditional way to go. Christmas ornaments, keepsakes, nativity scenes, and porcelain snowmen are the little decorations that let us know that the most special time of year has finally arrived. They bring back memories of childhood, and make us long for cozy nights by the fireside. In short, they really make the occasion more special than it would otherwise be.

The only difficulty with buying a Christmas figurine for a gift is that it is often difficult to know what figurines your friend or loved one already has. After all, most people bring out their Christmas decorations only once a year. Even if you can remember their tree ornaments from the year before, there is no way to know if they have gotten new ones since then.

The best way to get around this is to be sure to buy Christmas figurines that they are unlikely to own. This is easier to do than you might think. Almost every town will have some kind of craft fair where you can buy handmade porcelain figurines for reasonable prices. They are usually made by local artists, and every one is guaranteed to be an original work of art.

Alternately, you can go Christmas figurine shopping in your local thrift store. It is best to not wait until the Christmas season to do this, as you will have quite a bit of competition! If you go Christmas shopping in the middle of the summer, however, you can stock up on Christmas figurines way ahead of time. Keep them somewhere safe for the next few months and, when the time finally comes, you will have a great selection of gifts to divide up among your friends as you see fit.

Of course, there is always the option of making your own custom Christmas figurine for someone. A lot of people stay away from crafts because they do not realize how easy it can be to make beautiful, handmade works of art. It really is not that hard if you start out with something basic. You can make sculptures out of low fire clay, for example, that can be baked in your oven. Add a few rhinestones or other jewels and a string to hang it with, and you have a Christmas tree ornament.