Buying presents for guys is never an easy task. Of course, many of us opt for the regular old stock of items that may or may not make a great splash. This year, why not take a different approach to choosing Christmas gifts for men? High tech gadgets are always winners as far as most men are concerned. Following are three outstanding ideas that make perfect Christmas gifts for men.

Professional guys may seem as if they are all work and no play. However, you can find great Christmas gifts for men that appeal to the working side as well as the playful side. Electronics offer wonderful options that allow a person to get in some quality relax time while on route to an important event. 

A little downtime is always a good idea. It helps to keep the mind clear and the blood pressure down. One of the Christmas gifts for men that really stand out as a great way to get away from a stressful day at work is the portable DVD player. This device is perfect for the professional on the go. 

Why tote around a laptop when you can take a break with a portable DVD player that is lightweight and convenient? This is one of my favorite Christmas presents for men that is just downright cool. If you know a professional on the move, you may want to look into this present.

How about a Flash Drive and MP3 Player combo? These Christmas gifts for men are winners each and every time. Skip the floppy discs and adopt a new way to transfer files from your laptop to your office computer. All this is available and music, too. How can you lose with this wining gift?

My last pick for Christmas gifts for men is the Video and MP3 Jukebox Recorder. This one hits a high note each and every time. Guys love that this unit stores pictures, plays videos and it can record up to 40 hours of video. This gadget is well-loved by teens and adults alike.

When it comes to Christmas gifts for men you can’t go wrong by going high tech. There are plenty of different options available for great presents for all the guys on your list. Whether you are shopping for a professional or a teen, there will be at least one great gift idea for you to consider.

