When it comes to Christmas holiday cheer, people seem to be either all for it or completely against it. Most of the folks I know either look forward to Christmas all year or absolutely dread it. It isn’t that the anti-Christmas crowd are all scrooges - some of them are actually pretty generous and giving people when you get down to it. The reason they don’t get into Christmas if because they don’t make it fun. If you see Christmas as a bunch of chores that you have to do - buying presents, sending out cards, and entertaining guests - then it will seem like a big pain. If you really get into the act of gift-giving and merry-making on the other hand, it can be a grand old time!

One of my favorite parts of getting ready for Christmas is picking out Christmas wrapping paper. A lot of people take Christmas packaging for granted, just buying some random sheet with snowmen, Christmas trees, and the words “happy holidays,” but you can do so much more! Wrapping presents can be an art if you get into it. items like Christmas bows, little stylized wreaths, and personalized cards can greatly add to the effect created by your Christmas Wrapping Paper. If you are willing to really take the time to come up with a creative and attractive Christmas gift package, you will delight the recipient.

Sometimes, my favorite Christmas wrapping paper is the simple, one color metallic stuff. Most years, I like to give a lot of different small gifts instead of giving one big one. I will wrap one present in red Christmas paper wrapping, another one in green, and maybe a third one in gold or silver. I will then cover the packages all over in gold and silver tinsel, and finish it off with a blue bow. The effect is extravagant and sumptuous. Even if I am only using all of the wrapping to dress up cheap Christmas gifts, the people who receive my presents will feel like a million bucks!

Some people I know even like to make their own Christmas wrapping paper. You can use pictures from photography magazines, fancy recycled paper, or even old photographs to wrap up Christmas gifts. The key is to be creative. It is every bit as fun to receive a gift as it is to give one if you really use your imagination.
