There are many couples that get engaged around the holidays. Many of these engagements happen on Christmas Eve or Christmas Day. To remember that special time, some like to plan their wedding around the same day the next year. Christmas weddings are very special and can always create a great memory for the couple and for their family. When it comes to favors, one great idea is to have a Christmas ornament wedding favor for everyone who comes.

This type of favor is great because people can hang these on their trees year after year and will remember your wedding. They are also wonderful because there are so many things you can do with your Christmas ornament wedding favor. The possibilities are limitless, and you can always find or make something that will go with your wedding colors and theme, especially if that theme is Christmas. They don’t have to cost a lot either, though it will depend on what you want and if you make them on your own.

When making a Christmas ornament wedding favor, you have a few great choices. You can get glass bulbs that are empty, and you can find great things to put inside them. If you go to your local craft store, you can usually find these in packages, and you can also find anything to go inside there as well. You can also buy colored bulbs and have them etched, which is something you can do on your own if you wish, or decorate them any way you can. Get some extras so you have some practice, and also because you may just break a few while you make them. If you have children coming to the wedding, don’t forget about them. You can find plastic types for their favors so they don’t feel left out.

If you don’t want to make them on your own, you can find some ideas and a great selection for the Christmas ornament wedding favor online. You can usually get them special make exactly like you want them, and they can be shipped to you before your wedding date. You should do this early, so you can send them back if there is a mistake, or you can ask for more if some were broken during shipping. No matter what way you go, you can always find something wonderful, and your guests will love the favor idea.