Christian Dior handbags are well sought after accessories that many ladies would love to handle. These items come in an array of styles that are suitable for any occasion. The elegant Christian Dior purses can suit any taste because of their versatile designs. No matter which item you choose, you are sure to have a superior accessory for your wardrobe.

A personal favorite among the Christian Dior handbags is the Cannage Shoulder Bag. This stunning carry all is a thrill for anyone who loves a little shine in her wardrobe. The metallic gold lambskin is quilted to make the perfect carry all for any occasion. Though this purse is metallic, it doesn’t overwhelm.

The balance in the shine is due to the clever choice of lambskin for the material in these Christian Dior purses. The outrageously soft material is surprising to the touch considering its shine. The metallic detailing is quite delicate but makes a profound statement wherever you go.

These Christian Dior purses are appealingly simple in design. They are easily accessible and quite comfortable to wear. If you would have told me that I would favor a gold metallic purse, I would have said that you were out of your mind. However, these Christian Dior handbags are a real treat for a casual outing but dressy enough for a night out on the town. 

One of the most outstanding details in the Metallic Cannage Shoulder Bag is the delicate charm that hangs from the middle closure flap on the designer purse. There are also other details that make this handbag a real hit. The grommets add more shine and are quite lovely. They also set off the subtle gold tones in the supple lambskin.

Anyone who has ever owned an item made out of lambskin knows that these designer purses are unbelievably soft. I find it difficult to keep my hands off of this accessory. It is as lovely to the touch as it is to the eye. I have to say that this particular item is my favorite of the Christian Dior handbags.

Then again, I’m sure that this designer has many more items of equal interest in the works. The famous icon of fashion is certain to produce something that will leave me speechless. I have owned many purses in my lifetime but none come close to Christian Dior purses in my estimation. I look forward to finding another gem this season. 

