collage picture frames

I am not very good at keeping a scrapbook together. I love the idea, and I do love to do them, but I simply do not have the time to do them as I wish I could. I like to commemorate special times and vacations though, and I always take a lot of photos when we go away. Instead of worrying about getting things into a scrapbook, I decided to start using collage picture frames to hold my memories. This has worked out well for me, and I am glad that I have decided that this is the way to go.

I buy large collage picture frames each time I have a new adventure that I wish to remember in detail. I choose among the pictures for the very best ones, and those are the ones I print out on my computer, or have done at the local photo shop. I put them in the collage picture frames, and then I also add anything else that might help us remember. This might be something like ticket stubs, or any other keepsake from the vacation. It’s not possible to do with for every small trip we take, but I always do it for the very special occasions.

The one problem I do have is space. I have my collage picture frames hanging in my bedroom, but I am running out of space. Until I have a larger home with an office to hang them in, I am going to have to be very choosy about what pictures and events I wish to have in collage picture frames. They can be overwhelming in a small space. However, they are a quick and easy way to remember the important moments, and they are always right there when you want to look at them without having to dig out the scrapbook.

The best thing about collage picture frames is that they are easy to find, and they come in a lot of different styles. It’s rather simple to find one that will reflect the style of your home and blend in well with your décor. They also range in price, so you don’t have to spend a lot to get a decent one. They are easy to fill, and you don’t have to have a lot of time to put one together. They can also be found with plastic instead of glass if you are worried about breakage.