Picking out just the right commercial Christmas decoration can be a tough thing for a businessman to do. After all, you have to strike just the right balance. On the one hand, in some areas too heavy of an emphasis on Christian Christmas ornaments can really turn people off of your business. On the other hand, happy holidays decorations are a little bit too generic for most people's tastes.
 
The best thing to do with your commercial Christmas decorations is to use a lot of decorating ideas without overt religious overtones. Outdoor Christmas lights, snowflake decorations, icicle lights above the door, and even a Santa Clause here or there probably will not offend anyone's sensibilities. Artificial Christmas wreaths on the door can also help to add a warm, cozy feel which is perfect in the winter months.

Of course, some businessmen like to go all out with commercial Christmas decoration. A friend of mine owns a wholesale warehouse downtown, and he is always pretty enthusiastic about going to great lengths to make seasonal decorations that will amuse and impress people. He has animated Christmas lights out in front of his building, a 15 foot tall Christmas tree inside, and even an air blown Christmas decoration or two to really spice things up. His store is the closest thing that we have to a Christmas village in this city, so he can really benefit by going all out with the commercial Christmas decoration.

Then again, if you are running a bar or a coffee shop, you probably do not want to do too much commercial Christmas decorating. After all, people come to those businesses as a sort of escape from the hustle and bustle of everyday life. On those days when there are Christmas jingles playing from every store, it is nice to be able to get a drink or a cup of coffee in a place that is not too saturated with Christmas spirit.

Then again, I know folks who operate coffee shops with a very different philosophy. I know one where they actually move one or two tables into the back to make room for all of the commercial Christmas decoration they put up. It is really something to see when they get it all set up. It is not how I run my business, but the patrons at that place seem to like it well enough. And after all, isn't it about making the customers happy?