Back in the days before the US embargo, holidays in Cuba used to be all the rage. My grandfather used to go on and on about Cuba holidays. Although I enjoyed his stories, back when I was a kid I always assumed that he was exaggerating for effect. He would tell me about meeting kings of business and European royalty, movie stars and mobsters, all there to have a great time on an island paradise. One of his last regrets was that he did not get to go on another Cuba holiday before he died. Although things have changed a lot over there, my grandpa would be happy today if he knew that his grandson had made a trip over to that beautiful island.

To listen to people in the government talk, you would think that holidays to Cuba holidays would be extremely dangerous for an American. Nothing could be farther from the truth. As a matter of fact, the biggest peril for Americans going on Cuba holidays is our own state department. You see, it is technically illegal for us to go there because our country has an embargo against them for reasons that do not really make sense. If you want to go on a Cuba holiday, you have to do one of two things. Either you have to get special approval from the State Department (which can be difficult, to say the least) or you have to fly in to Canada, and then go to Cuba from there. The latter option is a little risky as, technically, you are breaking American law. If the US government wanted to make an example of you, they could not let you back in to the country. In reality, however, that never happens. That is the way most American folks take Cuba holidays.

Once you get there, prepare to be blown away by one of the loveliest places you have ever seen. Everything about Cuba is gorgeous. The people are beautiful, the architecture is lovely, the ocean is amazing, and the scenery is out of this world! Although there is a lot of bad rap that the Cuban government gets over here, it is mostly overblown. The people that I met seemed very happy with their lives. They make enough money, get good health care, and overall, seem to enjoy life a lot more than most of the people I know back home.