Many people are in the process of looking for the perfect retirement home. Our society is getting older and the nature of investments and savings accounts has many people making plans for retirement at a younger age than ever before. As people plan for retirement homes they often look towards recreation areas. There are many people that are acquiring property or small cabins to use for recreation during their working years, and then they will covert them into their retirement home when the time comes.

There are many things to consider when looking at building a home for retirement. The design of houses for raising a family may not fit well into the lifestyle of an aging population. In the recent past the designs of houses have included multiple levels. These became popular due to energy costs as well as smaller lots in housing developments. The multiple levels can accommodate more people and still provide for a decent size yard. As people age they are less likely to want the designs of houses that include going up and downs stairs. For retirement years having laundry rooms on the main floor and one level living is much more desirable. The one level designs for houses were popular in the fifties and sixties with the rambler. Many of us most likely grew up in a rambler designed home and then moved into a multilevel house to raise our family. Now we are coming full circle and are looking for the convenience of one level living once again. The challenge is finding a contractor that is willing to switch from the multi level designs of houses to one level living.

There are many patio homes that are being built in adult communities. These are communities that are designed for people over fifty five that do not have children. They are similar to condominiums because there are association fees to pay and the yard work and maintenance is done for you. They differ in design in that everyone has their own entrance as well as garage. The draw back with this type of community is that there are usually covenants that limit the size of dogs that you are allowed to have. My husband is a hunter and does not want to give up having a hunting dog. We also still enjoy doing yard work and feel that this activity helps keep us young. We are not giving up on the quest to find a lot that is large enough to accommodate a one level home and a contractor that is willing to build one. 
