I am one of those people that think animals are just as important in the family as anyone else. Obviously they are not people, but I never like to leave them out when it comes time to buy gifts for the holidays. I have a few friends with dogs, and each year I get them small dog gift baskets. My friends always think this is funny, but they also love that I do it. I get something for my cats each year, so why should I leave the dogs out of the mix?

I try to get different things when I make up my dog gift baskets each year, and it is kind of hard. There are only so many things that dogs need and enjoy, so the variety of things to buy and put into the baskets is rather limited. I keep the dog gift baskets small, so that way I am not rerunning the same things each year. Granted, the dogs would never know, and really wouldn’t care, but that is just the way I am. They pretty much sniff it and walk away, but I do know they enjoy the goodies once their owners get them out and give them to them.

What is great about making dog gift baskets is that you can put whatever you want in them, and you don’t have to spend a lot to have them be appreciated. For the most part, you want to think about treats and special toys that you can fit in a small basket for the dog. You may be able to get things like collars and leashes, but the owners may not want to use things like that when they did not pick them out on their own. If it is a smaller dog, you may even want to get things like sweaters that might keep them warm in the winter.

Though you may find making your own dog gift baskets fun, you don’t have to if you don’t have the time or you think something else would be better. You can find already made dog gift baskets in many stores, and you can find some really great ones online you can order. You can have them sent to your home, or you can have them delivered to the recipient if you are not getting them for your own pets. Some companies will even put the pet’s name right on package, in care of the owners, of course, so it does not get lost.