When you think of doll strollers, you probably picture a young girl pushing a doll around as if she were a mom. That is certainly what they were intended for, but children often have brilliant imaginations, and that means this type of toy is going to have more than one use. When buying toys, we often worry they will go unused and are a waste of money. I have found that the strollers are a great investment because the one I have has been used for at least three years now.

Lately, my daughter has had both of her doll strollers out and has been using them. We love to go for walks, and she always wants to take her toys with her. Though sometimes she does take dolls, more often than not, there are things other than that in her doll strollers. We have taken her stuffed rabbit and her stuffed dog on walks this way. We have also taken along books, though I’m not sure why, and a bottle of bubbles so she could have them along the walk.

She has also taken her doll strollers on walks without anything inside so that she could collect things. Though I am glad she is interested nature and the world around her, it is often discouraging to see her filling her doll strollers with things like wood, rocks, rotten apples, and dirty bird feathers to take home, when I know darn well she can’t take those things inside. The rocks can be cleaned, and she does have a collection of them, but the other stuff has to be left on the porch when we get home. Luckily, the strollers we have are easy to clean. The cloth part comes right off with a few snaps, much like the real ones, and can be thrown in the washer at any time.

Perhaps the best thing about doll strollers is that they don’t have to cost much. The ones we have cost less than ten dollars a piece, and they have lasted through three years of some very rough behavior. They can often fold up for easy storage or traveling, and they work with dolls and toys of all sizes. Some come with dolls, and others do not, but if you are looking for something that will be sure to be used, the strollers are often a good bet. Imagination takes up a lot of time when you are young, and these are sure to stir that imagination just enough to keep them interested for a very long time. 