Though there are many varying degrees of talent, most people love to draw. Those that are good at it often do it more, but there is something in it for everyone. I used to doodle on things when I was stressed, or sometimes when I was bored. I’m not good at it, but it was something I did just for me, and that was all that counted. Children are especially in love with drawing just about anything, so you should make sure they have a drawing pad or two to keep them happy.

You can and should have more than one type of drawing pad, and you will be thankful if you think of this. I have paper ones that we use at home, and we also have one that is on the computer. The ones on the computer are not easy to use, but that is the point. We now live in a world that is run largely by computers, and your children will have to know how to use them. They will love a drawing pad on a computer for fun, but it will also give them some simple computers skills they will need to know in the future.

You can also get a drawing pad that goes in the car. Though the paper type will work for this, there are others you can use. If you have an old Etch-a-Sketch, you can always give your children that to use. However, there are newer kinds that they can use which might be easier for them, at least when they are young. There are new types that use magnets in a pen that draws on a surface. These can be erased and used over and over again. They are awesome for car rides, and some even come with other activities.

No matter what type of drawing pad you choose, do make sure you get the old fashioned paper type so that you have some memories to keep. Your children can fill them up, and when they are done, you can put them away. There are many things you can save from your child’s school work and such, but nothing shows off who they were and what they loved at any age better than a drawing. They are easy to store, and you can take them out any time you wish so you can remember your child at whatever age it is that you want to remember.