A lot of people are familiar with the pine Christmas wreaths that So many folks like to put on their doors nowadays.  Few people realize, however, the variety of different wreaths that you can make. Basically, anything from a plants can be used in a decorative wreath. You don't need to use Pine boughs. You can use vegetables, fruits, fresh flowers, herbs, and spices. Most of these, of course, have their drawbacks. Fresh flower wreaths will wilt and wither, and almost any style will eventually start to fall apart, dropping its of decaying plant matter on your porch in a most untidy display.

That is why I am such a big fan of the dried flower wreath. The great thing about dried flower wreaths Is that they will not decay. If the flowers and twigs that you use have been properly dried, they will last for a long time. The whole thing will have a certain delicate, ethereal beauty to it, yet a timeless quality as well. Year after year, your dried flowers will give up the same beautiful, slightly melancholy appearance.

That isn't to say that there aren't any disadvantages to a dried flower wreath. First of all, they are very delicate. If you have one on your door, it is likely to shed petals every time the door is forcefully opened or closed. It can be susceptible to changes in weather, and will not do very well in any kind of rain shower. Still, as an indoor wreath it is one of your best choices.

Dried flower wreaths are surprisingly easy to make. By pressing flowers in a large book for a few months and gathering Willow branches or something else malleable in the fall, you can prepare to make your dried flower wreath well ahead of time. Preparation is everything. If you have the right supplies, weaving the stems and sticks together is simple. And a few ribbons, some string, and a bow if you wish, and you have your dried flower wreath!

Of course, artificial wreaths are also a great solution nowadays. Although it can be very satisfying to Make your own, an artificial one has some advantages. They are realistic enough to be virtually indistinguishable from the real thing, and they are much tougher. They come in a variety of different colors and appearances, so you can get one that incorporates plants that do not grow in your area. This means that you can choose you dried flower wreath based on appearance as opposed to availability. 