The family that I grew up in was never very big on formality. Typically, we would send out one card every year – at Christmas. We would never send out birthday greeting cards or easter greeting cards, And would only remember each others' birthdays about half the time. Don't get me wrong – we really love each other. It was just that we were sort of an absent-minded bunch of people, and none of us liked ritual very much. Christmas holiday greeting cards were about as far as we went. Occasionally, we would have a Christmas tree. We would never bother with Easter decorations, Easter eggs, or any of the rest of it.

Then I met my current girlfriend and we moved in together. She is much different than I am in almost every way. Not only did her family shoot an Easter greeting card every spring and send it out to everyone they knew, but they also had one of the most elaborate Easter parties on the block. They would have chicken, rabbit, egg salad, and a bunch of other ceremonial foods that went along with the season. She showed me some of their old Easter greeting cards, and they were spectacular. They really went all out to design a card that was personal, yet funny and lighthearted. Although she said we didn't have to, it made me want to send out Easter greeting cards of our own. It was a lot of work to get them just right, but I'm glad that we did it.

At first, we wanted to send out ecard greeting cards, but then we thought better of it. Although it seems a little quaint to some people in our circle of friends, everyone loves to get a personalized Easter greeting card with a handwritten note. People who have never had Easter greeting cards before like it even more because it is something new and special. The problem was that we were so used to using e-mail for everything that we did not have many of our friends addresses. Before we could even send out those Easter greeting cards, we had to make dozens of phone calls and e-mails. Then we had to film a picture of us for the Easter cards and send them out After including a special, personalized message on each one. I didn't think that Easter greeting cards would take so much time, but they really did.