Easter holidays are big deal in my family. In most families – unless the family is very religious – the Easter holiday is something that comes and goes without much notice. You might have an Easter egg hunt, get a chocolate Easter bunny, and eat chicken and eggs for lunch, but that is about it. My mother, however, has turned Easter bunnies into a religion.

When we were kids, our parents actually used to dress up as Easter bunnies. We were smart kids – we knew it was them in costume, but we loved that they were playing make believe with us. We also loved the fact that they would give us chocolate Easter bunnies when they were in costume! There is nothing better than a chocolate Easter bunny in the minds of children everywhere. Not only are they cute, sparkly, and substantial, but they are completely made out of chocolate! We would also get Cadbury creme eggs, Easter cards, and the chance to put up Easter decorations with our parents. The high point of the day, however, was the Easter egg hunts.

My parents would actually set up the whole thing – the Easter eggs hunt, the decorations, the meal – dressed-up as Easter bunnies. To many people, this might appear a little bit frightening, but to us kids, it was one of the most delightful things you can imagine. Seeing your mom and dad turn into big, fluffy, gift giving, hug giving bunny rabbits is something that any kid could appreciate! 

Every year, the Easter egg hunt was different. My parents had traditions, but they didn't exactly have routines. No two years were alike because they could never remember exactly how they did everything the year before. Some years, the Easter bunnies would have all of our friends and family over, and we would have an Easter egg hunt that could beat anything else in the neighborhood. Other years, however, it was a pretty small affair. Sometimes, all of the Easter eggs would be hidden inside the house if it was raining outside. Other years, we would finish the egg hunt early so that our “Easter bunnies” could take us to the zoo where we could see real rabbits! The only thing that the different years had in common was that it was always about Easter and it was always about fun. Easter holidays are some of my fondest memories from when I was a kid, memories that I will never forget.