With all of the hustle and bustle of the holiday season, most people appreciate any shortcut that they can take. It is all well and good to watch people chopping down their own Christmas trees and dressing them up every year in movies, but in real life, it is just too much of a hassle. There is the expense of buying a Christmas tree, the difficulty of transporting it, and finally all the mess caused by the needles falling on the floor. Lets face it - a nice plastic prelit Christmas tree just makes a lot more sense for your average working Joe.

There are many different varieties of artificial Christmas trees. One of my favorite ones is the fiber optic Christmas tree. These do not always have the most naturalistic look, but they make up for that fact with a good dash of flash and flair.  You can probably find a fiber optic Christmas tree in basically any size and style you want, and almost all of them look fantastic. They have glowing, changing miniature Christmas lights, fairly high-quality construction that guarantees they will work year after year, and often a built in Christmas tree topper.

Most people that I know seem to go for the most natural-looking fiber optic Christmas tree that they can find. Some of the better made ones really do have a pretty convincing appearance to them. They have the rugged asymmetry of more traditional Christmas trees, with plenty of room to hang ornaments. On the other hand, my wife has always preferred the really stylized models. Some of them have needles that glow and change color, unconventional shapes, and even built in speakers that play Christmas carols when you pass by. I say that if you are going with an artificial tree, why try to slavishly imitate nature. It makes so much more sense to improve on it.

The only drawback to fiber Christmas trees is that they tend to not have all that much room for ornaments to hang. Usually, they are not full-sized, so you can’t spend as much time trimming the tree. You can always get around this, however, by having more than one fiber optic Christmas tree. They tend to be pretty cheap to buy, so you can probably afford to have a few. You can even put them up in different rooms so that every place has a touch of holiday cheer.
