Flannel Sheet Set

I was never a big fan of the flannel sheet set until my grandfather got me one for Christmas a few years ago. I never really thought about changing my type of sheet depending on the season of the year. My grandfather however, I thought perhaps I would like to have something a little warmer for the winter months. Because the set was given to me as a gift I decided to use it. After the first night of the sleeping with my new flannel sheet set I decided that they were a good idea after all.

It gets very cold where I live, and the night can be especially brutal. I have a very warm comforter on my bed, but there are times when I wake up in the middle of the night freezing cold. When I put the flannel sheet set on my bed, I slept through the night and woke up in the morning toasty and warm. I like to keep the room temperature in my bedroom cold, but that does not mean I want to be cold beneath my covers. The flannel sheet set was just what I needed to keep my feet and legs warm in the middle of the night.

You can find a good flannel sheet set where you buy your regular sheets. You most definitely do not want to use them in the summer months however, because you will wake up sweaty and overheated. You should never under estimate the warming power of a good flannel sheet set. The material may seem only a little thicker than your regular sheets, but looks can be deceiving. You may even find that you are still warm and the middle of the winter that you will kick off your comforter and sleep comfortably with just your sheets.

When you wash a flannel sheet set make sure you use plenty of fabric softener. If they are washed without a fabric softener you will find they are very itchy and stiff what you put them on your bed. You want your flannel sheet set to remain as soft as possible, or your good night of sleep will be interrupted by itching and scratching. You may want to use the most delicate detergent you can find. Though you do not want to use a flannel sheet set in the summer months, you may want to use them during spring and fall. Hang them out on your clothesline to dry for an even softer sheet.