If there's one aspect of transportation that forever changing as the years go by, it's air travel. I can still recall what it was like to fly on a commercial airliner back in the 1980s. Now, if you missed that, let me reassure you that it was quite different than it is today. There were much less restrictions prior to the 911 incident. But that tragedy aside, there were other little things that I remember. For example, what happened to the darn peanuts? I assume that too many travelers were complaining about allergic reactions. That's all I can come up with. Anyway, on the brighter side, air travel is still our fastest and safest form of transportation. It's extremely rare to ever hear about a plane crashing; although we hear about car accidents daily. This should tell you something. So, for your next vacation, you just might want to hop online and do a flight search to find low-priced tickets to your destination of choice. 

Just to get you started, a few of the more popular and handy flight search engines are travelocity.com, expedia.com, and travelation.com. Pretty much any flight you're seeking can be found on one of these three websites. Most likely on all of them. Granted you probably see the most TV commercials advertising expedia.com and travelocity.com, but I actually prefer travelation.com. This is plain and simply due to the fact that this is where I always pinpoint the lowest prices. Hey, you can't argue with the price! I think it's safe to say that all of us who perform online flight searches are seeking of a great deal. The next time you do a flight search for your summer vacation or winter holiday plans, give these three websites a shot first!

Convenience is also key when it comes to doing a modern flight search. I've discovered that most airline ticket search engines are simple to navigate. All you need is the date and times you're flying, and the search engine will provide the rest. However, something to always keep in mind with online flight searches is the time in advance you seek a ticket. Never wait until the night before! This is a bank-breaker! Always search for an airline ticket at least two weeks in advance to ensure a reasonable price. Waiting till the last minute will always cost you. 