If you never wore footie pajamas when you were a child, you don’t know what you are missing. There is something comforting about them for some reason, and when wearing them, you don’t have to worry about having slippers. These are something that children usually wear, but some adults love to wear them as well. The adult sizes are out there, but they are a bit harder to find than the ones you might get for your children.

Besides being a lot of fun, footie pajamas are pretty practical, especially if you have a drafty home. This means when you lay your children down to sleep at night, you will know they will be warm and cozy, even if they kick off their covers, as so many children tend to do. The footie part is what keeps them so warm. The feet and the head are often where most of the heat escapes from the body, and if the feet are protected by the footie pajamas, you won’t have to worry about that as much.

The biggest drawback with footie pajamas for children is when they have to get up in the middle of the night to use the bathroom. They have to take the entire top part of the footie pajamas off in order to go to the potty. That might take some getting used to for them, and that might mean you have to get up with them in the middle of the night to help them out. As they grown, they will get used to doing it on their own, but be prepared to help out a little at first. Overall, that little bit of inconvienience is going to be well worth the warmth they get from this type of sleepwear.

If you are an adult, and you are tired of being cold at night, or perhaps you want something funky to wear to bed, footie pajamas might be just what you need. They aren’t really sexy, but they are warm, cuddly, and a lot of fun. You may find these in your local stores, but if you can’t, don’t worry. You can find them online, and you can find them in many different colors and patterns. You may even find them in different types of materials, some of which might be a bit thinner for warmer climates. The heavier materials won’t work well if you always have warm weather, but for anyone else, you may wonder what you ever did without them.