Most men who love fishing started as young boys. I know my brother did, and he has been fanatical about it ever since. I went fishing too, but it was not something that stuck with me. Going now and again is okay, but to my brother, it is almost like a religion. Many men feel this way, and they love fishing for the fun of it and for the chance to have a break from everything. When starting, almost all start out with freshwater fishing, and some won’t do anything else.

There are only two basic types of fishing. There is saltwater and freshwater fishing. Most start with freshwater because that is the easiest to find and the easiest to do. There is a bigger challenge with saltwater fishing because you are fishing in deeper water with bigger fish, but it is not something everyone can do all of the time. Most do this type of fishing just a few times in their life, unless of course, they live near the shore. Otherwise, it’s not exactly cheap to go all of the time.

Freshwater fishing yields smaller fish in many cases, but you also can go whenever you want. Though there are a few remote areas that might not have a lot of options, most people have many fishing spots near them where they can fish whenever they feel the need. There are ponds, rivers, and lakes everywhere, and many of them are great for freshwater fishing. You can always fish from the shore, or you can take a small boat with you when you go. Each is fun, and most are not expensive. You may have to pay out a bit for a boat, but otherwise, fishing is not bad when it comes to price.

If you don’t know where to find freshwater fishing near you, you can always look online for both locations and equipment. You may have some great fishing areas near you of which you were not aware. Some may be so close you may wonder how you missed them. You may also find that some areas that were really great for fishing once upon a time are no longer good. Look for reviews and stories from other fishermen in your area. Though some have more time than others, everyone can squeeze in a little fishing now and again to help take the edge off of the stresses of everyday life.