When my daughter started school I was delighted to see that they had a real focus on health when it came to their lunch menus. I also like that the teachers asked that a healthy snack be sent each day, and that sweets should be saved for special occasions like birthdays and some holiday celebrations. I often find that when I have to bring something somewhere, school or not, I am not sure that my healthier choices are going to go over well. This is when I discovered the fruit trays are always welcome because they are both sweet and healthy. 

What is great about fruit trays is that there are many types of fruit you can use, and you only have to see what is in season to make up a great tray. You can go with stuff that is out of season, but you will be spending more. For the most part, you can arrange and present your fruit trays any way you want, and you may only needs to offer up toothpicks for people to enjoy whatever they like from the tray. They are easy to carry and to make, and they usually are empty by the time your event is over. That makes cleaning the up easy too.

You can even make fruit trays in themes if you want. You can add some other things to your trays to make them even more fun. For the fourth of July, for example, you can always find red and blue fruit and then add some red and blue Jell-O cubes. You can use low fat whipped cream for a dip, and you have something fun and in the holiday spirit. You can always think of something for each holiday if you try hard enough, and that works well because fruit goes with everything.

If you really aren’t up to making your own fruit trays, or you simply don’t have the time on occasion, you can find some that are already made up. You can find them in stores, though you may have to make-do with what they have rather than choosing your own fruit. You can also order some online, or you can find special trays or fruits you can’t find locally if you look around on the Internet to see what is out there. You may be surprised to see what you can find in the way of neat themed trays for holidays and great fruit choices you would love to try.