Body builders like Arnold Schwarzenegger are famed for their muscular and hard bodies, buff magazine cover boys and winning ladies men. However, they weren't born this way. Years of dedicated weight lifting, strict diets, and sheer will power have earned these men those rock hard bodies. 

Chances are, you want a body just like theirs. Whether you're just looking to impress women, or to be the star of a body building competition, you will most definitely want to gain weight fast. Depending on how much time you want to put into it, you can have a bulky body in anywhere from six weeks to six months.
 
Quickly gaining weight is not as easy as it sounds. Because you're trying to build up muscle tissue and not fat, a carefully monitored diet is a must. Two methods are available to gain wieght fast. Option one is to eat almost exclusively protein, and experience the results immediately. Option two is to eat protein with some fat, and lose the fatty weight during the later winter months. The second method is known as cutting.

Protein packed foods like red meat and fish are best if you're trying to gain weight fast. This means tuna, steak and lean chicken breast. Other foods like non greasy pizza, fruits, and eggs are suitable menu items as well.

Although meats provide much bulking material, a person can not live on just meat. Carbohydrates are essential to your energy level and are found mostly in grains like rice, pasta, bread and beans. Be careful not to over-do your carb intake, because you'll gain weight fast, but it will all be fat weight.

If you want to gain weight fast, when to eat is just as important as what to eat. When you eat a lot of of protein, your body can only digest so much before bypassing it. So instead of eating three meals per day, eat 6-8  500 calorie meals per day, every two hours. By eating each meal two hours apart, you're giving your body a chance to absorb as much of the nutrients as possible.

Being a body builder also means that you need supplements that contain essential vitamins and minerals in the correct ratios. Most important is creatine, an amino acid that helps deliver the bulk to your muscles. Multi-vitamins are an important part of your program, because those strenuous workouts result in loss of vitamins and minerals.

When you gain weight fast, you must remember to drink 3 to 4 liters of water daily. Proteins in meat are hard on your kidneys, so they need pure water to flush them out successfully.

There you are! Pretty soon, you'll be ready to give old Arnold a run for his money!