Though most women will say that they prefer a diamond when they get engaged, there are some that prefer to have gemstone rings. The reasons for this vary, and it isn’t always to save money. Gemstones are often popular for first rings for little girls, and are often what are used when class rings are made. These are often beautiful rings, and though they aren’t as costly as a diamond, they can be a great investment.

For engagements, gemstone rings are often a good choice when a couple is trying to save money, but some get it no matter how much they have to spend. Some want the durability of platinum for their rings, but they don’t want to pay the added expense of a diamond on top of the cost of platinum. Some simply prefer them because they don’t think diamonds are worth the cost, and believe that any stone is valuable as long as it means something to them. More and more are getting gemstone rings for engagements, and they certainly are beautiful.

Most get gemstone rings with their birthstone when they are presented with their first rings. These rings are many times lost, and that is why they aren’t that expensive. The ones that do survive are often something a child will treasure forever. Even when they are too small to wear, some still wear them around their neck on a chain. That is usually something someone does when there is a special memory attached to a ring, but they are all special to some extent. Some like to give gemstone rings on Mother’s day, and that type of ring will contain the gemstones of each child, and sometimes, the grandchildren as well. This is easier with small families of course, but some rings hold a large number of stones.

Class rings are almost always gemstone rings, but there are some that choose a different color for whatever reason. I know a girl who got her mother’s birthstone in her ring rather than her own because her mother had passed away. She thought having her mother’s stone in her gemstone ring was a great memorial that she could view whenever she chose to wear her ring. The best thing about gemstones is that they don’t have to be for a first ring, engagement ring, or even a class ring, they can be a memorial - as with my friend- or simply ‘just because.’