If you have a Christmas party coming up, and you have to bring a gift, you may be stuck for ideas. Though some give to whomever they want, some companies have a specific party and each person brings only one gift. You never know what you will get, and you never know who you are buying for. In that case, you have to find a gift for Christmas party idea that will work for either sex, and that will be appreciated by just about anyone. That’s not quite as hard as it sounds.

It would be hard to go wrong with a gift basket when you are buying a gift for Christmas party. You can put anything inside, but try to keep in gender-neutral. You don’t want to give a set of lush body lotions and creams to a man, though that might be something he can take home for his wife. Instead, think about things that both sexes might use. Things like wines and cheeses, or even fruit baskets are great ideas. Everyone has to eat, and that means that food baskets are often okay no matter who will be getting your gift.

If you want to shy away from the food gift baskets when you buy a gift for Christmas party, you can always think about things most people like to do. You can usually assume most like to go see a movie once in a while, so tickets for theater admission are always great. You can also get passes for free DVD rentals, and even add popcorn and a few other goodies in to make a basket. You might also get something like a gift certificate to a store that you know most people shop in, though this works best in a smaller town.

You can also find some really great novelty items when buying a gift for Christmas party. There are some great mind bender games out there, and most end up loving them. Novelty stores both online and in your local mall might have many great ideas, but don’t get too naughty or outrageous when you buy. Keep the personality of your office in mind, and that will help you choose among the great items you can find in such stores. Sometimes, the off-the-wall gifts are the best ones, but don’t get something that might offend. You will probably do just fine, but just remember to put some thought into it so everyone has a great time.
