Your home is always going to look better and appear to be neater when you have a place for everything, and you keep those things that might problematic in those places. Some things come with holders and stands, and other times, you have to go out and find something. When it comes to guitar stands, you have to look around to find the right one. They seem easy enough, and they all do the same things, but some are better than others and some simply won’t work in some situations.

When you are buying guitar stands for the road, you have to come up with something that will stand well and can not be tipped over very easily. There are plenty of times when playing live when a stand could be tipped or hit, and that could mean the end of a very expensive guitar. If the head stock hits something the wrong way during a fall, there may be no help for that guitar. That means guitar stands meant for playing out and traveling should be the sturdiest you can find. They should have good grip on the floor, a solid base, and a good hold on any guitar.

When it comes to guitar stands for the home or the home studio, you can be a bit more flexible. You can find some that fold up, and even though they seem appropriate for travel, those are often ones that work better in the home. You have most stability there, and you don’t have to worry about knocking over the stand as much. You can also find guitar stands for both that can hold more than one guitar. That is something that can be a great space saver when you have more than one guitar and they seem to be taking over all of your free space, or you can’t seem to find enough space to keep them together.

Shopping for guitar stands can be done locally or online. Most music stores that sell guitars also have stands. You can choose what you want, and how much you want to pay. You can also find them on many great sites online that sell musical equipment and accessories. You may find a bigger selection there, and that may be more convenient when you hate shopping and you already know what you want. Consider their stability, and also what they are made of when you make your selection so your guitar stands last a long time.