PLEASE don't tell me that's a clump of hair in the drain! No, what am I saying? It's probably just dirt. Right? Yeah right! There's no fighting the genetic aspect of hair loss. If yours was meant to go, it's going to go. Of course, that only applies to those who accept it the natural way. Don't get me wrong; you can take action. What you need is some hair systems that truly work. Now, there are two sides to this spectrum of products. First you have the hair replacement side, and then you have the hair loss prevention side. It's time to ask yourself which one it is you're looking for. 

Don't lose another follicle! Actually that's not very realistic, since we all lose several hairs each day. That part is okay. What I'm referring to is the hair we lose permanently. We can prevent our heads from going bald if we have the right hair systems at our disposal. If you're trying to get your hair back, then you'll want to visit a trichologist for advice and possible solutions. Maybe a hair transplant is in order. I often see hair plugs made fun of on television, but they never show the end results. I've seen guys with hair plugs and literally could not tell the difference. It's plain and simply a process that takes a little time. Rogaine and Propecia are also possibilities. One of these new-age hair systems could be perfect for getting your dew back in order. Millions of men use them regularly. Okay, so hair restoration is a common topic no doubt. But, don't forget about hair loss prevention. This is not discussed enough. It's even cheaper to purchase hair systems that prevent hair loss. A popular one now days is found on the MiN.com website. Check out their contemporary three step hair care system. It has powerful DHT blockers that battle male pattern baldness and hair loss due to stress and the environment. The thing I love about their products is the styling line. Their texturizing paste and pomade are outstanding. 

There's no excuse for not finding hair systems in this day and age. Even if you can't afford the trip to a specialist, you can certainly surf the web. The Internet is loaded with reviews from others just like yourself. Find non-biased ratings on all the top hair systems available. 