Do you have an idea of what the best hair conditioner might be? No one seems to know, and that might explain why there are so many different ones on the market today. There are usually one or two entire aisles in any store that has just shampoo and conditioner. If you have great hair, you may have a brand you use and you don’t think much of it. However, if you have hair that gives you worries now and again, you may be just like me. I have had to try almost every brand on the market trying to find which is indeed the very best one for me.

When I was growing up, my mom never really had hair conditioner in the house. I guess this is why I never really knew what it could do for the hair. I have naturally curly hair, and that means I have problems with keeping my hair healthy and soft. I always struggled with my hair, and I had no idea that hair conditioner could actually make my hair feel better. I just assumed it was there for tangles, and since my mom had short hair, she never bothered to buy it. 

When I went away to college, my friends introduced me to the wonders of hair conditioner. I used some of my roommates conditioner one day to see what it could do for my hair. While it didn’t make a huge improvement, my hair was much softer. She had a very inexpensive brand, because that was all she needed, so I went out and bought something that cost a little more. After I tried it, I knew I should have been using the hair conditioner all along, and that my hair had suffered because I hadn’t.

I went through many different types and brands of hair conditioner before I found the one that works for me. Though there are some great ones you rinse out in the shower, but the type that you leave in after you are done with your shower or bath works best for me. I only need a little, and it never leaves my hair greasy or limp. It’s amazing. I also have to use salon brand, but my hair needs the extra care. Don’t give up if you can’t seem to find the right hair conditioner for you, just try as many as you can. The right one is out there for you too.