My husband and I decided to remodel our home. I should say my husband and I talked about remodeling our home. He took it the next step by tearing the ceiling panels out of the kitchen to see what was underneath. He did this on Easter Sunday after my family left. That was the beginning of a project that lasted for seven months. The day after we put the finishing touches on the kitchen we had my family over for Christmas. It was a lot of hard work, especially when you are trying to live and keep a regular work schedule. Every evening when we came home from work we were painting, striping, staining and sweeping up sheet rock dust. We knew the effort was worth it when we saw the looks on my family’s faces when they walked through the door. We were very proud that we had done all the work except the electrical ourselves. It gave us a real feeling of pride and accomplishment. 

After my family left we were talking about how well the day had gone. We had decided that we were not going to exchange gifts because of the amount of money we had put into the house. When we sat down to watch television my husband mentioned that the only thing left to make the room perfect was a home theater system. I knew where this conversation was going. He had wanted a home theater system since he saw the one that his brother installed. His brother put in a screen, theater seating and mega speakers, but this was in a room designed as a home theater, not a living room. When I mentioned this he quickly clarified that he was talking about the speaker system only, not the seating and the large screen. He went on to suggest that this would be a perfect gift for the house and us to complete the work we had done.

I do not watch a great deal of television, but I knew he really wanted this and he had given up a great deal of golf and fishing over the summer and fall to work on the house. I thought the home theater system would be nice for him to have for the winter. We went out the next day and looked at the home theater systems. They were running great holiday sales so we got one for a great price. I have to admit it is much more enjoyable watching television and movies with this new system. It does add a finishing touch to our new room.

