How to Create a Website

If you have ever wanted to know how to create a website, you’ll be able to after you read this article. Develop you own little corner of internet real estate by learning how to get into the big world of internet information and products. Start out by thinking of ideas for your new website, make notes to yourself, identify your market, figure out your level of commitment, and how much time and money are you willing to put into your website. If you have the time, you can build your website on your own and run it for free, just remember that lots of information can be overwhelming at first, but just take it one step at a time.  The more money you want to make from your website(s), the more time and money you'll have to invest. Register a domain name, build a website, learn some HTML, and insert keywords to target your audience, upload your website, advertise, and provide quality content and service that your visitors will remember. It sounds like a lot, but just give it a try.

The best way to get started is to go online and check out a number of free guides offering step-by-step instructions on how to create a website. A great resource is www.2createawebsite.com, a free tutorial site that teaches beginners how to create a website, including free HTML tutorials, web page software, how to register a domain name, quick guide to creating a website, and other web development options that will make you into a webmaster in no time. First of all choose a domain name, which is your online address and how visitors can find your website. Domain names are usually paid for yearly and renewal is on an annual basis. Find and register for a domain name on this site too. Next you’ll need to find a web hosting service to host your site on the internet, which allows you to create, save, and publish web pages. A web host provides you with the space, tools, and support to create your web pages and email accounts, and it’s important that you choose the right one the first time. This site suggests using web page building software like Coffee Cup, Dream Weaver, and Home Site, which are three popular programs among many others that show you how to create a website and maintain it. 

As you’re learning how to create a website, you’ll need to learn how to do a little bit of HTML coding even if you use a web page builder. It really isn’t that difficult, so don’t be intimidated. The site mentioned above suggests downloading free html templates if you're not interested in learning html and buying software programs to edit and continue building the site. If you want to sell products or take orders from your site, sign up with PayPal.com, for a free merchant account that will accept credit cards for you for a small percentage of each order. It’s convenient and easy to set up too, and you can link your Pay Pal account to your checking account and have funds transferred electronically. If you want to make money from your website, enough to pay for your costs and more, consider using Google AdSense, display ads on your site, keyword optimization, or other internet marketing strategies to get your site up there in rankings. With all this great information, you can learn how to create a website in no time! 
