Just because you do not have a lot of money to spend on Christmas presents does not mean that you can’t get good gifts for your friends and family. There are a lot of excellent inexpensive Christmas gift ideas out there just waiting to delight your loved ones. Of course, some of the most inexpensive Christmas gifts are the ones that you make yourself.  A lot of people never investigate making handmade Christmas presents, but it really is a lot easier than you might think. You can, for example, assemble a Christmas gift basket out of a wicker basket, a bottle of wine, and some fancy coffee or fresh fruit. Add a Christmas card and a bow, and you are all set to go.

Of course, a great source for all of your inexpensive Christmas gift needs is the dollar store. You never know what you might find there. You can get cute mugs, fake flowers, bath and body supplies - you name it, and it is probably at the dollar store. It is never a good idea to wait until the last minute to look for dollar store gifts, however. The selection can vary a lot from day to day, so you need to be sure to leave time to look somewhere else just in case you need to.

Another great source for an inexpensive Christmas gift idea is the internet. There are all sorts of online gift ideas out there. You can buy from some factory direct store, bid on presents off of Ebay, or even order a custom Christmas gift online. There are actually stores that will make your own customized presents for a surprisingly affordable price. You can get custom teddy bears, engraved pen sets, and even personalized jewelry. Not all of these items are going to be inexpensive Christmas gifts, of course, but there are bound to be some deals among them.

Don’t forget craft fairs and secondhand stores either. If you want an inexpensive Christmas gift, those places can be gold mines. Sometimes people will sell you handmade local crafts for next to nothing if you hit the right booth at the right time. It is all just a matter of looking around and seeing what is available. The cheap gifts out there might just surprise you. If you chose the right gift, the recipient might not even know that you did not spend a lot of money on it.
