In my opinion, putting up Christmas decorations is one of the high point of the whole year. I have always loved it since I was very little. Back then, my parents did not have a lot of money for decorating for the holidays. Christmas decorations were usually things we made ourselves. We would put up pine cone bird feeders, homemade Christmas ornaments, and things like that.  Even though the decorations were meager, we always had a fun time putting them up. It was a special occasion for the whole family to get together.

Nowadays, outdoor Christmas decorations are a much more elaborate phenomenon in my family. Our Christmas decor isn't simple anymore, that's for sure. The centerpiece of our decorative scheme is our inflatable holiday decorations. We've been gathering them one by one for years. The first inflatable holiday decoration we got was more of a toy. You see, it was a particularly warm winter, and it wasn't snowing enough to build a snowman. My children, naturally enough, we're pretty dissipated by this development, so I decided to get them an inflatable snowman. It wasn't really intended as an inflatable holiday decoration, but more as a way to help lift their spirits. Nonetheless, it was so popular and looked so good on the lawn the next year we decided to get more inflatable Christmas decorations.

Inflatable holiday decoration displays come in all shapes and sizes. That particular snowman was not very big, but some of the additions we have gotten since then have been downright gigantic. There is an 8 foot tall Santa Claus in front of our door, guarding our house in a way that is both jolly and sinister at the same time. One of my neighbors has even more impressive outdoor holiday decorations. He has a giant display of Santa Claus and his reindeer. The thing stretches across an entire lawn! Every single reindeer is there. The whole thing is kept inflated by a giant pump that hums all my love.

Nonetheless, even the humble inflated holiday decoration can really add a lot to your Christmas spirit. We actually have an inflatable holiday decoration of an adorable little reindeer right in front of our Christmas tree, staring up at it. Nearly every person who has come to visit us has commented on how adorable it is. Although it is cheap and compact, it still manages to make quite an impression.