I have owned an instep jogging stroller for several months, and I really enjoy it. It gives me a way to take my kid out on my morning runs, and that is important to me. It is one of the only times every day that I get to spend with my child. Don't get me wrong – I have a few hours in the evening with him as well. Still, childhood is precious, and I know my little boy misses me when I'm gone. The instep stroller provides me with the chance to spend some extra quality time with him. I can see by his expression that he likes it.

One of the great things about about getting the instep jogging stroller is that it solves one of the most irritating problems of childhood. Kids get up earlier than parents. It is as simple as that. Babies, in particular, cannot stay in bed for more than a few hours some nights. Taking your children out in instep jogging strollers is a great way for early morning risers to keep them happy and active. 

In my case, I go out with the instep jogging stroller before my wife wakes up. That means that, for a whole 45 minutes, she does not have to worry about the baby. I will be completely in charge of him. For his part, little Timmy seems much more quiet and contents when he is out for a run in the instep jogging stroller. He gets really bored sitting in his crib, but when we are out for a run he seems relatively happy. He gets to look around, and feel the wind on his face. It is a win-win situation for everyone. I get to go jogging with the in step jogging stroller, my wife gets to sleep in, and my kid gets to do something that he enjoys instead of waiting around the house, crying.

Instep jogging strollers, however, are not for everyone. If you have two kids, they can get a little awkward. I have tried the instep double jogging stroller, and it is very hard to maneuver. My instep jogging stroller, however, handles like a breeze. I know that this is hard to believe about a jogger stroller, but it really is true. It is easy to handle and very stable. I haven't tried other jogger strollers, but I know that I am happy with the one that I bought.