It was hard to figure out how to keep children away from the sites online that parents did not want them to see. As the Internet grew, so did the numbers of sites that were just not suitable for children. This became a huge problem and some companies came out with ways to control Internet content filtering. This meant that many sites were blocked, but parents found that this was not always perfect. Some blocked sites that were fine, and some not-so-pleasant sites got through anyway. Today, however, things are better than ever.

There are new toys on the market that allow children to go to specific sites that are okay with the parents. This type of internet content filtering is something that is better than it ever was before because it is already programmed with the sites that are okay. Those same toys do not allow a child to find anything else online no matter what they try to do. Most kids don’t go looking for things they shouldn’t see, but they do have an uncanny knack for finding those things. This new toy is something that completely puts a stop to it.

You may not think about internet content filtering for yourself, but it might not be a bad idea. I know that I run into things online - while I am doing research - that I really don’t want to see. Because some sites seem to be one thing and end up being something else completely, this is something that happens to many people. You may not want to have internet content filtering programs on your computer just for you, but there are some small things that you can do to cut down on the less than pleasant surprises that come up when you are searching for something else.

Some of the search engines have a build in internet content filtering feature. Google, for example, has where you can have safe search. This even has different levels from which you can choose. That means you can search for an image something without worrying about porn related pictures popping up in your search results. Though I am not sure if all searches have this type of internet content filtering in place, I wouldn’t be surprised if they did. Not only that, you will soon learn to do your own filtering by realizing which search terms might bring you to some sites that you do not want to see.