We all await the day when debt will be magically erased from all our records. Some folks call it the coming of Christ, but I call it the coming of the debt-eraser. Okay, I'm clearly being absurd right now, but how awesome would this be? We'd all certainly call this individual a saint of some sort. I know I'd plaster his/her face across my living room wall in a 30/40 frame. At this point I'd even be satisfied if my credit card debt was banished. The relief would be immeasurable. Speaking of those little plastic devils, how much do you currently owe on yours? I swear these suckers should come with the numbers 666 written across the front. Just as a fair warning to all who wield them. Someone please bring on the interest free credit cards. The world would be a much happier place. 

The other day I was Christmas shopping. After all, tis the season to be jolly, right? Well, how in the heck am I supposed to be jolly when I know that my credit card is going to charge me some ridiculous interest rate every month? Every time I whip the thing out, I cringe with a tentative twinkle in my eye. I hate to use the darn thing, but if you're broke from paying bills, you hardly have 20 other options. It's not like you can just dismiss the notion of buying presents for the loved ones. That wouldn't go over so well. Of course if one had a few interest free credit cards, this wouldn't be an issue at all. But, where in the world can you find these? Well, I'm glad you asked. You can indeed find interest free credit cards, but like always, there is commonly a catch. They're generally interest free for balance transfers only, and this only lasts for a year from when you receive the card. So don't plan on getting interest free credit cards that apply to purchases. Be sure to read the fine print on the back of each document/pitch you receive in the mail. The purchase interest rate is typically HIGH, and the cash-advance one is always worse. 

I just remembered the only time I encountered true interest free credit cards. It was back toward the beginning of college. I was offered a couple interest free credit cards with 0 APRs on purchases. They only had 250 dollar limits and if you exceeded the limit, your interest rate was atrocious. Other than that, these desirable credit cards cease to exist. 