There are tons of careers but there is really no way of understanding what a particular position entails without a decent job title description. Considering that the average worker changes careers about eight times throughout adulthood it is a good idea to access as much information about finding a job title description for each career that interests you. 

For as many positions there are out there you would think that finding a job title description for each and every one is nearly impossible. Nothing is further from the truth. You can find all of the information that you need and there is even a series of books available to help you really delve into researching a particular field of interest.

The Dictionary of Occupational Titles is in its fourth edition. Many people have never heard of this publication but it is a very valuable resource for anyone who is entering the workforce for the first time. People who are changing careers may benefit from researching a job title description for various other positions before making a leap.

In this day and age, you probably expect to find the Dictionary of Occupational Titles online. You would be right to have this expectation. In fact, you can access just about any job title description that you like through the Dictionary of Occupational Titles website. There are a number of ways to approach the site.

You can find a job title description by browsing by category. This is a great approach if you want to find a career in a certain field but you are not sure what the specific job titles are that you may want to pursue. When you browse by category you unlock a lot of common job titles that relate to a specific field.

Many may already know what position they want to investigate. You can also browse by alphabetical order to find a specific job title description that is of interest to you. This is a great approach for anyone who has always dreamed of having a certain career but wants to find more information about the job before applying. 

Once you have an adequate job title description you can opt to really delve into your research by looking at different books about careers. Laurel Lane Publishing offers a line of 101 Questions Answered books that relate to certain jobs. Titles range from Working with Special Needs Children to Medical Billing. This is the ideal way to find out a lot about a job before starting your career. 

