When you are undertaking a kitchen remodeling job, a lot of things go through your head. Remodeling your home, after all, is always a stressful thing. A kitchen remodel, however, is perhaps the most stressful of all – at least it was when we were doing it. You see, it costs a lot of money – so much that it made me reconsider my kitchen decor idea. Did I really need natural hardwood kitchen shelves? What about that granite countertop? Was that necessary? On the one hand, I knew that I would be stuck with whatever remodeled kitchen I ended up with for the next 10 years at the very least. I didn't want it to look second rate. On the other hand, I did not want to spend all of my discretionary funding for the year on just doing the kitchen. That wouldn't be any fun. I wanted to be able to enjoy my money on a vacation.

In the end, we decided to put kitchen design ahead of everything. We could take an inexpensive vacation at one of the local lakes instead of flying abroad this year. Kitchen design is something that I have always been pretty good at, but at first we were thinking about using a full service kitchen remodeling agency. After all, if we were going to spend a lot of money on our kitchen remodel job anyway. We might as well spend a little more and make sure the job was done right. After talking with my wife about it, however, I changed my mind. Part of the fun would be to remodel our kitchen by ourselves.

The first thing that we did in the kitchen remodel was to change the tiles. I was so sick of those stained linoleum tiles. They had looked good when we first bought them, but they just didn't wear that well. By now, they were definitely showing their age. We went to a kitchen remodel store and picked up tiles that looked perfect. We were able to do all of it ourselves, and the rewards were definitely worth it. It gave us a lot of confidence to tackle the tougher stages of the job.

All of the kitchen remodel went surprisingly smoothly. The kitchen cupboards went in well, the kitchen countertop was easy to install, and everything seemed to be going smoothly. We didn't have any trouble painting, of course. As a matter of fact, we made it through the full project without much of any trouble. All in all it turned out pretty well, and it didn't cost nearly as much as we had thought.