Kitchen remodeling was a big stress for me. I couldn't decide on anything. I could not even decide on the design of my kitchen countertop, or on the kitchen table to pick out. When it came to the kitchen cabinet designs, however, I really got stressed out. With the kitchen counters at least, I had a pretty basic idea. I knew that I wanted some kind of granite, and I was pretty sure what shape I wanted to put them in. I had the money to do a major remodeling job, so I was comfortable doing some serious renovation. It wasn't a problem to knock out the old counters and install new ones.  Still, I couldn't figure out what style I wanted the kitchen cabinets in.

I actually stumbled on a kitchen cabinet design program by accident. I would never have guessed that there was a program on line to model kitchen cabinet designs.  I mean talk about a niche market! Nonetheless, there it was. It only cost me a few bucks a month, and it was a pretty useful tool. It was a little bit hard to learn at first, but once I got the hang of it, it wasn't bad. Basically,It was a simplified architectural design program – made for people like me who don't know much about computers. They must have had some deals with a kitchen cabinet designer somewhere. The  program could model almost all the popular kitchen cabinet designs. It even had mock ups of refrigerators, kitchen islands, and basic shapes of kitchen tables. It wasn't complete, but it was definitely good enough to give me an idea of what my kitchen would look like with various design elements.

I finally picked out a perfect kitchen cabinet design. I decide to go with a dark oak. I picked out some pretty low profile kitchen cabinets. At first, I had been tempted to get big ones with a lot of storage room, but then I thought better of it. I wanted everything to have a very sleek, angular, minimal look to it. My kitchen was big enough that I would have enough storage space regardless, and I'm tall enough to get to the upper cabinets without much of a problem. That allowed me to use smaller kitchen cabinet designs, which in turn made the kitchen feel even less cluttered. All in all, it was a great effect. As a matter of fact, when I was done it looked exactly like the program!