If you are on a low carb diet, you are probably happy with the results you are seeing on the scales, and you are probably reveling in the fact that you no longer feel hungry all of the time. However, you may also be missing some of your favorite things simply because they are not allowed on your diet, or because you know they will probably set you back to where you started. Luckily, there are many great alternatives on the market today, and one of those things is that you can have low carb tortillas at some point in the future.

You may have loved tortillas before you went low carb, but you may not have had them very often. When you add them back into your diet as low carb tortillas, you can find more uses for them than you never thought. Suddenly, a world of possibilities open up to you, and you learn to do things with them that you may have never done before. You could have nachos, of course, and you can have them with salsa. You can also have low carb tortillas as a way to make mini pizzas if that is something that you are missing.

One thing that many on low carb diets miss is having something to dip. There are many great dips out there that are okay for low carb diets, but it is hard to find something with which you can dip. Celery works for some things, but not all dips and goodies go with celery. This is when you are going to be glad that you got your low carb tortillas. These can be dipped into just about anything that goes with your diet, and they make a great snack on their own as well. These are also great to make a taco salad and to add a crunch to some foods that may have not been doing it for you thus far in your diet.

There are a few things to remember when you want to add low carb tortillas to your diet regime. You have to find ones that are truly low carb, and they must fall in with where you are in your diet. If you are following the rules correctly, you know what that means. Make sure each ingredient in your low carb tortillas are legal for your stage of the diet and you will be okay with them. Also remember that even though they are low carb, you do have to watch your portions so you don’t go over your carb limit for the day. They are great to add, but don’t overdo it before you see what they do when you try them.