My dad always told me that there are a few things every human being should have available at all times. One is a quality knife. You can carry a folder in your purse of pocket, or maybe even a small fixed blade on your belt. The second one is a good lighter. It doesn't matter if you smoke or not. This is irrelevant because you're not toting it around to light an emergency cigarette. Then finally there's the flashlight. Most likely you'll prefer a compact one since this makes them easier to carry. For women it's not sweat to stick these three safety/emergency devices in their purse. You'll thank God you have one when the situation demands it. Even if it's only once in your lifetime, it's worth it. Now, the question is; are you going to go with a Maglite flashlight or a Surefire? 

Flashlights have significantly evolved over time. Back when I was a kid, it was all about the Maglite flashlight. This brand name was trusted and still is today by many. The classic Maglite flashlight not only works well, but it's also built tough to withstand drops and impacts. They come in several difference sizes to suit your home, dresser drawer, pocket or glove compartment. Not to mention law enforcement always carried the Maglite flashlight in the past. It was basically standard issue where I lived. I should know since I grew up with a father in law enforcement. However, now days things are a bit different. I can no longer tell you what law enforcement officers tote around each day. But, I can tell you that I prefer the Surefire flashlight over the classic Maglite flashlight. There is a significant reason for this. Actually there are a few. First of all, the Surefire lights run on lithium batteries and possess a much more powerful bulb. They shine a beam up to 6 times stronger than your standard flashlight. IT IS BRIGHT! Trust me on this one. In fact it's great for blinding an assailant in the dark. Secondly, they're crafted with aircraft grade aluminum. This makes them very tough, but light-weight at the same time. These are perfect impact devices for self-defense. 

What are you looking to spend? This will be a key factor when you check into the Surefire line and Maglite flashlight. Surefire certainly run higher, but you get what you pay for. It's as simple as that. 