The world famous Las Vegas Strip has many resorts and none more successful than the Mandalay Bay Resort Las Vegas, a hotel and casino complex with a tropical Asian theme. The Four Seasons Hotel chain occupies the top floors of the hotel tower. The resort has a major attraction in its permanent hosting of the hit musical, Mamma Mia! A monorail connects the hotel to the Luxor and Excalibur.

The resort opened its doors in 1999 to much fanfare with a parade of Harley Davison motorcycles, led by actors Jim Belushi, John Goodman and Dan Ayckroyd. The complex contains 24 restaurants and cafes and a House of Blues venue for live music with another restaurant. Cuisine is available from all over the world, including Italian, French, Chinese and Mexican. There are also American steak houses and grill bars. 

An additional tower was added to the Mandalay Bay Resort Las Vegas in 2004, containing THEhotel at Mandalay Bay, known for its large guest suites. A restaurant and nightclub is situated on the top floor. Well supported events are presented at the 12,000-seat Mandalay Bay Events Center, including championship boxing and Ultimate Fighting Champion contests. The indoor arena also hosts pop concerts with internationally known artists. The Mandalay Bay Convention Center is in the building next door to the resort and contains a convention space and large ballroom.

Everything is designed for leisure and comfort in the Nevada town and the Mandalay Bay Resort Las Vegas is in keeping with that tradition. It has an 11 acre beach with two heated swimming pools, a topless pool, a wave pool and a waterfall and river feature. Hotel guests can enjoy using the fitness center, hot tub and jogging track. There is also a pool for the children and a shopping mall. 

The resort spa offers beauty treatments, massages and a hair salon. The resort also has the Shark Reef attraction, a saltwater aquarium with the third biggest tank in the country and a walk through shark tunnel. The aquarium has 1,200 different species of fish, reptiles, sharks and rays.

Casinos are an integral part of the vacation experience and the facilities at the Mandalay Bay Resort Las Vegas are suited to the casual gambler, who just wants a flutter to the more dedicated player. There are more than 2,200 slots in addition to table games, electronic poker machines and poker games. The resort has something for everyone, combining luxury with a friendly, informal atmosphere.

