mass email

Though it might seem like a good online marketing move, mass email is not always a good idea. Though there are good ways to do it, this might be a sure fire way to have your email address marked as spam, and you may not be able to email anyone through your business site. There are times when mass emails are okay, but you should never buy or blindly put together a mailing list unless you want to have a heap of problems.

The best way to have a good mass email list is to get people to sign up for it. Though spam must work to some degree or it would have gone away by now, most people do not like it, and some won’t buy from anyone if they see they are sending out mass email spam. I know that is the case for me. I don’t want anything in my inbox that I did not ask for. It is one thing to get personal emails, but it is quite another to get spam day in and day out. It is tiring after a while, and those who send me mass emails without my consent do not get my business.

If you want an effective mass email campaign, you have to build an email list from people who are willing to be on it. You can have a sign up on your site, but that is about the only safe way to do so, and even then, people get tired to getting things and may mark you as spam after a while anyway. Instead, allow them to opt in, and then have it renew so they can decide if they want to renew or not. 

Some get their mass email list by having people sign up for something unrelated and then use the email addresses for spamming purposes. There are some sites that offer services, but then sell email addresses to others to use for their mass email purposes. This is just as deceptive as straight forward spamming, and will not go over any better with those receiving the email. Sadly, even though some offer a link to get off a list, that link usually just verifies that an email address is valid, and that means it is worth more money to those who want to buy a mailing list. To keep your customers happy, make sure you amass your list the right way. 