Outdoor pursuits are very popular in the state of Michigan, an area abundant with rivers and streams. There are also several lakes, including the Great Lakes of Lake Superior, Michigan, Huron, St.Clair and Erie. Michigan fishing vacations promise terrific catches in the midst of great scenery. Various companies hire out charter boats and organise vacation packages for different kinds of sport fishing. Corporate packages are also available for some out of office bonding.

Fly fishing and ice fishing is catered for and Michigan fishing is good for the scratch beginner or the expert. Rivers and streams are good spots to catch brookies and browns. The numerous inland lakes are ideal for smallmouth, perch, trout, walleyes and northerns. 

For sheer scale, nothing can beat the sight of Lake Superior, the largest freshwater lake in the world, where the catch is likely to be salmon, rainbows and lake trout. The laws with regard to catching salmon, state that the fish must be a minimum of 10 inches in length. Giant Lakers are plentiful in Stannard Rock, a shallow water reef in the middle of the Great Lake. These can be caught with jigging and casting. Little Bay du Noc in Northern Lake Michigan is the place for walleyes.

The area is perfect for getting into the wilderness, away from traffic noise and polluted air. Companies run day trips, half-day trips and longer stays for Michigan fishing, hunting and sailing vacations. Visitors can stay in five star hotels or accommodation provided by all in packages. There is a varied choice of cottages, bed and breakfast establishments and even lighthouses. Many people like to stay by the lake in heated log cabins.

Charter boats are well equipped and some companies also provide an expert guide for the trip. Fishing tackle is supplied and a holiday representative will even clean and package the day's catch. Boats have the best of equipment, such as sonar fish finding technology and current sensing units. Radar is there to navigate in fog conditions and at night. In addition to this type of Michigan fishing being safe, passengers can also enjoy the comforts of home with hot water and refrigerators.

Ice fishing is for hardy souls who like to work for their catch! The Upper Peninsular of Michigan is one of the most popular areas for this as thick ice is guaranteed every winter. There are plenty bait shops for supplies and advice about the local conditions. Fish species are varied here, including burbot, perch, crappie and northern pike.
