Mileage allowance

Though I’m sure very woman might say that her husband drives her bonkers, each will have a different reason. I am sure men say the same about us, and perhaps it is just a part of being married. Whatever the case, I do think my husband is mad. He has many ways to save money, or to get some of his money back, and he just won’t do them. I don’t understand why he is so laid back about it. It’s not like we are well off enough to retire any time soon. We need our  money, thank you very much, and I can’t understand why he doesn’t take more care. One thing he doesn’t take advantage of is the mileage allowance is company should be paying him.

He is supposed to track his own mileage allowance, but he never does it. He uses our car every day of the week for his job, and he is often stuffing things in it that have no place in a car. He should be getting a company van soon, but until then, he continues to abuse our car. I know that his job caused the death of our last car, and the mileage allowance would have at least made up for some of that. You would also think he would have learned, but apparently this is not the case.

No matter how many times I talk to him about his mileage allowance, he refuses to keep up and keep track. He says he doesn’t have the time or the organizational skills to do so. I can’t do it for him, but I am getting very upset with him. If it was his own car, it would be his own problem, and he could skip the mileage allowance if he wanted to. However, it’s our car, not his. I wish he would think about things like this before he rams around town for his company at my expense.

I can’t complain about this company though. They have been very good to us, and it’s not their fault that he won’t take the time to write down and keep track of the mileage allowance. They certainly shouldn’t do it, and wouldn’t really have a way to do it anyway. They offer it to him, and that is all they need to do. If he would take the time to take care of it and get the money that is due to him, we could put it away towards yet another car. He just won’t do it. 