Moab Camping

The rock formations in Utah are a geological wonder, making it one of the most popular states for tourism. Backpackers, mountain bikers, rock climbers, horseback riders, rafters and base jumpers are particularly attracted to the area. The annual Moab Jeep Safari also attracts off roaders. Moab camping grounds are a favorite destination for visitors and are usually full on weekends and holidays.

This area has often been used as a location for movies, TV shows and commercials. The film director John Ford was the earliest to realize its potential and he shot some of his westerns here to great effect. The scenery looks spectacular on the big screen and in Technicolor. Other films to be shot here include Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade and Thelma and Louise. Inspired by these films, keen photographers like to come here to capture the rugged beauty.

Two National Parks in the Moab area receive a lot of visitors. There are some outstanding sandstone rock formations in the Arches National Park and Canyonlands National Park is equally impressive and visitors can see the old stone and mud lodges that belonged to the population of Puebloan Indians. The Moab camping sites are ideal accommodation for exploring these parks.

Some of the campsites are for both tents and RVs and some accept tents only. For owners of larger than average RVs, it's a good idea to check ahead to see if a site can accommodate larger vehicles. There are a variety of sites to choose from and some of them cater for different activities.

Goose Island is suitable for RVs and tents whilst Negro Bill is tent only and has hiking and biking trails close by. For terrific views of the Colorado River, the Hal Canyon site is perfectly situated. Big Bend can accommodate people with disabilities and there is a beach by the river. The historic site of Hittle Bottom has a boat ramp and picnic sites. Ken's Lake has vehicle and horse trails, facilities for non-powered boating and permission for fishing.

The Sand Flats Recreation Area is near the Slickrock Trail, popular with mountain bikers. The site has trails for 4 wheel drive vehicles. The Goldbar Moab camping ground is near to the famous Corona Arch and there is a hiking trail nearby. Jaycee Park has hiking and biking trails and nearby rock climbing opportunities. These sites tend not to provide drinking water, so it's important for visitors to take their own supply when going Moab camping.


