Motion Detector

If you have a home you love, or if you have something valuable in that home, you have to think about security. Though you may have grown up in a time when you didn’t need to lock your doors at night, and you didn’t really have to worry about where you stored your collectible times, though days are far behind you. Even those that live in very sparsely populated rural areas are now finding that they have to have some sort of security. If you don’t want to have an alarm system, you should at least make sure you get a motion detector or two for your own safety.

A motion detector can do a few different things. If you do have an alarm, the motion detector will set the alarm off when it sense motion where there shouldn’t be any at that time. If you have one set near each place where someone could be coming into your home when you go to bed, you are not only protecting yourself and your possessions, you are going to sleep better. They will give you the peace of mind you need to get some rest when you are otherwise worried about someone coming into your home and messing up your life.

You can also get a motion detector that will trigger a floodlight when someone walks near it. This can be great for two things. A motion detector can be used to flood an area with light to scare off a potential intruder. When a light flips on, what seemed like an easy target suddenly seems like too big of a risk. It can also be good for practical reasons. If you have a motion detector hooked up to your outdoor light, you don’t have to worry about turning your light on or off when you leave or come home at night. The light will come on for you when you pull in, and it will go off at a predetermined time.

If you want a motion detector you can rely on, go to a security stores and pay for a quality item. Make sure you get a good one, but make sure you know how to use it. If you get one that is too touchy, it might go off from things like the wind blowing the grass or something equally innocent. Ask for recommendations, and make sure you let the sales person know if you have pets or anything else that might affect how your motion detector works.
