I prefer a car. No, that's not entirely true. What I actually mean is I prefer a closed vehicle. I was never into two-wheelers and motorcycles personally. Give me an SUV any day. And if you do, make it an H2. I'm pretty partial to those. Anyway, what about a motorcycle? Clearly these vehicles are more dangerous for obvious reasons. But to make the obvious even more obvious, because there's no protection around you. What will happen if you collide with another vehicle? My guess is something fairly or very severe. Now, this is one of the reasons individuals, who prefer motorcycles, have to undergo motorcycle training courses. It only makes sense. If you're going to take a ride on a two-wheeled rocket, you'd better at least acquire some skills first. They could save your life. 

So far my older brother has wrecked his motorcycle twice. YIKES! Am I right or what? This is so dangerous. The first time he was backing it up in a college parking lot, and some guy in an SUV rammed into the side of him. Fortunately the guy was not going very fast. However, it doesn't take much when the other vehicle is so large and you're sitting on a bike. My brother got out of that one with a few scrapes and bruises. Then there was another occasion when he was cruising down a road and a pick-up truck pulled out from a side road and right into the side of him. Luckily he got away in decent shape again. Now, my brother had proper motorcycle training just like everyone else, but it did not aid him in these particular situations. It really couldn't have. These were totally random surprises. Both were due to drivers not paying attention, and probably also that a motorcycle is more difficult to see. So when you take that mandatory motorcycle training course, remember that it takes a little more than just the basics to stay safe on a bike. Then again, the same could be said about driving in general. It's wise to follow our intuition also. 

Your local DMV or BMV is a great place to start if you're ready for that motorcycle training course. You may want to practice a bit on some private land. Weaving in and out of those cones can be difficult if you're not used to it. 