When you think of things that you do not like to do what tops your list? For me it has to be moving. We have moved four times since we were married and each time I swear will be the last. When we were first married we rented a duplex. My husband moved in the first of the month. I was on a lease in my apartment until the first of the next month so I slowly brought things over and put them away with each trip we made. After we lived there a year we bought a small farm house. We had not accumulated too many things so this move was not all that bad. Our friends and family helped us move. We loaded up pickups and cars and drove everything the twenty miles from the duplex to the country home. After we lived there for four years we found a house that was much newer and larger and that had more acreage with it. We again packed up trucks and cars and made several trips back and forth. That time we moved thirteen miles so the back and forth was not difficult. Twelve years later we decided to move again.

After being in a house that was quite large for twelve years we had accumulated many things. We were down sizing a great deal in both space of the house and outdoor space. We were moving from a twenty acre five bedroom home with a full basement into a two story three broom house with a partial basement and one acre of land. We were moving because this smaller home was on a beautiful lake. Prior to moving we took many of our belongings to a flea market and sold them. We needed to downsize a great deal. This move was forty miles and it needed to be done in a short time span because of the spacing of the closings. We decided that we needed to contact moving truck rentals to get a truck so we could get everything in one trip. Our closing on our existing home was at ten o’clock in the morning and the closing on the lake home was at two in the afternoon. The first one was in a town forty five miles from our home and the second closing was ten miles from the home we sold. When we called the moving truck rentals we wanted to pick up the truck early in the morning so it could be parked in the yard and ready to go when we came back from the second closing. We had from the time of the closing until ten the next morning to be out of the house. We took one large load of outdoor things to the lake house when we did the walk through the day before, but this only touched the tip of everything that needed to be moved. The moving truck rentals had the truck ready for us at six o’clock in the morning. We had the truck until noon the next day or we would have additional fees. The moving truck rentals came with a dolly, packing materials and covers. It made the process much easier. Everything went smoothly and we had everything moved in the time frame. We agreed we will not move again for a very long time. 
