The state of New Mexico has much to offer the tourist. It is an area that is full of great scenery, wildlife and historic sites. Lakes, canyons, mountains, caves and forests are an exciting backdrop for many activities. The best way to get up close to the landscape is by going on New Mexico camping vacations. There are many camping opportunities on several State Parks, National Parks and private campgrounds.

Whether staying in a tent or a large RV, there are plenty sites to choose from in gorgeous surroundings when New Mexico camping. Adventure awaits at the Cimarron Canyon State Park, situated high up in mountain country. Hikers and cross country skiers are welcome and it's a good place to hunt grouse, turkey, deer, bear and elk. It's also a favorite spot for fishing enthusiasts, as there is eight miles of water teeming with brown trout.

Sumner Lake State Park is another good location for fishing and promises bass, crappie, catfish and walleye. Hikers and swimmers love it here too and birdwatchers come to see the winter migrants. There are mountain bike trails and boating and water skiing is permitted on the lake. The site has good amenities, including restrooms, showers, a visitor center and a playground. For people interested in local history, there are attractions close by, including two museums with exhibits on the 19th century. A Civil War period outpost has been preserved at the Bosque Redondo Memorial and Fort Sumner Monument. The grave of notorious outlaw, Billy the Kid is also nearby this New Mexico camping site.

Cedar Cove RV Park is surrounded by mountains and desert and caters for pull throughs and back ins. There are all the necessary facilities to make life comfortable, including hot showers. The site is adjacent to state owned land where there are hiking trails and opportunities for bird watching. It's a short distance to Elephant Butte, which is the largest lake in the state. Other attractions are close by, including the Rio Grande river, the Gila National Forest, Caballo Lake and the Percha Dam State Park. The site is a good base to travel to local art galleries, hot springs and ghost towns.

The El Vado Lake RV Park has 110 full hookups and tent sites without hook ups. This is another New Mexico camping spot with magnificent views and good amenities. Provisions can be bought at the site grocery store and there is a place to do laundry, have a shower and get gas. In addition to the lake, the Rio Chama river is also close by.


