The diverse nature of dining helps to give an area its atmosphere and New Jersey restaurants are a cosmopolitan mixture. There is something for every taste and budget, attracting residents and visitors alike.

For homegrown fare, The Bicycle Club has the best in traditional American food with continental dishes also on the menu. It is located at Englewood Cliffs, near the George Washington Bridge. The discounted Early Dinner Specials between 4.30p.m and 6p.m on Mondays to Saturdays are very popular. New Yorkers like to relax on Sunday mornings in New Jersey restaurants and there is a filling Sunday Buffet Brunch here.

The most popular meals on the menu include Linguine, Roast Rack of Lamb and Rib Eye Steak. A take away service is also available. Sports lovers gather to watch the big events, choosing from seven TVs. The restaurant can be hired to host private functions, catering to 20 - 100 guests.

Authentic French cuisine is on offer at the fusion Bistro En in Bergen County, where Japanese style dishes are also featured. Japanese flavors can be experienced with sushi and sea urchin. Diners can chill out after their meal in the bar next door, known as the Lounge Zen. Some of the bistro menu is also available here and customers can kick back with a cocktail or a glass of sake. The lounge presents DJ Nights, Open Mic Nights, art exhibitions and jazz gigs. This unusual member of the New Jersey restaurants scene also caters weddings and other events.

Another unusual combination can be found at Jose O'Reilly's Pub and Cocina, where Mexican and Irish cuisine sits side by side. There is also a selection of pizzas to choose from. All the old Mexican favorites are there, including nachos, tacos and fajitas. Other popular choices include Goat's Cheese Salad and Fried Calamari. The Irish community is represented with tasty Bangers and Mash, Irish steak and Fish and Chips. There is a children's menu and a games room to keep the family entertained. The wine and cocktail list is extensive and there is a wide choice of draught beer, including Guinness. 

Seafood is a favorite form of food with New Yorkers and New Jersey restaurants contribute some tasty dishes. The Fulton Crab House, close to the George Washington Bridge, has a varied menu that contains many ingredients bought daily from the local fish market. Diners are treated to lobsters, oysters, clams and bay scallops. There is also Dungeness Crabs, Dover Sole and baby octopus, imported from Greece.

