My daughter always seems to have a big long list of things that she wants for Christmas and her birthday. One thing that she always asks for is a newborn baby doll, and so far, I have yet to find her one that is like she describes. However, I think there is a new one on the market this year, and because my husband and I are thinking of having a baby, this might be something that she should have. It will do her good to learn what it means to care for a baby and to be gentle and kind with a newborn.

The newborn baby doll I saw recently is one that wets after you feed it. I’m not too sure how thrilled I would be to give her one of these, but it is certainly more realistic than most of the dolls you can buy. She would have a lot of fun with it, and she would learn something too, and I suppose that is the whole point. I’m not sure if I want to get her a boy or girl, but I do see that they have both. I know there have been dolls on the market before that did the same thing, but I have to think these are the best as they are the newest.

There are some newborn baby doll toys that do not wet, but they are very realistic looking. Some of them are collectors items, and others are made for children to play with. Some of them look so much like a newborn that you may not be able to tell the difference, at least from some distance. Other newborn baby dolls are not made to look realistic, but they are cute none the less. These are often younger versions of current and popular dolls that are already on the market, and can be a lot of fun for your children as well.

For the best selection of these types of dolls, you can have a look online to see what they have. You can find many sites that sell these, and one of them will have the perfect newborn baby doll for your needs. You can find them in all races, and with all types of hair and eye color, though granted, some of them have no hair at all. If you want something to reflect what your children many have looked like as newborns, you may find something pretty close. If you are shopping for the holidays, remember to order early so it gets to you on time and can be ready and waiting for your children when your holiday arrives.