Sometimes, buying Christmas presents can be awkward. All of us have those acquaintances who we have to remember, but don't know exactly what to buy for. If you buy a full blown Christmas present, you might make the recipient feel a bit uncomfortable, as he or she has probably not gotten you anything all that special. If, on the other hand, you do not get the person anything at all, it might be seen as a snub. That is why having a few novelty gift items on hand can really come in handy.

For Christmas gift ideas, it often makes sense to give a novelty gift item that has something to do with the holidays. Every year I get my kids together, and we spend the whole entire afternoon making handmade Christmas ornaments out of clay, bead, paint, and rhinestones. Although not all of them turn out perfectly, they are usually good enough to give to our casual acquaintances – those people we do not want to lose, but don't exactly want to be good friends with either.

Of course, if you are not really the “do it yourself” type, there are quite a few different novelty gift item stores around that will sell you the novelties you need for the holiday season, or for any occasion at all. Coffee mugs are always a welcome addition to any household. In my house, we break an average of two coffee mugs a year, so at any time we can probably make use of an additional one. If the coffee mug has some clever little drawing involving a snowman and a little boy with rosy cheeks, so much the better. After all, a novelty gift item without character is hardly a gift at all!

A good strategy is to keep an eye out for novelty gift item stores wherever you go. After all, you never know when you are going to find something that will come in handy the next Christmas season. There are literally thousands of adorable trinkets out there just waiting for you to pick up. They let your friend or business associate know that you care without putting a hole in your pocket. It might seem silly to be giving trinkets away, but from time to time, it can be just the perfect gesture. And if you end up having no use for your novelty gift items, you can always give them to your kids or sell them on Ebay.