Oil Of Olay

One of the products I have known my whole life is Oil of Olay. If you think about it, it is quite a funny name. My mother always used these products, and many of them that she used when I was a little girl are still around today. Perhaps this suggests that these products work for a while, and that once people try them they don’t want to use anything else. I have a few of their products in my own bathroom, and I’m happy with what they do.

Perhaps the most popular Oil of Olay product is their moisturizer. It works rather well without being too greasy, and always leaves my face feeling soft and smooth. Though there are some mornings when I feel like I look 20 years older than I really am, many tell me that my face looks very young for my age. This may indeed have something to do with my use of Oil of Olay moisturizer. I also have a few friends who use it, even though we don’t want to admit that we are old enough to need a daily moisturizer on our face.

Oil of Olay has quite a few different other products as well. I have recently begun to use their cleanser, and I find that it is very gentle on my face, but also very effective in removing makeup and dirt. There are many times when I have used the Oil of Olay cleanser and have been shocked to see what was on my skin. Throughout the course of an average day, your face becomes dirtier than you think it does. Using a good cleanser along with a good moisturizer is one of the keys to keeping your skin looking soft, smooth, and young. 

If you’re interested in trying Oil of Olay products, you may be put off a little by the price. At times, you may go to their web site and find free samples. You may also get some of the samples in your mail. You might want to try a few samples of Oil of Olay to see if you like what they can do for you. Once you have tried them you may find that the price is very much justified. There is a reason they have been around for so long, and that is because this is one product that tends to work on almost any type of skin.
