You may have a tree in your home for the holidays, but you and your family are usually the only ones who enjoy it until you have guests over to your home. If you want to spread more cheer, but don’t feel like hanging lights and other assorted things outside for décor, you can always have an outdoor Christmas tree. These can be a great touch when you don’t want to have a lot, but want to bring a little of the spirit you feel out to your neighbors and anyone who might walk or drive by.

If you already have a pine tree outside in your yard, you already have a great outdoor Christmas tree that you can use. What is really great is that your tree is not just for Christmas; it grows all throughout the year. You can even decorate it for other holidays if you want to. You can find some good battery operated lights that are okay to hang outside, you can use those on your tree without having to worry about running extension cords to the house for power. 

When you apply any type of ornament or decoration to your outdoor Christmas tree, you have to be sure they are securely tied on to the tree. When you hang ornaments inside, you can usually have them dangle from a hook, but those trees do not have to contend with wind, rain, and snow. What you should do is find some type of bendable wire you can use for this purpose. You could also use twist ties that normally come with storage and garbage bags to be sure everything is secure. If you can find them in green, they will blend right in with the tree and no one will know what you have used to keep things on the tree.

If you have a porch, you may be able to put up an artificial outdoor Christmas tree, but you have to use the same precautions with the ornaments as you would with any other tree. You also have to be sure that you have the tree secured as well. It won’t matter if your ornaments stay on if the tree blows off your porch and down the street. You can find ways to secure them so that you can enjoy them year after year, and you wont have to go hunting down the street for it each morning when you wake up.