Paper Dolls

When I was a little girl my cousin and I played with paper dolls all the time. They were quite popular then, but probably not as popular as they were when my mother was a child.  My favorite paper dolls were Holly Hobby if I remember correctly. There were all sorts from which to choose though, and we always had fun comparing and trading our dolls. I haven’t seen many of them lately, but when I find some, I will be sure to buy some for my daughter, perhaps if only for the sake of nostalgia.

Something tells me that my daughter will love to play with paper does as much as I did. The toys of today almost all need batteries, but there is something to be said for the simpler toys. This is perhaps why I wanted to get her Lincoln Logs this year for Christmas, but I didn’t because I couldn’t find any. I guess I was looking for some toys that I enjoyed when I was a child, because I was tired of having to replace batteries in every single thing that she has. Though I know it will be hard for her to keep track of her paper dolls, perhaps it might be a good way to teach her about responsibility.

Paper dolls are always something that could be done when my mom needed quiet. I understand that children are noisy sometimes, and sometimes parents just need a little peace. I always seemed to calm down and relax when playing with my paper dolls, and perhaps that is why my mother kept buying them for me. When my aunt was asked to baby sit, she always got up the paper dolls for my cousin and me to play with. Perhaps it was a secret mothers trick that we were not wise to at that time.

If you really want some paper dolls for your daughter or your son, and you cannot find them anywhere, you can make them on your own. You can probably find downloads online that you can print out at home. If you’re making paper dolls for your children, make sure you paste the paper onto some cardboard to give them some strength. The clothes that will go with the paper dolls can be left as strictly paper, but remember that they will probably tear rather easily. Make sure you print out plenty of clothes and have some extras for when they need more.