Are you a hair fanatic? It seems like all the women I know are obsessed with their hair. Take my wife for example. The lady purchases so many darn shampoos. One week it's a shower rack full of Paul Mitchell haircare products, the next week it's Aveda. Let me tell ya, the process never ends. I honestly believe the woman is addicted to hair care. Being a man with short hair, I'm not seeing the desire. I'm all for washing and going. I want nothing to do with flat irons, blow driers, curlers, hair spray, and mousse. You can have it all, ladies. 

Have you ever stopped to ask yourself "What makes Paul Mitchell haircare products different or superior to drugstore brands like Suave or Pert?" And are they actually better for your hair? Hmm, this is a legitimate concern. From what I've read, there aren't many differences between the high-end Paul Mitchell haircare solutions and the cheaper supermarket stuff. Does this shock you? Many of these shampoos and conditioners have similar or the same ingredients in them, and as it turns out, you're paying a lot for the name. So, now you have to ask yourself; how much is that name worth to you? Personally, I can't say that it's worth a great deal to me. I have a perfect example. I purchased box FX molding wax and Crew pomade. The Crew product cost me close to 20 dollars, while the FX wax cost me 5. Although the scent of the Crew pomade was pleasant, I preferred the FX molding wax because it worked so well. These days I continue to buy the FX product. It may not be a high-end Paul Mitchell haircare paste, but it works better than any I've tried, and you can't beat 5 bucks. 

Awapuhii is one of the key ingredients in Paul Mitchell haircare. If you read the back of every product, you'll likely see this bizarre ingredient. It's most likely a plant extract that offers the follicles nourishment. Plant extracts and natural ingredients are a big deal now days. Anyway, the next time you're shopping around for some fancy Paul Mitchell haircare products, you might want to check out the lower-priced competitors first, just to see how the ingredients compare. 