Working in a plant nursery for years, I have seen firsthand the advantages of growing your own plants. Although artificial plants have come a long way, they just don't compare to the real thing. People in plant nurseries know. The effects are subtle at first. You start working there and suddenly, you aren't so exhausted after work. You have a smile on your face more. You might have worse allergies, but you also have a better outlook. Just working in plant nurseries does wonders, and tending to your own plants is even more. After all, when plants are your own, you get to reap the benefits. You can eat tomatoes from your very own tomato plants, enjoy your own beautiful flowers, and even dry them and keep them once the season is over.

If you have never grown anything before, nursery plants are definitely the way to go. A Plant nursery specializes in a wide variety of different plants. Although it might be tempting to buy something exotic and beautiful the first time you're there, you should probably ask the advice of someone who works there. It is better to grow something that is rather ordinary, but easy to take care of then to buy something that is so exotic and specialized that it will die within a week of you buying it. The people who work in the plant nursery know what they are doing, but you might not.

Of course, plant nurseries have all kinds of different tools to make things easier for you. One of my favorites is the seed planter tray. Basically, a see planter tray is a plastic tray filled with Pete Moss discs. In order to start a plant, you put a couple seeds on each disc, water them, and let them grow. Then you trim away the weaker ones, allowing the stronger ones to prosper. It is one of the very easiest ways to start growing seeds, and you will be guaranteed to enjoy the results.

If you don't want to buy a fully grown plant in the plant nursery, this can be one of the best ways to start. You see, the first few weeks of germination are critical. By using a seed planter trays, you can guarantee that your plants get a good start. After that, it is up to you to take care of them. If they are strong and not sickly, that will be much easier for you to do.