My husband and I are very involved in our church community. Six years ago we moved to this community and did not know anyone. We decided that a good way to get to meet people was to join the local church. We are fortunate that there are two churches of our denomination that are close to our home. One is three miles from our house and the other is five miles. We decided that we would attend services at both churches to see which one we liked better. After switching from one church to the other over a two month period of time we decided to join the church that was closest to us.

When we registered with the parish the pastor had us fill out a time and talent survey. This survey explained the different committees and areas that volunteers were needed in. My husband signed up to be a lector and we both signed up to be Eucharistic ministers. I also signed up to be on the parish life committee. This committee is responsible for planning social and educational events for the parish members. Because we do the social functions we are also in charge of purchasing items for the parish center. This year our addition was completed and several classrooms were opened for religious education. We needed tables for the rooms. We decided that we would place the heavy folding tables into the classroom and replace them with a plastic folding table in the fellowship area.

Our fellowship area is used for social functions as well as meetings. The area can accommodate up to two hundred people. A plastic folding table made more sense for this area because it would be lighter to move around for the various functions. Many times the funeral lunches that are held in this area after the memorial services are staffed by women. It would take three of them to set up the heavy wooden table where one of two where able to handle the plastic folding table. We made the decision about the tables in a meeting and then two of us went to pick them out. We found a white plastic folding table at a restaurant supply. The table was sturdy, light weight and easy to keep clean. We decided to order two dozen of the tables for the space. They were much less than we had thought they would be so we had room in our budget to buy the plastic folding chairs that matched the tables. The fellowship area looks very nice with the white tables and chairs. The tops of the tables are so nice looking that we do not have to use table clothes to cover them.
