public records search

If you are looking for someone, you may or may not find them with a public records search. These are often hard to do unless you are looking for someone locally. Even then, you may not find what you are looking for because of many different changes that may have occurred. You can pay someone to do this type of search for you, but they may turn up empty handed too. However, if you really don’t know where someone is, and you really need to find them, this is one of the first things you can do.

If you are looking for someone who has died, you will probably find this rather quickly, and you can usually find it online. Though there are not always these types of public records on the Internet, someone with a rather unusual name might pop up right away. If you want to, you can search the Social Security Death Index. If you know their SS number, that might help. I found someone using this method of public records search, and it was a very sad discovery. If you find them there, that means they have passed on.

Other times, a public records search might pull up a marriage. This is great if you are looking for a woman, because if her marriage does not come up, you might be looking for her by the wrong last name, and you may never find her. You might try to look for her dad, if you knew his name, but that might not work either. The public records search is only as good as the source. Many things are not available online, and you might have to go to where you think they live to find public items like these.

You can pay someone to do your public records search, and it might not cost you very much. You should be aware that this is probably the way to go if you are looking someone up for ‘delicate’ reasons, or if the person you are hoping to find lives far from you and you can’t make the trip. You should supply these people with everything you know about the person you are looking for to give them a leg up on the search. They may not find them for you, but the more information they have to go on, the better their chances. Even names of a last-known boyfriend might help, as he might be traceable as well.