So many things separate our species. You've surely noticed this. There are politics, opinions and religions. But, probably one of the most common aspects of our species is race. We all notice this. It's something that's in our face at all times. Even though we're made the same way, with two arms, two legs, a head and flesh and bone, we still judge, fear and scrutinize one another. It's innate I suppose. There's always some small part of us that feels different. Needless to say, this issue has been quite prevalent in our society and current events. Almost every day you can watch some racial issue on the news. And what about racial profiling? Is this okay or does it make things worse? 

Take a look at our nation's crime. If you were to examine the prisons alone, you'd assume that most is committed by black men. However, much has to do with nurture/environment. This is a factor commonly overlooked by the layman. The truth is that much relies on how we're raised. Economic and social issues play a part in criminal behavior; as do parents. Then there is the whole concept of racial profiling with criminal activities. Can we really conclude what race of individual did what, based on the crime itself? Well, this can be a bit tricky, and needless to say it comes across as stereotypical. However, on the contrary, it seems to be pretty effective. Take serial killers for example. Now, remember this is based on statistical evidence accumulated over many years. In general authorities, and even the public, assume a serial killer is a white male. He's probably in his late 20s to mid 40s. Again, this is fairly generalized, but I'll bet you get the picture. 

Do we have a problem with racial profiling? Hmm, this is actually a tough question to answer. In all truth, some folks will and others won't. Even though racial profiling has proved helpful in some cases, it can also be burdensome. No one wants to be snagged off the streets for doing absolutely nothing, simply because they fit a statistical profile and were in the wrong area at the wrong time. So, in short, racial profiling is an iffy concept. Any time you deal with race, there is plenty of tip-toeing involved. 