In the hustle and bustle of the holidays, it can be quite easy to forget the true meaning of the season. People get so carried away with getting the right Christmas decorations, picking out Christmas trees and gifts for family members, and planning delicious Christmas dinners, that they sometimes do not even think about the religious meaning behind the holiday. That is why a religious Christmas gift is such a considerate present. In the grand scheme of things, your son and daughter will get by without that new videogame or movie. Religion, however, is our anchor in this life. A Christian Christmas gift can help to hold us more strongly to this anchor.

The best religious Christmas gifts are the ones that will be used. Sometimes, a personalized Christmas gift containing a favorite bible passage in a decorative setting is a really good present for a wayward relative. You can help your son, daughter, niece, or even uncle to return to the path. It is amazing how much power persistence has in this regard. Making sure to get a religious Christmas gift for the same relative every year will eventually win him or her over if you are willing to persist for long enough.

Of course, although it is less important, it can be a lot more fun to get a religious Christmas gift for someone who is actually with you in the faith. Maybe the latest installment of the exciting and exceedingly well-written “Left Behind” series will bring a smile to your brother’s face. Perhaps a new manger scene, done with contemporary figurines, will help to show how the story of Christmas is still relevant to the modern world. And of course, a new crucifix or other religious icon will come in handy without a doubt

One of the best religious Christmas gifts that you can get for someone is a charitable donation in his or her name. Last year, I gave our church missionary a very generous check in my mother’s name. She was really proud of me, and the leader of the mission was quite appreciative. There is so much work left to do, after all, and my mom was happy to know that I gave  a religious Christmas gift in her name that will really make the world a better place. We both get to feel like we are helping the world. Can you think of a better way to feel on Christmas? 
