Some toys are forever. Maybe it's a doll from your childhood, or a special fire truck. For me it's not a particular toy, but rather a certain kind of toy. Who's down with the remote control hobby cars? I can't get enough of these mean little machines, and there's always more coming out. You know what it's like when you strive to collect something. The only problem is it's not like you can run all of these radio controlled vehicles at the same time. This is exactly why I search and search until I finally find the best RC car on the market with the most upgraded features. That's the one I buy. Well, as long as the price tag is not too fat. 

For all the laymen out there, radio controlled vehicles can cost a ton. Then again they can cost you ten bucks as well. It all depends on what you're shopping for. If you're in the market for a quality built, fast remote control hobby car or truck; think along the line of 100-1000 dollars. This is a somewhat broad, but realistic price range. It's doubtful you will find many amazing RC vehicles for under 100 bucks. At least not if you expect them to pack a punch. Let me give you an example. I have a Traxxas off-road truck that's outstanding. It runs on a 7.2 volt battery pack and hits speeds of 35 miles per hour. That's awesome! Let me tell you, it's amazing zipping up and down the neighborhood at those speeds. People are shocked when they see it go. I found this particular remote control hobby vehicle on sale for 150. You can't beat that. Traxxas is one of the top RC brands. Not to mention HPI and Nikko. Just so you know, Nikko tends to appeal to the younger crowds. So if you're an adult and looking for a mean RC machine, I'd look into Traxxas and HPI. 

Modern radio controlled vehicles hit phenomenal speeds. You can find remote control hobby cars and trucks that max out at 75 or 80 miles per hour. Generally these will cost you 350 and up. And don't expect these super-charges RC cars to run on batteries alone. Try nitro fuel. If you want the HIGH speeds for racing and such, you have to go with the gas powered remote control hobby vehicles. These are solely for outdoors, but well worth the cash. 