My children have been a blessing to me in many ways. I never thought I would enjoy parenting as much as I have. Watching them mature and develop into warm intelligent adults has been a wonderful process. My oldest son is in his graduate program, my daughter is finishing with her degree in education and my youngest son is midway through his bachelor degree. They have each taken a different career path and have enjoyed their journey.

Time has passed so quickly. It seems like only yesterday when we were teaching counting and colors to the children and now we are listening to their discussion of research paper topics that they are interested in writing on. As I listen to them discuss the various research paper topics I am amazed how intelligent each of them is in their field of choice. Our oldest son has always been a great student. He excelled in high school and his under graduate degree. In his graduate work the research paper topics are getting more complex and involved. He is finding that he enjoys doing the research. He likes combing through old documents and articles to gather the background information necessary to write on the various research paper topics that he is choosing. One article was so well written that his professor told him to submit it to a professional journal. My son was reluctant, but sent the article in. The journal accepted and published the article and sent him a list of related research paper topics that they would like him to write future articles on. Being published in a respected journal in his field has gained him a fellowship which is paying for the majority of his education.

My youngest son struggles more with writing the various research paper topics. When he was in high school we would have to push him to get the papers done. He is finding that following some of his brother’s research techniques is helpful to him. He knows he will not going into a career that is going to feature doing research. My daughter is also taking tips from her older brother to find ways to motivate her students into doing research. The key is to find a topic that you have an interest in so that the research material will be enjoyable to go through. 

Our oldest son has been offered a job with a newsmagazine to complete articles related to news stories. He was not planning a degree in journalism, however he is going to take the job and see where it will lead. He likes the fact that he will have a great deal of material available to him that he would not be able to access without the magazines credentials behind him.
