New Mexico has many attractions and there is a range of accommodation available. Roswell is a popular tourist destination and stay over for business people. It's well known around the world as a pilgrimage for UFO enthusiasts but it has other things to offer too. A Roswell hotel is a good base to see the Bottomless Lakes State Park, the Bitter Lake National Wildlife Refuge and the Robert H. Goddard Planetarium.

The Best Western El Rancho Palacio Motor Lodge, part of a famous chain, is a motel with 45 guest rooms. There are handicapped accessible rooms, spaces for truck parking and a heated swimming pool. Pets are allowed and there is a complimentary breakfast and hot tub on site. Rooms contain a coffee maker, hair dryer, iron and ironing board and cable TV. This accommodation is just two miles from the UFO Museum and very close to a golf course.

The Ramada Inn is, of course, part of another respected chain and this particular Roswell hotel has 58 guest rooms. Amenities include a business center, meeting room and fitness center. There is also express checkout, heated swimming pool and laundry and valet service. Rooms contain cable TV access and guests can order in room movies. There are golf and fishing facilities nearby.

The La Quinta Inn and Suites is one of the more recent additions to the Roswell hotel scene and was completed in 2005. The 89 guest rooms contain a microwave oven and cable TV. Guests are given a free newspaper and can make use of the business center, heated swimming pool, hot tub and fitness center. It is also close to the UFO Museum.

For guests on a limited budget, the Budget Inn is one of the least expensive on the Roswell hotel list and has excellent amenities, including a restaurant, hot tub and swimming pool. The staff is multi-lingual and guests have access to fax machines. The 42 rooms contain a fridge, microwave oven and kitchen. This hotel is near to the UFO Museum and the Roswell Mall.

The Roswell Inn offers accommodation in the middle price range and is one of the larger of the Roswell hotel establishments with 121 guest rooms. Services include room service and valet service and there is a restaurant and a meeting room. Some of the rooms are family rooms and guests have cable TV access and there is a swimming pool on site.
