The South Korean company of Samsung has a very successful electronics department, selling products all over the world. The Samsung digital camera range is particularly popular and has a reputation for offering quality performance and stylish presentation. The line divides into a different series, each with its distinctive features and user-friendly functions. The company has major retail outlets in America, Europe, Africa, Asia and Australia and intends to expand its product line in keeping with new technological advances.

The S Series contains the S850, an 8.1 megapixel camera with 5x optical zoom. The camera comes in a black case and has Advanced Shake Reduction and a 2.5 inch LCD screen. The high sensitivity setting of ISO 1600 gives sharp images indoors and in the dark with no blurring. The video recording comes with a movies stabilizer function and built in movie editing.

The L Series has the L83T with 8.2 megapixels and 3x optical zoom. The slim camera is available in silver, red or black and can be charged up on a power point for a laptop or desktop computer with a single charge cable. This Samsung digital camera is particularly suitable for portrait photography as it has a Face Recognition function. This focuses on faces in the frame and adjusts the brightness accordingly. The movie recording facility records in wider images than other cameras.

The NV Series offers advanced products, such as the NV11, operating on 10.1 megapixels and 5x optical zoom. It uses a Schneider Kreuznach lens and a large, 2.7 LCD screen. The menu is easy to navigate, using a smart touch system and there is a user-friendly photo gallery for playback. There is an ISO 1600 high sensitivity setting and an anti-shake function that runs with or without flash. Red eye is eliminated and there are advanced movie shooting features. There are twelve scene modes on this Samsung digital camera, including portrait, children, beach, night, landscape and fireworks.

Digital SLRs have become very popular, especially with professional photographers and those who treat photography as a serious hobby. The GX-10 has an impressive 10.2 megapixels and 11 point auto focus. The weatherproof body on this Samsung digital camera is sealed, keeping out rain, dust and sand, making it the ideal camera for any environment. The viewfinder has a 95% field of view and the multi exposure shooting mode is good for capturing fast moving sporting moments. The anti-shake function works well in poor light conditions and the continuous shooting feature produces up to nine shots per second.
