Seafood Recipes

Whether you live near the coast or in the Mid-West, explore the bounty of the sea with seafood recipes you’ll fall for hook, line, and sinker! Go online to find delicious recipes complete with ratings, reviews, and cooking tips. Check out the Catch of the Day on Allrecipes.com, which features a large collection of seafood recipes brimming with classic techniques and innovative flavor combinations like these mouth-watering selections: Sesame Seared Tuna, Coconut Shrimp, Cathie’s Clam Chowder, New Orleans Jambalaya, and lots more. Find everything from fish to shellfish, appetizers, pasta, salad, soups and chowders, in addition to grilling and barbecuing techniques. If you’re a fan of mussels and down-home clam bakes, you’re sure to find a recipe you just have to try. And let’s not forget salmon, the king of seafood; it’s so versatile and flavorful it’s perfect every time. Get the family busy in the kitchen with fun and fabulous shrimp recipes, or whipping up a new marinade for skewers.

Thanks to the internet an abundance of great seafood recipes are at our fingertips anytime. An assortment of recipes for different types of seafood organized by species, including preparation, storage, and nutritional information can be found at Sea-Ex.com, offering retail and wholesale seafood sales. Sea-Ex has delicious seafood recipes for all types of fish, shellfish and other seafood, including abalone, barramundi, catfish, clams, cod, crab, crayfish, lobster, mahi-mahi, fish fillets, mussels, octopus, oysters, orange roughy, prawns and shrimp, salmon, sardines, scallops, shark, perch, snapper, squid, swordfish, tilapia, trout, tuna, and great bear batter recipes for fish; a simple version and a beer batter with herbs and spices. It doesn’t matter what type seafood recipe your palate is craving, Sea-Ex has it. Popular wine pairings are also suggested for wines from Pinot Grigio to Zinfandel, in addition to great cookbooks, fish photos and general seafood information. 

While on your internet search for delicious seafood recipes, be sure to stop by www.seafoodfish.com, which has an interesting collection of recipes for catfish, flounder, halibut, walleye, lobster, salmon, sea bass, and others from cookbooks published between the years of 1747 and 1903, with additional seafood recipes from Key West, Florida. Also featured in this cookbook, is a bibliography containing a complete list of the cookbooks used, as well as the general information about cooking fish and seafood that was included in these cookbooks. If you want to know how to broil live lobsters, open a lobster, or how to dress and roast lobsters or serve cold it’s here, or maybe you’re in the mood for a warm lobster bisque or chowder?! If you’re crazy for shrimp go to EatShrimp.com for shrimp scampi or other seafood recipes, including nutrition, health and dietary information. Seafood is a great way to keep your diet healthy. Did you know that eating seafood twice a week is good for your heart, brain, and entire body? Well now you do!
