Shirley Temple Dolls

If you’re asking yourself, “Shirley Temple Dolls?”, then you undoubtedly don’t know who Shirley Temple is, but you will by the time you finish reading this article! Shirley Temple Black is one of the most famous child actors since the invention of television. Shirley Temple made her way into the hearts of millions of people of all ages with her first movie "Stand Up and Cheer" in 1934; she was the most popular movie star of the Depression era as she captivated the nation with her singing, dancing, dimples, and charm. Some of her best known films are “Little Miss Marker” in 1934, “Heidi” in 1937, and the “Little Princess” in 1939. Many more movies followed, and Shirley Temple continued onward in her success until her teenage years. Even though Shirley Temple Black no longer appears on screen, she is alive and well, and continues to be an inspiration to her fans.

The Shirley Temple doll was marketed soon after the success of “Stand Up and Cheer”, and soon became the most successful dolls made up to that time. The first Shirley Temple dolls were first made by the Ideal Novelty and Toy Company during the 1930’s, and are highly sought after by doll collectors around the world. There are many sites dedicated to Shirley Temple dolls and collectibles, like www.allmydolls.com, featuring a comprehensive doll reference section, a biography of Shirley Temple Black, games, memorabilia, photos, and a nice selection of Shirley Temple dolls, accessories, and other items that were produced during the height of her popularity. 

All Shirley Temple dolls and accessories including dresses and jewelry are highly collectible today. To learn more about doll collecting and especially Shirley Temple dolls, visit www.collectdolls.about.com featuring a detailed history of composition and vinyl-made dolls made from the 1930’s to the 1950’s, in addition to desired characteristics and pricing information for collectors. Mint and complete 1930’s composition dolls and dolls in their original boxes can easily top $1000 in price. Also be sure to stop by www.shirleytempledolls.com to view a wide variety of affordable, quality Shirley Temple dolls and collectibles. Rare editions of the doll in original dresses can be quite pricey, upwards of $2000, and original packaging is available for some. All these dolls come to you pre-loved, and you’ll soon see why every little girl wanted one! Maybe you were one of them? Well want no more! Choose your favorite and give her a place in your heart!  
