One of the biggest problems among couples is the inability of one or both to fall asleep or stay asleep. It may sound trivial, but if you can not get a full night of sleep, nothing else will work out. Your job performance will go downhill, your social skills will start to degrade, you will become irritated with each other, and in general just not get along very well. People will try everything to sleep. They take drugs such as serotonin, melatonin, or even pharmaceuticals, they exercise in the morning or at night, they take walks, they read books – but nothing seems to work. Sometimes, however, couples miss out on some of the most obvious solution. A simple sleep mask, combined with some earplugs, can do wonders to help you live with a partner who is a restless midnight riser.

Not every sleep eye mask is the same. It took me and my girlfriend quite a while to finally get it right. I wake up in the middle of the night all the time, and it used to drive her crazy. It seemed like, almost every day, I would wake her up when I was getting up to go to the bathroom, read a book, or get a midnight snack.. When we got a sleep mask, however, things began to change. The first one we used was just a bandanna. It blocked out the light adequately, but it wasn't very comfortable. She said that it was a little bit too scratchy, and it didn't stay in place very well. The next one we got was too heavy although it was soft. Finally, we found the perfect sleeping mask. It was made out of a lightweight cotton covered with a dark, light blocking coating. It was whisper soft, featherlight, and as comfortable as a dream. She get to sleep immediately – with the aid of some ear plugs.

When I have to wear sleep masks, I have different tastes altogether. I like a sleep mask that feels substantial. Something heavy but soft on your eyes can actually be quite comforting. Lightweight sleeping masks can slip around, causing you to accidentally see the light. With a heavy one, however, you can be sure that it will stay in place all night. The most important thing, however, is to see what works for you. I have never seen a sleep mask that costs more than 10 dollars, so you can definitely afford to experiment a little bit. Once you find the right solution, you'll be glad that you took the time. After all, there is nothing more precious than a good Nights rest.


