Slow Cooker Recipes

I have been on the hunt for good slow cooker recipes for a long time, and I can’t seem to find anything that I like. I guess it is because I am very picky about what I like to eat, and many of the recipes that I come upon have something in them that I just can’t stomach. I am still searching though, and I hope to come up with at least ten of them that are really good and really easy to throw together. There are just days when I know I have a lot of work to do and I would rather spend my free time with my little girl than by cooking a meal. 

Slow cooker recipes are everywhere, and you can find them with a simple search online. The most common type are recipes for stew, but they all seem to have the same ingredients. The problem that I have is that I do not like cooked onions, and if a recipe calls for them, I won’t make it. My husband thinks I’m being silly, but I just can’t eat them. I like them raw on a burger or hotdog, but I cannot stand to have them in slow cooker recipes. Unfortunately, this cuts down my options quite substantially.

You may not be as picky as I am, and if that is the case, you should have no problem finding slow cooker recipes that you will love to make for your family. For the most part, you simply add the ingredients to your cooker, turn it on and let it go all day. You shouldn’t even have to stir it. You can even find great slow cooker recipes in your local grocery store. They have kits that are already put together and you usually find them in the freezer section. All you have to do is dump the contents into your crock-pot and turn it on. It doesn’t get much easier than that.

I may end up having to find slow cooker recipes that I can alter. Though this might take some doing, I’m sure there is something I can do. I am not a chef, but I do know how to experiment, even if it means ordering pizza a few nights when a few of my creations have not worked out like I had hoped they did. In the mean time, I will continue to search for slow cooker recipes that might be able to be used, and perhaps try a few from the grocery store.

