Dolly Parton has always made it known that she loves where she comes from. The Smoky Mountains of Tennessee are where she grew up and in addition to the creation of the Dollywood Amusement Park there have been a lot of other changes. One noticeable change has been the number of tourists flocking to this beautiful location. Given that the mountains are spectacular and the area residents so friendly it’s really no surprise that more and more people are discovering this hidden oasis each year. If you are considering a trip to Tennessee consider staying in a Smoky Mountain cabin.

With the introduction of the theme park many new hotels have popped up. Although this is certainly a comfortable way to soak in the local culture, it pales in comparison to staying in a Smoky Mountain cabin. In a cabin visitors can enjoy their own home away from home and can stay just one night or weeks at a time. It’s their choice.

Another appealing aspect of this type of accommodations is that you have much more room than any standard hotel can provide. In a cabin you’ll typically find a large kitchen, a sitting room, more than one bathroom and several bedrooms. Everyone in the family can have their own special space to enjoy. This makes staying a week or even two much more enjoyable. 

It may be surprising to learn that you’re not going to be paying much more than you’d expect to pay for a hotel room. In fact, in many instances it’s less expensive to rent a Smoky Mountain cabin than a hotel if you have several people in your party. An example would be a family with several children. Most major hotel chains add a nightly surcharge for each additional person in the room. A rustic cabin simply works out to be a much better deal.

Honeymooners should also consider the Pigeon Forge, Tennessee region when they are looking for a post wedding getaway location. You can stay in a luxury one bedroom Smoky Mountain cabin with a spectacular view, a hot tub and a fireplace. Considering the beauty of the majestic mountains that seem to envelop you when you are there, it’s easy to see why it’s considered a premier honeymoon location.

Once you visit you’ll be drawn back. Not just because of the charm of the region but also because of the welcoming nature of the locals. People in Tennessee are sunny and friendly and enjoy meeting folks from all corners of the globe. Book your Smoky Mountain cabin today and start soaking in this region’s natural warmth. 


