When a mom is responsible for keeping her floors clean she’s going to look for a product that is both easy to use and inexpensive. Trying to mop up after small children’s spills or pet accidents can be burdensome and time-consuming if you are working with a pail and a mop. It’s also unsanitary. With a Swiffer Wet Jet whether it’s a wet spot clean-up or washing the entire floor the job is done in a flash with little effort.

Most of us who are adults can remember being a child and being delegated to the floor washing chore. This usually meant filling a bucket with soapy water, getting either a string mop or a foam mop, rolling up our sleeves and getting to work. With the Swiffer Wet Jet system, it’s much simpler and after the job is done there’s no bucket to rinse or mop to wring out.

There are three main components to this cleaning system. The first is the handle. The handle can be purchased alone or in a Swiffer Wet Jet starter kit. The latter is perfect for someone just new to the Swiffer experience. In addition to the handle, you’ll also receive a bottle of the cleaning solution as well as a supply of Swiffer Wet Jet cleaning cloths.

The cloths are disposable and are designed to be discarded after one use. Some people may view this as wasteful but it’s important to bear in mind that a Swiffer Wet Jet cloth collects all of the dust and dirt from the surface of the floor. This contains bacteria and germs that you don’t want to come in contact with again. In the case of a regular mop you are simply reusing the same device to wash and rewash your floor. There is no way you are going to achieve the same deep down clean you would with a Swiffer Wet Jet.

Using it is very simple and don’t be surprised if your kids want a chance at cleaning the floor. All that is required is that you attach a Swiffer Wet Jet cloth to the handle, then spray the solution and start cleaning. The solution is attached to the handle so it’s an all-in-one operation. Once you are done, remove the cloth, toss it and store the Swiffer Wet Jet until it’s time to use it again.

You can wash any floor with it including the bathroom and kitchen floors. All that is required once you are done washing it is a few minutes drying time. After that, enjoy your spotless floor until the next grape juice spill or puppy accident. 
