Table top christmas tree

Until I had my own apartment, I had the idea that a table top Christmas tree was just for old people who didn’t have the energy to deal with a full sized tree. However, my very first apartment was barely big enough for my cat and I, so I had some issues when it came to the holidays. There was no way that I was going to not decorate for my favorite holiday; I just had to be a little bit creative. So, when my mother showed up with a three foot table top Christmas tree, I was determined to make it work for me. So, I set up the little tree on my coffee table and decorated it as best as possible. By the time that I was done with my decorating, I was pretty happy with everything. The candles in my windows looked wonderful and I positioned my coffee table so that my brightly lit table top Christmas tree was very visible from the outside. Quite a few neighbors complimented it.

A table top Christmas tree can solve a lot of decorating issues for small spaces and for people who simply don’t have the energy or means to go all out with decorating. Sure, old people will appreciate the little decorated trees in their retirement homes. There are lots of people who will spend their holidays in a hospital and won’t be able to enjoy the freedom of their own home traditions and décor. A table top Christmas tree would do wonders to cheer them up and fit nicely into any size hospital room. 

As the years have gone on, I’ve known more and more people who have decided that decorating has become too much of a burden for them. Instead of getting a live and full sized tree, they’ve decided to get an artificial table top Christmas tree. They still decorate the rest of their houses; they simply don’t have to deal with the rearranging of furniture to accommodate a huge tree for one month of the year. They don’t have to deal with little pine needles being dragged into every room of the house. And, they don’t have to deal with dragging it out to the curb after the holiday season is over. Nope, an artificial table top tree can simply be stored in a closet, basement or attic. In fact, you might not even bother taking the decorations off of it from year to year. Think about how much simpler parts of your holidays could be.
