With the rising popularity of the many travel discounts online, many have forgotten about the tried and true source that has always been around for great travel deals. The travel agent is someone who can help you find a great deal, and you get so much more with an agent than you will with any of the sites that you can find online. Some online sites offer extras and can be helpful, but nothing beats having a real live person who can help you out whenever the need arises. The next time you want to plan a trip, think about talking with someone at a travel agency before you go online.

When you go through a travel agency, you have a person on the other end of a phone should anything happen to you or your travel plans. If you miss your flight, they can do everything they can to get you on the next one, and you normally don’t have to do anything. They know what they are doing and what to say to make sure you are on your way as quickly as you can. If you find out that your reserved room was given away, your travel agency will get you another, and may even do so at a cheaper price.

The travel agency will also do all they can to find you the best deal. They may not be able to match what you can find online all of the time, but you may be surprised at what they can do. They may know about specials and packages that you can’t find anywhere else, and they will be more than willing to set you up with the deal that you can afford. They can book tricky flight times and stopovers that you may not want to have to deal with when booking your own flights online. They take much of the hassle out of planning a fun and affordable trip.

Because so many have turned to the online sites for booking holidays and vacations, the travel agency has to work even harder to keep your business. This means they are going to be more attentive than ever before, and may do extras just to surprise you and keep you happy. You can always go either way, but remember that going with a travel agency might be the best choice you ever made. Vacations are about relaxing, and the last thing you should have to worry about is making your own arrangements and trying to fix things when something goes wrong. Let someone else do the worrying for you.