Valentine's Day is a tricky holiday. You never really know how it is going to go until you have been dating someone for a while. You see, a lot of people don't like Valentine's Day, but no one doesn't want to celebrate it. For some people, it is important that they show that they aren't too involved in a  “Hallmark holiday”. If you are dating one of these, you need to come up with just the right Valentines day ideas. Thee valentines gift ideas can neither be too extravagant nor too cheap. They can neither be too enthusiastic nor too dry and ironic. In short, you need to play it just right.

If you are dating someone who isn't so excited about Valentine's Day, I recommend Valentine gift ideas that don't have that much to do with the holiday. When most people think about valentines day ideas, they think about Valentine chocolate. Of course, giving Valentines Day candy can be a great thing if you're dating a complete cheese ball, but if you are dating someone a little bit more sophisticated, you should forget it all together. You should consider Valentines Day ideas with candy only if they don't involve hearts. It's all right to be a little bit cheesy, but too cheesy can ruin your entire holiday.

Of course, no matter who you are dating, I've always thought that flowers make great Valentines Day ideas. Everyone loves flowers, especially when followed by dinner and a movie. Getting flowers always brightens up the house, and flowers are not so specific to Valentine's Day that they will come across as excessively silly. In short, flowers not only make a great Valentines Day idea, but a great idea for any time of year. 

But the best Valentines Day ideas are the ones that come from the heart. I don't mean sappy cards, I mean things that shows how much you love the person. I've always thought books make good Valentines Day ideas. Most of the people I go out with are big readers, and readers always love getting books. There is no better way to show them that you care. Not only do books make good birthday presents, but they also make good Valentines Day ideas. I guess it all depends on who you're going out with, as I said before. If you can't figure out what Valentines Day ideas to go with, perhaps you don't know the person as well as you thought you did.

