The holiday season is strongly connected to fond memories of years gone by. Consumers can embrace the spirit of years past by integrating antique ornaments into their collection of holiday decorations. A vintage Christmas ornament is not only an attractive addition it is also a lovely reminder of Christmases that have gone by.

Anyone who grew up during the 1960’s knows how popular the outer space theme was back then. People embraced all things futuristic. These elements emerged even during the holiday season. You can find plenty of wonderful Christmas ornaments in this theme including cosmonauts, space ships and iridescent orbs.

Some may find the irony in collecting antique holiday decorations that revolve around a futuristic theme to be intriguing. These interesting elements make for wonderful conversation and they serve as wonderful prompts for stories that kids really enjoy. You might want to look to the future for a vintage Christmas ornament.

There are plenty who find the futuristic theme to be intriguing but others might prefer to stick to a more traditional theme. You simply can’t go wrong by choosing a Father Christmas theme. There are so many holiday decorations that are inspired by Santa Clause that you are certain to find many different styles to suit your theme.

The benefit of choosing a Santa inspired theme is that you can choose from among many unique holiday antiques. If a Victorian holiday theme is appealing to you then you can look for the traditional Father Christmas decorations from the Victorian era. These Santa decorations are easy to spot with their long robes and antique colors.

Kris Kringle is a character that is strongly tied to this holiday and there have been countless representations of him produced over the years. Some of these representations have really stood the test of time. We commonly think of the burly white-bearded man in the red suit when we think of Santa. Many prefer to collect holiday decorations that stay true to this image. 

Santa is a great representation of the holiday season. However, there are some of us who really love to bring a little nature into our homes during this festive time of year. I commonly look for an animal-inspired vintage Christmas ornament. Of course, I have my fair share of Santa decorations around but I really love the animal characters.

The animal theme is another great choice for a collection of antique holiday decorations. There are plenty of wonderful nature images that can be incorporated beautifully into any home’s décor. Children love animals, too, so this makes for a perfect choice that will have the kids browsing through the tree’s decorations with awe. 

The best place to start looking for the right vintage Christmas ornament collection for you is in your heart. Try browsing online for some inspiration. You may find a theme that sparks some warm holiday memories for you. 
