Wall Speaker

A very long time ago my husband bought a surround sound system. We’ve had the same system for a long time because it works so well. To this day he is happy with what we have, so we have made no plans to upgrade, but something that happened the other day has made me think otherwise. Because these speakers are so old they are very bulky. As I was sitting on my couch the other day the wall speaker above me fell down and missed my head by a few inches. It’s not a large speaker, but it’s heavy enough cause some damage.

I did not put the wall speaker back up after that. It is sitting on the back of my sofa now. I’m afraid that if I put it back up I will get knocked in the head the next time. This speaker is one of the two back speakers that fills in the background noise when watching a movie in surround sound. It’s not essential, but without it, you might as well be watching with stereo sound. Even though each wall speaker we have right now works, I do think we might want to upgrade so that we have speakers that are not only lighter, but they will also be able to be hung more securely.

If you go out and buy a good wall speaker today, it will probably weight half as much as the one that almost knocked me out the other day. They will have more options for secure hanging, and will probably sound much better. Though the system we have sounds good and still functions well, I’m sure a new wall speaker in any position would sound better. Just don’t tell my husband this, as I am not quite ready to invest in a new system just yet.

If you want to upgrade your system, you might want to talk to a professional. You do have to be careful because you don’t want someone to sell you something you don’t need. You may be able to replace a specific wall speaker or two without replacing the entire set. Each speaker has a unique function in producing sound, so it stands to reason that you might not have to replace them all if you are having a problem. Remember that a good wall speaker is worth its weight in gold, but a room full of them might cost you just as much.