Winston Salem North Carolina

Listed as the fourth largest city in the state, Winston Salem North Carolina has an interesting past and a bright future. Much of its economic success stems from the tobacco industry. However, the Wachovia Corporation, one of the world's leading banks, has its headquarters in the city in the tallest building in the region. The Wachovia Center is also the only skyscraper in the world with a dome constructed in granite.

The city began as a settlement of Moravians, Protestant exiles from Europe who came in the 15th century. They are remembered today in the Old Salem district as part of a living history museum. Their way of life is re-enacted by museum staff in a series of re-constructed and original buildings, showing life in the 18th and 19th centuries in Winston Salem North Carolina. Trades such as gun making, carpentry, baking and the skills of blacksmiths are on show, along with a toy museum and exhibits of arts and crafts.

Many visitors enjoy the botanical garden at Reynolda Gardens, part of the shopping and business district of Reynolda Village. There are a variety of features and admission is free. There are four informal gardens, including a rose garden, a fruit garden, vines, vegetable plots and woodlands and wetlands. The gardens are further enhanced by quaint tea houses and fountains. The residents of Winston Salem North Carolina also like to support the arts and the Reynolda House Museum of American Art is very popular. Exhibits range from work from colonial times until the present day.

Tanglewood Park is a golf course and park, most famous for its hosting of the annual Tanglewood Festival of Lights. This is an important event on the calendar for the people of Winston Salem North Carolina. The drive through lights display brightens everyone's mood in winter. Visitors can also enjoy the Tanglewood Park Arboretum and Rose Garden.

The city is fortunate in having extensive facilities to present sporting and entertainment events. The Winston Salem Entertainment-Sports Complex is a series of venues, including the Lawrence Joel Veteran's Memorial Coliseum, a large arena for the staging of sports and concerts by world renowned performers. There is also a football stadium, baseball stadium, football field and racetrack. The Dixie Classic Fairgrounds holds an annual fair. There really is something for everyone in this city, a fact that will continue its economic growth, attracting more business and securing its future prosperity. 
