Say what you want about summer vacation, but for me winter holidays are the most exciting part of the  whole entire year. After all, in the summer I am usually already pretty relaxed. Even if I have to work, there is plenty to do in my off time. I can go swimming, hiking, camping, and even play sports. In the winter, however, the weather is awful all the time. It is cold, dark, wet, and miserable. A winter holiday is the best way to unwind from all of this. It is the best way to make the winter bearable.

Most people have a type of winter vacation that they prefer. Nowadays, the most popular winter holidays seem to involve traveling to a warm destination. Going to Hawaii, Maui, or some other tropical paradise is a great way to let go of those winter blues. On the other hand, a lot of people would rather take a ski trip. Rather than looking at the winter holidays as a time to escape the cold, dark weather, they find ways to enjoy it. Going to a ski lodge can be great recreation, and everyone enjoys relaxing by the fire with a warm cup of cocoa in the evening.

I like to switch it up. I usually go in for winter holidays in different years. That way, I never fall into a routine. Last year, for example, I went off to Hawaii. It was a little bit crowded there because of all the other tourists, but there was still enough beach for everyone. I went swimming, snorkeling, sailing, hiking along the miles and miles of oceanfront beaches. I even got to swim with sea turtles! That is why this year, I'm going to an Austrian ski lodge for my winter holidays. Although part of me is going to miss the tropical vacation I had last year, another part of me looks forward to this trip as an even greater adventure. After all, skiing is quite a thrill!

If you have the ability to set your own schedule, you should try to take your winter holiday during a time when other people won't be traveling. After all, airline tickets, hotel prices, and other costs of holiday travel go sharply down when you are willing to take your trip during the off-season. Waiting until just after Christmas and New Year's is a great way to experience cheap holiday travel to uncrowded destinations. 