Title: 
Best Small Business Idea - Overwhelm - Get It Out of Your Head

Word Count:
306

Summary:
Small business owners are often overwhelmed because they have to take care of everything in the business.  Here's a simple idea that helps get them started in the right direction.


Keywords:
Small business start up idea, Small business success story, Start up business resource, Best small business idea, Business plan sample small, Best start up business, Sample start business plan, Business resource group, Small business start up guide


Article Body:
If you are like most businesses owners, you’ve experienced overwhelm in your business at one time or another.  Maybe you experience it regularly and for good reason.  Hundreds of things are pulling at you at one time.  You’ve got marketing going, production to oversee, calls to return, employees that need your advice.  It’s never ending right?  How do you possibly handle it all?

Most of the small business owners that I talk to keep almost all of these things in their head.  I ask them where their business plan is.  It’s in their head.  I ask where their employee training manual is.  It’s in their head.  About the only thing that’s written down is their calendar of appointments.  Even a lot of their to-dos are in their head.  Here’s one simple and powerful way to get out of overwhelm—write it all down.

Your overwhelm is in your head because most of  how you run your business is in your head.  Start writing it down and you will start having less overwhelm.  Start taking a little time each day to document your business processes.  Make a list today of the processes that you haven’t recorded.  Cover marketing, production, training, accounting, etc. 

Then take one of these areas and document it in detail this week.  Each week, for the next few weeks document another area.  Within a fairly short period of time, you should have at least the basics of marketing procedures, production procedures, client follow up procedures, and employee training procedures in place.  In other words, you’ve now got business processes.  Processes that you can rely on.  Processes you don’t have to think about.  Processes that you will use to grow your business without all that overwhelm now that it’s not all in your head.


