Title: 
Computer Consulting: Should You Work With Micro Businesses?

Word Count:
279

Summary:
Computer consulting can handle losses from sweet spot clients easier than micro businesses. Make sure you are pursuing the most profitable business for computer consulting.


Keywords:
computer consulting, small business computer consulting, IT consulting


Article Body:
When it comes to computer consulting with micro businesses, look at the margins issue.  You will always have a certain amount of hours that you’re forced to eat because you can’t bill for it. When you have a larger base of computer consulting clients to spread it over, a loss is a lot easier to swallow. 

"Eating" a Loss is Easier with Big Clients Than Small Ones

For example, if you have a customer that’s billing $2,000 a year with you and you’re forced to eat a $500 job, you’ve sacrificed 25 percent of your billing for that customer.  If you have someone that’s billing $10,000 a year with you and you’re forced to sacrifice a $500 job once a year, that’s no big deal.

That’s a very small percentage. The bigger the client, the more you can afford to do things like that.

Are Micro Business Distracting You From Finding "Sweet Spot" Clients?

Is computer consulting for micro businesses taking away valuable time from cultivating more lucrative business? Only you can answer that question.

You have to make sure that you have enough time to go after the solid B2B small businesses where there’s at least 10 systems, a real server and they can afford at least $5,000 to $10,000 in IT services a year on an ongoing basis.  

Focus On The Larger Computer Consulting Clients 

Phase out your dependence on micro small businesses. As you start taking on additional larger clients, you’re going to find you have to make tough decisions anyway.  

Copyright MMI-MMVI, Computer Consultants Secrets. All Worldwide Rights Reserved. {Attention Publishers: Live hyperlink in author resource box required for copyright compliance}


