Title: 
Computer Consulting: 3 Questions To Ask Your Clients

Word Count:
392

Summary:
Computer consulting clients can be asked some simple questions for to help you get more customers and keep your current ones satisfied. Listen to the answers and use them to help grow your business of computer consulting.


Keywords:
computer consulting, small business computer consulting, IT consulting


Article Body:
From a customer service perspective, you can ask your computer consulting clients three questions that will explode the growth of your company.  

Question Number One:

“How Can We Improve the Level of Service That We Provide Your Company?”

Ask your computer consulting clients this question on a regular basis; at least a couple times a year. You will be amazed at the type of suggestions they give you.

They will tell you some things you’ll be able to implement without charging them another nickel or penny more because they’re simple no-brainer kind of things. For example, “Could you send us an email reminder the day before you’re coming in?” Obviously you don’t have to charge for something like that.

Some of the others may say, “It would be great if you could guarantee this kind of response time” or  “It would be great if you could also take over finding someone who can help us with our PBXs.”  

You’re going to get some ideas, some of which are going to make sense for you, some won't. Some of them may require a little more legwork and some of them may be great opportunities for additional revenue. 

Question Number Two:

“Is There Anything Else IT-related That Your Company Needs Help With?”

Question Number Three:

“Do You Know Anyone Else Such as Business Associates, Friends, Family Members in the Greater Area That Could Use Some Help With Their Computer-related Problems?”

Help Your Computer Consulting Clients Help You

Spend a minute or two to tell your computer consulting clients what they should look out for. If they happen to be on the phone with a vendor or supplier or family member and they’re complaining and moaning that everything’s running slowly or that the LAN’s down again or email’s not working or the server crashed.

Get your computer consulting clients trained to listen for those clues and let you know that there’s an opportunity out there. If they’re a long-term client of yours and they’re happy with you, they should be more than happy to recommend you.  All you need to do is ask and train them to be looking for these clues.

Copyright MMI-MMVI, Computer Consulting 101 Blog. All Worldwide Rights Reserved. {Attention Publishers: Live hyperlink in author resource box required for copyright compliance}


