Title: 
Disaster Preparedness in a Post 9/11 World

Word Count:
314

Summary:
So much has changed in the last several years after 9/11, and yet most businesses are still inadequately prepared for disastrous situations.  Not only are they vulnerable from the threat of terrorism, but from security and natural disaster standpoints as well.


Keywords:
 business continuity, disaster recovery, IT services, IT security


Article Body:
So much has changed in the last several years after 9/11, and yet most businesses are still inadequately prepared for disastrous situations.  Not only are they vulnerable from the threat of terrorism, but from security and natural disaster standpoints as well. While a terrorist act poses a substantial threat to business operations; data loss, internal and external theft, floods and fires can be just as harmful. Unfortunately, of the few businesses that have some semblance of a disaster preparedness plan, there is still little consideration given to business continuity management. When disasters happen, not only do businesses need to be prepared to immediately offset the effects of the detrimental event, they must do so while maintaining core operating functions. Disaster preparedness without continuity management can be likened to fortifying a strategic position without a progressive plan of action. What can make things more complicated is the tendency for businesses to implement a disaster preparedness plan without fully considering the consequences. 

A good disaster preparedness plan shouldn't hinder a businesses ability to continue functioning. Initiating a disaster preparedness plan that will protect the interests of the business should be an all inclusive affair, with due diligence given not only to limiting damage from the situation at hand, but to keeping operational status. Given the uncertainties faced by businesses in the post 9/11 world, continuity management can often mean the difference between success in the face of adversity or a complete loss of business. So often, companies take steps to limit their loss liability, but rarely consider the fact that most loss liability can be avoided altogether with the proper safeguards in place. A well thought out business continuity management plan, which should include a contingency centered around disaster preparedness, can prove triumphant in the face of what would otherwise be considered tragedy. As the old saying goes, "An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure".


