Title: 
Five Money-Saving Travel Tips for Small Businesses

Word Count:
283

Summary:
Small businesses often need every break and discount they can get, and traveling can be one of the most costly areas for small businesses. Unfortunately, many of the best travel advantages only go to big businesses.


Keywords:
Five Money-Saving Travel Tips for Small Businesses


Article Body:
Saving money is a priority for any business, especially a small business.

Small businesses often need every break and discount they can get, and traveling can be one of the most costly areas for small businesses. Unfortunately, many of the best travel advantages only go to big businesses. 

To help your business compete, here are a few tips to make your traveling expenses a little more palatable.

* Search for cheap airfares. Internet search engines provide a great resource for cheap fares. Be sure to get on these sites' e-mail lists so you stay abreast of specials.

* Avoid alcohol. Drinking alcohol at meals can boost your bill. Stay away from adult beverages and you will be much happier when the check arrives.

* Stay in and watch a movie. By simply staying in your room at night and not going to bars or nightclubs, you can save yourself a lot of cash.

* Use free time for free attractions. Instead of heading to the golf course, go to a museum. Free attractions can be enlightening and easy on the wallet.

* Look for a deal on your rental car. You may want to join a discount program for car rental.

Car rental discount programs for business have traditionally only been offered to large businesses. But now, Thrifty's SmartBiz program is breaking new ground as the first car rental discount program designed specifically for small businesses.

With a SmartBiz account, you'll get low business rates with no minimum financial commitment. A free SmartBiz account also gets you unlimited miles, free additional drivers, free enrollment, no fees, no dues and no contracts. The account offers one free day of car rental after every 16 rental days with no blackout dates.


