Title: 
Handling the Purchase of a Business Phone System

Word Count:
350

Summary:
Purchasing a business phone system is not an easy endeavor, but with the right mind set and a little knowledge about business telephones, you can find a viable, budget friendly solution to your business' communication needs.
One of the first decisions you will need to make is whether or not to go with a key system or a Private Branch Exchange (PBX) system. Depending on how many individual stations you need and how rapidly you expect your company to grow, one of these two options should fit the bill.


Keywords:
Telephone, telephones, phone, phones, telephone systems, telephone system


Article Body:
Purchasing a business phone system is not an easy endeavor, but with the right mind set and a little knowledge about business telephones, you can find a viable, budget friendly solution to your business' communication needs.
One of the first decisions you will need to make is whether or not to go with a key system or a Private Branch Exchange (PBX) system. Depending on how many individual stations you need and how rapidly you expect your company to grow, one of these two options should fit the bill.
PBX systems work well for larger companies or those who expect to grow substantially in the upcoming years. At one time, PBX systems were considered to offer the best functionality and enable you to enjoy more features than key systems, although that has changed a lot in recent years. Now, for the most part, the biggest difference between the two types of systems is simply that PBX systems will allow for more stations than key systems. Of course, they are also more expensive.

For smaller business with less than thirty to forty employees, a key system might be a better choice. Key systems offer, for the most part, the same features that PBX systems offer but can be substantially cheaper. For businesses on the fringe, however, it pays to go with a PBX. If your company were to expand beyond the level of what your key system can handle, you would have to replace the entire system. 
 Whether purchasing a key system or PBX, professional installation will be necessary and is often just as costly as the phone system itself, so be sure to factor that into your budget. Also consider your leasing situation if your company doesn't own its own building. You don't want to pay for an expensive install only to have to change locations soon after. 
Ask your retail or wholesale phone system dealer for more detailed information on the types of systems available to you, including expansion options. He or she should be willing and able to guide you in making the right purchase for your business.


