Title: 
Health And Safety Is Most Likely To Be Outsourced

Word Count:
477

Summary:
Research, based on polls given to small and mid-sized managers and owners, has found that health and safety risk management is most likely to be outsourced. The research has found that although only a minority currently outsource many are considering outsourcing key corporate functions and the health and safety is at the top of the list. Only one in ten managers and business owners will outsource the management of accounting function; over 50% of these managers would consider or are currently outsourcing health and safety management.


Keywords:
safety, health, health safety, managers, program, safety program, management, effective, health safety program, outsourcing, –, owners, business, managers owners, insurance, cost, non, goals, risk, risk management,


Article Body:
Research, based on polls given to small and mid-sized managers and owners, has found that health and safety risk management is most likely to be outsourced. The research has found that although only a minority currently outsource many are considering outsourcing key corporate functions and the health and safety is at the top of the list. Only one in ten managers and business owners will outsource the management of accounting function; over 50% of these managers would consider or are currently outsourcing health and safety management. 

The main reasons for outsourcing, cited by respondents, is time saving, cost effectiveness, and allows managers time to focus on core business. Managers and owners of small businesses are considering outsourcing as a way of managing the very real risk of non compliance. Managers and owners may not also be aware of rules they need to follow or not have sufficient time or the right resources to comply with regulations.  

Many companies are finding it an increasing burden to comply with the health and safety regulations and are facing an increase in employer’s liability insurance rates and penalties. Complying with the regulations relevant to the business is the solution for insurance reduction. Not having a proper health and safety program in place can cost tens of thousands of dollars in fines should an accident occur. 

Each business is different and so each health and safety program should be customized as well. By starting with the basics, developing or even updating a health and safety program can be established. Maintaining compliance is made easier by establishing an effective safety management system.

A health and safety program is concerned with the prevention of occupational injury and ill health through pro-active strategy. It focuses on prevention through hazard assessment, risk management and pro-active controls and procedures.

Implementing these health and safety procedures will be done with behavioral change. Some programs can become weak and non effective because of:

No definition of safety practices – No written processes
No teamwork – Safety is communication from the top to bottom and vice versa. A well written plan will describe what roles everyone plays in safety policies.
No effective goals – The “accident free days” poster will come as a result of sound safety processes.
Wrong incentives – Money as a reward does not work well. Health and safety should be fun and worth employees effort. The right incentive plan can be cost effective and have obtainable goals. Incentive plans can include movie passes or simply “free coffee on the boss.” The insurance industry reports for a dollar spent on health and safety yields four to six dollars in savings.

Outsourcing the health and safety program will meet the goals on which the program was intended and overcome non effective measures. Monthly maintenance can be accomplished with little effort on the hosted company and can be completed in a timely fashion.


