Title: 
Ten Ways Your Small Business Can Benefit From a Virtual Assistant

Word Count:
679

Summary:
A Virtual Assistant can provide customized administrative support solutions to help your small business succeed.  Here are ten ways that a VA can help your business today!


Keywords:
virtual assistant, small business, business solution, administrative support, office support, Rosanna Tussey


Article Body:
Hiring a Virtual Assistant (VA) can be one of the smartest business moves you will ever make.  A good VA will be able to assist you in handling your administrative workload, allowing you more time to focus on growing your business and generating revenue.  Here are just ten of many ways that a Virtual Assistant can provide much-needed support to your small business:

1. General Administrative Support
If you ever wished you had an administrative assistant on call, a Virtual Assistant may be the perfect solution for you!  VAs can provide general administrative services such as word processing, data entry, spreadsheet and database maintenance, desktop publishing- the list goes on and on.  In fact, if you could give it to an administrative assistant, you can give it to a Virtual Assistant!	

2. Invoicing 
A Virtual Assistant can facilitate your invoicing, ensuring that your clients receive timely, accurate invoices.  By partnering with a VA to prepare your invoices, you can gain a tremendous amount of time each month to focus on other aspects of your business that require your specialized attention.

3. Email and Voicemail Management
If you get large numbers of emails or voicemails, a Virtual Assistant can manage your inboxes.  They can sort through the spam and reply to messages that don’t require your attention, leaving you with fewer messages to wade through everyday.  A VA can also provide you with a consolidated report of voicemail messages, allowing you to return a number of important phone calls from a single report.

4. Online Marketing Management
A Virtual Assistant can assist you with your online marketing plan.  They can manage your pay-per-click campaigns, post  articles, submit your website to search engines, add your website to online directories, create banner ads, prepare and send email newsletters, etc.  Since VAs make their livings online, many of them keep abreast of the latest trends in online marketing.

5. Customer Response
Use a Virtual Assistant’s services to keep existing and potential customers happy and returning.  A VA can effectively and efficiently handle customer questions and complaints in an appropriate manner.  By providing your customers with a timely, helpful response, a VA can help you build a stronger relationship with your customers.

6. Event Planning
Nothing is better than a well-planned event.  Enlisting the help of a Virtual Assistant in coordinating your seminars and company functions can take a tremendous amount of burden off your shoulders, allowing for stress-free coordination of your events.  They can make arrangements for the location, speakers, catering, photography, etc- and notify the attendees, too.

7. Travel Arrangements
Whether your business requires you to travel extensively or occasionally, a Virtual Assistant can help coordinate and consolidate your travel plans.  A VA can arrange your transportation, accommodations, in accordance with the meetings and events you will be attending.  They can compile a detailed itinerary for your trip, ensuring that your travels are well-planned and hassle-free.

8. Internet Research
A Virtual Assistant can efficiently perform internet research, consolidating the information you seek and saving you both time and money.  A VA can use their extensive research skills to your benefit, providing you with incredible value by investigating requested topics and providing the results in the desired format.  

9. Calendar Management 
Managing a busy schedule effectively doesn’t happen by chance.  Team with a Virtual Assistant to help you stay atop of important dates, appointments, contacts and events.  They can help you stay organized and prepared each day, with minimal effort on your part, reminding you of obligations and events ahead of time.

10. Project Management
Large and small projects alike can be managed by a Virtual Assistant.  A VA can keep your project on track by organizing and coordinating resources, objectives, deliverables, etc. They can relieve the everyday stress of project management while ensuring that deadlines are met and progress continues.

A Virtual Assistant can provide you with customized support solutions for your small business.  By teaming with a Virtual Assistant, the unique needs of your business can be accommodated while reducing your workload and providing you more time to grow your business and achieve your financial and personal goals.


