Title: 
Used Phones for the Small Business

Word Count:
416

Summary:
I recently updated the phone system for my business. We're a small company with just a handful of employees in an office about the size of a two car garage. We do a lot of business over the phone and although we could handle the call volume with our old system, I still felt (and was informed many times) that it was antiquated and hard to use.


Keywords:
Telephone, telephones, phone, phones, telephone systems, telephone system


Article Body:
I recently updated the phone system for my business. We're a small company with just a handful of employees in an office about the size of a two car garage. We do a lot of business over the phone and although we could handle the call volume with our old system, I still felt (and was informed many times) that it was antiquated and hard to use. I knew it needed to be brought up to speed so I consulted my employees and asked them to list the features that they felt would improve productivity and make their jobs easier. I then looked for phones and equipment that would meet our needs. I was somewhat in shock over the price of a new phone system. 

I didn't realize it could cost so much. Disheartened but not defeated, I kept searching until I found a vendor who offered the phone system we were looking for at a great price. It was substantially cheaper than the next closest competitor, which made me look a little closer. As it turns out, these phones were used. They weren't refurbished phones, and came with the same warranty as a new phone, but there was something in my psyche that turned me away from the idea of buying used electronics. Still, money is money and if they were going to give me the same warranty as a new phone system had, what did I have to lose. After talking to the vendor and voicing my concerns, I purchased nine phones and the line equipment we needed for a lot less than what it would have been brand new.

 The new system has been in place for several months now and everyone is quite happy with the improvement. The phones are reliable and we have never had a problem with them.  If you decide at some point to update your business phone system but don't think you can afford what you really need, look into buying used phones. You can save quite a bit of money and, as I've found out, they are a product that holds up well to daily use. I'm afraid that if I hadn't stumbled onto them in my search for the best deal, I might have never found the system I have now, and never even considered purchasing used equipment. If you find a reputable company to deal with that will back up their products, new or used, you can make a little money go a long way.


