Buying and Properly Caring for Anime Collectable DVDs

In the United States alone, it is estimated that thousands of individuals participate in a hobby that is commonly referred to as anime collecting.  Anime collecting involves the buying, storing, and possibly the reselling of anime collectables.  While many professional anime collectors, especially those looking to make a profit, tend to place their focus on collectable figures and figurines, there are many more items that can be added to an anime collection, including DVDs.

As previously stated, anime collectable DVDs are occasionally sought after by collectors.  Those who do so often enjoy the anime genre in general.  Although it is more than possible for collectible anime DVDs to be resold for a profit, it can sometimes be difficult to do.  With that being said, some of the tips outlined below can help collectors, like you, care for and properly store all collectable anime DVDs.  Should profits be a goal, these tips can assist anime collectors in meeting that goal.

The first step in creating an anime DVD collection that collectors themselves can be proud of, as well as a profitable collection, involves examining purchase points.  Anime movies and television shows on DVDs can be purchased from a number of different sources, including media stores, hobby shops, online specialty anime stores, traditional department stores, and through online auction websites.  Collectable movies and television shows that can later be resold for a profit should be rare or at least hard to find.  

In addition to carefully choosing anime DVDs to add to a collection, anime collectors are also encouraged to familiarize themselves with proper DVD care and storage.  This is particularly important for those interested in making a profit.  Perhaps, the easiest way to increase or at least maintain the value of an anime collectable DVD is by leaving the disc in its original package.  As soon as a collectable is opened, that collectable tends to decrease in value and the same can be said for DVDs.

If anime DVDs are purchased used or if the package must be opened, it is important to always keep that DVD stored safely in the case.  If your anime movie purchase did not include a protective DVD case, you will want to purchase replacement cases.  As a quick fix, CD jewel cases can be used.

When handing anime DVDs, especially those that are valuable or those that you plan to resell, it is important to handle with care.  All disc, including DVDs and CDs should never be handled by touching the bottom, readable side.  This may not only result in scratches or fingerprints, but it may also result in a decrease in value.  Since many collectors and anime dealers have a wide range of anime movies and television shows on discs to choose from, they often search for those that are in perfect condition, if not brand new.

In addition to simply just handing all collectable anime DVDs with care, professional collectors are encouraged to wear protective gloves.  These gloves, which often only cost a dollar or two, can help to maintain the like-new or new condition of anime collectable DVDs.  As previously stated, most anime DVDs are difficult to make a profit from when reselling, that it why any assistance, like with a scratch and fingerprint free DVD, is ideal for collectors looking to turn a profit.

PPPPP

Word Count 553
