Buying and Caring for Sci-Fi Collectible DVDs

In the United States and all around the world, there are thousands of individuals who enjoy the hobby of sci-fi collecting.  While many science fiction collectors choose to collect action figures, models, and other valuable collectables, these are not the only items that can be collected.  Many sci-fi collectors also choose to collect DVDs.

When it comes to starting a collecting of science fiction movies, there are many new collectors who wonder how they can get started.  First, collectors must examine their goals.  For example, are you interested in collecting sci-fi movies to watch or just to collect, or would you like to do both?  The answer to this question is important.

As for buying sci-fi DVDs and other films, collectors have an unlimited number of options.  A large number of retailers, including department stores, media stores, hobby shops, and specialty sci-fi stores sell these popular and in high demand movies, as well as television shows on DVD.  The internet is also a nice approach to take.  Generally speaking, the internet and locally owned and operated specialty sci-fi stores are the best way to find rare or older science fiction movies and television shows on DVD.

In addition to knowing where to buy collectable sci-fi DVDs from, all collectors are encouraged to know how to properly store and care for those DVDs.  This is particularly true for those who are looking to later sell their sci-fi movies and television show collections.  In these instances, collectable sci-fi DVDs are worth more money when they are left in their original package.  If at all possible, do this.

If you must open a collectable sci-fi DVD, be sure to leave all literature, such as chapter guides, in place.  As much as you may want to examine these brochures, you will want to try and refrain from doing so.  Finger prints and other hand oils may not be noticeable to the human eye, but many professional sci-fi collectible buyers use tools, such as magnifying glasses to their advantage.  This is just an important point to keep in mind, should plan to sell your sci-fi DVD collection in the future.

It is also extremely important to remember that DVDs are vulnerable.  If the DVDs, themselves, must be handled, be sure to do so with care.  Never touch the bottom, readable portion of a DVD with your fingers.  Doing so can result in fingerprints and possibly even a few scratches.  Although it takes a lot for a DVD to no longer work, even slight damage can reduce the value of an otherwise rare or valuable sci-fi DVD.

Storage is also just as important as handling care.  If you must open the package to one of your collectable science fiction DVDs, be sure to always return that DVD to its package.  If a protective DVD case wasn’t provided to you with your purchase, buy a replacement case yourself.  CD jewel cases also offer a nice form of protection.

In conclusion, the above mentioned steps can help you buy, collect, and possibly enjoy sci-fi movies and television shows that are available on DVD.  With that being said, if you are looking to collect sci-fi DVDs with the hopes of later selling that collection for a profit, try leaving the DVD in its original package.  If you cannot do so, consider buying an additional copy for your own personal use.

PPPPP

Word Count 561
