How to Properly Care for Sci-Fi Collectables

Are you interested in starting your own sci-fi collection?  Or, have you just started doing so?  If so, you are urged to take the time to examine proper care and storage.  While a large number of sci-fi collectable items, including model kits and figurines, have the potential to increase in value, that final value will be impacted by the care received.

Before focusing on ways that collectors, such as yourself, can properly care for and store sci-fi collectables, it is first important to touch on goals.  Many science fiction collectors have a number of different reasons and purposes for starting a collection.  These purposes may include a love or fan following of sci-fi movies, books, and television shows.  On the other hand, there are many sci-fi collectors who are referred to as investors.  These collectors invest in science fiction collectables with the hopes of later reselling them for a profit.  What type of sci-fi collector are you?

For many science fiction collectables to retain their values, all collectables that are new should be left in their original packages.  Collectors are urged against removing these packages, especially just for the sole purpose of seeing what was purchased.  Even those who collect for a love of this intriguing genre are encouraged to leave all sci-fi collectables in their original packages.  This is important, as many hobbyists later find their goals shifting towards profits.

All sci-fi collectables, especially those that are rare, limited edition, or valuable, should be stored in a safe location.  When doing so, it is important to think “outside of the box.”  For example, many collectors store their collectables and other hobby supplies in their basements. This approach is nice, as long as the basement in question is clean and not prone to flooding.  Not only are collectors are encouraged to keep all collectables in their original packages, but those packages, themselves, should stay in great shape as well.

Sci-fi collectors who purchase used collectables and other used science fiction merchandise or those who open up a package, are encouraged to examine proper care methods.  For example, collectable costume sets and other clothing pieces should be stored in a safe and clean box.  Silica packs may need to be inserted.  Other safe packing supplies, including acid free tissue paper, are also advised.

In addition to packing away open boxed collectables, collectors are encouraged to examine display cases.  Display cases are easy to find available for sale in many local hobby shops, as well as online.  They are ideal for the safe and proper storing of collectables, as they come in a number of different formats, as well as sizes.  Display cases can be found to fit a wide range of collectables, including assembled model kits, figurines, trading cards, posters, and much more.

When handling sci-fi collectables, especially those that are rare or valuable, proper care is important.  A tip that many professional dealers and collectors recommend is wearing gloves.  Gloves will likely reduce the amount of fingerprints and other debris transferred to a science fiction collectable.  A few fingerprints here and there may not be a large concern for pure hobbyists, but investors looking to make a profit will want to avoid reducing the average value of their collectable pieces by any means necessary.

The above mentioned steps are just a few of the many steps that all collectors, especially those looking to resell their sci-fi collections for a profit, should take into consideration. As a reminder, all collectables, whether they are rare, limited edition or not, should increase in value or at least maintain the same value when properly cared for.

PPPPP

Word Count 602
