Sci-Fi Collecting:  A Great Hobby for Teens

Are you a parent who wished that your teenager had a hobby that is not only fun, but a little bit educational in nature?  After all, many teens are consumed with paying games on the computer or other video gaming consoles.  Of course, many of these activities are more than acceptable, but you may be looking for something more.  If that is the case, you will want to take the time to examine science fiction collecting with your teenager.

One of the many reasons why science fiction collecting is a great hobby and activity for teenagers to participate in is because many already like science fiction.  Science fiction is a genre that reaches individuals of all different ages.  For example, there are many science fiction movies, books, and television show that are designed for teenagers and other young adults.  If your child already has an interest in science fiction, starting a collection based on that interest is an added plus.  Although the thought of becoming a science fiction collector may first be a turn off for your teenager, they may actually enjoy the hobby once started.

As a parent, you may take comfort in knowing that science fiction is a nice and safe activity.  Of course, your child will need to purchase science fiction figurines and other collectable merchandise, but there is much more to collecting that just buying.  Your teenager, should they take an interest in sci-fi collecting, will likely want to purchase or borrow books from the library that highlight this great activity or books that give tips on how to collect for a profit.  In fact, your teenager may also turn to the internet to do this research, examine collectibles for sale, and their values.

As previously stated, sci-fi collecting is an enjoyable hobby that can also be educational in nature.  Many collectors, including those of all ages, do a lot of research.  This research involves examining rare or hard to find collectibles, their values, and how to buy them.  This research can be educational for your child, as many high school and college students need to rely on research to succeed in school.  It is also important to examine goal setting.  Although not all science fiction collectors do so for the purpose of later making a profit, it is more than possible to do so.  This may later end up becoming a goal of your teenager.

Another one of the many reasons why science fiction collecting is a great activity and hobby for teenagers is because it is relatively easy to do.  In fact, sci-fi collecting can also be considered a relatively affordable hobby.  With that being said, it depends on the collectables acquired or in demand.  For instance, there are many mass produced science fiction collectables, including action figures, that are sold at many traditional retail stores.  These items are generally more affordable than those that are considered rare, hard to find, or items that are part of a limited edition collection.  Even if your teenager wants to own valuable sci-fi collectables, it is a nice goal to set for themselves, especially if your teenager has a part-time job.

As great as starting a sci-fi collection may sound to you, it is important to get your teenager involved in this decision.  If you suspect that this hobby is one that your child may not enjoy, you may want to take a few extra steps.  For example, you can purchase your teenager a Star Wars or another science fiction collectable or even a book that highlights collecting for a profit.  In fact, you may want to convenience your child to sit down with you and examine science fiction collecting in general.  This is easy to do online.

After a close examination, many teenagers decide that sci-fi collectables are items that they would like to collect.  In fact, many have a lot of fun doing so.  Generally speaking, once your child realizes that sci-fi collecting involves more than buying a “bunch of toys,” their interest may peak.

PPPPP

Word Count 670
