Sci-Fi Collectibles:  Your Buying Options

Would you like to start a sci-fi collection?  If so, you are definitely not alone.  Science fiction collecting is a popular hobby that is enjoyed by individuals of all ages.  One of the many reasons for this popularity is because it is relatively easy to buy science fiction merchandise.  Also, that merchandise does not necessarily have to be in rare, limited edition, or valuable formats either.  The affordability of collecting science fiction collectibles and other merchandise is another reason why this hobby is popular among those both old and young alike.

As previously stated, it is relatively easy for collectors to find and buy sci-fi collectables.  Having a number of options not only provides collectors, such as yourself, with a large selection of merchandise, but also better prices. This is ideal for children, as well as new collectors, as many are still unsure as to whether or not science fiction collecting is right for them.  A few locations that science fiction collectors will want to checkout for sci-fi collectibles are highlighted below.

The most popular way to buy science fiction collectables, especially those that are rare, valuable, or hard to find is by doing business with a sci-fi dealer or an online specialty stores.  These types of individuals and companies are often considered experts in the field.  Many professional dealers and online sci-fi store owners spend a great deal of time researching and hunting for rare and valuable collectables.  The only downside to doing business with a specialty online sci-fi store or a sci-fi dealer is that you can expect to pay the full value price. With that being said, if your goal is to later turn a profit, all purchases will likely be considered smart investments.

Hobby shops should also be examined, when looking to start or expand a science fiction collection.  Hobby shops are shops that operate both on and offline.  Perhaps, the only downside to doing business with a locally owned and operated hobby shop is the product selection.  Since science fiction is not the only genre or hobby focused on, product selections are often limited.  

Traditional department stores and toy stores are another great way to buy science fiction collectables.  This approach is often best for new collectors or children.  Often times, it is difficult, if not completely impossible, to find rare and valuable collectables from traditional retail stores.  This is because most products insides these stores are mass produced.  Mass production, in terms of collectables, tends to decrease value.

In addition to visiting the online websites of specialty sci-fi stores, sci-fi dealers, and hobby shops, online auction websites should also be examined.  Online auction websites are a nice, easy, and convenient way to shop for science fiction collectables.  With that in mind, be sure to proceed with caution. Unlike many professional science fiction collectable dealers, individual and independent sellers are likely to charge whatever they want and for just about any reason at all.

In addition to having a wide range of options, in terms of purchase locations, collectors should also focus on conditions.  Sci-fi collectables are available for sale in a number of different conditions, including both new and used.  Although many collectors have their own personals preferences, there are a numbers pros and cons to buying both new and used collectibles.

As for science fiction collectables that are in used conditions, may collectors enjoy the affordability.  Generally speaking, when any type of collectable is taken out of the original package or played with, the value of that item decreases and sometimes significantly.  With that in mind, investors who are hoping to later resell their collectables for a profit, may not benefit from buying used, unless the sci-fi collectable piece in question is rare.

As for new sci-fi collectables, the greatest benefit of buying new is the value.  As previously stated, collectors looking to turn a profit with their science fiction collectables are often encouraged to avoid buying used.  A new collectable piece will likely cost a decent amount of money, especially for limited edition sets, that value should increase overtime.

PPPPP

Word Count 677
