Starting a Sci-Fi Collection:  How to Get Started

Sci-fi collecting is a hobby that has always been enjoyed by many, but it is a hobby that has always seen a steady increase in popularity.  One of the many reasons for that steady increase in popularity is the options that collectors have.  There are many professional collectors who spend hours searching for rare or valuable sci-fi collectables, while others simply just purchase collectables as they happen across them.

If you are one of the many individuals who would like to start collecting sci-fi related merchandise, you may be looking for more information or tips on how you can get started.  Before focusing on ways that you can go about creating an amazing sci-fi collection, you will first want to examine your intended goals.  Would you be interested in collecting sci-fi collectables for a profit or would you be interested in doing so simply because you enjoy the genre of science fiction?  This is an important question that you will want to ask yourself.  Your goals will and should have a significant impact on how you start collecting.

Regardless of the reason for starting a sci-fi collection, research is important to success.  In fact, individuals who collect with the hopes of later reselling their collections to make a profit are urged to do this research.  This is because sci-fi collectibles come in a number of different formats, but some aren’t nearly as valuable as others.  Unfortunately, new collectors and others who don’t do the proper amount of research could end up spending a large amount of time and money developing a sci-fi collection that will never be able to produce profits.  Of course, those who collect for their love of science fiction in general, may not have as big of an issue with values.

At this point in time, many new science fiction collectors believe that their next step is to starting making purchases.  Yes, this will need to be done soon, but there is another important step that collectors, such as yourself, will want to take.  All collectors should familiarize themselves with their buying options.  There are a number of benefits to knowing exactly where sci-fi collectables can be purchased from.  Two of those benefits include saved time and saved money.  While you may not necessarily save money, you can at least prevent yourself from overpaying for collectibles, especially those that are not rare or valuable.  As for saved time, knowing your options will allow you to go straight to the source, without having to spend time searching for sci-fi dealers to do business with and then again searching for what you need.

Once you have an idea of where you can buy sci-fi collectables from, you will want to get started.  As a reminder, science fiction collectables can often be purchased from hobby shops, other specialty stores, and from science fiction collectible dealers, both on and offline.  Many sci-fi collectables can also be purchased online, namely though online auction websites.  It is also important to keep value in mind.  If possible, collectors are encouraged to price compare first.  Rare, limited edition and valuable science fiction collectables are often worth the extra money, but not all collectables are, especially those that were mass produced.



The above mentioned tips are tips that should be able to assist you and other new sci-fi collectors.  For the best chance of developing a successful science fiction collection, namely one that can later be sold for a profit or one that can inspire pride, always be on the lookout for collectables, as many collectors never know where they may turn up available for sale.  

As ideal as sci-fi collecting is, many new collectors later determine that it is a hobby that isn’t right for them.  If you find yourself in this situation, take the time to examine your collection before selling it or simply giving it away.  When it comes to examining values and conditions, many sci-fi collectors are surprised just how valuable their collections are.

PPPPP

Word Count 662
