Starting an Anime Collection:  How to Get Started

Anime collecting is a hobby that is starting to increase in popularly.  One of the many reasons for this popularity increase is the expansion of the anime genre.  Now kid-friendly, there are individuals of all ages who enjoy collecting anime related merchandise.  If you are interested in doing so, you may find the tips for beginners outlined below valuable in your quest to develop an anime collection.

Before focusing on ways that you can go about creating a great anime collection, it is important to examine your goals.  Are you collecting because you enjoy the anime genre in general?  Do you enjoy reading anime books or watching anime themed movies and television shows?  If you do, you are considered a true hobby collector.  On the other hand, are you collecting because you hope to develop a rare and valuable collection that can later be sold for a profit?  Your goals should have an impact on your buying habits.  Generally speaking, pure hobbyists often have much more freedom when developing a collection, as opposed to collectors who are also known as investors.

If you are an anime investor, who hopes to one day make a profit from your collection, it is important to do research first.  Research is also advised for traditional hobbyists and collectors as well.  This is because it is not uncommon for an anime collector to start out collecting for a love of the genre, but later switch their goals to include profits.  When researching anime collectables, focuses should be placed on popular or valuable collectibles, as well as those that are rare or hard to find.
 
Next, all anime collectors are encouraged to familiarize themselves with their buying options.  Knowing exactly where anime collectibles can be purchased from it likely to save time and possibly even money.  In terms of saving money, knowing all of your options will likely prevent you from overpaying, even for rare anime collectables.  Generally speaking, hobby shops and professional anime dealers are likely to charge more accurate prices, especially when compared to online auction website sellers, as most professionals research values and availability first.

The next step in developing an anime collection is to start buying.  As a reminder, keep all of your options in mind.  Do not pay too much for a collectible, especially one that is not rare.  Easy to find collectibles are ones that should be average in price, as they can often be purchased from a number of different sources.  As previously stated, however, collectors can expect to pay a good amount of money for rare or valuable collectables, such as limited edition anime figurines.

When shopping for anime collectables, beginners are encouraged to note the difference between collectables and traditional toys.  Generally speaking, collectables are still in their original package, like the box.  If you collect with the sole purpose of later selling your anime collection for a profit, you will want to focus on collectables, as opposed to traditional toys.  These collectables are often limited in their selection, making them much more valuable, especially in the future.

The above mentioned tips are just a few of the many that you and other anime collectors are urged to take into consideration.  When starting an anime collection, you will want to expect to have to invest in that collection. With that in mind, you do not have to go broke when doing so, especially if your sole reason for starting an anime collection is for the enjoyment of the genre.

If you start an anime collection and later decide that this hobby is no longer right for you, you will want to make sure that you keep your options open.  This is particularly true for those who will sell off their collectables.  The average asking price of professional dealers, as well as sellers on online auction websites, should give you a good idea of what you can expect to receive.  In fact, you may want to examine professional anime dealers, as many buy collectables, in addition to sell them.

PPPPP

Word Count 671
