Acupuncture Degrees

If you want to pursue a career in acupuncture, you need to obtain a degree and become a licensed professional. 

This can easily be accomplished in three years of schooling from an accredited alternative medicine school which prepares students in the various acupuncture techniques to treat illnesses resulting from allergies, occupational stress, emphysema, gastrointestinal stress, arthritis, headaches, depression, and hypertension to name a few.  

Students who enroll in such courses will be taught through demonstration, discussion and hands on application. 

Part of the curriculum will also include basic courses in traditional medicine covering subjects such as anatomy, biosciences, medical terminology, herbal medicine, moxibustion, and acupressure. In some schools, they may require students to also learn about nutrition and various kinds of research.

Once they graduate, they may start in an entry level position earning $40,000 or more which will soon double or triple after years of experience and working themselves up the ladder. 

If you want to look for a school that offers acupuncture degrees, it is best to go online and see which one has the best program that suits your requirements. 

You won’t have a hard time looking for one as the number of institutions which teach students about acupuncture have gone up at a rapid rate since 1982 when the Accreditation Commission for Acupuncture and Oriental Medicine (ACAOM) and the Council of Colleges of Acupuncture and Oriental Medicine (CCAOM) were established. 

To date there are about 50 colleges and a few also offer a master’s degree in Oriental Medicine and Acupuncture. 

So what are you waiting for? If you think you have what it takes to be an acupuncturist, then go ahead and just do it. 

It doesn’t matter if you are still in high school or if you are already working because a shift in your career could let you achieve your true calling. 

The best way to start though is to talk with an acupuncturist about what it takes to become one so he or she will be able to give you an idea of what happens in the job.  

If you haven’t picked a school, talk to students about the curriculum so you get your money’ s worth should you decide to attend this college. 

A lot of people are unaware that acupuncture is not yet legal in every state. You can find work or start your own practice in California, New York, Texas, Hawaii and Oregon with 8 more states that are still pending legislation. 

We mentioned that you have to study in a school certified by the Council of Colleges of Acupuncture and Oriental Medicine (CCAOM). One more hurdle you have to face before getting your license is passing an exam given by them except in the state of California which has its own regulating body and board certification exam in order for you to practice your profession. 

An acupuncturist degree is just the first step in becoming your own boss. To become a master, you have to learn everything there is to know as a student so those who entrust themselves to you in the future will not have any problems.

As more people are opening their minds to this practice, people should know that getting an acupuncture degree will not replace traditional medicine since there are limits to what it can do for the patient. It is merely a form of holistic healthcare that works hand in hand with science to help the person deal with an illness. 
