Acupuncture for Effective Weight Loss

In a generation when physical fitness is given topmost attention, people are always on the lookout for the newest and most effective means for weight loss. Acupuncture, the method of inserting thin, filiform needles on certain points in an individual’s body, has been found to be one effectual method for losing weight. 

Not many people may find the idea of being inserted by needles quite comforting in their quest for weight control. However, this ancient Chinese alternative treatment seeks to deliver a control mechanism, enabling the patient to manage hunger cravings more successfully in the long run.

The Skinny on Acupuncture Weight Loss

It has been found that weight gain is directly related to emotions.  Other than physical hunger, people reach for a huge chocolate bar or a big platter of burger and fries because of the sense of comfort derived from food and eating. More often than not, excessive weight gain is an emotional issue, rather than a mere physical one. You may not realize it, but you tend to take in more food whenever you’re stressed, upset, or pressured. 

In Acupuncture, there are specific spots on the body being targeted by the hair-like needles. These spots are linked to certain areas in the body and by stimulating these spots; the patient will achieve a greater sense of inner balance. As these points are inserted by the needles, certain hormones are released throughout the body. These substances work by helping you manage hunger and efficiently control the impulse to overeat. 

How Acupuncture Induces Weight Loss

Most acupuncturists will target the spots behind the ear when it comes to promoting weight loss. When these points behind the ear are stimulated, endorphins are released in large doses. Endorphins are called the feel-good hormones, and these are also often referred to as natural pain and fever relievers. The release of endorphins is what makes you feel better after an increased level of physical activity, as in the case of a good workout. 

These bodily compounds allow the patient to experience better relaxation, thus considerably alleviating stress. There is a greater possibility of enhanced weight loss when the patient has already achieved emotional wellness. Endorphins are also released whenever the body experiences low levels of bodily pain, thus their moniker as a natural pain reliever. 

Patients of acupuncture typically experience very minimal or no pain at all, however most of the points are located near nerve endings and muscle tissues. As the needles are embedded in the body, signals are sent to the brain thus promoting the release of endorphins from the pituitary gland.

There are also other points in the body that serve as gateways for better weight management. One of these placements promotes a decrease in an individual’s appetite, while another has the ability to reduce water retention in the body. The acupuncturist may choose a multi-targeted approach, depending on the requirements of the patient. 

Consulting with a Professional Acupuncturist

There are a number of acupuncture practitioners in existence nowadays, offering a host of services. If you are considering this form treatment for your weight management, make sure that you settle with no less than a trained and professional acupuncturist. A poorly trained acupuncturist may not be able to pinpoint the specific meridian points and worse, may cause unnecessary bodily pain and discomfort. 

Moreover, your acupuncturist may require an herbal supplement for your treatment, to encourage a longer-term effect. Your sessions need not be maintained for an extensive period; however you may be required to visit your acupuncturist during the entire course of the sessions.

There are other means for losing weight successfully, and this does not include crash dieting and strenuous work outs. If carried out by trained professionals, acupuncture can be the answer for effective weight management. While it is far from being a cure-all, it may just be the right weight loss solution for you. 
