How to Look For a Good Acupuncture School

Since 1982, acupuncture has found its way to the US. There are currently 50 schools that teach it and 3,000 licensed practitioners all over the country. Do you think you can be a licensed professional? Here are a few things to help you look for a good acupuncture school. 

You should now that the 50 schools mentioned are all accredited by the National Commission for Acupuncture and Oriental Medicine.  It is recognized by the Department of Education and some of these schools even have a masters program.

Most of these schools can be found online so you can give them a call and ask certain questions about the school. You can find out the cost of tuition, the teacher student ratio, if the school offers consultation services to students and the alumni and if they have an extensive library which focuses on traditional Chinese medicine.

Should there be a school near where you live, you should probably take it so you don’t have to worry about boarding and lodging as this is just added cost to this long term investment.  

If you like the school but cannot afford the cost of tuition, find out if they offer scholarships or if they have a grant in aid program. If there are none, then check with the federal government because they should have one and they will give it to deserving students who plan to enroll in a school accredited by the National Commission for Acupuncture and Oriental Medicine.

Some states do not require you to get a license once you graduate from the program. However, if you plan to practice this elsewhere, you should prepare yourself for the state board exam as this is a requirement. 

The lists of subjects you will be learning in school include anatomy, body therapy, massage therapy and the other sciences. Training will be done also in a clinical setting so you are able to put theory into practice but this will only happen in your third year. 

While some schools will let you finish a program in three years, there are those that can be completed after five. 

Lately, acupuncture school has also gone down the digital path by offering cyber distance programs for those who cannot go to school. Some of these offer CEU’s or continuing education units to advance programs. 

These courses can be chosen on the basis of modules or on an hourly basis. The course material covers the history, theory and techniques of acupuncture. Courses that offer tools such as acupuncture DVD and video are ideal for acupuncturists or students of acupuncture to improve their clinical expertise.

Once you graduate from acupuncture school, some will open their own practice while others will first work for a clinic. Those who decide to be employed will work with other professionals that may include naturopaths, chiropractors and other specialists that are also into Oriental Medicine. 

The average acupuncturist makes about $45,000 a year but this can change in the years to follow as they add years or experience under their belt. This just goes to show that if you work hard, you too will make a fortune. Just make sure that you do this properly for each patient because one mistake could make this all go away. 
