The Essence Behind that FedEx Air Freight Guy on TV

Ever seen one of those FedEx air freight commercials on TV? You have probably laughed at the extreme measures the actors were going through just to have the packages delivered. And you were maybe thinking that those are exaggeration.

Maybe what was portrayed there was exaggeration. But the essence behind each of advertisement is clear. It depicts the efficiency that the company is very much known for. The important thing is the package should be delivered on safely and on time.  

FedEx air freight has been recognized and awarded for providing the best air freight service in the US and in any part of the world. The company had long been known to provide reliability, exceptional service and punctual performance.

Not all air freight services can adhere to the many meticulous and strict standards that people want in their shipping company. It can be noted that once they do not find satisfaction in the service, they tend to look for another that will prove competent.

FedEx is one of those companies that have shown efficiency in their business. For years, the company have proven their worth and competitiveness in air freight service. The success of FedEx can also be attributed to the customers that have continued to enlist their services. By working together, problems are avoided. 

Below are some things that FedEx is advising people to do to ensure that there packages will be delivered in the rightful manner. 

1. Proper labeling. 

All packages should be labeled not only on the outer part. For added security, you should also place a label on the interior side of the box. 

Even the best air freight service can encounter situations that are beyond their control. Damaged or torn boxes can happen. In cases like this, the label will become undecipherable. So you cannot blame the service for not being able to bring to package to its destination.

If there is another label available, the problem will be solved instantly. 

2. Handle with care.

If you want fragile materials to be delivered intact and in their original condition, it is best to note them down so the handler will take the necessary precaution in shipping them. 

By writing the note clearly and boldly, you are assured that rough handling will be minimized because the handler is forewarned. It is also a good idea to tell the air freight employee about the matter as an added caution. They will be the one who can plan out the best location for your package. 

3. Keeping it dry.

Instead of using ordinary boxes, you can use water-resistant boxes. This is an additional protection for your package in case of shifts in weather conditions.

If you do not have this available, you can wrap your box in a plastic bag. You will be assured that your package will arrive to its destination safe and dry; just the way you want it to be. 

4. Double protection.

Make use of two boxes. Put your box in another box to ensure that the package will remain intact. Pick a box that is not much larger than the first one so it will not become too bulky. 

Take note of all these important things so that you package will be safe and secured. After that, you can sit back and let FedEx air freight do the rest. 
