Title: 
Are You Missing Out on Free & Easy Marketing?

Word Count:
914

Summary:
Did you know there's something you do every single day that you could be using as an opportunity to market your business?


Keywords:
email marketing, low-cost marketing, free marketing


Article Body:
Did you know there's something you do every single day that you 
could be using as an opportunity to market your business?

What is it?

Sending email. How many email messages do you send in a day? 
I recently went back and counted the messages in my Sent folder. 
I use several email accounts, but in just one of them I found an 
average of 10-12 messages a day. That's 70-84 message per week!

Two Chances for Free Promotion

Did you realize every time you send out an email, you have two 
opportunities to market your business?

#1 With Your Email Address

Take a look at the email address you're using for business. Are you 
using an email address such as "crazyjane@yahoo.com" or
"fitbodyhunk@hotmail.com"?

Okay, so I'm poking a bit of fun, but you'd be surprised at some 
of the email addresses I see. Granted some of them may be 
reserved for ezine subscriptions, but I also receive a lot of email 
from small business owners with these types of email addresses. 

So what's wrong with this?

Well, for one, they are missing out on a free marketing opportunity.
When you use an email address such as debbie@10stepmarketing.com  
you have the opportunity to get repeat exposure for your company 
name with every email you send out.

You Can Build Your Brand and Business

What, everyone you send email to already knows your business 
name? That's okay. It's good reinforcement. And it doesn't cost a 
dime, so why not do it? Plus, it presents a much more professional
image. It says you are a real business. Even if you are sending 
out your emails while wearing your pajamas in your home office. :-)

Use Your Web Site Domain Email Addresses

Ideally your web site domain should be the same as your business 
name. And you web hosting should come with at least a handful of
free email addresses. It's fairly easy to set up, but if you're not sure, 
check with your host. Odds are they've addressed it in their FAQs 
or online help.

#2 Use An Email Signature

The second way you can market for free is with your email signature.

Even if you don't have a web site, or if your web site address is not 
the same or similar to your business name, you can easily take 
advantage of this.

Set It Up Once ... Use It Everyday

Microsoft Outlook and Outlook Express (and probably other email 
software as well) offer a Signature option you can program so every 
email you send is signed off with a consistent signature. 

Create Your Own Personal Signature

You will want to consider including some of the following information
in your email signature. I wouldn't suggest including all of this 
information or your signature will be too long. Pick what's important 
to you, and include information that represents how you want people
to contact you.

Your First and Last Name
Your Title (if appropriate)
Your Business Name
Your Tagline
Your Email Address
Your Web Site Address (include the http:// so it becomes a live link)
Your Phone Number
Your Fax Number 
Your Snail Mail Address 
An Invitation to Subscribe to Your E-newsletter, Ezine or 
Receive a Free Report (or any other free information you provide)

Following is an example of the email signature I include on every 
email I send out:

Debbie LaChusa
The 10stepmarketing System
“If you can answer 10 questions, you can
successfully market your business!”
619-334-8590 phone
619-334-8591 fax
debbie@10stepmarketing.com
http://www.10stepmarketing.com 

Subscribe to the free 10stepmarketing Ezine
to receive weekly marketing how-to articles, 
low-cost marketing ideas, tips and advice at 
http://www.10stepmarketing.com 

It Equals 70-80 Free Promos a Week!

By signing off all your emails with an email signature, you are 
constantly promoting your business. Plus your contact information
is right there if someone wants to get in touch with you. They don't 
have to take the time to look up your phone number or web site 
address.

A good email signature also clearly communicates to people what 
your business is all about or what you do.

Who Knows Where Your Email May End Up?

You never know where one of your emails is going to end up. It 
may be forwarded to someone who could just become your next 
subscriber or client.

Build Web Site Traffic With Special Promos

You can also use your signature to build traffic for your web site
by inviting people to visit your site to get a special report or to 
subscribe to your e-newsletter.

You can even use it to announce new products or promotions. 
In fact, I just changed mine today to promote my new 
Extreme Marketing Makeover program.

Your Email Address Format

Make sure the email address you are using is formatted something
like this: yourname@yourdomain.com

How To Set Up Your Email Signature
If you use Microsoft Outlook, simply go to the Tools option on 
your toolbar, click on Options, and then Mail Format. You'll see 
Signatures down at the bottom of the window. You can set up 
one, or as many as you want. You select the one you want to
use as your default and it will automatically be added to all your email messages.

By doing these two things, you will be building your brand and 
your business without spending any extra time or money.

(C) Copyright 2005 Debbie LaChusa


