Title: 
Business Support Systems - Your Family is Key

Word Count:
323

Summary:
Business support systems are critical to your business success.  Your family's positive support of your endeavor is the most important element of all in your business support systems.


Keywords:
Business Support Systems, Business-Support-Systems


Article Body:
Business support systems are critical to your business success.  The most important business support system is your family.  The spousal relationship is particularly key to your ability to launch and operate a successful business.

If your spouse or significant other is against your business, then you are missing a huge portion of the business support system you need to sustain yourself.  Running a small business is a family affair.  Whether your family thinks they are involved or not, they are.  They truly are the largest source of support your business will get.

Impact of Negativity

If your family is negative about your business then this influence will almost wipe out any other business support systems you have in place.  It’s going to be tough for the next couple of months while you get your business off the ground.  A strong, positive, encouraging business support system will sustain you through the lows and temper you through the highs.  

Negativity, on the other hand, will kill your business faster than anything else.  If you are hearing all day that you're no good, you're business is crappy, you're ruining your life, blah blah blah blah, you will go down a black hole with the rest of the business support systems you so carefully put in place.  

The Bottom Line on Business Support Systems

You need to have positive business support systems and the main source of this support is your family.  If your family is not going to be supportive then the circumstances are not optimal for your launch. Despite all the other business support systems you may have in place, your family trumps them all.  Think seriously about where your family rates in your business support system and then decide if now is really the right time to start your business.

Copyright MMI-MMVI, Small Business Computer Consulting .com. All Worldwide Rights Reserved. {Attention Publishers: Live hyperlink in author resource box required for copyright compliance}


