Title: 
Computer Consultants: The Benefits of Self-Employment

Word Count:
380

Summary:
Computer consultants enjoy many benefits. Increased self-worth, local business and selectivity are all benefits enjoyed by computer consultants.


Keywords:
IT service contracts, IT service contract, IT-service-contracts, IT-service-contract


Article Body:
Working as computer consultants for small businesses can be very financially rewarding and very gratifying. In this article you'll learn about some of the benefits you'll realize as computer consultants. 

You Can Pick Your Work

As computer consultants, you have so much flexibility that you're not likely to get bored. You choose what you want to do. It’s a lot of fun. You get to select exactly which technologies and the platforms and the products that you’re able to sell, service and support. You don’t have to get boxed into working with products that you don’t want to deal with anymore.

You Can Find Plenty of Clients in Your Area

It doesn’t matter where you are located. If there are small businesses, no matter what the industry, you can build a very nice business servicing and supporting their IT needs. But let’s face it, it really isn’t just about the financial rewards. You can make a very good living as a computer consultant for small businesses right in your local area. And if that two-hour commute is really getting on your nerves you can set up your computer consulting business right in your own home. 

You Have Freedom to Choose

With your own business as a computer consultants you can choose your own bosses, your clients, your colleagues, partners, vendors, and contractors.

You Can Pick Your Own Schedule.

You also get much greater control of your working hours and when you’re on call. You can hand-pick the "perfect" clients   that will allow you to work more realistic hours and you won’t feel like you’re going nuts around the clock. 

You Will Increase Your Self-Worth

You’ll be servicing small businesses that usually don’t have an outside IT department and they desperately need your help. You’re the main person - their part-time, virtual IT person.

The Bottom Line about Computer Consultants

As computer consultants, you get the freedom to hand-pick a portfolio of clients and projects that provide a gratifying experience for you and you won’t get bored. You’ll love getting up and going to work every day.

Copyright MMI-MMVI, Computer Consulting 101. All Worldwide Rights Reserved. {Attention Publishers: Live hyperlink in author resource box required for copyright compliance}


