Title: 
Dare To Be Different!

Word Count:
531

Summary:
Adding value to your site, service, or product is one of the most over looked and under rated strategies for improving your internet business.


Keywords:
Business,network,networking,market,marketing,home,earn,earning,make,making,money,income,computer,computers,gold,golden,web,website,websites,email,list,lists,emai list, emaillist


Article Body:
Adding value to your site, service, or product is one of the most over looked and under rated strategies for improving your internet business.

The internet and modern technology makes it possible for anyone to offer that little something extra that nobody else does, and usually at no additional cost.

Why: First, let’s look at why this is a good business practice.

It’s a good thing to do because you will make more money!

What: Now let’s look at what value adding is!

Value adding is giving surprise high quality and useful gifts.
It’s giving something that your competitors aren’t offering.
It’s promising the world and delivering the universe.
It’s taking care of your clients and always providing something that your clients need and want, when and where they want it.

How: Now let’s look at the different ways we can do this.

If you receive a free gift from someone when you don’t expect it, do you remember that person? 
Answer; yes usually.
How can we do this?
Look at the example below for an idea!

If you subscribe to a news letter or ezine, what do you expect?
You expect to get what you subscribed for, right?
Now imagine that you subscribed for a newsletter that distributes information about Poodle breading in France, and when you open the conformation email you find you’ve also received a free ebook containing 20 poodle grooming tips and Grandmas secret poodle pampering techniques. (a book that normally sells for $29)
Wouldn’t that make you more likely to open and read the next issue and the next etc?
That’s one simple example, but where do you get the ebook from? You make it! If you are distributing a poodle breeding newsletter, you might know something about grooming, or know some people that could help you put together the necessary information. Then you can wrap that up in an ebook cover and then send it around to a variety of sites that will post it for you for free and you can sell on your own site, if you have one. (I can see that there are several more articles just on making e-books, posting them on other people’s sites, and setting up a shop front.)

Back to the Poodles! So you can see that by offering this free gift you have achieved several things. 
1. You have developed a product (at no cost to you) that you can sell and make a profit on. 
2. You have used that product to increase the chances of your new subscriber opening your next email. 
3. You have promoted you site/service to other internet marketers that you may wish to do a joint venture with at some time. (see my article on Joint ventures)

Another way to add value for less effort is to offer a 110 percent guarantee instead of a 100 percent.

Another is to make your 20 tips into 30 or more etc, get the idea? It’s all just a matter of finding ways that you can give more.

The more you give the more you will receive.

I sincerely wish you good luck and happiness 

Bill Boyd


