Title: 
Home Based Business Network Marketing

Word Count:
457

Summary:
Numerous businesses are going to offer you the opportunity to become a distributor of their products or service.


Keywords:
home business,home based business,home business marketing,network marketing,work at home


Article Body:
Numerous businesses are going to offer you the opportunity to become a distributor of their products or service. While many offer this opportunity free of charge, others may charge a fee similar to a franchise fee, due to their willingness to set up a website with you name on it and by offering you instruction on how to make it succeed. 

Regardless of their motives behind the willingness to share their knowledge, you do have the opportunity to share in the wealth of internet business operations. Where many people make the mistake in getting involved in a home based business is they believe that just by filling out the online forms and paying the franchise fees they will start making money immediately. 

They do not think about they came to be involved in this opportunity, that someone was marketing this plan to them and in order to grow their new business, they are going to have to market it to others. 

There are numerous ways to do this, such as old-fashion advertising, handing out business cards or even putting you web address on the side of your vehicle to be seen while you drive to the grocery store. All that may be good to draw a half dozen people or so to your new business venture, but to help it really grow will take network marketing to succeed. 

Oil millionaire J. Paul Getty is often quoted as saying he would rather have one percent of the efforts of 100 people than 100 percent of his own efforts, and that is the basis of network marketing. The Kirby vacuum cleaner company devised its own form of network marketing as far back as 1935 before the word was oined and the concept totally understood. That company knew that to sell their sweepers, a personal presentation was needed.They had a few dealers with whom they shared the profits of their sales and using their proven methods they taught others to sell the sweepers and each person who was brought in a sales representative could also share in the profits off the efforts of others. 

While a few people may make a lot of money in a short period of time with network marketing, most grow their business slowly. First, they must learn the business and how to market it as their own home based business. By devoting a set number of hours every day or every week they learn from the company sponsoring them how to market the product or service they are selling. They can then train others to be successful, teaching them to market the product or service and make money from their sales as well. The more people they have working under them, the more money they can make.


