Title: 
How an Entrepreneur Cut His Electricity Bills by $1750 a month with a $200 Product in 1 minute

Word Count:
421

Summary:
Learn how a $200 device has reduced an American entrepreneurs electricity costs by $1750 a month. This inspirational article will teach you how you can do the same in less than a minute, and how you can immediately reduce your electricity expenses for your factory, office, shop and home.


Keywords:
save power, electric, electricity, home improvement,


Article Body:
Copyright 2006 Martin Pavion

Chris Johns is the founder of SupportSave – a US company based in the Philippines.  They offer business outsourcing to companies worldwide.  His office may comprise of 200 employees for 8-10 hours a day.

His electricity bills have been terrifying!

“In Manila the humidity means that we need to provide air conditioning at all times.  We must keep the working environment comfortable so that our staff can be effective but it was always a worry when our monthly electricity bills arrived at the end of the  month.”

Chris has been spending over $5,500 every month on his power costs.  Each member of staff works in front of a computer, over 70 air conditions may work at one time and printers, photocopiers and faxes are constantly being pushed to capacity.

Since February however Chris tested the Power Saver 7 to see if it really could cut down his costs.

Power Savers are little boxes you plug straight into your plug socket at home, at work, or in a factory.  As soon as you do this your electricity costs will decrease.  You leave this device plugged in 24 hours a day and by the end of the month you will see a saving of up to 40% on your electricity bill.  There is no need for maintenance, results are immediate and the unit can pay for itself in a few days of industrial use.

Power Savers are completely legal, using strong scientific means of improving the efficiency of your electrical circuits.  There are many models on the market catering to students in studio apartments to large industrial units suitable for factories.  Power Savers cost between $100 and $200 for quality export-quality units.  They are expected to last for over 4 years so they make a very effective investment for all users.

Chris’s average monthly bill has now stabilized at an average of $3,940 – saving him 31% every month.

“The $1750 I’m saving each month would enable my business to employ over 7 full-time workers.  I’m delighted with the results and expect this product is going to improve profits for a lot of businesses”.

Power Savers have grown in popularity in Asia however they have not yet become common in developed countries.  Products such as the Power Saver require extensive testing before they can be sold outside of Asia and these tests have only recently been completed.

Now that users are seeing immediate results from Power Savers it is likely that the popularity of Power Savers will continue to grow for many years to come and average costs for electricity will drop dramatically.


