Title: 
IT Consulting: The Sweet Spot

Word Count:
386

Summary:
IT consulting is most profitable in the sweet spot of companies with 10-50 computers. In addition to the skills you need for micro businesses, you need to be more familiar with servers and other more sophisticated solutions for sweet spot IT consulting.


Keywords:
IT consulting, small business computer consulting, computer consulting


Article Body:
The sweet spot of the IT consulting business requires more skills than needed for micro business IT consulting. Sweet spot companies have anywhere from 10-50 computers.  This level of business is where you should be focusing most of your IT consulting efforts.  

These sweet spot businesses generally use Microsoft Windows based systems.  They have anywhere from 10-100 employees.  In terms of annual revenue, in U.S. Dollars, usually equates to annual earnings of 1 million up to 10 million.  The big thing that puts them into the sweet spot is that they have graduated from peer to peer and they need one or two real dedicated servers.

Hardware Skills You Need for the Sweet Spot

You need to know all the IT consulting skills a micro small business would hire you for plus about 8 or 10 other things.  You should be familiar with server hardware, such as working with multi processor servers, should be familiar with how RAID works, Zero One Five, you should be familiar with how multiport communications applications adapters work for setting up remote access servers and serial port sharing. 

You should have familiarity with attached storage systems, network attached storage, more sophisticated back up solutions like digital audio tape digital linear tape, and the hybrids, etc. 

Other Skills for Sweet Spot IT Consulting

You should be really comfortable with sophisticated battery back up solutions, routers, the CSU/DSUs to connect you up to the telecommunications lines.  And you should start to get some familiarity with some of the more advanced Y-5 hardware, the stuff that is not quite commodity level, where you start being able to get into Roam successfully between your access points and being able to do some management and SMP tasks.

Networking Skills for IT Consulting

In terms of networking software, you need to know all the basic desktop software and have the ability to do all the networking skills that are required for micro small business. For the sweet spot, you should also be comfortable with some of the popular server operating systems out there.

These include Microsoft Windows Server, Microsoft Small Business Server, Novell NetWare, Novell Small Business Suite, and Linux which is starting to pick up some traction among small businesses.

Copyright MMI-MMVI, Computer Consulting 101. All Worldwide Rights Reserved. {Attention Publishers: Live hyperlink in author resource box required for copyright compliance}


