Title: 
Learn How Entrepreneurs Make Millions

Word Count:
517

Summary:
Learn how entrepreneurs make millions through intellectual property in the information marketing business.  Learn why working for someone else is not in your best interests physically and financially.


Keywords:
Intellectual property, Information marketing business, Expertise, Value, Niche market, Internet, Money, Expert, Guru


Article Body:
There are three basic ways of earning money which include trading time for money, trading money for money and trading expertise/value for money.

Society and the formal education system promote the first method of earning money which involves trading time for money.  In other words, you work for someone else for a specific amount of time and then they pay you.  Working for someone else drains your energy and you don’t make much money.

The second way to earn money is utilized by a small portion of the population and involves trading money for money.  In other words, you are earning money through investing.  Investing can be risky because if you lack additional funds then how can you invest any money in the first place?  Therefore, many people can’t even try this option because they only have enough money to pay their bills.

The third way to earn money is the best option.  This entrepreneurial option involves trading expertise/value for money.  This is the strategy of entrepreneurial experts.  You have a flexible schedule, work less, and earn more.  You can make thousands of dollars a day in this option.

In order to earn money through trading expertise/value for money you need to first figure out who you are and what you can give to others.  What information do you know that could help others?  You can find value from previous work experience or even from your hobbies.  From this you can create your intellectual property.

What is Intellectual property?  How big is the market for Intellectual property?  Is there room for you in the Intellectual property market?  These may be a few of the questions you have when you are investigating the information marketing business.  First of all, anyone can create intellectual property.  You don’t need to be a Rocket Scientist.  You just need to have an area or expertise, or access to an expert, and a drive to succeed.

Intellectual property combines e-commerce and book publishing.  For example, you can write and sell an eBook.  Recent research has found that approximately 6 out of every 10 American adults surf the Internet on a daily basis seeking out entertainment, education, and to shop for products.  People are more comfortable buying online then in the past.  The market through the Internet is global and encompasses millions of people.  Therefore, the information marketing business has room for everyone!

When you market on the Internet, you market to your niche.  Therefore, you don’t have to worry whether or not your neighbor will want to buy your product.  The Internet opens the niche market for you.

If creating and selling intellectual property on the Internet is so simple, why isn’t everyone doing this?  The formal educational system and previous societal beliefs are to blame.  In school, we are taught to finish school and then become an employee at a company.  The entrepreneurial spirit is not promoted; in fact it is almost shunned.

Don’t let societal beliefs stop you.  The intellectual property market is wide, diverse, and ready to fill your pocket book with cash.


