Title: 
Make Money Scams Don't Work? No...You Don't.

Word Count:
973

Summary:
If you toss a coin 100 times and get 99 heads does that prove it is a two-headed coin. If 100 people try an idea and only one makes millions does that prove it is a scam?


Keywords:
make money


Article Body:
Are Make Money Scams Your Fault? 
= = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = =

Make money failure?  
------------------ 

If you toss a coin 100 times and it comes down heads 99 times, does that prove that it is a two- headed coin? 

Match Your Abilities 
-------------------- 

You have heard that if you invent a better mousetrap the world will beat a path to your door. 

Imagine that you sell your invention together with full manufacturing and selling rights to 100 people.  One make money purchaser is soon a millionaire because of your invention. The other 99 people clamor for their money back. It didn't make money for them therefore it must be a scam. 

They must be right. As with the coin toss 99 times out of 100 proves that it is a scam and nobody can make money. 

My Failures  
----------- 

Inkjets: I bought a kit to make money by refilling inkjet cartridges. I had big plans about expanding my business once it could make money big time. I would set up a van, and drive round the country businesses in Western Australia, and make money refilling their cartridges each week.  

Or I might even be able to drive into the parking lot of some local manufacturers who had hundreds of inkjet printers operating, and refill a couple of hundred cartridges before driving on again. Think how I could make money then! 

My main abilities are technical, which suited refilling the cartridges. 

My main lack of ability is in salesmanship. The business failed. I only made a few hundred dollars out of it over a period of several years. 

Was the idea a scam? No. I am a bad salesman. Others do make money this way, and very good money too. 

Translation: Next I bought a make money idea to become a translator. This was great. I sailed through my translator's exams and joined two professional organizations. 

But the work didn't come in. I didn't make money. 

It turns out that not all translation is equal to make money. If you can translate from English into the language of a new third-world market that manufacturers want to open up you can make money û large dollops of it. The manufacturers are happy to help you to make money so that they can make money in larger quantities. 

However, if you translate into English as I do, then the manufacturers are in the third-world countries. That means that they can't afford quality translators. They will always go for the cheapest work from their own country where slave- labor fees are charged. It doesn't matter that English is not the native language of the translator. The manufacturer can't afford to help you make money by going for quality. 

I only made money of a few thousand dollars over two years. 

Make Money Scams  
---------------- 

Of course, there are make money scams like the one about getting money out of Nigeria. You can often recognize this type of scam by  

1.If it sounds too good to be true it probably is. 

2.Money making scam merchants like it to be barely legal. That way you won't want to complain about them to the authorities. 

3.No work needed. If it needs no work to make money, why do they want your help? 

Make Money from Services  
------------------------ 

In the examples I gave above I was trying to use my services to make money. 

You will almost always make some money - even if you are a hopeless salesperson. The only trouble is that you may make money that is too little to interest the tax man. It is embarrassing when the tax man returns your money with the comment that it is a hobby not a business to make money! 

But suppose that you are a brilliant salesperson. In that case can't you find better ways to make money than working hard? OK suppose you are a mediocre salesperson. You have found a service where word of mouth soon brings you so much work that there aren't enough hours in the day for it. 

That is the big problem. Why do you want to make money? To get freedom? Then why are you working 70 hours a week on your business to make money? What kind of freedom is that? 

One way is to sell the business for a large sum of money and then build another, and sell that to make money. 

Automated Income 
---------------- 

This is the best way to make money. You don't make money with no work. It takes a lot of hard work to set up the automation. But it is cumulative like a rolled snowball. The hard work you do today will make money for you tomorrow and next year and... 

Grasp Opportunity 
----------------- 

I had the chance recently to buy into a business that needs my technical abilities and needs no salesmanship to make money. I grabbed the chance. You can't get in - the offer was only open for 24 hours. If you are too skeptical then when opportunity knocks you will miss your chance to make money. Fortunately I already had experience of working with the vendor, so my skepticism was low. 

How To Match Your Abilities With the Opportunity
---------------------------------------------------- 

 It's only logical. If you want to match the opportunity to your abilities you want to have as many opportunities to choose from as possible. So I've gathered a range of articles by many authors. 

Don't be brainwashed by just one author, but please, don't ask for a refund just because a way to make money doesn't work for you. Unless it is a scam like the one about helping to get hundreds of millions of dollars out of Nigeria then the fault is probably your own. 

One man who became filthy rich from the internet says that he expects 15 out of 16 of his projects to fail. He starts banking his ongoing income from the sixteenth project, then moves on to the next sixteen.


