Title: 
Need More Free Time?

Word Count:
346

Summary:
Did you know using a VA could be far more economical than renting traditional office space or hiring an “on-site” assistant? VA’s with global perspectives are available in a wide range of various cities around the world. This means that your virtual office can be as close as your home city, or in any country you would like to establish a global presence.


Keywords:
secretarial help, virtual support, VA, virtual assistant, coach support, real estate assistant, administrative support help


Article Body:
A professional VA can offer all of the benefits of a traditional administrative assistant, without the need to provide a “space” for him/her. Most VAs offer a wide range of services to pick and choose from; ranging from the basic, such as telephone answering; to the more advanced, such as web hosting and meeting room hire. In this way, how you benefit from a virtual office is entirely up to you and the sky is literally the limit.

Who does this benefit?

Virtual offices can benefit a wide range of users. This ranges from an e-based entrepreneur working from home seeking a professional image to an international concern looking for a short-term solution to increase global business.

Not sure if you need a VA?

If you are a solopreneur or entrepreneur the only sensible solution to growth is to add to your staff. Yet, you may have a lot of reasons that prevent you from hiring an “on-site” assistant, even if you need one. Wouldn’t it be great if you had an assistant that was always there for you, when you need them? Meet the virtual assistant, a new concept that provides great solutions for small businesses and helps to give your new endeavor the manpower it needs

Salaried workers are much more of an immediate expense. You must provide a workspace, computers, supplies, and, you also have federal and state tax obligations. Don’t forget about benefits - sick leave, vacation time, holidays. Did you know the true cost of an “on-site” assistant is possibly double the cost of their yearly salary in terms of benefits and liabilities? Not to mention the “personality issue” of sharing physical office space with someone whom you are probably with more than your family! If it is not a “perfect fit” it can be a strain. Today’s Virtual Assistants are used to getting along with a wide variety of personalities due to the global nature of their businesses. We have a “built in” office manager hat that we wear which enables us to handle many difficult situations.


