Title: 
Rich Jerk - Are You Absolutely SURE?

Word Count:
507

Summary:
Do you want to be a millionaire, no a billionaire??!! This hour? This very minute? I'm sure you know the answer to the question. However I'm sorry to break it to you, but its not going to happen in this world we live in. At least not for 99.999% of us.


Keywords:
Rich Jerk, Thank You Rich Jerk, Internet Money


Article Body:
Do you want to be a millionaire, no a billionaire??!! This hour? This very minute? I'm sure you know the answer to the question. However I'm sorry to break it to you, but its not going to happen in this world we live in. At least not for 99.999% of us. Good. Now we have established that, in order to be a millionaire or indeed a billionaire you need to work, be smart and work some more. If somebody tells you otherwise you should put a smelly sock in his mouth!

It is important that you must also approach any possible internet venture or online money making idea with this level of comprehension. The strange thing I’ve discovered that that with most "follow my lead and make money" program, most of it is actually the TRUTH! Yes! The actual Truth! If you follow it step-by-step, word-for-word I can solemnly say that I can guarantee your success. GUARANTEED!!!

The bump in the road is, most of it is put in a very simplistic way to make it seem easy, but make no mistake, If you truly want to make money online as a e-business, not a freelancer, you will have to invest a small amount of money (very small compared to brick and mortar businesses anyway) and some time to actually understand the whole process and make use of it work in your favor.

Rick Jerk's book is one such book. He provides you with all the tools to actually succeed online, however he gives it to you with a sledge hammer on the head. I'd say at most only 10% of all the people who buy the e-book would actually implement his methods to earn some internet money. This is definitely not Rich Jerk's fault! A lot of people buy these e-books plainly for "Hope", the hope for a better future, but aren't disciplined enough to follow through and put in the hard hours and brain power to see it succeed.

So now where are we? Bearing in mind that the path is already set, we need to find out the level of determination that is required for you to actually follow through with these money making steps. If you are determined to make a success of the internet, these e-books will be absolutely INVALUABLE in their ability to show you the way to the Money. Just make sure you have enough disciplinary fortitude to follow through and you will see a very bright end.

I have looked through a few e-books, some were worth their weight in gold and some were just rehashed ideas from forums such as http://www.webmasterworld.com. I have identified two invaluable e-books that would bring the true entrepreneur the his/her successful ends providing of course that he/she follows through with the e-books and implements all that is suggested methods

Please have a look at what I deem to be the best books on the internet in terms of guiding the internet entrepreneur to success at http://www.richjerkscams.com


