Title: 
Starting an IT Consulting Business: Establishing Partnerships

Word Count:
291

Summary:
IT consulting business partnerships can help you fill in gaps in your skills and expertise. However, don't let a lack of partners hold you back from starting your IT consulting business.


Keywords:
IT consulting business, IT-consulting-business


Article Body:
When starting an IT consulting business, should you already have partnerships established with other companies to provide services that you don’t? The whole problem with running an IT consulting business is that you need to be able to satisfy a lot of needs. However, don’t let that hold you back from getting started.

Know Where Your Expertise Lies

It’s really not that critical to have partnerships in place when you’re getting your IT consulting business started. However, if you feel that you have substantial weaknesses and you’re going to encounter a lot of prospects needing services your IT consulting business can't provide, you may want some good contractors lined up.  

Plan Ahead and Bring on Partners Slowly

In the IT consulting business, you should generally wait until you’re more established to form solid partnerships. Once you get your business up and running, try to meet up with one person every other month that could be a potential business partner or contractor. 

You’ll meet prospective partners or contractors at chamber events and networking groups and other people will refer you to them. The best potential partners for your IT consulting business will be at your mutual clients’ place of business. 

The Bottom Line about the IT Consulting Business

Once again, don’t let your lack of expertise in certain areas prevent you from getting your IT consulting business started. You’ll have plenty of time to build up the partnerships later. There’s no reason to go overboard unless you feel you really need to have those skills backing your IT consulting business.

Copyright MMI-MMVI, Small Biz Tech Talk. All Worldwide Rights Reserved. {Attention Publishers: Live hyperlink in author resource box required for copyright compliance}


