Title: 
Unlimited Income Potential

Word Count:
339

Summary:
Would you believe me if I told you, that you have an unlimited income potential? That you could be your own boss and decide when you've made enough money. Would you believe that your business could make money for you around the clock, even as you sleep, with no effort at all? Well that is exactly what I'm going to do!


Keywords:
make money, make money online, make money at home, home business, home based business


Article Body:
Would you believe me if I told you, that you have an unlimited income potential? That you could be your own boss and decide when you've made enough money. Would you believe that your business could make money for you around the clock, even as you sleep, with no effort at all? Well that is exactly what I'm going to do!

Don't get me wrong, this will initially require quite a bit of effort. But after you get the ball rolling, the maintenance is minimal. The only time it'll require more effort, is when you want to increase your income, and even that will get progressively easier each time.

So what is the fastest growing market to date? That's right, the information industry. It's a $285 billion industry. We're currently living in the Information Age and information is exactly what everyone is looking for. This sounds great so far, but it even gets better.

Musicians and authors are some of the wealthiest people around. Why is that? They create low cost assets. Well what is that? An asset is something that you own that puts money in your pocket. For example, think of your favorite musician. How long does it takes for them to make an album? A couple months at most? Well that album makes money for them for many years, possibly decades. The same goes for books. Information products can be created within a matter of days or weeks.

The great thing about the internet is that you can automate the entire process! After you've finished typing product you save it to your computer and upload it to your website. You can create a website for $10-$20 a month and it does all the selling for you. After you receive the payment your customer instantly gets access to the product that is saved in a secret location on the web. You have no inventory to deal with. Stop working for your money and let your assets work for you!

Together we can succeed!
Your colleague and friend,
Nick Maise


