Title: 
Wholesale Cubic Zirconia Jewelry Guide

Word Count:
493

Summary:
Today there is a wonderful opportunity in wholesale cubic zirconia jewelry from the current marketplace trend; consumers are turning more to this synthetic gem because the quality has improved tremendously. It has always been well known as a substitute for diamond, due to its high hardness and great fire, now it is established as a gorgeous gem in its own right.


Keywords:
piercing,gold,jewelry,wholesale,earrings,body,tongue,navel,14k,18k,stud,dangle,cz,cubic,zirconia


Article Body:
Today there is a wonderful opportunity in wholesale cubic zirconia jewelry from the current marketplace trend; consumers are turning more to this synthetic gem because the quality has improved tremendously. It has always been well known as a substitute for diamond, due to its high hardness and great fire, now it is established as a gorgeous gem in its own right.  

Cubic zirconia is a beautiful synthetic gemstone that is durable, inexpensive and now even comes in many fashionable colors, making it even more attractive. Many cubic zirconia jewelry buyers have been turned off by the diamond marketplace, as more diamond mines open, the prices of diamonds continue to decline, making it a less than attractive investment today than in times past.

It is because cubic zirconia jewelry has earned the reputation as the most realistic simulator of a diamond and is inexpensive to produce it has become the target of many manufacturers looking to make a quick profit. Creating wholesale cubic zirconia jewelry with substandard stones or cheap metal settings defeats the whole purpose of why consumers buy cubic zirconia jewelry in the first place; because they want the look of real diamonds. Good quality diamond jewelry would never be mounted in 9 carat or even 14 carat gold. 

Real diamond jewelry is almost always set in 18 carat gold, sometimes platinum. When you are buying wholesale cubic zirconia jewelry that can look realistically like diamond jewelry, look for a real diamond mount that set the stones properly. When cubic zirconia jewelry is mounted in this manner, to the naked eye, they are impossible to tell apart from diamonds. It is important to keep your customers in mind when you are making your wholesale cubic zirconia selections.

When you are shopping for wholesale cubic zirconia jewelry make sure you check for quality in its main features. Its hardness: it ranks 8.5 on Moh's Scale of Hardness and a white streak. Starting with weight, a 6.5mm cubic zirconia is equal in size to a one-carat diamond and actually weighs about 1.75 carats, about 75% heavier than a diamond. In terms of brilliance, cubic zirconia has slightly less sparkle than a diamond and more fire or flashes to color. And purity, cubic zirconia is flawless whereas a diamond usually contains impurities and inclusions, but cubic zirconia is softer and more brittle than a diamond. Cubic zirconia's refractive index of 2.176, compared to a diamonds 2.417. 


Bear in mind that many people are buying cubic zirconia jewelry for its own beauty and attraction, not looking for a diamond substitute at all. This reality creates an even stronger motivation for seeking out quality wholesale cubic zirconia jewelry. By taking the time and effort to test the quality of gemstones and ensure that the metals used in the settings are compatible, your profits will increase, your customers will be happier with their purchases and they will have an incentive to return to you for the next time they are ready to buy cubic zirconia jewelry.


