Title: 
Worried about photo papers?!

Word Count:
364

Summary:
I take pictures most of the time. I consider it as my hobby – and my passion.


Keywords:
online printing four color printing 


Article Body:
I love taking pictures. Whenever I’m on a great hike, vacation or a momentous celebration, I take pictures. Whenever there are strange events and phenomena, I see to it that my camera’s around to help me preserve the moment by taking pictures.

You can never repeat precious moments because they are laid to you just but once. Thus, when you want to treasure these moments, better have a loaded camera all the time. I also have my personal photo lab to secure good pictures instantly.

Before, I worry about photo papers. Some do not display my pictures crisp and bright. It is frustrating if your photo papers do not do justice with your hardly-obtained pictures. 

Photo papers are supposed to complement your pictures and not ruin its quality. In order to preclude photo papers from spoiling my masterpieces, I have gathered several pointers in choosing the suitable photo papers. Here they are:

1. Consider your photo needs. Photo papers come in a wide variety. They have different thickness, finish, sizes and quality. Hence, you have to know the particular needs of your photographs before using any of the variety. 

2. Thickness alert. A tiny picture need not be too thick. This is because it needs lesser support than huge photographs. If you are into poster-like pictures, better have them thick to protect them better. Thicker photo papers protect the material from pricks, folds and tear.

3. The right size. You can choose from a wide-variety of photo paper sizes available. Studio-quality shots are nice in a 13” x 19” size. Panoramic views like sunset, landscapes and seascapes are stunningly great in 4” x 12” photo paper. However, the mostly used size is 4” x 6” paper which is ideal for photo albums.

4. Suitable finish. Finish includes matte to extra glossy photo papers. Matte has rich textures and ignores finger prints. Glossy photo paper, on one hand, creates vibrant and lively colors. However, it does not resist finger prints.

5. Always do preliminary testing. This is to avoid wastage of ink and photo papers. You can also rely from established photo papers. They have built their credibility for a long time, that’s one thing that counts. 

Say bye bye to your worries…


