Why Go For Wholesale Burglar Alarm?


Do you feel that your simple door sensors are not just enough to make you feel secure against thieves? Are you thinking of buying other security gadgets to protect your home from unwanted visitors? Or perhaps you are considering an upgrade to the latest anti-burglar devices in the market?

Really, what are the best burglar alarms to buy?

You can make most of your cash if you buy burglar alarms in wholesale. In a wholesale package, burglar alarms of different types are sorted to serve your security needs. Most sellers of alarm systems give you more options with their offered packages, so you can be assured of a cost-effective deal.

The most common wholesale alarm systems include the following devices:

Control Panels

If the human body has the brain, your alarm system has the Control Panel. The Control Panel is the main processing body of the system. This is where the AC power, keypad, siren, and other elements of the security system are interconnected.

Keypads

Basically, keypads are connected to the main control. It displays the status of the burglar alarm system. Other features are available depending on the model of the keypad. Actually, there are four kinds of keypads you can select from. These are:

* LCD Alpha English Hardwired
* LED keypads
* Fixed display wired keypads
* Wireless keypads


Motion Detector

Motion detectors are mostly used if no one is home. They are pretty futile if you’re at home. This gives you a little assurance that your home is safe even if you are away.

Motion detectors are commonly placed where the biggest area of the house floor can be seen. 

Usually, they are installed facing the backside of the house. You may also decide to mount another detector in the hallway of the second floor. For additional security, you can set-up another unit in your bedroom.


Glass Break Detectors

Glass break detectors are usually installed throughout the first floor and the basement. These devices serve as your primary protection for your window and door switches.

Glass break detectors depend on the sounds that they “hear”. They easily react to sounds that may have potential threats. “Smart” models have excellent standards for sensitivity as well as immunity to misleading or fake alarms.

Outdoor and Indoor Siren

You have a wide selection as to where to place your sirens at home. Most people prefer fixing them in the attic vents, wall vents, under the eaves of the roofs, or a tall building side wall. You may also choose to put them above the closet or tall furniture, in the basement, and bedrooms.

When setting up a siren, just make sure that it will be out of reach of anybody who may try to remove it. However, if it can really be accessed, be sure that the unit has a built-in siren tamper. The alarm will automatically set off in case somebody tries to move the unit from the place where it is fixed.

Smoke Detectors

Some wholesale packages of burglar alarms are not just dedicated in handling intrusion, but as well as fire.

These devices are basically available in hardwired and wireless versions. Some alarm systems are made of combinations of the two.

Other optional accessories include backup batteries, transformers, voice dialers, and wireless receivers. 


