Keys to Golfing Better

The golf professionals do have something that they agree on.  If you do not keep your balance during the entire swing, it is not possible to have a good stroke.  It sounds simple to keep your balance, doesn’t it?  Unfortunately, it is impossible to have good balance when you are so tense that you are “white knuckling” the club, your entire body is stiff, and you are trying to hit the ball too hard.  

When you are just starting to play golf, you are frequently warned to not hit the ball too hard.  Energy that is focused will make the ball go much further than a hard swing that does not make contact with the ball at the club’s center.  When you are well balanced, you are more free to hit the ball correctly.  

Keep your head still, with your eyes focused on the ball.  The more still your head is, the better you will be able to see the ball.  This helps to create the foundation for you to keep your balance.  Any movement or distraction that hinders your balance will make it impossible to focus on the ball.  It is imperative that you keep your head perfectly still and do not move it during your swing.  

If you want to keep your balance, you need to relax your body and muscles.  If you don’t relax, then your head is going to move.

If you will watch yourself in front of your mirror, you will soon realize that you need to relax your muscles for your head to stay still while you swing.  No two golfers have the same build, so you will have to figure out some things for yourself.  It is a necessity to begin by keeping your head in the same position from the beginning to end of your swing.  If you keep your head still, you will be able to focus on the ball, and you will turn your hands at the right time.  

You will be able to cure many of your problems just by keeping your head completely still.  It will be impossible to incorrectly grip your club without losing your balance and moving your head.  

If you don’t follow through correctly, you will not be able to keep your balance.    

If you concentrate on your balance and keeping your head still, then you will not swing too hard or pull your club away.  It will be impossible to put too much strength into your swing.  You will be relaxed and will have a smooth swing and a successful finish.

Keeping your balance is necessary for you to enjoy a great game of golf.  It will take time for you to see definite improvement, so be patient.  Concentrate on keeping your balance and your head in one place and in no time you will be enjoying an excellent golf game that your friends will be envious of!  

