The Magic Key to Putting 

When you have it, you have it.  The world is yours.  When you don’t have it…then you think that you would be better off placing the ball in the hole with your hand rather than using your putter.  

Just the last time you played you had the same stance, putter, and “feel” as you had today, but last time you made the shot easily.  What happened?  

Do you just have bad luck this time?    

Putting is not a game of chance.  Although sometimes it may seem that there is no rhyme or reason to it, there are some tips to help your putting.  

If you are having putting problems, your solution can be boiled down to one little word.  

Tension.

Concentrate on keeping your muscles relaxed while you are putting and your shots will become more and more accurate.  

Stiff muscles only make it harder to putt.  Good putting takes complete muscle relaxation so that your movements are fluid.  Fluid movement gives you the freedom to make a good putt.  If you are trying to tense your body up to keep your balance, then you are guaranteed to have problems.  

When you are not having problems putting, your confidence is increased and you are having free movement.  When you miss an easy putt, then you become tense and you try more carefully.  The more tense you become, the more freedom you lose and your putting goes down the drain.  

You can change everything about your putting and try to copy every professional player imaginable, but it all hinges on you being relaxed.  Relax your muscles.  Be loose and free.  Pretend your muscles are like jelly.  

Making a good shot is impossible if you are tense.  When you stiffen up from your face to your feet, you lose the freedom that you need to make a good shot.  You may make several shots this way, but there will come a time when all you will hit are bad shots.  You need to stay relaxed enough to fall down (but stay up).  

            If you will stay relaxed then your putt will improve, your confidence will rise, and you will be more relaxed for the entire golf game!  

Are you looking for the magic key to putting?  RELAX!  Good putting hinges on this one key!  
