Title: 
Classy, And Oh So Tasty…Our Gourmet Gift Baskets Are Sure To Please!

Word Count:
306

Summary:
When it comes to making a good impression, saying “Thank you,” or selecting a gift sure to delight, few other choices guarantee success like gourmet gift baskets; especially when the food basket comes from Full Moon.

That’s because Full Moon Gift Baskets are particular. We include only the highest-quality of gourmet foods; ones with the highest of palatable standards. With a variety of styles from which to select, our gourmet gift baskets are the perfect choice for corpora...


Keywords:
gourmet gift baskets, holiday gift giving, business gift giving, gourmet, foods,


Article Body:
When it comes to making a good impression, saying “Thank you,” or selecting a gift sure to delight, few other choices guarantee success like gourmet gift baskets; especially when the food basket comes from Full Moon.

That’s because Full Moon Gift Baskets are particular. We include only the highest-quality of gourmet foods; ones with the highest of palatable standards. With a variety of styles from which to select, our gourmet gift baskets are the perfect choice for corporate business gifts, birthdays, holidays, anniversaries, and weddings, just to name a few. There is a “just-right” gift basket brimming with select gourmet foods, one to fit every occasion.

Take the Crowd Pleaser Gourmet food basket, for instance…as visually impressive as it is appetizing. A lavish basket adorned with cascading ribbons, bows and gift card, filled to overflowing with delectable treats: gourmet cookies, coffees, herbal teas, flavored popcorns, Ghirardelli chocolates, hot cocoa, lemon cake, and more. Plus three humorous perpetual calendars, sure to bring a chuckle to help ease work related or holiday stress. This generous food basket is sure to win rave reviews!

“WOW” is the only way to describe our corporate gift baskets, theme oriented with high-impact visual appeal. Exquisite and elegant, each gourmet food basket a masterpiece - offering such tantalizing tummy-pleasers as gourmet cheeses and mustards, mouth watering sausages, wine crackers, dried fruit, candies and so much more. Quality with executive flair! 

Don’t forget our sampler Gourmet Delight. It offers a variety of taste-teasers sure to satisfy the most scrutinizing gourmet connoisseur. Custom-made Gourmet gift baskets can also be personalized to your specifications. Our talented design team is just a phone call away; on standby to create the perfect gift basket extraordinaire…classy, tasty, affordable, and custom made. Make a good impression and choose a gourmet gift basket for your gift giving occasion.


