Title: 
Delightful Dessert Delivered From Disaster

Word Count:
363

Summary:
For those who don't know, a King Cake is an oval-shaped bakery delicacy--a cross between a coffee cake and a French pastry that is as rich in history as it is in flavor.


Keywords:
Delightful Dessert Delivered From Disaster


Article Body:
Here's some sweet news: people all over the country can still enjoy that crown jewel of New Orleans, the King Cake, this Mardi Gras season. 

For those who don't know, a King Cake is an oval-shaped bakery delicacy-a cross between a coffee cake and a French pastry that is as rich in history as it is in flavor. It's decorated in royal colors or Purple for Justice, Green for Faith and Gold for Power: These colors were chosen to represent a jeweled crown honoring the wise men who brought gifts to the Christ Child on the Epiphany. A tiny plastic baby is hidden inside. Whoever gets the piece with the prize is named "King for a day." 

Some of the most popular King cakes are those created in New Orleans at the famous Randazzo's Camellia City Bakery. Despite the devastation of Hurricane Katrina, the store recently reopened its doors and took part in a special program with DHL to bring a taste of home to displaced New Orleanians, residents and others for Mardi Gras. 

Explained Tricia Zornes, owner of Randazzo's, "Continuing local traditions like Mardi Gras helps revitalize the New Orleans economy, improves morale and shows the world that we can rebuild and re-establish the culture that has made New Orleans special."

To help the rebuilding and celebrate the reopening, shipping company DHL developed a festive, co-branded shipping box, specially designed to open from the top to protect the rich icing and traditional shape. In addition, according to Zornes, the shipper's sales representative offered his own time and effort to rebuilding the bakery after nearly everything was lost, from the valuable baking equipment to the building itself. "In addition to helping us create a new distribution process, he went beyond the call of duty in offering to help paint, or do any odd jobs that would help us get up and running quickly," said Zornes.

"DHL has been committed to leveraging its resources to support disaster relief and long-term reconstruction along the Gulf Coast, and is now pleased to be able to support the private sector in rebuilding their businesses and their livelihoods," said Kay Hart, Senior Vice President, Corporate Communications, DHL Americas.


