Title: 
'Tis the Season for Flower Girl Dresses and Children's Formal Wear

Word Count:
570

Summary:
Spring is just around the corner, which means it's the season for children's formal wear. Weddings call for flower girl dresses and boy's tuxedos, as well as for First Communion dresses and boy's suits.


Keywords:
discount flower girl dresses, flower girl dresses, communion dresses, christening dresses, children's formal wear, boy's


Article Body:
Spring is just around the corner, which means it's the season for children's formal wear. Weddings call for flower girl dresses and boy's tuxedos, as well as for First Communion dresses and boy's suits. What's in this season? Read on to find out!

Flower Girl Dresses

When it comes to flower girl dresses, you have several options that will bring smiles to the faces of your attendees, and make your flower girls feel like little princesses. A sleeveless satin bodice with a satin skirt and organza overlay is a simple but stunning combination. Scattered colored stones with a matching band at the waistband coordinates well with the attire of others in the bridal party. Depending on the age of the flower girl, choose either tea length or floor length.

For a feminine yet upscale look, choose a flower girl dress that is tiered in the back. A full peau satin skirt with one tier in front and three tiers in back, accented with a large bow with tails and fabric roses, will make the day special for both the flower girl and the bride. 

If you're budget conscious, don't overlook some of the discount flower girl dresses that are available online. Just as beautiful as the pricier flower girl dresses, you can find satin and organza dresses, as well as tiered dresses, for between $35 and $80. 

Communion Dresses

Every little girl will remember her First Communion for the rest of her life, so Communion dresses are an important part of the ritual. An organza scalloped princess style gown with coordinating veil will make her feel special, as will the simple lines of a satin Communion dress with lace and a removable bolero jacket.

Boy's Suits

This season, there are many choices for boy's suits. Whether it's his First Communion or whether he's attending in a family wedding, he'll be thrilled to wear a traditional five-piece suit. Double-breasted jackets are back in style, and come in white for the perfect First Communion outfit. For a more formal occasion, a boy's tuxedo - with or without tails - is always appropriate. 

Christening Dresses

When it comes to girls' christening dresses there are many choices. An all-white batiste dress with smocking on a bodice dotted with white pearls, along with matching bloomers, is adorable. For more traditional christening dresses you can choose a length of up to 32 inches with intricate embroidery and a matching bonnet. Keep in mind that a christening dress is something that can be handed down for generations, so choosing a timeless style may be in order. 

Christening Outfits for Boys

For boys, christening outfits are usually five-piece sets that consist of a shirt, pants, bowtie, vest, and hat. The typical pant length is either shorts or knickers. Some sets feature brocade, while others have satin trim. 

How to Buy

With the Internet, a wide variety of children's formal wear is available at the click of a mouse. Plus, you're more likely to find discount flower girl dresses and bargains in children's formal wear at an online store. When ordering online, look for a company that not only offers flower girl dresses, boy's tuxedos, Communion dresses, and christening dresses, but that also asks you for the date of the event. Before ordering, check out the sizing charts, and don't hesitate to ask questions. Then, on the big day, make sure that your little ones enjoy themselves, and feel as special as they look!


