Title: 
A Season Of Classic Looks And Delicate Details

Word Count:
310

Summary:
What will women be wearing this fall? Style-savvy experts say that clean and conservative looks are back in vogue.


Keywords:
A Season Of Classic Looks And Delicate Details


Article Body:
What will women be wearing this fall? The style-savvy experts at Chadwick's, the nation's first and largest value fashion catalog, say that clean and conservative looks are back in vogue. Skin-baring outfits are out and layering is in. Volume and textured fabric are fashion's buzzwords, and rich colors like black, red, purple and gray ruled the runways. Chadwick's offers the following tips on how to be fashionable this fall:

Sleek Silhouettes

The "new suit" features fitted jackets paired with slim pants and skirts, for a polished, tailored look. Consider a mandarin collar or washed wool plaid blazer with a favorite pair of pants for sophisticated style. Or menswear-styled suit jackets, softened with feminine details and gentle draping, create a look that works in a boardroom or a bistro.

Give your pants some pizzazz by wearing cropped or wide-legged styles. Several top designers explored this trend with contrasting looks-pairing loose with tight and long with short. Anyone can wear this look by balancing the silhouette with heels or an appropriate top. 

Touchable Textures

Luxurious velvet made a comeback this season. Chadwick's designs feature crushed and jewelry-close velvet blazers that create a modern look.

From chunky cable to fine gauge, there's a knit for all occasions. For a cozy option on chilly fall nights, choose a sweater-knit. For a feminine spin, try a twin set lined with ruffles or a beaded cardigan.

Au Courant Accents

For tasteful fall layering, it's all in the details. Pieces trimmed in lace or ruffles create a romantic touch under shirts and jackets.

Wound along the hem of a skirt or down a pant leg, embroidery adds a splash of style. Paisley and floral designs are classic twists on this modern trend. 

One signature snapshot is a jacket cinched at the waist with a belt. Pair it with a boot of any height for an up-to-the-minute look.


