Title: 
Answers to Common Questions About Prom Dresses

Word Count:
518

Summary:
Here are answers to common questions that relate to prom dresses, homecoming dresses, and quinceanera dresses.


Keywords:
prom dresses, prom, dresses, quinceanera, formal, eveningwear, homecoming, clothing, fashion


Article Body:
There are few occasions that are as nerve-wracking as prom night. This is because, aside from the anxiety provoking "what ifs" the night of the prom, you have to avoid all of the potential pitfalls leading up to the prom. Whether you're going with the date of your dreams or you're planning to attend the prom with a group of girlfriends, there's no getting around the issue of prom dresses. Finding the right eveningwear such a formal occasion can seem like an impossible challenge. Here, then, are answers to common questions that relate to prom dresses, homecoming dresses, and quinceanera dresses. 

1. I'm short and want to look taller for my prom. What should I do?

There are three elements that can help you appear taller on your special night: the right heels, the right prom dress, and the right hairstyle. First, plan on wearing high heels. Whether you add one inch or three with high heels, it's important that you look for prom dresses that will accommodate the heels. You might want to go with a cocktail length dress, but a floor length dress will add length to your body - and an illusion of height. Look for floor length prom dresses that have side slits for better maneuverability. Finally, take care in selecting your hairstyle. Go with an updo to add height - even if you need to add extensions or a hairpiece. 

2. I'm a senior in high school, but I look like an eighth grader. How do I look older for prom?

When it comes to maturity, keep two things in mind: bearing and appearance. Body language is important, in that how you move your body, how you tilt your head, the timber of your voice, and the way you walk all speak volumes about your perceived age. While you definitely don't want to pretend you're someone you're not, this might be a good opportunity to practice skills that will help you evolve into the person you want to be. Practice walking in your prom shoes, watch your facial expressions in the mirror, record your voice to hear how it sounds, and so forth. Make any adjustments (and practice) so that your mannerisms reflect what you feel inside. 

When you look for prom dresses, look for those that are more formal. Formal clothing makes women appear older, as do colors that are dark and rich. Depending on your coloring, you might want to go with jewel tones, black, or chocolate brown. 

3. How do I know how to have my hair styled for prom? 

How you fashion your hair greatly depends upon the style of your prom dress. If your dress has a high collar or a busy neckline, an updo is the only way to go. On the other hand, if your prom dress is sleeveless, strapless, or has spaghetti straps, you can wear your hair long or short, full or sleek. The one caveat is to make sure your hair doesn't cover up an important feature of your prom dress. That gorgeous keyhole back, for example, will be invisible if you have hair down to your waist!


