Title: 
Are dress codes in workplace important?

Word Count:
321

Summary:
It’s a very interesting question. If you sit to discuss about dress codes you might end up in a debate.


Keywords:
dress codes,emplyees dress codes


Article Body:
Are dress codes important?

It’s a very interesting question. If you sit to discuss about dress codes you might end up in a debate. Creating a dress code for a workplace can be a tricky thing. Fashion is the word of the day and in such an atmosphere dress codes can certainly be a helping hand.

Why are dress codes implemented?

It’s very important to maintain dress codes in an office. Young boys and girls often dress shabbily without bothering what the world has to say. A compulsory dress code can keep them under control and maintain a decent image in public. 

If no dress codes are maintained in a workplace then anyone will wear anything of his/her choice. This will distract other employees and have a severe impact on their performance. If a colleague proves to be a distraction the other employees will have a hard time concentrating on their work. Dress codes have to be reasonable depending on the type of work.

Dress Codes for employees

It’s very important that employees sign in neat for work. They might opt for casual or formal business attire, but this is something that will vary greatly from setting to setting.

Some things that are completely against dress codes are:
• Clothing which has an abusive and foul language
• Tank tops, muscle shirts or halter tops
• Wearing torn jeans and tops
• Hats or caps
• Wearing sweaty pants or sweat suits

What things should employers keep in mind at the time of deciding a dress code?

Dress codes have to be reasonable depending on the type of work. At the time of developing a dress ode the employer should ensure that they are:
• Job related
• Not treating one sex less favorably than the other
• Not treating one race less favorably than the other

It’s very important that the employer communicates these dress codes to the employees, for them to follow.


