Title: 
Are You Stuck In  A Fashion Statment

Word Count:
637

Summary:
Are you a trendy fashion statement with the different way you wear clothes despite the latest fashions. The accessories you suggest to go with an outfit might be what you are feeling on certain day or a period of ordinary life that you might be going though at the significant moment.


Keywords:
fashion, clothing, casual dressing, dressess, shoes 


Article Body:
Being consistent with a favorable fashion, this might be the moment to do a closer reality check and find out if you are stuck in your fashion or can you still dig out of the old and into the new.

Try this simple fashion screening to see if you match one or more of the scenarios.

Do  persons that are flustered seem to over dress more than others? Yes Persons that are flustered seem to wear the high top necked long sleeve tops, caps or stiffly formal and proper dresses. Persons like this tend to hide their repression though their typical clothing.

Are confident plain dressers really conceited? Yes. Persons that are conceited dress less as they feel that dressing up is not a flattery to them and their assertive personality can over come the stylish fashion they choose.

Are overly adorn friends or co workers having more opportunities in the work field? No overly adorn friends will dress up anywhere they go as they really do not have a place to wear the stylish fashions they choose. When you occasionally see a friend or coworker in the store , they might be just wearing it for a statement that they have really no place to go.

"I never have an outfit to fit the occasion or a thing to wear" persons are they really discontent?  Yes and how many of us have said that in a life time we cannot go because we have nothing to wear. Go in the closet and look at the latest fashions and clothing we have, however,  still our satisfaction for the style we want is not hanging in the closet.

Do bold statement people brad about the price of their flattering clothes, right? No. Persons that need a boost in confidence will not allow to brag about the bargains, but look for the social fashions status for exaggerated importance on the prices and the stylish fashion statement.

Are persons who over dress or bundle up usually miserable? Yes. Shivering as if you are cold frequently, no matter what the temperature conditions are. Over dressers are persons that will seeking attention for closeness. A person that dresses and wraps up like you would wrap a baby is usually lonely and seeking out attention.

As children dress different and have a different fashions statement, when they get older will the stylish fashion statement stay with them? No. Teen fashions are a variety of spontaneous expression. Teen years will bring out variety, activity and new phases. However in the later years the fashions will bring standard and authority.

Are simple quantity or short dressers rebellious? Yes. Skimpy dressers are the exact opposite of over dressers. This classes of people will wear little to nothing to help with the over protection they feel with in themselves. The less they wear the easier to get out of the clothing when clearly feeling over protected.

Persons who are tidy clothes dressers, are they superior in the trendy fashion statement ? No. This could be an impression they make with dressing to have a deeper impression. Tidy clothes dressers will straighten ties, swipe lint off your jacket to draw attention to themselves.

Are you a casual dresser? If you have agreed yes to this question you are comfortable with anything you wear. Your shopping for trendy fashion clothing will not make a bold statement Your casual dressing will tell others you are comfortable with your styles and love the casual fashion. A casual dresser will be comfortable in any given situation and have kind hearts.

Now that you have looked over the different situations for fashion buying and wearing, where do you fit in here.

Are you a bold person, casual or do you lack courage and determination to get out of the old and into a new fashion


