Title: 
Art Meets Fashion in the Designs of Natasha Ulyanov at New York’s Champagne Fashion Brunch

Word Count:
618

Summary:
Designer Natasha Ulyanov’s fashion collection will be presented on Sunday, March 26, 2006 at the Champagne Fashion Brunch to be held at La Prima Donna restaurant, 163 West 47th Street, in New York City’s famous theater district. The fashion show will showcase The timeless elegance of Natasha Ulyanov’s fashion designs springs from her juxtaposition of  European heritage and American confidence.


Keywords:
Russian designer, champagne fashion brunch, fashio fashion show, new york fashion,fashion trends, fashion style, style, women apparel, andres aquino, show production, italian food, la prima donna


Article Body:
Designer Natasha Ulyanov’s fashion collection will be presented on Sunday, March 26, 2006 at the Champagne Fashion Brunch to be held at La Prima Donna restaurant, 163 West 47th Street, in New York City’s famous theater district. Doors open at 12:30 p.m. and the show starts at 1:00 p.m.
 
The timeless elegance of Natasha Ulyanov’s fashion designs springs from her juxtaposition of  European heritage and American confidence. Born in London and raised in Moscow and New York, Natasha has a cosmopolitan perspective on the philosophies of various cultures on beauty and sophistication. Natasha took her cue for fashion design from her experience in visual arts and oil painting, having studied at the Greenwich Academy and having her work published in Art World magazine. Taking art to the next level of turning it into a living expression, Natasha immersed herself into the world of fashion design, graduating from New York’s acclaimed Parsons School of Design and later working with designers Alice Roi, Carolina Herrera, Badgley Mischka, J Mendel and Valentino. Motivated to launch her own line, her first signature collection was inspired by the ever-stylish Audrey Hepburn and was shown at New York’s Guggenheim Museum as part of the most-visited exhibit in the history of the museum entitled “Russia”. 

Natasha Ulyanov continues working to become an influential force in the fashion industry, giving those who wear her designs a new form of expression. Her ageless sophistication and attention to detail and shape bring out the wearer’s inner beauty.   

“With the participation of Ms. Ulyanov in the upcoming Champagne Fashion Brunch it all comes together in one place,” says producer Andres Aquino, “Flavor, taste, ambiance, culture and couture. You have delicious Tuscan cuisine, fine champagne, fashion from a Russian designer and a Dominican designer, jewelry from South African and Austrian designers, beautiful models, exquisite makeup and hair styling and an audience from three continents as well as press and stylish music. This is a unique forum where designers connect directly with high-end consumers in an elegant relaxed atmosphere in the Times Square area right in heart of New York City.”
  
With the upcoming web casting of the fashion shows and launch of the company’s own magazine as well as ongoing advertising in the New York Times, Playbill and many other publications, there are many opportunities available to sponsors and advertisers looking to reach an affluent fashion-conscious audience at both the national and international levels. Tickets to the shows are becoming hot commodities as appreciation gifts and corporate incentives for Fortune 500 corporations as well as special family and social gatherings. Other guests include celebrities out for an unusual afternoon or evening activity and buyers looking for unique fashions for their boutiques. Attendees come from around the USA, the Far East, Europe, Canada and South America. People are buying tickets up to six months in advance. Tickets are available through the company website  - www.usafashionshows.com - as well as through various ticket outlets worldwide.

Participating designers present some of the best wearable couture and exquisite accessories. Recent shows have featured collections by designers from a host of countries including Austria, South Africa, Colombia, Dominican Republic, Switzerland, Germany, Canada, Russia, Israel, Bulgaria, England, India, and the USA. Some already have their lines carried in exclusive stores like Bergdorf Goodman and chic boutiques on Madison Avenue as well as in other fashion capitals.  

Portions of Champagne Fashion Brunch proceeds support children’s charity providing food, clean water, medical care and other assistance in poverty stricken countries around the world.
 
Producer Andres Aquino is CEO of USA International Fashion Shows and founder of Fashion Syndicate Press. He also produces Couture Fashion Week, Bridal Fashion Week and the Martini Fashion Dinner series.


