Title: 
Boating Apparel - Funny T-Shirts

Word Count:
376

Summary:
Looking for a Funny T-shirt for your lake boating ? Lake Trash has men's T-shirts, women's T-shirts and everything in between with the funniest slogan/ logo you have ever seen. Lake Trash has a wide selection of boating apparel right on their site.


Keywords:
Boat T-Shirts, Funny T-shirt, Lake Boating, Boating Apparel, Boating, Done


Article Body:
Funny T-shirts can open up the conversation in any boating adventure


So, you're out on the water with your buddies when one of them squints, trying to read your T-shirt. It says, "How to keep a retard busy: read the back." Your friend walks around to your back and reads the other side, "How to keep a retard busy: read the back." Your friend looks stumped, but still walks around to read the front of your T-shirt again and again and again By now you can imagine everyone cracking up at your one still quite confused friend. A funny tee shirt can really make for good times out on the water because not only do they show off your true personality; they create a friendly environment to make everyone more comfortable.


What is a good boat trip without a few jokes and a few laughs? Because having fun on the water means having a few jokes up your sleeve, just think of your funny T-shirt as a joke you wear all day long! Jokes are the central part of a good boat party and with a tee shirt that does the joking for you; you can have even more fun on the water. Wear a funny T-shirt on the water and you will see.


So, what qualifies as a funny T-shirt for your lake boating? This is the debatable factor that makes wearing something you think is funny on your back actually funny. While you may think it's normal your friends may crack up at it. What's even funnier is if you think it's the funniest slogan/ logo you have ever seen, but your friends don't quite get it.


Lake Trash has a wide selection of boating apparel right on their site and whether you want a T-shirt that screams "Your boat sucks!" or one that directs, "Drink like a fish," you can find a funny T-shirt there. Lake Trash has men's T-shirts, women's T-shirts and everything in between. Lake Trash best exemplifies the true spirit and humor of boating. Since we know boaters and their preferences we also know their T-shirt choices. Check out our selection today!


Funny T-shirts help bring raise the comfort level on the boat, while providing plenty of laughs for everyone.


