Title: 
Bra Sizes

Word Count:
291

Summary:
A bra remains next to your skin the entire day. If you are not wearing the correct size, imagine the discomfort you'll experience throughout the whole day. It is important to note that your bra size does not remain the same for any great length of time because change is a law of nature and your breasts are no exception. The only difference is that change is more noticeable at some times and less at others. The change becomes most evident in cases of weight loss, weight gain or during pregnancy.


Keywords:
Bra Sizes, Bras, Nursing Bras, Push Up Bras


Article Body:
A bra remains next to your skin the entire day. If you are not wearing the correct size, imagine the discomfort you'll experience throughout the whole day. It is important to note that your bra size does not remain the same for any great length of time because change is a law of nature and your breasts are no exception. The only difference is that change is more noticeable at some times and less at others. The change becomes most evident in cases of weight loss, weight gain or during pregnancy.  

Even though a bra remains the most intimate item of a woman’s wardrobe, research has shown that about 75% of women do not get their bra size right. This results in problems such as sagging breasts, pain in the shoulders, or tightness in the chest. Therefore, it is important to get the size correct in order to avoid problems and feel elegant, feminine and confident. 

It is not very difficult to determine your bra size. First of all, take a measuring tape and measure around the chest, directly under the breasts. If you get an even size number, then add four inches or else add five inches to get your chest size. For example if you measure 30 inches, then you need to add another four inches, which will make your size equal to 34 inches. If you measure an odd number such as 29, then you need to add 5 inches and your size will work out to 34 inches. Most bras come in standard sizes, but you will find that bras marked the same size but manufactured by different companies will give different results. So, you may have to try out several sizes and check for the ideal fit and the maximum comfort.


