Title: 
Brighton Handbags -Information when Shopping for Brighton Handbags

Word Count:
738

Summary:
The Brighton handbag was added to the Brighton line of stylish accessories in 1993. Each Brighton handbag goes through 20 steps during its creation. Upon completion of the process a leather patch, embossed with Brighton's statement of quality and an individual serial number is added. As you can see they really do put their heart into every product they make. It is for this reason the company is known for its heart logo. Components for some of the handbags are manufactured internationally in countries such as France, Italy, Spain, China, Taiwan, Korea and Japan.


Keywords:
brighton, handbags, purses, fashion, women's


Article Body:
The Brighton handbag was added to the Brighton line of stylish accessories in 1993. Each Brighton handbag goes through 20 steps during its creation. Upon completion of the process a leather patch, embossed with Brighton's statement of quality and an individual serial number is added. As you can see they really do put their heart into every product they make. It is for this reason the company is known for its heart logo. Components for some of the handbags are manufactured internationally in countries such as France, Italy, Spain, China, Taiwan, Korea and Japan.

Brighton handbags are handcrafted in California. At no time are there more than ten being made at a time. There is an attention to detail followed as a rule by Brighton craftsmen that is an exception in this industry. For example there is no tag explaining that the 'marks' and 'scars' are your "guarantee" of genuine leather-they painstakingly cut around the scars- to offer you, a flawless leather handbag. Each handbag is individually numbered, and is registered by its owner. Once registered, they are guaranteed. The leathers selected are the best from all over the world, and the hardware all originally created by Brighton artists and craftsmen, sterling silver finished, and protected from oxidation for everyday use.

The Brighton name has become to mean one-of-a-kind jewelry and fine Italian leather articles that are adorned with exquisite silver-plated ornamentation. Brighton's heart logo fits the company philosophy that the difference in products is a true attention to detail. Most of the items in the Brighton collection have some unique detail, a message engraved on a bracelet or a Brighton handbag with a favorite photograph, that gives them special meaning to the owner. This then leaves a lasting memory to cherish for a lifetime. This has also led to many women having their own Brighton collection.

Brighton handbags are available in nearly 6,000 specialty stores nationwide and 50 all-Brighton stores from coast to coast. Brighton handbags are not sold in department stores or on the Internet. This is keeping with the owner/president policy to only do business with stores with world class customer service. This is reinforced with a 2 year warranty against any manufacturer defects.

A few of the more sought after Brighton handbags are:

Millie Organizer Handbag
Millie - Style #H90613 Black, #H90619 Chocolate 

This lush Brighton handbag classic collection features opulent etched plaques, polished buttons and spinning hearts. It features a 12" hand laced shoulder strap, front zip organizer, contoured pocket as front detail. An interior pocket system with striped lining completes the handbag. Measures 11 x 8 x 5 and MSR is $240.00. Making this a favorite among discerning women.

Jodi Reversible Tote
Jodi - Style # H6028R
This Brighton handbag got its idea from Historical American Citrus labels. The casual styling is accented with enameled floral charms and sparkles. This is a colorful and fun collection. The features include 5.5" handles, reversible, inside zippered pocket and a magnetic closure. Dimensions are 9.5"W x 7"H x 3.5"D with a suggested retail price of $145.00.

Darcy Ziptop Brighton Handbag
Darcy - Style # H30724

This Brighton handbags has a new fashion slant. It is tapered, simple and fashion forward. Features: 6" handles, key holder, back pocket with zipper, front pocket with a magnetic snap, zip top closure, custom Brighton scroll lining. 9.00"W x 6.00"H x 2.5"D and carries a suggested retail price in the $190.00 dollar range.



Loretta - Tobacco Brighton Handbag
Style # H90785 -

A soft unconstructed shape featuring a new fashion color! Features include 9" handles, inside zippered pocket, key holder, 3 divided interior sections (two ziptop closures, one magnetic closure) two side pockets with tabs, back pocket and custom Brighton scroll lining. 1"W x 6.5"H x 5"D sporting a MSR price of $230.00.

Bella - Black-Chocolate Brighton Handbag
Style #H30519 - Replica Brighton Handbags
Updated, casual classic handbag silhouette featuring two exterior cell phone pockets. Features: 12" handles, two inset exterior cell phone pockets, full zippered top, center zippered compartment in lining, interior pocket system 14"W x 7"H x 4.5"D Suggested Retail Price: $240.00

Bijoux Quilted Ziptop Brighton Handbag

Bijoux - Black Brighton Handbag
Style # H30713 

This is the Brighton handbags French connection. A new interpretation of a Euro design house classic makes this a very popular choice. Features: 12.5" straps, inside zippered pocket, key holder, ziptop closure, two side pockets with magnetic flap closure, back pocket, along with a custom Brighton striped lining, "feet" on bottom of handbag. 10.5"W x 5.5"H x 3.5"D Suggested Retail Price: $220.00 

More fashion information on  - <a href="http://www.newinfocentral.com">Coach</a>


