Title: 
Buying Petite Clothing Made Easy

Word Count:
344

Summary:
All you girls 5’ 4” and under, fight for your right for high quality fashionable clothes! Many petite women find it difficult to find properly fitting quality clothes. It’s only recently that designers target petite women with fashionable clothing.

This year, fashion is all about you and your style. Fashion is about confidence. If you feel great in an outfit, others can’t help but feel your vibes. 

In the past petite women had to settle for ill fitting regular clothes i...


Keywords:
fashion, clothes, beauty, style, clothing


Article Body:
All you girls 5’ 4” and under, fight for your right for high quality fashionable clothes! Many petite women find it difficult to find properly fitting quality clothes. It’s only recently that designers target petite women with fashionable clothing.

This year, fashion is all about you and your style. Fashion is about confidence. If you feel great in an outfit, others can’t help but feel your vibes. 

In the past petite women had to settle for ill fitting regular clothes in run-of-the-mill sizes. But that’s long in the past. Today’s petite women find more and more stores devoted to meeting the needs of the short statured.

Petite framed women can wear just about any style and look slimmer and most importantly taller, by following a few simple rules.

Avoid bold, large patterns with heavy fabrics. Keep print in proportion to your figure. Smaller frames deserve smaller prints.

Avoid styles that draw the eye to the waist or hip area. These tend to make you look more round. 

Avoid too much jewelry. Jewelry can overpower a small frame.

Wear light weight material when layering. Too much bulk bulks up the petite woman.

Avoid wearing contrasting colors such as black skirt and white top when wearing separates.

Wear the same color from head to tow to create a continuous flow. Blend similar colored shoes and hose to appear taller.

If wearing boots, make sure the hem of your skirt is long enough to cover the boots. This will create an unbroken line to help give a slenderizing affect.

Skirts should be slightly above the knee and always worn with heels. Below the knee skirts tend to make the short statured woman look stubby.

Heels are a must for the vertically impaired. High-heeled shoes guarantees that your legs will look longer and leaner.
 
So if you are yearning for pants that don’t drag the floor or shirts with sleeves the correct length, look in the petite section of your favorite store. You’ll have everyone turning their heads whispering “Who’s that fab girl?”


