Title: 
Capture Red Carpet Looks with Pageant and Prom Dresses

Word Count:
489

Summary:
Shopping for prom dresses and deciding from among the best prospects can take weeks, if not months. Here's what to look for this season....


Keywords:
prom dresses, pageant dresses, jovani, alyce, niteline, marc bouwer, prom, dresses, celebrity dresses, pageant, miss usa


Article Body:
The best prom nights are magical and create memories that will last a lifetime. In the midst of coming up with ideas for the prom decorating committee and fretting about whether or not she'll be asked out by the boy she pines for, one central issue stands apart from the rest: What will she wear? Shopping for prom dresses and deciding from among the best prospects can take weeks, if not months. For that reason, it's never too soon to start shopping for prom dresses.

Although parents may shake their heads in wonder, prom dresses can make or break the prom experience - even more than her prom date (or lack thereof). This season, girls are looking to re-create the glamour and excitement of the red carpet by wearing dresses just like those seen on celebrities. Dress manufacturers keep a keen eye on the awards ceremonies, where celebs like Beyonce, Kate Hudson, Julia Roberts, Keira Knightly, Salma Hayek, and Charlize Theron glide down the red carpet, nodding to the paparazzi and creating trends in formal wear. 

The other inspiration for this season's prom dresses can be found in pageant dresses, like those worn at the Miss American and Miss USA pageants. Contestants exude a combination of elegance and excitement when wearing their pageant dresses. Dress manufacturers re-create that aura when they design pageant replicas, in the hope that the prom dresses will make girls feel as though the tiara awaits them on their special nights.

Celebrity dresses and pageant dresses are in fashion, but who are the fashionable manufacturers of prom dresses? Jovani, Niteline, Alyce, and Marc Bouwer top the list. The hottest prom dresses of the season have an intoxicating combination: they have some design elements that are revealing, while other design elements have more decorum. For example, the front of a taffeta gown might be deceptively simple, with a sweetheart bodice and a front slit. The back, however, may be bare with only a crisscross of rhinestones. Similarly, a silk sating gown may have a halter top with beaded French netting wrapping the midriff. Circle around, though, and the matching beaded straps cross high on an otherwise bare back. 

When it comes to colors this season, the palette is virtually limitless. Pale yellows, peaches, and greens are in as are the bright fuchsias, turquoises, and reds. Prints are even making an appearance, although are generally limited to eye-catching white polka dots against a black background, accented with a bright red taffeta sash. 

Prom dresses should allow a girl to make a statement about her personality. In many ways, prom dresses are a girl's projection of how she sees herself and the image she wants to project to the world. Although parents may be tempted to rein her in, it may be the time to let her shine. When she's able to choose the dress that speaks to her, she's well on her way to creating those lifetime memories.


