Title: 
Choose your Unique Wedding Gowns & Dresses

Word Count:
559

Summary:
Choosing a bridal gown is probably one of the most important items ever purchased in a girl’s life.  It is a reflection of her heart.


Keywords:
affordable wedding dresses, best wedding gowns, bridal gown , unique wedding dresses prom dresses 


Article Body:
Choosing a bridal gown is probably one of the most important items ever purchased in a girl’s life.  It is a reflection of her heart.  Yet, weddings can be quite expensive nowadays, but the bridal gown does not have to be!  Bridal stores across the country have a huge inventory of brand new sample wedding gowns that need to be out of their store and into brides’ hands!  The gowns are beautiful, brand new designer wedding gowns!  They are offering these gowns at incredible savings to you so any bride can have the bridal dress of her dreams at a price she can afford.  

SampleGowns carries a varied selection of Designer Bridal Gowns that will suit any bride’s dream for her special day. For those brides looking for affordable bridal gowns and/or informal wedding gowns, SampleGowns is the place to shop. SampleGowns also has an impressive selection of exquisite but inexpensive mother-of-the-bride and mother-of-the-groom dresses, as well as, the availability of a selection of very pretty yet inexpensive flower girl dresses.  Be sure to check out SampleGowns where those in need of formalwear will find many different designers, fabrics, and colors to choose from at a fraction of the cost!  

The availability of sample bridesmaid dresses, prom dresses, and evening gowns may also be found at SampleGowns at great savings.  Women will look like they spent a fortune on their dress for any special event, when in fact they didn’t!  
The superb aspect of SampleGowns is that all gowns are in stock and are available for immediate shipment!  If you have an immediate need for a wedding dress, or an evening gown for a special occasion, or for a mother of the bride or groom, or a flower girl, take a look at our inventory. 

Another aspect of SampleGowns is a complete listing of stores near the consumer where the customer will also find wedding gowns, formal dresses, flower girl dresses, and mother’s dresses at super savings.  These stores have a unique tag attached to the gown which indicates the gown is drastically reduced so customers will spot them immediately.  For those gals worried about internet buying of a gown sight-unseen, this method is a perfect alternative.

We have listed here a variety of dress styles to compliment any figure to help you with your shopping experience at SampleGowns.

<b>A-Line  - </b>The classic A-line style will flatter and slender almost any figure and is characterized by the fitted bodice with no waist but gently flares at or near the natural waistline. 

<b>Ball Gown - </b>This classic and elegant style has a fitted bodice with the traditional full skirt. 

<b>Mermaid –</b> Not for every shape, but beautiful on the not-so-hippy girls.  Fitted tightly through the bodice, hips, and legs and flares at the bottom.

<b>Sheath  -</b> These gowns are very fitted and almost tube-like in appearance.

<b>Basque Waist -</b> Waistline dips below natural waist forming a 'V' in the center Dropped - Waistline dips below natural waistline and sits more on hips Empire - High waistline just under bust Princess Cut - Many wedding gowns, especially A-lines, have no defined waist Natural - Waistline sits between the empire and dropped waistlines.

<b>Empire -</b> A flattering bodice that ends just below the bust, this style looks great on pregnant brides and petite women alike.


