Title: 
Christian Tee Shirts - What Statement Are You Making?

Word Count:
547

Summary:
Clothes make the man, or so the saying goes. There's a certain amount of truth to that-- the clothes you wear do make a statement. They tell people a little about the way you think and feel, and it's definitely part of the first impression you make when you meet someone. If you wear all black, that says one thing; if you only wear bright colors, that says something else. So what if there were a way to make a conscious statement, a way to signal your faith in a trendy, cool wa...


Keywords:
Christian Tee Shirts,Christian T-Shirts,Christian Shirts,Christian Apparel,Christian Clothing


Article Body:
Clothes make the man, or so the saying goes. There's a certain amount of truth to that-- the clothes you wear do make a statement. They tell people a little about the way you think and feel, and it's definitely part of the first impression you make when you meet someone. If you wear all black, that says one thing; if you only wear bright colors, that says something else. So what if there were a way to make a conscious statement, a way to signal your faith in a trendy, cool way.

Well, now there is with Christian tee shirts! Christian tee shirts have come a long way in recent years and many really cool shirts are now available. Some of the coolest Christian tee shirts display actual verses from the Bible. There are also other great Christian tees that are based on Bible stories and events. The bottom line is that there are a variety of styles and colors of really neat Christian shirts to choose from today.

So now the question is, why would I want to get a Christian tee shirt? Probably the best thing about Christian tee shirts is that they're a great way to show your faith, and get people talking. And that's just what you want. After all, is there anything more important than sharing your love of Jesus Christ and how to get to Heaven with others?

FYI, Jesus Christ will not come again until the Gospel is spread to the ends of the world. Don’t take my word though, here’s what Jesus said to his disciples when they asked him if he was going to restore the kingdom to Israel, “It is not for you to know the time or dates the Father has set by his own authority. But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes on you; and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem, and in all Judea and Samaria, and to the ends of the earth.” Acts 1:7-8.

If you’re now wondering where to get a Christian tee shirt, I have good news for you. You’re not limited to buying Christian tee shirts from just one place. In fact, there are several stores where you can get really cool Christian tee shirts! You can find a large selection of Christian tees at Family Christian Stores and at LifeWay Christian Stores, which are respectively the largest and the second largest Christian retailers in the United States. Family Christian Stores has over 320 locations and LifeWay Christian Stores has over 120 locations across the United States. To find out if there is a Family Christian Stores nearby, go to http://www.familychristian.com and to find out if there is a LifeWay Christian Stores close to you, go to http://www.lifeway.com.

If neither Family Christian Stores nor LifeWay Christian Stores is nearby, there is probably some other Christian retailer close to you. Christian stores are popping up all over the place because of the popularity of Christian themed merchandise. If, however, there are not any Christian retailers close to you, don’t worry because you can purchase many great Christian tee shirts on the Internet.

Good luck in making the right statement with your Christian tee shirt and positively impacting people!


