Title: 
Classy Leather Jackets and Blazers

Word Count:
587

Summary:
Possessing a classy leather jacket has become a symbol of status amongst the teenagers.  You have plenty of choices in choosing these jackets and blazers...


Keywords:
classy leathers, leather, jackets, pants, blazers


Article Body:
Possessing a classy leather jacket has become a symbol of status amongst the teenagers.  You have plenty of choices in choosing these jackets and blazers.  You can find classy leather jackets and classy leather blazers in various colors like black, red, gray, brown etc.  Brown and black shades are the most popular shades when it comes to the color selection of leather jackets and blazers.  You should not consider use of these jackets and blazers as a tool of protection in particular season.   Wearing of these classy jackets and classy blazers gives an intimidating appearance to the person wearing it.

There are many ways in which a classy leather jacket can be styled.  Classy leather jackets are popular mainly amongst bikers, personnel serving in the various arms of the Defense Services, college students and tourists.

Leather jackets and leather blazers can be classified in different categories either on the basis of purpose they are worn or on the basis of material they are made from.  Some of the categories of jackets and blazers are
•	Classic Leather Jacket
•	Classic Leather Blazer
•	Leather Motorcycle jacket
•	Bomber/flight leather blazer/jacket
•	Racing and scooter jackets  
•	Leather waterproof jackets

You can find classy leather jackets and classy leather blazers made up of different types of leathers like suede, buckskin, cowhide, goatskin, ostrich skin, lizard skin and pigskin.

Usually you find leather jackets either with a zip or with buttons. Classy Leather jackets and classy leather blazers are available in different sizes.  On the basis of length size these jackets and blazers are subcategorized as waist length size jackets and hip length size blazers. You can find these leather jackets and blazers in the market in different styles like trench-coat and collarless patterns.  

Leather jackets gained its popularity mainly during 1950 after it was worn by famous movie star Marlon Brando in two movies.  The other contemporary actors followed the suit and add to the popularity of leather jackets.  Teenagers are very keen to imitate their filmy idols.  This aspect helped in achieving more popularity for the leather jackets when it was worn by Arnold Schwarzenegger in one of his movie.  Wearing a classy leather jacket or classy leather blazer is considered as a tool to show off machismo.

It is a fact that leather jackets and classy leather blazers are worn either as a fashion or as a garment which offers protection.  Though leather jackets are mainly popular among men, women are no exception for their vouch for these classy leather jackets and classy leather blazers.  Usually women wear these classy leather blazers to symbolize manliness and machismo.  This factor has made the leather jackets a way of displaying life style, personality and attitude in the world of fashion.

As a woman, you have a wide range of classy leather blazers and classy leather jackets to choose like single and double breasted, without collars, close collars or open collars.  There are number of designs of leather jackets which add to the beauty of woman.  Some of the popular designs of leather jackets amongst women are suede leather jackets, classy leather blazers, overcoats, classy leather jackets, outwears and reversible jackets.  Many leather jackets are embossed to make these classy leather blazers and classy leather jackets to make them more attractive and lure more and more customers.  Embossing patterns like Crocodile, snakeskin and alligator are more popular.

Undoubtedly classy leather jackets and classy leather blazers adds to your personality as well as your social status apart from providing you protection in different weather conditions.


