Title: 
Cocco-Ligator Skin Makes Italian Luxury Handbags Affordable

Word Count:
467

Summary:
Thanks to a new manufacturing process, handcrafted purses, clutches, fashion handbags, and tote bags are considerably more affordable.


Keywords:
fashion handbags, fashion accessories, tote bags, purses, clutches, wholesale handbags


Article Body:
Every fashionista knows that Italian luxury handbags are synonymous with quality and style. Unfortunately, not every woman can afford fashion accessories made from exotic skins like python, crocodile, and ostrich. Thanks to a new manufacturing process, however, handcrafted purses, clutches, fashion handbags, and tote bags are considerably more affordable. 

The Cocco-Ligator Process

The secret is cocco-ligator skin. If you've never heard of this innovative skin, you soon will, as it's taking the fashion world by storm. The ligator process involves taking the natural fibers of the alligator's and crocodile's second layer of skin, and then subjecting it to heat. After that, the skin is varnished to a high gloss and glued on to high-quality leather. From there, the leather is used by artisans to create Italian luxury handbags.

Different Patterns and Colors

Whether you're shopping for wholesale handbags for your retail store, or are looking for an accessory for your personal use, it's important to know that there are two different patterns used in cocco-ligator bags. The regular cocco-ligator pattern utilizes both the belly pattern, which is large and irregular, and the flanks, which are smaller and rounder. The hornback pattern is like that of the back of an alligator, which is a bit more rough and wild. 

Cocco-ligator is about more than just patterns, however. It's also about color. All Italian luxury handbags are timeless, but the color palette changes with the seasons. These fashion accessories are available in myriad colors, including black, mahogany, cream, gold, Bordeaux, white, honey, red, blue, gray, and dark green. 

Style is Key

When you're shopping for purses, texture and color are just two elements to consider. The third, of course, is design. To achieve a truly put-together look, women need a handbag for every occasion. Fashion handbags, for example, are the perfect accessories for casual or daytime outfits, while classically styled purses are the bag of choice for women who want to convey elegance and sophistication. Clutches are a must-have to accessorize eveningwear and special occasions, while tote bags and organizers are crucial for women in the business world. 

A Wonderful Alternative

There are many reasons why cocco-ligator is a great alternative to the exotic skins used in many Italian luxury handbags, but the two primary reasons are conservation and cost. Thanks to the unique ligator process, much more of the reptile is used, enabling us to enjoy fashion accessories while minimizing the impact on the species. In addition, the price of a cocco-ligator bag is a fraction of what we would spend on a crocodile purse. 

When shopping for cocco-ligator handbags, make sure to buy from a company that prides itself on generations of tradition in handcrafting Italian luxury handbags. When you do, you'll not only own a gorgeous purse, but you'll also own an exquisite piece of art.


