Title: 
Corporate Apparel. Why do it? What are the guidelines?

Word Count:
320

Summary:
Corporate Casual dress for business is a trend that came about for many reasons, but most importantly to attract potential employees and retain current ones. There are many reasons to have a corporate casual dress policy for a business; Not only for employee morale, but also things like increased productivity and perceived benefit. Corporate apparel is also a great idea to spread company awareness.


Keywords:
corporate apparel, custom embroidered logo,logo embroidery service, embroidered company logo


Article Body:
Corporate Casual dress for business is a trend that came about for many reasons, but most importantly to attract potential employees and retain current ones. There are many reasons to have a corporate casual dress policy for a business; Not only for employee morale, but also things like increased productivity and perceived benefit. Corporate apparel is also a great idea to spread company awareness. 

Employees like corporate apparel for many reasons. Surveys conducted show that employees including improved morale feel they do their best work when casually dressed, and also feel better comradeship between managers and co-workers. Employees even would choose one position over another to receive the benefit of corporate casual dress. In all, employees feel that casual dress allows an overall more comfortable work environment. 

There are many reasons for businesses to like corporate apparel. Of course the reasons employees like corporate apparel are directly beneficial to the company in terms of productivity and corporate morale. Almost all companies have a corporate apparel dress policy, with some allowing casual dress everyday. Corporate apparel also serves as a promotional product for the company. While allowing employees to dress casual, businesses also have the opportunity to promote the business and create an entire product line for business promotion. 

There are several different categories of corporate apparel. Corporate apparel is available for every level of casual dress. For more official boardroom or business casual, acceptable items include blazers, vest, oxfords and ties, and turtlenecks, sweaters, and denims. For relaxed casual, golf shirts are always a number one choice, however other items may include fleece, chambray shirts, denims, sweaters and vests. And for dress down casual, corporate apparel can include tees, sweats, and denim.

Corporate apparel is a great way to allow casual dress and maintain a productive and consistent, and enjoyable work environment. For any level of casual dress, there are ways to include company logo and increase the corporate awareness.


