Title: 
Corsets, Old World Charm And Sexy Contemporary Styles

Word Count:
482

Summary:
Corsets have been worn by women for thousands of years. In fact the oldest corset dates back to ancient Minoans from around 2000 BC. When most people think of corsets they think of the heavy bulky garments from the middle ages of Europe. Traditional corsets were not only heavy, restrictive and very uncomfortable to wear. As fabric technology has improved corsets are now not only more comfortable but are being worn as outwear.

Most women don’t own or have never worn a corse...


Keywords:
corset, lingerie, intimate apparel


Article Body:
Corsets have been worn by women for thousands of years. In fact the oldest corset dates back to ancient Minoans from around 2000 BC. When most people think of corsets they think of the heavy bulky garments from the middle ages of Europe. Traditional corsets were not only heavy, restrictive and very uncomfortable to wear. As fabric technology has improved corsets are now not only more comfortable but are being worn as outwear.

Most women don’t own or have never worn a corset. However if you’re looking for a fashion garment that accentuates your curves and bust line, a corset can be your best friend, so lets take a closer look at what a corset is. A corset is garment that covers your lower torso from bust line to waist. The sides have curved shaped ribbing that gives your body the classic hourglass shape. These ribs are usually made a thin lightweight metal or hard plastic. While these ribs do push your body into certain shapes, they aren’t “trainer” corsets which pose health hazards to your internal organs. To wear a corset first loosen the strings which are located on the back of the garment. There is usually a zipper in the front of the corset, unzip it and wrap the garment around your torso. Align it so the strings are in the back and close the zipper. Now grab the strings and gently but firmly pull to tighten. Pull the strings until the corset is snug and firm. Do not pull the strings so tight that you can’t move or breathe comfortably. The first thing that you’ll notice is your bust line is now enhanced and you will probably be showing more cleavage than you are used to. While this is normal it does take some getting used to. Many women with a large bust find a corset is more comfortable to wear, as it gives them more support than a standard bra.

Most corsets fall into the category of intimate apparel. They come in a wide variety of fabrics such as satin, silk, or lace and an array of colors. You can find something that allows you to be as modest or daring as you desire. If your corset comes with a garter belt and stockings be sure to put on the stockings before the corset, it’s just easier. Corsets are also moving out of the bedroom and being worn as outwear. There corsets are very similar to traditional corsets but available in decorative and luxurious fabrics. They may not be appropriate for a Monday morning office staff meeting but are great for an informal party or night at a club. If you’ve never worn a corset and would like to try one start with an outwear corset first, they are generally easier and more comfortable to wear.

© Lingerie.6ln.com, All Rights Reserved.


