Title: 
Custom Shirts

Word Count:
305

Summary:
First appearances count and being well-dressed helps the first impression you make. The way you carry yourself and the clothes you wear are important to create the image you wish to portray. A custom made shirt means that it is tailored to your exact requirements. It adds that something special to your clothes and gives your self-confidence the boost that it requires.


Keywords:
Custom Shirts, Custom T Shirts, Custom T Shirt Design, Custom T Shirt Printing


Article Body:
First appearances count and being well-dressed helps the first impression you make. The way you carry yourself and the clothes you wear are important to create the image you wish to portray. A custom made shirt means that it is tailored to your exact requirements. It adds that something special to your clothes and gives your self-confidence the boost that it requires. 

Having a shirt tailored to your own special needs allows you to choose the design of your choice in the fabric you want.  It could be domestic or imported fabric in fine cotton or silk, or may be oxford or twill. Plain, stripes, solids or prints, the preference is yours alone. The shirt could be a button-down, long, short, single, double-button closure with a monogram on the collar cuff and pocket for that distinctive touch. Each person prefers a different cuff style - be it classic, angled or for cufflinks. Pockets are a matter of choice too. Maybe you want a breast pocket, but maybe you don’t and prefer hand set pockets, the choice remains entirely yours.  Maybe you want to stand out as unique and have contrast trim on your shirt or want stripes running down the side. No more extra long sleeves to be altered or sagging collars. The measurements for your neck, sleeves, body, tail, chest, coat, height, weight, waist, and inseam will all be taken individually to ensure that you get the right fit.

The best part is that you can look your best exactly how you want to and make the shirt in such a way that it complements the rest of your wardrobe. Custom shirts will give you the feeling of luxury and the satisfaction of having a shirt that has had the full attention of the tailor and is not another one just off the rack.


