Title: 
Dazzling Prom Dresses and Shoes for the Prom Girl

Word Count:
526

Summary:
Accessorize your prom dress with dazzling prom shoes. Use these tips and learn about the styles of prom shoes....


Keywords:
prom, fashion, dresses, clothing, gowns, homecoming, quinceanera, formal, eveningwear


Article Body:
The right prom shoes can give that perfect finishing touch to prom dresses of all styles. You want to look your best for the prom and dazzle your date and your friends. If you already have a great prom dress, now it's time to find dazzling prom shoes to go with it. Let's explore the different styles of prom shoes and how they fare with certain prom dresses.

Make a Fashion Statement with Your Prom Shoes

Prom shoes are not merely shoes! They're fashion accessories used to complement the color and design of prom dresses. Prom shoes are used to draw more or less attention to your feet. Prom shoes can make your feet look smaller or narrower. And as with any formal wear, they can also complement your legs and toes. So the prom shoes you choose will greatly affect your complete, head-to-toe appearance at the prom. Make your fashion statement count.

Styles of Prom Shoes

There are several styles of prom shoes so you can easily find the right prom shoes for you. Whether your feet are wide or narrow, long or short, plump or skinny, there are prom shoes that can make your feet look beautiful. The popular prom shoe styles include open toe, closed toe, short heel, flat heel, high heel, wide heel and stiletto heel. Prom shoes can come with stay-up ribbon tape in a variety of colors that wraps upward around the ankles and lower calf for a glamorous look. Dye-able prom shoes can be dyed to match the exact colors of prom dresses.

With open toe prom shoes, you can paint your toenails to match your prom gown or eveningwear.

What's Your Prom Dress Style?

For the asymmetrically hemmed dress, your legs will shine - and so will your feet. So choose glitzy high heels on strap sandals to attract all eyes to your feet and legs. With a long evening gown, wear prom shoes with a stiletto heel. This will make your legs and feet look slender while making you look taller overall.

With a flared dress that's the length of your leg calves, wear closed toe shoes with a medium heel that straps around the ankle. These also look great with a high-low dress cut. For the long, flowing eveningwear, prom shoes will receive less attention, so you might consider choosing plain, open or closed toe prom shoes that are the same color as your prom dress. You might consider dye-able prom shoes if you're unable to find the exact color you need.

With princess style prom dresses, the open toe or closed toe sandal will work great. Choose heel height according to your own height and the shape and length of your legs.

No matter what style prom dresses you like, try on several types of prom shoes to find the perfect match. The same rules apply for homecoming gowns, Quinceanera gowns, or any other type of elegant clothing. You can also go online to a prom dress or prom shoe store and browse through hundreds of prom dresses and shoes. You'll be dancing the night away in your beautiful prom dress and shoes in no time!


