Title: 
Designer Ties Make A Statement

Word Count:
344

Summary:
Designer ties are a fashion accessory that men can use to reflect their personality as well as make a statement. If you wear a cheap cut, sloppy tie--that can send a message signalling poor attention to detail as well as reflect pride and confidence issues. Here are some tips to keep in mind when shopping for men's designer ties.


Keywords:
ties,designer ties,men's ties,silk ties,italian ties,men's fashion,fashion,clothes,clothing


Article Body:
Dress for success, we've all heard that advice and many cases, it's true. The way you dress does send a message. When you're in the business and corporate world, it's important that the message you send is the right one.

Here are different styles of ties and how they can reflect on you:

Cartoon and Novelty Ties
These convey a sense of humour, jokester, someone who doesn't take himself too seriously. In some situations, a novelty tie is appropriate. In the business world when you are trying to close a deal--not normally a great fit.

Pink Ties
The pink tie portrays a sense and respect of fashion, confidence, style and the finer things in life. Softer shades of pink would be more appropriate for job interviews rather than a strong, vibrant pink--you don't want the focus to be on your tie!

Striped Ties
The classic striped tie portrays style, stability, strength, class. A striped tie would be an appropriate choice for business meetings, job interviews and events that require professionalism.

Small to Medium Patterned Ties 
Smaller patterns that are not overwhelming are a good choice for the business and corporate world. Checks, paisleys, and alternate color thread weaves are stylish and portray creativity, strength and class.

Large Patterned Ties
Larger patterns can be overbearing, but fun at the same time. If you want to be taken seriously and the focus kept on your solo presentation but not on your tie--larger patterned ties are best kept for social activities. They can portray a sense of style, confidence and flamboyancy.

Solid Color Ties
Reflects professionalism, traditional and no-nonsense. If you are wearing a patterned shirt, the solid color tie is a must unless you are going for a look that's a bit helter skelter.

You can use your fashion choices to help people perceive you the way you want them to. Clean, well pressed, well fitted and appropriate attire will send a strong first impression about the level of professionalism and business edge you want to portray. As they say...Dress for Success!


