Title: 
Discount Plus Size Lingerie – Dressing With Style

Word Count:
356

Summary:
Okay so like most clothes, lingerie of course comes in plus sizes.  Granted the selection may not be a great or quite as sexy, but it is there


Keywords:
Discount Plus Size Lingerie


Article Body:
Okay so like most clothes, lingerie of course comes in plus sizes.  Granted the selection may not be a great or quite as sexy, but it is there.  And of course like most clothes you can find discount lingerie.  However where is this stuff to be found?  The supply is not as prevalent as it is in smaller sizes.  I have yet to see a Victoria’s Secret type of store for plus sizes, although I am sure one probably exists somewhere.  

Well, if I was looking for discount plus size lingerie there are a few places I would look right away.  First of all, as I am sure just about everyone in the United States, and much of the rest of the world, knows, Wal Mart sells lingerie.  I mean, why not they sell everything else. So anyway, they do of course have plus sizes.  I believe the section is even labeled as such.  The selection is not that of a Victoria’s Secret or a Fredrick’s of Hollywood, but never the less it is there, and this is truly discount plus size lingerie.

Of course I am sure there are other stores that sell the same type of stuff.  I have to say I am not sure if Lane Bryant or Fashion Bug Plus have lingerie sections, however as these are plus size stores, any lingerie they have would of course also be in plus sizes.

Now of course there is always the internet.  There are store advertising online that ship internationally and domestically in the United States.  There are both store devoted only to plus sizes and then there are those catering to both sizes.  Some of these stores are simply for lingerie and others are for both lingerie and other clothes.  I actually saw one that was advertising “stripper shoes” as well, so I have a feeling if you are looking for something a little more risqué this may be the place to go.  Whatever you are looking for I am sure it is out there somewhere it is just about finding the right discount plus size lingerie venue for you.


