Title: 
Embroidered Sportswear Can Do Several Things

Word Count:
453

Summary:
It is embroidered sportswear that distinguishes one player from another in team sports such as football. The numbers on their jackets serve to identify each player. The embroidery can also promote teams, clubs and events. Team logos and promotional messages are often embroidered into the sportswear.


Keywords:
Embroidered Clothing, Embroidered Work Wear, Workwear, Embroidered T-Shirts, Embroidered Polo Shirts, Embroidered Fleeces, Embroidered Garments, Embroidered Shorts, Embroidered Shirts


Article Body:
It is embroidered sportswear that distinguishes one player from another in team sports such as football. The numbers on their jackets serve to identify each player. The embroidery can also promote teams, clubs and events. Team logos and promotional messages are often embroidered into the sportswear.

Sportswear is worn by non-sportspersons as when fans of a club wear replicas of their team uniforms. Standard sportswear such as tracksuits and polo shirts might be worn as casual wear by persons who might not even be interested in sports.

This kind of widespread and varied use of sportswear has made it a good medium to promote businesses, in addition to teams and sports clubs. This is particularly true in the case of businesses that produce sports goods. For example, an Adidas sports shirt promotes the Adidas brand and its range of sports products.

<b>What is Sportswear?</b>

While all of us would be aware in a general way what sportswear means, many of us might be surprised at the kinds of wear that falls under this category.

In general, sportswear is tailored to the sport. Some kinds of sports require tight body-hugging wear to reduce drag; others require loose clothing for easy movement; many might require moisture absorption to remove perspiration; yet others require protective devices to be incorporated into the wear.

Distinctive uniform-like team sportswear serves to distinguish between the two teams in a game. Numbers sewn into each piece of uniform distinguishes each player in the teams.

Tracksuits are worn over athletic clothes, and are taken off when the wearer is actually participating in an event.

Shorts, pants, shirts, helmets, shoes are all sportswear when designed for particular sports.

<b>Why Embroider the Sportswear?</b>

Well-done embroidery adds a touch of style and quality to your branding exercise. When the embroidery is stitched into the cloth, it is more permanent than painted material, which can become indistinct over many washes.

With the aid of computers, embroidering is not the kind of time-consuming manual craft it was in earlier times. Your logos and designs can be transferred to jacquard tapes, which are then used to control the sewing of the embroidered patterns into the sportswear.

You will thus be able to get your embroidered sportswear in bulk quantities without undue delays.

<b>Conclusion</b>

These days, even non-sports persons wear sportswear. For example, fans might wear replicas of their team uniforms. Comfortable wear like tracksuits might be worn as casual wear by the general public. 

Such widespread use makes embroidered sportswear a good medium to promote teams, clubs and businesses. Embroidered logos and messages are more permanent than painted ones, and embroidery can also add a touch of class to your branding exercise.


