Title: 
Embroidery. Tried and True Technique

Word Count:
330

Summary:
Embroidery is a great way to enhance clothing or other items. Embroidery is long lasting and looks more elegant than the alternative of heat transfers or screen printing. Embroidery is embellishment you can feel and has been used throughout history to enhance the look of various fabrics. There are several classifications for embroidery depending on a few factors.


Keywords:
embroider, canvas, counted thread, logo embroidery service, embroidered company logo


Article Body:
Embroidery is a great way to enhance clothing or other items. Embroidery is long lasting and looks more elegant than the alternative of heat transfers or screen printing. Embroidery is embellishment you can feel and has been used throughout history to enhance the look of various fabrics. There are several classifications for embroidery depending on a few factors. 

The first classification is determined by stitch placement and fabric type. Embroidery that is typically seen on garments is known as counted thread embroidery. With counted thread embroidery, a specific number of threads are sewn into a chosen fabric. Counted thread embroidery usually uses woven cotton fabrics and other even-woven fabrics like linens and canvas. The other type of embroidery is free embroidery which does not take into account the weave of the fabrics, as seen in traditional Asian inspired embroidery.

Embroidery is also classified into two different subgroups depending on if the stitches are placed on top of the foundation fabric, or through the foundation fabric. Surface embroidery is the type that is done on top of the fabric. Surface embroidery is typically the free embroidery type as opposed to counted thread embroidery. Most counted thread embroidery is done through the fabric, which is classified as canvas embroidery. In canvas embroidery, the stitches create a dense pattern that completely covers the entire foundation fabric. 

Popular embroidery today is counted thread and canvas type. Embroidery is used on all types of items including clothing, bags, hats, and other accessories. Embroidery can be done on a number of fabrics as well, including cotton, denim, twill, fleece, pique, and silk. Embroidered Apparel ranging from outerwear to business casual can be embroidered in any style. 

Embroidery has become an advanced procedure including the process of putting the embroidery pattern in digital form. The logo is then created by an advanced embroidery machine that can read this digital format. The result is an impressive piece of art that comes from the ancient art form of embroidery.


