Title: 
Embroidery Adds the Finishing Touch to Fashion

Word Count:
358

Summary:
Fashion comes in a wide array of styles, but one accent that continues to be a favorite among designers is embroidery.


Keywords:
Embroidery Adds the Finishing Touch to Fashion


Article Body:
Fashion comes in a wide array of styles, but one accent that continues to be a favorite among designers is embroidery.

Embroidered designs are showing up on swimsuits, retro caftan tunics and even on sophisticated eveningwear. 

If you like the look of high-end embroidery fashion but don't have thousands to spend on your wardrobe, today's advanced sewing machines make it easy for you to create an embroidered look with off-the-rack clothes - even if you're a beginning sewer.

There are three ways to add details to garments using a home sewing machine, according to Cynthia Scott, educational coordinator for the U.S. division of Janome, the world's largest manufacturer of sewing machines.

The most basic process is called applique, which is simply the process of applying one piece of material to another. Ribbons, lace, pre-embroidered patches or even designs cut out of fabric can be applied to other material by stitching around its edges. Most sewing machines have the ability to apply applique using any one of a number of simple stitches. The satin stitch, zigzag stitch and blanket stitch are all popular applique stitches that both secure your material and add a decorative finish.

Another easy embellishment technique is to use one of the decorative stitches built into most mid-range sewing machines. These stitches range from flowers and other simple designs to heirloom stitches that look like they were done by hand. 

To copy the more sophisticated embellishments on fashion items, you need a sewing machine that does embroidery in a hoop. This kind of machine gives you the ability to add professional-looking embroidery, of virtually anything you can imagine, to your garment. You don't even have to know how to sew to use these machines. For instance, Janome's Memory Craft 300E only does embroidery. You simply import a design from a design card or the Internet, put your item in the hoop and press "Start." 

For total control, Janome makes the Memory Craft 10001, which connects to your computer. You use Janome's powerful embroidery design software to create exactly what you want, then transfer the design to the MC10001 to add your own stylish signature to any item.


