Title: 
Evening Wear Shopping Tips

Word Count:
388

Summary:
Don’t let shopping for that special evening dress intimidate you! With a little help, you can start early and find the perfect dress for evening out. Here’s how:

Decide on the formality. Is it cocktail or evening attire? Cocktail and evening attire is dressier – think little black dress. Long dresses are reserved for formal black-tie affairs.

The most important feature of your new dress is it’s style and color. Not every dress works for all body types. Dress to flatter ...


Keywords:
fashion, clothes, beauty, style, clothing


Article Body:
Don’t let shopping for that special evening dress intimidate you! With a little help, you can start early and find the perfect dress for evening out. Here’s how:

Decide on the formality. Is it cocktail or evening attire? Cocktail and evening attire is dressier – think little black dress. Long dresses are reserved for formal black-tie affairs.

The most important feature of your new dress is it’s style and color. Not every dress works for all body types. Dress to flatter your figure. If you aren’t sure what is your best asset, ask a friend or salesperson.

Once you know the type of dress, now choose a style. Instead of going trendy, select a dress that reflects classic, timeless elegance. Here are some styles to choose from.

Halter Dresses are one of the sexiest formal looks around. Several version exist including a tie-behind-the-neck look. Straps vary in size, width and fabrics. A halter dress draws attention to the upper half of the body including the face, shoulders and bust line. This is great to draw unwanted attention away from the hips and legs. Skip the necklace and opt for earrings when wearing a halter dress.

Cocktail dresses are the most versatile for special occasions. Most opt for the little black dress which is the most popular look for a cocktail. Today, jewel-tones, bright and rich fabrics do well for a short evening dress. Most cocktail dresses can be easily accessorized with pearls, diamond, gold and silver. If you want to hide wide hips, opt for a dress that is strapless or has cap sleeves.

For simplicity, nothing beats a sheath dress. They are flattering with clean lines to keep the dress from overwhelming your figure. The sheath dress can be dressed up or down as the situation dictates. 
The jacket dress provides more coverage without the fuss of a wrap. The matching dress and jacket is perfect for anniversaries and weddings.

Not every figure looks best in a one piece dress. For those hard-to-fit bodies, a dressy separate can do the trick. Choose one special piece and mix it with a solid piece for that special occasion.
Off the shoulder dresses instantly shows off lots of skin but not in areas that make you uncomfortable. Accentuate the look with a great necklace piece or brooch.


