Title: 
Fashion Designer Draws Inspiration From Travels

Word Count:
281

Summary:
World traveler and native New Yorker Edward Wilkerson brings a global aesthetic and sophisticated style to today's modern American woman.


Keywords:
Fashion Designer Draws Inspiration From Travels


Article Body:
World traveler and native New Yorker Edward Wilkerson brings a global aesthetic and sophisticated style to today's modern American woman.

As design director for Lafayette 148 New York, Wilkerson travels the globe for inspiration. He brings rich cultural touches to his feminine, chic designs using luxurious fabrics and exquisite tailoring. A true artist, Wilkerson is inspired by the culture, architecture and rich palettes of each exotic locale he visits. "Traveling has taught me to see the beauty in everything," Wilkerson said.

He designs polished and sophisticated separates that allow a woman to create her own individual style. Mixing fabric, texture and color is a hallmark of the Lafayette 148 collection.

Drawing from Indochine influences, Lafayette 148's early season offerings are expressed in sheer fabrics, creating a light, airy mood. Contrast is key; soft leathers mixed with flowing chiffon and cotton seersucker teamed with fluid linen. The spa-inspired colors -; beach glass, taupe, muslin and coral -; are accented with lustrous gold. Flowing, feminine skirts in both solids and prints are coupled with fitted, short jackets.

Wilkerson's Moroccan sojourn is apparent in a grouping of colors and fabrics that call to mind a brightly colored street bazaar: think spicy saturated shades of cinnabar, curry, chocolate and orchid. Distinctive handcrafted embellishments such as beading, embroidery and jeweled sequins define the look.

Another group evokes a chic seaside resort destination: wild Ibiza with bright, colorful prints; or dazzling St. Barth's with its white sand beaches and clear blue water. White featherweight knits are paired with full folkloric skirts. Cool, breezy dresses are summer must-haves.

The Lafayette 148 New York Collection is available at Saks Fifth Avenue, Neiman Marcus, Nordstrom and more than 250 fine specialty stores throughout the U.S.


