Title: 
Fashion sunglasses

Word Count:
539

Summary:
Sunglasses are shades for the eyes that offer protection, better vision, comfort, or just a chic look. Most of all Sunglasses are more associated with fashion rather than function.


Keywords:



Article Body:
Sunglasses are shades for the eyes that offer protection, better vision, comfort, or just a chic look. They are different from spectacles which only function for people with disorders of vision. Sunglasses are more associated with fashion rather than function. 

It is surmised that the idea of sunglasses took birth from the Roman Emperor Nero who liked to watch gladiator fights through emeralds and rubies. But the modern sunglasses took shape only in the 1940s where the movie pop fraternity has had a huge contribution in making them so popular. Today, sunglasses are available in all perceivable colors, with hundreds of rim and 
frame styles and protective enhancements. 

The most popular classic style of sunglasses is the aviator. They have oval pear-shaped lenses that narrow towards the bridge of the nose. Early movies have stars flaunting their aviators with style. This style is still largely popular; despite the entry of polarized lenses, sports eyewear, wraparounds and clip-ons. 

Polarized sunglasses provide protection from severe solar glares from water and snow surfaces, beaches, and roads. They use the light polarization technology mastered by Edwin H. Land in 1936. People who want to discard their spectacles for something trendier without compromising on their visual quality opt for prescriptive sunglasses. Sportspeople wear a different type of polarized sunglasses that are mirrored on the outside that reflect light of different colors. 

Whatever type of glasses one might be wearing can be changed into something radically different by attaching a pair of clip-ons. Clip-on sunglasses are a pair of lens available in a wide variety of colors and features that may be affixed onto an existing pair of glasses or even a hat. Sunglasses are associated with fashion in a big way and people like Britney Spears, 

Ivana Trump, Sophia Loren, and Linda Evans have their own lines of sunglasses. One could say that sunglasses are as much a part of the catwalk as they are of the street. 

Oakley was the first brand to recognize the potential of sunglasses as a fashion accessory. Their sunglasses are still very highly priced and exclusive. However there are countless other brands including Ray-Bans, Serengetis, Christian Diors, Chanels, Donna Karans, Dolce & Gabbanas, and Louis Vuittons. thronging the designer sunglasses market. These popular brands 
have spawned another endless market of replica sunglasses, whose products are available at fractions of the costs of the originals. 

Sunglasses are a must-have on beaches, picnics, or just when walking down the street on a sunny day. They have become as important as any other part of clothing. 

Sunglasses are not just a visual aid; they are also an important part of clothing. They affect the overall look of the person. No wonder that buying a pair of sunglasses is as much a decision-making process as buying any other fashion accessory. 

Calvin Klein, Gucci, Nike, Adidas, Donna Karan, Marco Ricci, Dolce & Gabbana, Serengeti, Christian Dior, and Chanel are just few of the hundreds of the names that are involved in the manufacture of hip designer sunglasses. They retail their designer eyewear at exclusive outlets, shopping malls, and multiplexes at marginally higher costs than ordinary sunglasses. There is a lot of advertising and marketing for such sunglasses using all forms of media and celebrity brand ambassadors


