Title: 
Fashion Makes Sense With Belly Button Rings

Word Count:
572

Summary:
Hollywood has a way of promoting fashion. When the showing of bare navels was restricted during the 1940’s, it came out with a great idea. They covered the navel with a jewel. Placing of the jewels in the navel was popularized by belly dancing pictures of the time. The result, people started to believe that a jewel in the navel is part of the middle-eastern culture. It is not. It was only a devise invented by Hollywood filmmakers to get around with the prohibition but the ide...


Keywords:
belly button ings


Article Body:
Hollywood has a way of promoting fashion. When the showing of bare navels was restricted during the 1940’s, it came out with a great idea. They covered the navel with a jewel. Placing of the jewels in the navel was popularized by belly dancing pictures of the time. The result, people started to believe that a jewel in the navel is part of the middle-eastern culture. It is not. It was only a devise invented by Hollywood filmmakers to get around with the prohibition but the idea caught on and no one was complaining. The idea was ridiculously great. You can imagine until now the smug smiles on the faces of directors and costume designers of the era. 

Like any good idea coming from Hollywood, placing accessories on the belly button has not been forgotten and has now evolved to be belly button rings. 

Belly button rings today for the most part are considered necessary accessory to many as the length of shirts and blouses go up and the hip line goes down. The belly for many will look bare if it does not have anything to show on it except the bare navel, and so the belly button ring found its route to popularity.

Belly button rings come in so many varieties that are fun, pleasing and attention catchers. Belly button rings could be flashing, dangling, logo and pieces of artwork that are a gem designer’s craft. 

Placing belly buttons rings will require piercing. Any piercing creates wounds and wounds could get infected. If you find therefore that belly buttons are necessary accessories, you have to first, know which materials should be used to adorn that belly and the procedures to take not to be on the sorry side. 

The safest materials for belly button rings are gold (at least 14K), silver, surgical steel, titanium, niobium, rhodium etc. Avoid as much as possible the gold imitation, sterling silver and silver-plated ones as they could cause irritation that might lead to infection. Avoid base metal materials that are coated and covered which could easily break. Avoid those that could easily tarnish and corrode when it gets in contact with body fluids and those that may contain allergens. For people who are sensitive to metals, a special plastic called Tygon are good replacements for belly button rings. 

To prevent infections, have your piercing done only by qualified practitioners. Doing the piercing otherwise could lead to problems like infection and body poisoning even with properly sterilized instruments. Nerve damage can also be a possibility when done by an amateur. 

Pregnant woman may wear their belly button rings up to the fifth month of pregnancy or when the skin in the belly starts to stretch significantly.

Belly button piercing will take a while to heal depending on the individual. The first days after your piercing have the belly button captive bead ring removed by the shop where you got your piercing. When your belly button heals, ask the shop to replace the captive bead with the new belly button rings. 

When inserting the belly button ring, it is important to wash your hands with anti bacterial soap for at least four minutes. While inserting the body jewelry, massage both holes with the finger that is pinching the skin adjacent to the belly button holes. When the belly button ring is secured, clean the belly button ring once more to reduce the chance of infection.


