Title: 
Find Prom Dresses and Other Prom Essentials while Staying within Your Budget

Word Count:
583

Summary:
Worried about how you're going to pay for your daughter's prom dress and all her prom accessories?  Here are helpful budgeting tips to get prepared for the prom early on...


Keywords:
prom dresses, prom, gown, homecoming, formal, fashion, clothing, women's interests


Article Body:
Prom time is an exciting time.  It's a time when young couples and singles get together to dance the night away in a glamorous setting while wearing fancy tuxedos and elegant prom gowns.  Yes, the prom is one of the most important events of a teen's life. Unfortunately, it's also one of the most expensive events for you as a parent. 

Buying prom dresses, shoes, and all the accessories to go with it can add up money-wise in a hurry. So here are some great tips on buying prom dresses and other prom items while staying within your budget.

Budgeting for Prom Dresses

A prom dress alone can cost anywhere from $100 to $300 or more, depending on the style of dress and designer.  Proms are formal, black-tie events.  Formal dresses can be expensive so it's a good idea to shop around early at various stores or even shop online for the best price on prom dresses.  Shopping online, you can often find great deals on stunning prom gowns by designers like Mori Lee, Jovani, Clarisse, Niteline, Dave and Johny, Paris, Riva, and Alyce Designs.

The best way to budget for a prom dress is to start saving early or put the dress on lay-away if possible.  If the prom event is to take place in April, start at the beginning of the school year. You'll have about six months or approximately 24 weeks to save for a prom dress.  Try to save at least $20 to $25 per week to have enough for a dress and possibly the accessories as well by prom time. 

Cost of Prom Accessories

Keep in mind that the price for a prom dress is not the only price to consider when budgeting for the prom.  You also need to factor in the price for shoes, costume jewelry, stockings, a matching purse, hair pieces, makeup (if using a beautician or makeup artist), and nails.  All these together can cost anywhere from $100 to $250.  It's almost as much as or more than the cost of the prom dress, so be sure to start saving early for these as well.

A Boutonniere for Her Date

If your daughter is attending the prom with a date, she'll need to buy a boutonniere for him in exchange for his corsage to her. Carnations are usually the least expensive. Orchids are typically much higher.  Check around at various flower shops beforehand to compare prices.  A boutonniere can range from $10 to $30, depending on the type of flower.

Tickets and Prom Photos

Other costs to consider are the prom tickets and prom photos.  Prom ticket prices will vary depending on where you live in the U.S. Prom picture prices can vary as well depending on how many prints you order. Many prom photographers will expect payment up front, so keep this in mind as an early budget item as well.

Visiting an online prom dress and prom accessory resource might be the best solution for staying within your budget.  Prom specialty websites usually don't have the high overhead costs that a brick-and-mortar prom store might have, so they can pass the savings on to you. Also, you can find a great variety of prom items that you might not find in a local store. 

Once you find a dependable source for formal wear, you can shop there for other items in the future such as homecoming dresses, fashion jewelry, and other women's interests items and formal clothing.  Start shopping and budgeting today to give your daughter a memorable prom night!


