Title: 
Finding the Right Prom Dress

Word Count:
388

Summary:
No doubt Prom is the highlight of any senior’s year. Prom marks the end of a long journey. It’s a time to reflect on the past, and move on towards the future. With how important Prom is you want to make sure that you have the right Prom Dress! Below are some tips that will ensure that your Prom dress is a hit.

Color - Everyone has a different complexion. Some Complexions work well with some colors and some don’t. Things like tanning or dying your hair can help change this but it’s s


Keywords:
Finding the Right Prom Dress


Article Body:
No doubt Prom is the highlight of any senior’s year. Prom marks the end of a long journey. It’s a time to reflect on the past, and move on towards the future. With how important Prom is you want to make sure that you have the right Prom Dress! Below are some tips that will ensure that your Prom dress is a hit.

Color - Everyone has a different complexion. Some Complexions work well with some colors and some don’t. Things like tanning or dying your hair can help change this but it’s still you. Find a color that works with your complexion not against it.

Size - Buy a dress that fits! Prom is not a time to be cheap and save a little money by purchasing a dress that is a size too big or small. Find a dress that fits your body shape, and that will bring out the best in you.

Accessorize - Prom dresses all by themselves can be quite boring at times. It’s amazing though how a simple dress can look with something as simple as a flower or a wrap. Keep finding a dress as first priority and accessories second. You will run into a nightmare if you try to find a dress to match accessories.

Coordinate - Chances are you have a date that will be taking you to Prom. Communicate with him to figure out what he is going to be wearing as far as style and color to make sure that you will coordinate with him. This is often overlooked but can you see the importance for example if: You buy a light colored dress that has a retro feel to it, and your date is going for a flash look with shiny suit and tie.  The two just won’t match and you will end up looking like an odd pair.

Take your time when looking for a dress. Prom is important! I would recommend taking the above into consideration; remember though that confidence can make any dress look good, so if the dress you really want doesn’t really work for you, Get it! Feel good about yourself and have a same prom.

Feel free to reprint this article as long as you keep the following caption and author biography in tact with all hyperlinks.


