Title: 
Finding Below Wholesale Prices at an Online Clothing Shop

Word Count:
443

Summary:
Fashion for boys, girls, men, and women can be found online at below wholesale prices!


Keywords:
teen, clothing, fashion, online shop, free email, men, women, plus size, girls, boys, jewelry


Article Body:
It's one thing to go to your local shopping mall to find clothing discounts of ten to twenty percent. It's another thing to shop the outlet stores and find bargains of up to fifty percent. But the savviest shoppers have discovered treasures in online stores that make shopping mall sales and outlet store sales pale in comparison. In fact, fashion for boys, girls, men, and women can be found online at below wholesale prices!

How can an online clothing shop offer fashion at rock bottom prices? It's hard to know exactly, but one factor may be that they're able to buy overages directly from the manufacturers at steep discounts. Another is that they don't have the overhead expenses borne by most retail outlets, such as having to rent storefronts, purchase signage, design displays, and hire staff to help customers who walk into the store. 

For those of us who love bargains, it's not a matter of why but is rather a matter of finding the great online shop that carries everything from children's clothes, to clothing for teens, to fashion for women and men - and even jewelry. When I was online recently, I found a clothing shop that carried apparel and accessories that rock. Here's a sampling of what I found:

Girls: A two-piece set that included crop pants and an embellished short sleeved top for only $8.40, an adorable denim skirt for $9.00, and slubbed jeans for only $13.90.

Boys: Cargo shorts for $9.00, baggy swim trunks for $4.90, and long-sleeved shirts with button down collars in a variety of colors for only $6.95 each.

Juniors: Graphic tanks that any teen would love for only $2.70 each, along with a cotton/spandex cap sleeved top for only $4.60 and a red nylon/spandex red top with cutwork for $4.60.

Plus-Size Women: A gorgeous 100% cotton zip-front hoodie for an incredible $5.00, short-sleeved tops for $3.45 each, and a gorgeous fuchsia skirt for only 7.60.

Men: A stunning variety of short-sleeved plaid button front shirts for only $8.30 each, along with cotton polo shirts for $7.60 and shorts for $4.60.

The prices I found were unbelievably low - much lower than I'd ever find at department store outlets. I also found sites that even offered free email accounts with cool domain names, like "gurlzrule." 

It's refreshing to be able to find such bargains without ever leaving home, and even better to be able to patronize an online clothing shop that has fashion and accessories for everyone in the family. Those factors, combined with great customer service and secure ordering, have made me a convert. From now on, I'll let my fingers do the shopping through an online clothing shop that offers something for everyone at prices that are below wholesale!


