Title: 
Five Classic Pieces You Must Have in Your Closet

Word Count:
441

Summary:
Many people ask us what clothing they need to have in their closet. What are the classical pieces, that can be used for a few different season, and be paired up with trendier, seasonal pieces. We have put together this list to help you shop for more classical pieces of clothing:


Keywords:
clothes, womens clothing


Article Body:
Many people ask us what clothing they need to have in their closet. What are the classical pieces, that can be used for a few different season, and be paired up with trendier, seasonal pieces. We have put together this list to help you shop for more classical pieces of clothing:

- A Great Looking Suit. Every woman should have one great looking suit. You can wear the suit to job interviews, client presentations and the important meetings to impress your boss and your clients.

A dark suit that looks good on you is a great classic thing, and a great investment.

- A Nice Pair of Pants. Everyone has a great, favorite pair of pants. These are versatile pants that you can wear to the office, and you can dress them up a bit and wear them out as well. They are usually dark and made from a material, so that they can last for a while.

A great pair of pants can be worn in the winter with a nice sweater and in the summer with a summer blouse or a dressy top.

- A Little Black Dress. Every woman should have a little black dress. This is a dress that you look and feel gorgeous in. This is a dress you can use any time there is a last minute party or a reception that you didn't have the time to buy an outfit for. Your little black dress will save you every time.

- A Great Blazer. A great blazer is also a very versatile piece. It can be worn with pants to the office, it can dress up your regular jeans, your sometimes you can wear it with the little black dress, just in case you get cold. Sometimes a grey or a dark blazer is appropriate. Other times, it is a brighter blazer that will go with the rest of your things, and will add a little color to the rest of your outfit.

When shopping for a blazer, take into the consideration other things you have in your closet, as well as the fact that you will be wearing it for a few years.

- A Great Coat. A stylish coat goes a long way - you can wear it to work, you can wear it to parties, you can wear it on top of the little black dress to the opera or theater. 

Once you have the classic pieces, you can buy cuter, trendier pieces to match, and to wear with them. For example, bright blouses will look great with your dark, classic suit. Enjoy putting together your classic pieces and matching them with the rest of your things.


