Title: 
Five Trends To Instantly Update Your Wardrobe

Word Count:
325

Summary:
The best way to usher in a new fashion season is with clothes and accessories that are feminine, modern and extremely wearable.


Keywords:
Five Trends To Instantly Update Your Wardrobe


Article Body:
The best way to usher in a new fashion season is with clothes and accessories that are feminine, modern and extremely wearable.

This season, fashion differs dramatically from years past. For a start, the palette is softer.

"The colors are more muted with very natural embellishments," said Laura McDowell, T.J. Maxx fashion spokesperson.

White is clearly a favorite, with neutrals a close second. When mixed with color, the look is softer and very contemporary. Try navy with white (for the ever-popular nautical look), yellow, chocolate brown and oatmeal as complementary color tones. Graphic black and white combos look surprisingly fresh.

Perhaps the biggest options are spring's array of pants-they run the gamut from cropped, wide gauchos to Bermuda shorts/skimmers. Also look for slender capris, long, slouchy trousers and high-waisted sailor pants. Feminine blouses are the ideal accompaniment: Choose a billowing, Victorian-style ruffled blouse, or the classic, always-in-style button down. The little black dress has been replaced by "the little white dress," with light, feminine detailing. Jackets are back. Look for cropped, fitted jackets, as well as military-inspired styles: very tailored with high necks. Today's skirts are longer and feminine: tulip shapes, bubble skirts and multitiered versions.

There's no need to carry a tote or even a briefcase this season. Handbags are big enough to hold just about anything. Look for cross-body handles and extra-large satchels.

"Oversized is definitely in, but do consider your body shape and size," advises McDowell.

Belts are also getting wider. Shoes are chunky with high heels, platform, espadrilles, peep toes and wedges. Vibrant turquoise, coral and amber jewelry add a healthy dose of color; multi-strand necklaces-the longer the better-are bold yet sophisticated. Five easy ways to update your wardrobe are:

1. Something, anything white

2. A soft romantic skirt

3. At least one pair of cropped pants: gauchos, capris or skimmers

4. A nautical accent: striped shirt, macrame belt or wedge espadrilles

5. A great big handbag in supple Italian leather or summery straw


