Title: 
Gear Up for Summer Style with Fabulous Apparel, Jewelry, and Fragrances

Word Count:
516

Summary:
Summer will be here before you know it, so it's time to start thinking about the fabulous apparel, jewelry, and fragrances that will make you shimmer.


Keywords:
Ujena Bikinis, Cocktail Dresses, Earrings, Rings, Diamond Jewelry, Designer Fragrances


Article Body:
Summer will be here before you know it, so it's time to start thinking about the fabulous apparel, jewelry, and fragrances that will make you shimmer. This season, it's all about the perfect glow - inside and out. 

For frolicking in the surf - or simply sunning poolside - bikinis are back, but with a twist. You still have time to get your body toned for the season, but when you're ready to shop, you'll find a variety of styles and prints that complements your figure. Look for variations on red, from petal pink to fire engine red to deep burgundy. Basic black is never out of style, but consider stepping out of your comfort zone and embracing colors and patterns. For example, UjENA bikinis incorporate prints ranging from stripes to bold florals to fanciful conversation hearts. If you're not quite ready for prime time, tankinis are still in fashion, but pass on the boy shorts. And don't forget your pareo or sarong for those trips to the beach club.

After a day in the sun, you'll be ready for a night on the town. This season, cocktail dresses are always solids, but you can go beyond the all-purpose "little black dress." Coral tones will be hot again this year, and brown is the new black. As for style, go above the knee, but opt for cocktail dresses that reveal "something" rather than "everything." For inspiration, recall classic red carpet looks - a backless dress with a high collar, a plunging neckline with a full back - and go for one rather than both. A woman's allure comes from the aura of mystery that surrounds her. Remember to keep them guessing!

Accessories will play a huge role this summer, with diamond jewelry once again taking center stage. When selecting your diamond jewelry, however, go one or two steps beyond sensible and on to memorable. Earrings, necklaces, and rings that pair diamonds with other precious or semi-precious gems make a statement. So look for diamonds and sapphires, diamonds and amethysts, or diamonds and topaz. 

A woman's style isn't complete without her signature scent, and summer is a wonderful time to try new designer fragrances. Give Giorgio Armani's Acqua di Gio a whirl, or take a whiff of 24 Faubourg by Hermes. Chanel and Givenchy are classics, but try Ungaro or Max Azria for some fabulous fun. 

But even the highest fashion, the best jewelry, and the most sensuous designer fragrances can't hide parched skin. For a gorgeous summer glow, take advantage of the wonderful products that are available. Exfoliate regularly, use gentle cleansers, and moisturize, moisturize, moisturize. The same goes for your hair. Your tresses get dried out in the summer sun, so make sure to regularly condition those locks. 

Beauty always comes from the inside out. During the summer, your body needs plenty of water and fresh foods to look its best. And don't forget to nourish your soul as well. Indulge in good friends, great books, or whatever replenishes your spirit. When you do, you'll know that your fabulous apparel, jewelry, and fragrances simply showcase your exquisite inner and outer beauty.


