Title: 
Get The Best From Your 70s Fancy Dress Party

Word Count:
486

Summary:
Most people don't know that I go to Butlins in Bognor for their "We Love the 70's" adult weekends on a regular basis and after chatting to quite a few of the staff there they all say that the 70s fancy dress weekends are always the most fun, trouble free weekends out of all the weekends they run.


Keywords:
70s fancy dress, seventies fancy dress, 70s costumes


Article Body:
Most people don't know that I go to Butlins in Bognor for their "We Love the 70's" adult weekends on a regular basis and after chatting to quite a few of the staff there they all say that the 70s fancy dress weekends are always the most fun, trouble free weekends out of all the weekends they run. 

After thinking about this for a while I have come to the conclusion that the music and the memories do add to the atmosphere but it's really the 70s costumes that really bring out the smiles and create the unique atmosphere. 

It's like you change into the teenager you once were when you start to dress up for the evenings, donning your flares, glitter jacket, platforms and tinsel wig. Morphing into a wide boy from the 70s with your cuffs flipped back waiting for the tribal beat sound of glam rock to start. 

I regularly just stand there admiring all the 70s fancy dress people have made or hired and people watch, everyone seems to be smiling with total strangers meeting for the first time laughing at each others 70s costumes. No-one takes anything seriously it's just a great fun time. We are all wishing we were back in the seventies. 

It's amazing how many 70s fancy dress costumes there are to choose from too. It just show's you how popular the 70s fancy dress party theme is, and some of the girls outfits are very sexy too. You have the obvious ones of Abba, the Pimps, flower power and glitter but you have some others if you're going in a group. You have the whole Scooby Doo gang available now, you can be whatever Marvel Super hero you ever wanted to be. Grease 70s costumes with the Pink ladies, Star Wars Storm Troopers and Darth Vader, or if you're really daring there's always the Rocky Horror Show fancy dress available. So there's no end to the choice of 70s costumes to be had and I have found what I think to be the best online 70s fancy dress shop around in the UK at the moment selling quality 70s costumes that you can wear again and again instead of hiring one out each time. Just take a look through what they have and try to keep a smile off your face. 

So if you're thinking of having a party and looking for a theme, you couldn't do better than choose to make it seventies fancy dress because once they have their 70s fancy dress on, they are already in the mood to party. Remember in order to have a 70s party you don't have to wait to halloween, you can organize it on your birthday, your mates birthday, some special date, a work event. If you want to get more ideas please visit <a href="http://www.escape-to-the-seventies.com/70s_fancy_dress.php">www.escape-to-the-seventies.com</a>


