Title: 
Girls - Want to Captivate Your Prom Date? Don't Forget to Accessorize those Prom Dresses!

Word Count:
583

Summary:
Girls, accessorize those prom dresses to create a dazzling look your date will never forget...


Keywords:
prom, dresses, jovani, niteline, prom dress, evening wear, dress, pageant, pageant dress, prom shoes


Article Body:
Prom night is just around the corner. You want to look your best and amaze your date and friends with a stunning prom dress. You've made the appointment with the hair stylist and make-up artist. You've planned every aspect of your special night. But wait! Don't forget one of the most important things - accessorize your prom dress to make it dazzle!

Prom dresses can look plain without at least a few accessories. Even a gorgeous, long prom dress by Jovani can be spruced up with a sparkling necklace and matching earrings. Stunning evening wear by Niteline wouldn't be complete without a few accents. No matter what style prom dress you choose, accessories will make it dazzle even more! Here are some great prom tips to get your wheels turning.

Prom Dresses with No Straps or Spaghetti Straps

The neckline can look bare when wearing a prom dress that has no straps or spaghetti straps. A plain neckline can easily be brightened with a beautiful, sparkly necklace and matching earrings. The type of necklace you choose should blend well with your dress colors and fabric. With a prom dress that has lots of lace or sequence, a plain gold or silver necklace will do. Or, maybe even a simple strand of pearls. With a simple satin dress, wear a necklace that sparkles with unique design. Add a charming slide as a bonus.

Gloves and Shawls

Strapless prom dresses also look great with satin or lace gloves a shawl. The gloves and shawl should match the color(s) of your prom dress for a simple, but elegant look! Shawls can be worn around the neck or loosely held around the upper arms.

Half-Jackets

If shawls aren't your style, try a half-jacket instead. These typically come in satin finish to match the color of your prom dress, or in a lacy see-through style. There are even jackets that tie in the front mid-section to cover the tummy! Pick the jacket that looks best with your body type. Try one on with your prom dress to be sure it offers the look you want.

Prom Dress Length and Prom Shoes

Choose your hosiery and prom shoes according to the prom dress length. With long prom dresses, you might choose hose for comfort, not style, since no one will see them anyway. For high-and-low prom dresses or short prom dresses, choose prom shoes and hose that will complement your legs and feet. 

Open-toe prom shoes with nude or light-colored hose will look great with slender legs. If your legs are muscular or large in the calves, and you want to de-emphasize the bottom part of your legs, choose closed-toe prom shoes with dark- colored hose if possible. Or, a longer prom dress will do the trick.

Handbags

Carrying a handbag to the prom? Choose one that matches your prom dress. There are handbags of all colors and styles that are designed specifically for prom night. You can find handbags of satin, beads or lace to complement your prom dress. With a prom handbag, you can carry your personal belongings and still be in style!

Other prom dress accessories include hairpieces, anklets, bracelets, rings, belt bags, hats, clutches, pendants, and broaches. When shopping online, you can find thousands of unique accessories as well as many styles of prom dresses such as cocktail style, high-and-low, evening wear, pageant dresses, sheath style, and many others.

Remember - dress for fun! You only get one chance to make this year's prom dress shine!


