Title: 
Girls in the Know Say Sherri Hill is Queen of Pageant Dresses

Word Count:
451

Summary:
When it comes to pageant dresses and prom dresses, few dispute that Sherri Hill designs lead the way to coveted crowns.


Keywords:
prom dresses, pageant dresses, sherri hill, gowns, dress, prom, Miss USA, Miss America


Article Body:
When it comes to pageant dresses and prom dresses, few dispute that Sherri Hill designs lead the way to coveted crowns. Miss USA 2007 Rachel Smith, Miss USA 2006 Tara Conner, Miss America 2007 Lauren Nelson, and Miss America 2006 Jennifer Barry were all crowned while wearing Sherri Hill pageant dresses. Even the third runner up for Miss Teen USA 2007, Caitlin Upton, whose response to a question about the inability of Americans to locate the U.S. on a map made her an overnight YouTube sensation, was wearing a classic baby blue Sherri Hill dress at the time. 

It's not surprising that Sherri Hill's 2007 and 2008 collections of prom dresses, pageant gowns, and special event dresses have caused a sensation in the fashion world and among teen fashionistas across the globe. After all, Hill spent a decade as the chief designer for Jovani, a huge name in prom dresses. In her collections, it's evident that Sherri Hill combines fabrics and trims with innovative combinations of cuts that are designed to flatter virtually every body type. 

A Sherri Hill dress can be bold, sassy, or glamorous - but it is always elegant. Her black strapless satin gown with a red striped sash and jeweled bow is sure to turn heads, while her lavender pleated metallic chiffon spaghetti strap gown is frosted in silver and accented with silver liquid beading for a shimmering glow. 

An intricately cut bodice combined with an hourglass fit and fun detailed pockets make her jewel-toned satin creation the envy of many prom queen hopefuls. Similarly, her long, black satin dress kicks it up a notch with a thigh-high slit and red lining - not to mention the rhinestone cherries that adorn the pockets. For those who need a bit more roominess, Sherri Hill's short, gold and silver sequined party dress is made from tiered ruffles of silk chiffon and features a wrapped empire waistline. 

For those who are more daring, one Sherri Hill purple sleeveless gown features full front coverage but is slit to the waist and comes together with ties. The tie design is repeated in the backless gown, leaving some - but not all - to the imagination. 

If beautiful elegance is the goal, Sherri Hill designs never disappoint. From an exquisitely cut long strapless gown with a large bow at the empire waist, to a pleated shimmering gown with a sequined sweetheart bodice, her gorgeous designs are timeless. In another of her prom dresses, yards and yards of beautiful satin-finished silk chiffon make a woman feel as though she's floating, while the intricately shirred bodice and rhinestone straps make her feel like a princess. 

Sheri Hill's collections of pageant dresses and prom dresses are elegant and bold, making her designs both coveted and treasured.


