Title: 
Go From Drab To Fab With This Season's Must-Haves

Word Count:
381

Summary:
Being fashionable doesn't have to be painstaking or have to cost a fortune. With a few essential "must-haves" in your closet, you can easily pull off the hottest runway looks in just minutes.


Keywords:
Go From Drab To Fab With This Season's Must-Haves


Article Body:
As chillier temps approach, it's time to update your wardrobe with this season's most fabulous attire. Being fashionable doesn't have to be painstaking or have to cost a fortune. With a few essential "must-haves" in your closet, you can easily pull off the hottest runway looks in just minutes. Here are a few trends to watch out for this season:

Campus Chic

Collegiate sportswear was all the rage on New York Fashion Week runways. To look like you've just stepped off a college campus, add a colorful rugby or striped cardigan to complement a pair of pleated wool pants with a natural waistline. Save money by digging into your old coed gear at the back of your closet or in the attic--they're begging to be revamped and worn! Pull out your favorite long, chunky scarf that you loved to sport during freshman year and match it with a pair of skinny denims, add an oversized knit cocoon coat and embrace the warmth and style of the season. 

Back to Basics

Covering up your legs this season is a must. Hosiery is a great way to spice up any outfit. Select from a wide range of patterns and textures to accent your look and choose a neutral color palette such as heather gray, oatmeal or brown. These colors are perfect to mix and match with other pieces in your closet. Eye-catching leggings or hosiery can be worn under a knee-length pencil skirt or a tailored pair of Bermuda shorts. Don't forget to finish the look with an important "must-have" accessory--a wide, woven belt, cinched at the waist--to give you the chic, trendy look seen in all the fashion magazines. 

Designers to Watch

If you are wondering which are the best designers to snag these accessories from, fashion magazines have been touting the work of six, hot, talented designers. Trendsetters Rodarte, Rag & Bone, Vena Cava, VPL, Hanuk, and Brian Reyes have each won the prestigious Ecco Domani® Fashion Foundation Award, a grant given by Ecco Domani Italian wines to the most promising new designers. These six fashion designers have made quite a splash at Fashion Week in New York, and by simply incorporating just one or two of their designs into your wardrobe, you can look like a fashionista overnight.


