Title: 
Gorgeous Prom Dresses to Match Your Figure

Word Count:
735

Summary:
Compare prom dress styles and how they fit with your figure type...


Keywords:
prom dresses, prom, gown, homecoming, formal, fashion, clothing, women's interests


Article Body:
Every girl's body is shaped differently. That's why there are so many styles, lengths, and shapes of prom dresses available on the market. For every body shape or figure type, there's just the right look and fit when it comes to formal dresses. Whether you are tall, short, or of medium height, or whether you are slim or full-figured, there's just the right prom dress that makes you look charming.

Fit to Accentuate and Complement Your Body Shape

So, why do different styles of dresses work with various body shapes? All clothing is designed to bring out or emphasize certain areas of the body. The clothing may also purposely de-emphasize certain areas of the body. This is to create a desired look and feel for the wearer. 

Clothing for women especially is designed to meet women's interests based on how they look in certain outfits or dresses. Some women want to emphasize their legs, some the upper portion of their body, some their waistline, and so forth. With formal gowns, homecoming gowns, and prom dresses, it's no different. Check out the different styles of prom dresses available for each body shape below.

Pear-Shaped Body - De-emphasize Your Hips

For the pear-shaped body, prom dresses with an a-line or full shirt are recommended to de-emphasize the hips. These should also have a fitted top to draw attention more to the upper portion of the body. If you prefer wearing a straight prom dress that's fitting to your body, try tying a thick or sheer scarf or wrap around your waist and allow it to hang in the front right above one of your legs. Or, a small tie-around purse or a unique belt that hangs loosely might do the trick. Wear jewelry and pull your hair up to attract attention to your face and upper body.

Slim Figure - Show It Off!

With a slim figure, you have many options. You can create "curves" with a bell-shaped dress and draw attention to the bust line. Or, you can wear prom dresses that bring out the waistline and wear a belt to create curves. Also, wear your hair down if you have long hair. Long, flowing hair also adds shape to your figure. Remember, the longer and straighter the gown, the more slender you will appear.

Shaped Like an Hourglass?

The hourglass figure is coveted by many, but enjoyed by few! With this type of figure, pretty much anything goes. You can wear your prom dress long, short, sleeveless, with or without a jacket. Your figure doesn't have to be hid or compensated for. It can be shown off with almost any style dress. So, be creative and don't be afraid to show it off.

Apple-Shaped Figure

With an apple-shaped body, you can try prom dresses that attract attention to the mid-section of your body. With a high waistline, you might not have to worry so much about dresses being too tight on the waist or hips. This gives you plenty of styles to work with to find the right fit. You can also wear a shorter dress if you have great legs.

Petite Figure

For a petite figure, try prom dresses that are shorter and more simplistic in design. Full skirts or ankle-length skirts can appear too large or long on a petite figure. Try dresses that emphasize the waistline or upper body and bring attention to your face and hair with simple, elegant jewelry. Earrings, necklaces, and hairpieces can all be used to highlight your face, neck and upper body.

Busty Shape

If you are larger up top, you can either wear dresses that de-emphasize the upper body or vice versa. To emphasize your upper body, look for prom dresses with good support as well as a great neckline. If you want to de-emphasize the upper body, wear a gown that attracts the eye to the hemline or waistline. Or, you can wear a scarf or jacket.

A great way to find an assortment of prom dresses and formal gowns is at an online prom store. You can find stunning designs by Mori Lee, Jovani, Clarisse, Niteline, Dave and Johny, Paris, Riva and Alyce Designs. From your own home computer, you can easily compare colors, sizes, styles, and prices online and find a variety of jewelry, prom shoes, and prom accessories to complete your ensemble. Accentuate your figure with a prom dress that's just right for you!


