Title: 
Handbags – The Type That Will Suit You Best

Word Count:
431

Summary:
Handbags have become an essential commodity for women. It becomes difficult for a buyer to select a handbag since the market if flooded with different types. While selecting a handbag, it is essential to match it with your body type. 

Oversized and large handbags are best for those who are tall and slim. A small handbag can make the person look even taller. Thus it is best to select a small one. The handbags that suits best for tall and thin women are clutches, oversized h...


Keywords:
Handbag


Article Body:
Handbags have become an essential commodity for women. It becomes difficult for a buyer to select a handbag since the market if flooded with different types. While selecting a handbag, it is essential to match it with your body type. 

Oversized and large handbags are best for those who are tall and slim. A small handbag can make the person look even taller. Thus it is best to select a small one. The handbags that suits best for tall and thin women are clutches, oversized handbags, and shoulder bags. For the shorter girls, small handbags suit best. The larger handbags can overpower you, and in the process can make you look even shorter. A tight fitting short handbag against your body can make you look taller than you are. 

If you are blessed with a gorgeous, curvy body, select a medium sized handbag that hangs just above your waist. It accentuates your waistline and makes your body look all the more flattering. Women of plus size should avoid handbags with short straps and the short handbags. A larger and wider handbag best suits their style since it makes them look smaller. 

The handbag itself is classified into various types like the shoulder bag, the handheld bag, back pack, tote bag, and the clutch. The shoulder bags, worn over the shoulder, are usually larger in size. These handbags are available in various shapes and sizes. The shoulder bags provide greater space and at the same time are stylish. 

The handheld handbags, with straps or handles, are held only in the hand. Used for fashion purposes and for strolling, these handheld handbags are smaller compared to the other handbags. The tote bags are mainly used for casual purposes. With a simple color and one or two compartments, these tote handbags provide a lot of space. They are big bags and fall around the elbow, in the middle of the body. 

The back packs with the two straps, are mainly used by students. They help to carry books with ease since the two straps on the shoulders help to balance the weight of the bag equally on both sides. A clutch, unlike the handheld handbag, does not have handles. Usually used in parties and nightclubs, these handbags are small and needs to be clutched by the hand. 

Selecting a handbag depends completely on your style and personal taste. It depends on the occasion when you will be using it, and on the place where you will be carrying it. Select handbags according to your mood, personality, and on what you think best suits you.


