Title: 
High Heels

Word Count:
404

Summary:
This article explains the benefits of wearing high heeled shoes.


Keywords:
high heels, high heel boots, stocking, high heel fetish, shoes


Article Body:
There are very few things in a womans arsenal as powerful as a pair of sexy high heels. Considering the fact that in olden times, only men were allowed to wear high heels, womens shoes have come a long way. 

The birth of the stiletto in the 1950s ushered in a whole new generation of womens high heeled shoes. The craze quickly caught on and high heel eventually became what it is in todays society, proof that God does indeed exist.

Whether its a pair of high heeled boots or a sexy sandal, you dont have to have a high heel fetish to appreciate a pretty pair of heels. 

Rarely is there such a treat that is so good for both sexes. Men appreciate women wearing a sexy pair of high heels as much as women enjoy purchasing them. In the battle between the sexes, as far as the high heel is concerned, it is definitely peace time. 

All women have a secret love affair with shoes whether they know it or not. A womans relationship with the high heel may be a bit underdeveloped, but believe me its still there. Inevitably, it is a girl thing. I will also go way out on a limb and contest that the higher the heel, the sexier. A four inch stiletto commands respect. 


High heels are also reportedly good for your health. They eliminate slouching, promote healthy breathing, and send the documented Ive got cool heels on endorphins straight to your brain, which can Im sure leads to a longer life. Im also pretty sure that the high heel is the direct cause of many an impromptu bedroom tryst, which I know for a fact is healthy.

Again, it doesnt matter if its a pair of high heel boots or a sexy sandal, having a high heel fetish is beside the point when this article is certainly  proof enough that everyone is a high heel fetishist. There are no drawbacks here people. Men love high heels, women love high heels, and shoe manufacturers love men and women who love high heels.

The high heeled shoe has a long history of potency. They may have started out on the feet of men, but in modern times, only a truly exceptional pair will end up on one. All the rest of the lucky high heels decoratively adorn the feet of women, very much to the delight of men.


