Title: 
Hosiery: Different Fabrics For Different Effects

Word Count:
529

Summary:
Though women often dread pulling on hosiery, struggling to make them fit and feel comfortable throughout the day, the hosiery industry today aims to make something for everyone. They aim to achieve this goal by using many different fabrics and combining different fabrics to create the desired results.

Standing in front of a hosiery rack at the store can be quite intimidating if you haven’t bought hosiery in a while. There are so many different brands, each with their own v...


Keywords:
hosiery,stockings,socks,clothing


Article Body:
Though women often dread pulling on hosiery, struggling to make them fit and feel comfortable throughout the day, the hosiery industry today aims to make something for everyone. They aim to achieve this goal by using many different fabrics and combining different fabrics to create the desired results.

Standing in front of a hosiery rack at the store can be quite intimidating if you haven’t bought hosiery in a while. There are so many different brands, each with their own variations made with the latest fabric. They are made to control, contour, hide, soften and protect your shape. They also strive to provide comfort. Each of the different fabrics provides a different effect

Cotton

Cotton is the ultimate in comfort. It is soft and is derived from a plant. It is versatile and long lasting. By adding cotton to a bend of fabrics to make hosiery, it is possible to make it comfortable for everyday wear.

Wool

Made from animal hair, wool is warm, attractive and keeps its shape. Wool is perfect for cooler weather conditions. It keeps the moisture away from your skin. It also gives a more distinguished look. Used in combination with several other materials it can achieve the desired effect of wearing hosiery.

Silk

The nice thing about silk is that it adjusts to your body temperature. It is able to keep you cool in the summer and warm in the winter, so it can be worn year round. It is a fine, natural fiber that provides luxurious comfort. It feels good to the touch and lies nicely. It is not a versatile fabric though. Several fabrics should be blended with silk for a good pair of hosiery.

Nylon

Nylon is one of the most popular fabrics used for hosiery because it recovers its shape due to its elasticity. No matter how far the material is stretched, it goes back to its original size and shape. It is smooth, tough and strong. It is a versatile fabric that is perfect for all day wear.

Spandex

Spandex is gaining popularity in products like hosiery. It is elastic, strong and durable. It hugs the body a little closer than some of the different kinds of fabric. Hosiery products are often a combination of nylon and spandex.

Polyester

For wrinkle resistant hosiery, a polyester blend is the way to go. It is light and weather- resistant, as well. 
 
Lycra

Also referred to as spandex, this fabric is added to hosiery because it is able to bounce back, therefore also providing the hugging sensation over your legs and having the ability to contour possible problem areas such as the tummy and thighs.

Finding the right blend of fabrics to meet your needs may be the key to finding comfortable hosiery that you can feel confident in all through your day. The right hosiery can also provide health benefits by reducing leg pain and decreasing your chances of getting painful and unsightly varicose veins.

As trends continue to change in the hosiery industry and they struggle to keep their spot in the marketplace, I’m sure we will see new blends of fabric that will provide other desired effects.


