Title: 
How to Select that Perfect Black Dress

Word Count:
449

Summary:
This articke gives you tips on how to select a perfect black dress based on your body shape


Keywords:
Black Dress, Black Dresses


Article Body:
It’s mandatory for every women to posses a black dress in her wardrobe, it’s essential. Going for a date, a dinner party, a night out with pals or for a formal or semi formal occasion, that black dress can be dresses to perfection for the occasion, but finding that black dress is going to be that easy, because every body in the world is different, so finding that perfect fit will be some hard work. 

I will help you in reducing that hard work by giving you some tips on how to select a perfect black dress based on your body shape.

For a Woman with flabby arms

Select outfits with half or three quarter sleeve or wear a shrug, so that your butterfly wings remain unnoticed. For hiding the problem part of upper arm use a little pinched on shoulder with some ruffly fabric, avoid big poofball sleeves.

For a Woman with thick neck

V-neck black dress helps diverting attention away from the neck and elongates the line.

For a Woman with broad shoulders

Again use V-neck or scoop-necks, which breaks the bulk and draw attention more toward the middle and away from width. Avoid strapless styles and spagetti straps.

For a Woman with narrow or sloped shoulders

A boatneck or straight-across bateau, will give you a wider look.

For a Woman with big bust

Boatneck or bateau will work fine as they draw eyes up, instead of towards the cleavage. V-necks will also work fine with some cautions, as it will cut the bulk, but observe where V widens, or it will reveal more of yourself and also go with thin fabric, as you can't afford to add more bulk.

For a Woman with no chest

Use simple padded bra it would help. For women’s with semi-flat chest, they can have round neck, a sleeveless. To draw attention towards shoulders you can use short bolero jacket.

For a Woman with flabby belly

To hide rolls you can use ruched fabrics, avoid clingy ones. The empire waist can safe, as it flares from high on waist and hides what lies beneath. Using a body-shaper will not harm, and will also help you look little less flabby.

For a Woman with long waist

Use Wide belt to break up that torso.

For a Woman with short waist

Try ribbon or narrow belt, will help with that distance. Or, you can them completely.

For a Woman with heavy-set

Use dresses whose sleeves don't fall below the wrist, and can also use a colorful and lightweight shawl or tunic-type top.

You can get that perfect <a href=http://www.onlygowns.com/purchase/BlackDresses.asp>Black Dress</a> here.


