Title: 
How To Care For Lingerie

Word Count:
310

Summary:
Fine lingerie is an investment that can last - while not a lifetime - at least for a long tim.

By caring for your lingerie properly, you will extend its life and enjoy it for many years to come.

Always check the label sewn into your lingerie.

Manufacturers understand their product and how to care for it. The label is always right. If the label indicates dry clean only, please take this advice seriously. Machine or hand washing a dry clean only garment can ruin it.
...


Keywords:
lingerie, lingerie care


Article Body:
Fine lingerie is an investment that can last - while not a lifetime - at least for a long tim.

By caring for your lingerie properly, you will extend its life and enjoy it for many years to come.

Always check the label sewn into your lingerie.

Manufacturers understand their product and how to care for it. The label is always right. If the label indicates dry clean only, please take this advice seriously. Machine or hand washing a dry clean only garment can ruin it.

If you have removed the label from your garment follow these general guidelines:

Most lingerie may be hand washed in cold water using a mild detergent (such as Ivory Snow). Be sure to rinse completely. Always drip dry lingerie or dry on a flat towel. Never put lingerie in the dryer. You may use gentle steaming to remove wrinkles.

LingerieDiva recommends that you wash your lingerie in a lingerie wash bag. These bags ensure your fine lingerie does not become twisted and stretched in the wash. You can purchase wash bags from most lingerie and drug stores.

Caring for Silk - Special Instructions

Silk lingerie is strong but very delicate - so extra care must be taken when washing it. Use only a mild soap or silk wash. Never use detergent on silk. Soak the lingerie in warm water for about five minutes. Agitate gently, but do not twist it. Rinse well using cold water (you may add a teaspoon of vinegar to the rinse to remove all traces of soap). Roll the linger in a towel and lay flat to dry. Iron while slightly damp or you can hang the lingerie in a steamy bathroom to remove wrinkles.

Silk Don'ts

* Don't expose silk lingerie to direct sunlight as it will fade
* Don't attempt to clean a spot on silk lingerie with water
* Don't spay perfume on silk


