Title: 
How To Prevent And Remove Wrinkles On A Tie

Word Count:
455

Summary:
It is easier to prevent wrinkles from occurring on a tie than to remove them. You can follow these simple tips and always have wrinkle-free ties. Roll up the tie loosely while storing it. Do not hang the tie for long periods as this tends to cause a permanent wrinkle in it.


Keywords:
Shopping, Tie, Fashion


Article Body:
It is easier to prevent wrinkles from occurring on a tie than to remove them. You can follow these simple tips and always have wrinkle-free ties. 

Roll up the tie loosely while storing it. Do not hang the tie for long periods as this tends to cause a permanent wrinkle in it. To roll a tie, begin by holding the narrow end and then winding up the rest of the tie, with the wide end on the outside. Lay the roll on a flat surface on the coiled side. This will ease out the wrinkles in a few hours, leaving your tie fresh for use again. 

Always untangle the tie knot before storing it. If the tie is stored knotted, permanent wrinkles may form. To untie the knot, follow the steps of knot tying in reverse order. Hurriedly untying the knot will mean pulling hard at the tie which can lead to wrinkles.

The tie knot should have the right amount of tightness. Too tight a knot can lead to wrinkles. 

Hanging for a few hours will remove the wrinkles that form due to wearing. 

You can even roll out a tie in a clean towel and leave it rolled for a day or two. This removes most wrinkles from the tie. After unrolling the tie (from the towel) hang it for a few hours. This combination of rolling and hanging works like a charm with most wrinkles.

You can also lightly iron the tie (without steam) at low temperatures.  Hot ironing is not good for ties as it weakens the fabric. Use the appropriate fabric setting for the tie while ironing. 

To prevent wrinkles from forming during traveling, loosely roll up the tie and make sure there is enough space in the baggage for the roll, other clothes should not squeeze the roll. If you travel a lot, you should consider investing in a tie case.

For cleaning give the tie to the dry cleaners instead of machine or hand washing the ties. These kinds of washings will put permanent wrinkles on your tie. 

Keep a few days space between wearing the same tie. This allows the tie to return to it's wrinkle-free state. 

You can also steam out the wrinkles by hanging the tie in the bathroom during a hot shower, or by holding it over a kettle with steam. You must not allow water to touch the tie though. To dry the tie, roll it up in a clean towel and leave for one day. You will have a wrinkle free tie the next day. 

A wrinkled tie never gives out a professional image. Invest in a tie organizer as a storage device and maintain your ties in its wrinkle free environment.


