Title: 
How to Choose a 2007 Prom Dress

Word Count:
533

Summary:
Here are some helpful tips on choosing that perfect prom dress for your 2007 prom...


Keywords:
prom dresses, prom, homecoming gowns, dresses, prom dresses 2007, for prom, formal dresses, quinceanera gowns, gown


Article Body:
You are so excited. You thought this big event would never get here. Here it is only months away and now you have to choose the one prom dress that will make you look beautiful and feel confident. There are so many different styles and colors available in prom dresses. This is the reason you need to start shopping months before the big event. 

Take the time to find out what style best suits you and your body shape. Find out what is popular this year. Trends change drastically every year and you want to be the new girl.

Before Shopping for 2007 Prom Dresses

It is always a good idea to look through up-to-date magazines such as Seventeen, Prom Magazine, and even bridal magazines. You would be surprised at the different fashions you will see and the great ideas from the models in these magazines. If a dress really catches your eye, tear out the page and take it with you when you go shopping for your gown.

Another timesaving step is to take your measurements before you go shopping. Jot down your height and weight. This will give you more time to look. This information will come in handy when you decide to go online and shop.

Knowing how much you have in your budget and which price range best suits you will also save you time.

Shopping for Your Gown

Once you have jotted down your measurements and have set your budget, it's time for the fun part. SHOPPING!!!! Go to every dress shop that you can find in your area or you may have to shop out of town. Visiting different shops will give you an idea of what styles are available this year. 

Try on several different dresses at each shop to help you determine what style and color suits you. If your budget is low, check out the outlet stores and thrift shops in your area. You may be surprised at the dresses carried by these shops. Bridal shops are also a great place to shop for your prom dress.

When choosing your prom dress, you want the dress that best suits your figure. Always buy a dress that fits you now. Do not buy a size smaller and hope that on prom night you can fit into the dress. When shopping for your prom dress, it is best to shop at stores where the employees can help you and give you advice if needed.

Bright, bold colors seem to be the trend at this time. These colors tend to be eye-catching and bring color to your face. Beads and jewels draw attention by catching the light on your gown.

Keep in mind your undergarments that you will need to purchase such as a strapless bra or corset. You may want to purchase these items before you shop for your dress so you will have them available when you try on gowns.

Remember, keep your options open. If you have shopped 'til you dropped and still have not found that dream dress for your 2007 prom, you can go to a tailor shop and have them design a dress just for you or surf online at your own convenience.


