Title: 
How to Tie a Neck Tie Scarf

Word Count:
355

Summary:
Necktie scarves made of beautiful pieces of silk add a touch of glamour to any dress. They are also fit for casual and semi-formal occasions, and you may try them on formal occasions with caution. Given the range of colors and fabrics, a scarf can be an often used component of your regular dress, though use in moderation would only increase its impact on regular interactions.


Keywords:
Neck tie scarves, how to tie a scarf, tying scarves, scarf, scarf knots


Article Body:
Necktie scarves made of beautiful pieces of silk add a touch of glamour to any dress. They are also fit for casual and semi-formal occasions, and you may try them on formal occasions with caution. Given the range of colors and fabrics, a scarf can be an often used component of your regular dress, though use in moderation would only increase its impact on regular interactions.

A scarf traditionally was worn by women as a sign of modesty, and was incorporated as a dress code in some religions. It had an effect of adding an aura and grace around the wearer’s face. Today a scarf is not limited to religious or pious uses. It is as much of a fashion statement as a necktie is.

The various ways of tying a scarf are – 

1. Put the scarf down and fold it along the diagonal to make a triangle. Go on folding the scarf to form a 2-inch band. Wrap it around like a tie and form a loose knot. This is the simplest way to tie a scarf. The knot can be kept in the middle or on the sides depending on the type of blouse or top. 
2. An ascot look can be achieved as follows. Spread the scarf upside down and pull it upwards holding it from the center. Now make a small knot, and flip both the ends to keep the knot underneath. Wrap the scarf around and let it fall in the front from the base of your neck.
3. A very large piece of scarf can be work like a shawl extending from shoulder to the hips. To begin, fold the scarf into a triangle shape. Wear it on one shoulder and let the end hang around the torso. Take both the ends and tie them on the opposite hip.
4. A simple and easy way to tie a scarf is to first fold it into a triangle shape, and wrapping it around to let the ends fall on the front. Tie them in a simple knot.

For more information on scarves visit - <a href=” http://www.neck-tie-knots.info”>neck tie scarf</a>


