Title: 
Increase Your Casual Wear Flair

Word Count:
398

Summary:
Let’s put a way the flip-flops, pack up our summer shorts and bring out this fall’s newest line of casual wear. In today’s fast paced and changing lifestyle, we women love to dress casual. We want to feel good about ourselves and our femininity and still be able to do everything our lifestyle dictates while looking great. 

Casual wear is not just a fad. Women demand chic, sexy styles with that built-in comfort factor with the right flair. 

We love being able to just “th...


Keywords:
fashion, clothes, beauty, style, clothing


Article Body:
Let’s put a way the flip-flops, pack up our summer shorts and bring out this fall’s newest line of casual wear. In today’s fast paced and changing lifestyle, we women love to dress casual. We want to feel good about ourselves and our femininity and still be able to do everything our lifestyle dictates while looking great. 

Casual wear is not just a fad. Women demand chic, sexy styles with that built-in comfort factor with the right flair. 

We love being able to just “throw something on” and wear it all day. But before we do that we need to build a core wardrobe of basic items with enough variety to keep from being boring. 

To start with there are several color combinations that go well together – khaki, denim, tan and black, khaki, white. Choose cohesive pieces and build around the basic styles.

Casual shoes are also important. Please ladies, no white running shoes. I repeat, NO WHITE RUNNING SHOES! Stick with a pair of boots or sandals. 

Match casual wear with casual accessories and handbags. Try to stay away from mixing styles.

Keep your casual clothes pressed and clean. Don’t be lazy and wear wrinkled clothes. That’s not a good look on anyone.

Jeans are the perfect casual pant. Designs and styles may change with the times but the basic jean has been around for awhile. Jeans are fashionable, sexy, and can be dressed up or down for the perfect day or evening! 

For those of you who simply must hit the gym, the track suit is the perfect cover up for work-out clothes are just lounging around the house. Many come in luscious fabrics such as velour and velvet. Yum!

This fall, black is the newest trend. If you are looking for a piece that you can wear with everything, choose a little black jacket. They are the perfect accompaniment that comes in luscious fabrics such as velvet, brocade and silk. Some sparkle, like our personalities, and some are come adorned with sexy ribbons and lace. The little black jacket can be worn with jeans, pants or a slim skirt. Perfect for just about any occasion!

Choosing fashions for your personal style and comfort is easy. Fashion is about confidence. If you feel great in an outfit, others will feel your vibes. And if you don’t feel confident, fake it!


