Title: 
Instructions neck tie tying

Word Count:
404

Summary:
Neck tie could be easily managed in many beautiful ways if you follow these simple instructions carefully and as many times unless you are confident enough.


Keywords:
neck tie tying, instructions neck tie tying, tying neck tie


Article Body:
Neck tie is a material worn around the neck beneath the collar with a tied knot in the front. In the beginning, it was the privilege of the person belonging to a higher position, to wear a tie. Now irrespective of the position, tie has become a fashion wear or trend among men. Be it an office meeting, official party, functions, ties goes well with all kind of occasions. Most of the times, tie is the most essential part while you go for an interview. 

There are different types of tie knots one can easily tie. Knots such as Windsor knot, half-Windsor knot, four-in-hand knot, pretty/Shelby knot are more common in use. 

1.<b> Windsor knot </b> is wide triangular knot worn with wide spread collar shirts and are preferred during formal occasions. To tie a Windsor knot you need to follow these instructions: 

a. Place the necktie below the collar such that the wider end is longer than the thin end and the wide end crosses over the thin end. 

b. Now take the wide end from the loop formed between the collar and necktie upwards and then leave it down hanging.

c. Again pull the wide end from below the thin end to the left and then back from the loop.

d. Now bring the wide end across the front from left to right.

e. Pull the wide end up from the loop and bring it down through the knot in front. 

f. With the help of your both hands tighten the knot and draw it to the collar.

2. <b> Half-Windsor </b> is a medium triangular knot considered more formal when compared to the four-in-hand knot:

a. To tie a half Windsor knot, place the wide end of tie under the collar with wide end longer than thin end also crossing over the other.

b. Bring the wide end around and behind the thin end and then move it up.

c. Next pull the wide end up through the loop, and then bring the wide end around front, over the thin end from left to right.

d. Again bring wide end up and through the loop and then bring the wide end down through the knot in front. Tighten your knot by drawing the knot under your collar.

To know more about other tie-knots and how well to manage them visit our website <a href="http://www.tying-neck-tie.info">tying-neck-tie.info </a>


