Title: 
Interesting Facts – Neck tie

Word Count:
304

Summary:
There are many interesting facts about neck ties that usually surprise people when they come to know about it.


Keywords:
neck tie tying, instructions neck tie tying, tying neck tie, steps to tying a neck tie


Article Body:
Most of you might be tying neck tie in your daily wear but do you know about some interesting facts about neck tie.

The neck tie was originated from a silk scarf that used to be worn by Croatian soldiers and it later came to be known as cravate.

In 1993, Mary Beloff invented the wooden bow whereby he also sells nine basic homemade styles and insists that the only thing you should worry when you wear them is “termites and fires.”

British ties usually had stripes that run from top left to bottom right while the stripes on American ties run from top right to bottom left.

The English developed neckwear so thick that they could even stop a sword thrust.

At some point in history, merely touching a man’s tie knot was a cause for a duel.

Americans spend more than $1 billion every year to buy a staggering 100 million ties.

A good quality silk tie requires approximately 110 silkworm cocoons.

The city of Shengzhou in China is among the world’s biggest tie producers with about 200 million ties being made every year.

It is also possible to buy a bulletproof tie that can even stop a 9mm bullet.

A person who collects ties is known as Grabatologist.

Around the whole world, neck tie is considered to be the most popular father’s day gift.

Shih Huang Ti, the first Chinese emperor wore a tie as long ago as 210 B.C.

The Bola tie is the official tie of Arizona, USA.

Al Pacino won the Tony Award for the best supporting actor in the play “Does a tiger wear a necktie?”

In the year 2002, the tie industry in America saw sales slump by 10% due to the popularity of “dress down days.”

For further information, visit <a href="http://www.tying-neck-tie.info">tying-neck-tie.info </a>


