Title: 
Italian swimsuit industry high prestige at international level

Word Count:
330

Summary:
The manufacturing and marketing of  women’s swimwear of high quality and elegance are branded Made in Italy.


Keywords:
bikini,manufacturer,factory,swimsuit,female,ladies,lingerie,manufacturer


Article Body:
Some history

In all probability, since 1400 BC Roman and Greek athletes were used to dress costumes as much similar as the modern bikinis (This is well shown on frescos and findings of that historic  period).

However, proper bathing suits (swimsuits) finalized to recreation and water sport activities, date back to the end of XIX century. Of course, speaking about women swimwear, they were one-piece swimsuits aimed to hide any sinuous, female shape.

On the contrary, modern bikini swimsuits, were created and introduced in the market by the Parisian  engineer Lous Reard ( the word bikini derives from an atoll of the Marshall Islands).

Naturally this innovation on women’s swimwear outfit -with naked gluteus and belly-, provoked clamour and diffidence in United States, where only in the 50’s  was definitely accepted and introduced in the market.

Italian manufacturing of women’s swimwear 

Nowadays, after years of experience and style, the Italian production of bathing suits covers a big part of the business representing research, offer and purchasing volumes of swimwear.

This is probably due to the great tradition, as well as in the sector of summer swimsuit fashion, also in the manufacturing development of the fashion clothing industry able to offer a trend and define fashion on a planetary level.

For a total globalization of swimsuit products, it is fundamental that those Italian Companies dedicated to the creation and development of summer swimwear,  adopt advanced  web technologies that will allow worldwide visibility and whole satisfaction of the sector demand.

For this purpose, Toscana Chiarugi offers experience and professionalism in the production and online sale of swimwear thanks to promotional investments and realization of a new online catalogue illustrating the whole new summer collection.

Chiarugi is a reference point on the web for swimwear  and lingerie sale, being  its users not only Italian but women in general, wishing to distinguish themselves by femininity and prestige.

Another score gained by the ‘made in Italy’ clothes manufacturing compared with the European and International Competition!


