Title: 
Leather Lingerie: Supple, Sensuous, and Sexy

Word Count:
621

Summary:
Instead of wearing your leather on the outside, harness your inner leather diva and enjoy the luxurious feel of quality leather lingerie against your skin. For starters, leather is a natural material that can literally mold to your body.


Keywords:
leather,lingerie,clothing,fashion,style,women,clothes,fantasy,relationship


Article Body:
Typically, leather clothing is delegated for two groups: cowboys and bikers. Cowboys wear leather chaps and outwear to protect their bodies from brush, trees, and nature in general. Bikers on the other hand prefer leather to protect them against what is affectionately known as road rash. It is not surprising then that the types of leather outwear worn by both of these groups is thick and restrictive for movement: two aspects that are definitely not good for lingerie! Instead of wearing your leather on the outside, harness your inner leather diva and enjoy the luxurious feel of quality leather against your skin.

Let’s face it women, what guy’s fantasy does not begin with having his wife or girlfriend disrobe to reveal a glimpse of leather and skin? The sure fire way to drive that man in your life wild with passion is by donning leather. Besides, something about pouring yourself in to a material that hugs your skin at every curve can do something for your own libido as well. Since there are countless selections of lingerie styles, choose a particular outfit that is guaranteed to drive him crazy! What guy can resist a woman in a skimpy leather mini skirt or a screamingly seductive leather corset? Certainly not your guy, that’s for sure!

For all the men out there wondering what to buy their wives or girlfriends for a special occasion—or no occasion at all—consider leather your new best friend. If you are still skeptical, find any piece of leather and put it on your bare skin. Now, doesn’t that feel better than itchy lace or scratchy netting? Any concerns you may have will fly out the window. Keep in mind that there are a wide variety of leather styles, so you can find one that will make your lady love the most comfortable. If a leather thong and string bikini is a bit too adventurous, consider a buttery soft pair of leather hot pants or a corset top to provide more coverage. If your woman’s closet is overflowing with leather delights, consider clever leather accessories that will allow her to complete the look.

If that gorgeous feel of leather on bare skin have you jealous of the leather-donning women in your life, keep in mind that there are fantastic options available for men as well. Before you turn up your nose at the thought of wrapping yourself in leather lingerie, remove any preconceived notions that may exist. Options exist from the deliriously comfortable leather pants to a more adventurous leather harness. Remember that clothing can stimulate your intimacy and role playing is a great way to jump start a stagnant love life. Still skeptical? Start off with leather accessories and slowly work your way into a new part, things like leather collars and leather vests are a great way to dip your toe into the pool of leather lingerie before you jump straight into the mix (and don’t worry, you soon will).

Of course the logistics of leather lingerie leaves many people scratching their head. For starters, leather is a natural material that can literally mold to your body. This reason alone is why leather is popular against bare skin because it forms a second skin, allowing you to move freely while (albeit scantily) clothed. Another reason why leather is popular is because of its temperature. The temperature of leather is directly dependant on the temperature of its surroundings. When you first slink into your leather lingerie, you will find that the apparel is cool and refreshing. However, as you begin to wear the leather, it will adopt the temperature of your body, leaving you deliciously attractive to your loved one.


