Title: 
Leotard Etiquette – Should You Be Wearing One?

Word Count:
528

Summary:
It only make sense that an article of clothing that clings to the body and leaves little the imagination would have an etiquette with it. Knowing when it is and is not okay to wear a leotard can mean a lot when it comes to your social standing and self-worth. Wear it at the wrong time and you can be ostracized, but wear it at the right time and you will be hailed as a fashion guru. So how do you know when it is okay to wear a leotard? There are some simple rules you can follo...


Keywords:



Article Body:
It only make sense that an article of clothing that clings to the body and leaves little the imagination would have an etiquette with it. Knowing when it is and is not okay to wear a leotard can mean a lot when it comes to your social standing and self-worth. Wear it at the wrong time and you can be ostracized, but wear it at the right time and you will be hailed as a fashion guru. So how do you know when it is okay to wear a leotard? There are some simple rules you can follow.

First in leotard etiquette is that you can wear a leotard if you are appearing on stage. If you are dancing, in a ballet, part of an opera, or doing performance art, you can wear a leotard and you will be fine. If you are a rock star, you can wear a leotard in only a couple of situations: if you are a woman or if you are an 80’s hair band lead man (see Poison, Twisted Sister, or Abba). A basic rule of thumb, though, is that if you are on stage performing, you can get away with a leotard.

Secondly, when it comes to leotard etiquette, keep in mind that a leotard is never okay if you are severely overweight or obese. When little is left to the imagination, you can end up painting a picture nobody wants. If you are a man, this goes double as you are put on display at a level that is beyond description. In fact, when the leotard actually debuted in the 19th century on a French trapeze artist, it is said that many came to see the outfit and what it displayed more than the act itself.

Thirdly, leotards are okay if you are a super hero or playing one for Halloween. Superman, Batman, and many other comic book superheroes made the leotard okay. Its sleek tight fit make for a great outfit when fighting crime. No extra fabric to get snagged and nothing to resist wind as you fly or run at the speed of light. If you are going the super hero route, however; you must make sure you wear proper boots and cape to complete the ensemble. Also, superhero leotards should always be worn with bikini briefs over the top. Heroes are modest.

When it comes to leotard etiquette, you have to ask yourself if you should be wearing one. As a piece of clothing that stands out and leaves little to the imagination, you should think long and hard about what you are putting on if the option of a leotard comes up. If you are performing dance, performance art, or hair band music then you are probably okay. Also, if you are a super hero or just trying to play one for a costume party or Halloween, again, you should be okay wearing a leotard. If, though, you are more than a little overweight or not confidence in what you are displaying, a leotard is not okay. A good rule of thumb for leotard etiquette is when in doubt, wear something else or something over it.


