Title: 
Lingerie For Valentines Day

Word Count:
1299

Summary:
Choosing the right Lingerie for Valentines Day


Keywords:
lingerie, sexy lingerie, womans lingerie


Article Body:
<p>The History of Valentines Day
  
St. Valentines day has its origins in the pagan customs of the third or fourth century BC and coincides with the Fertility Festival of Ancient Rome, over time the festival was Christianised and became a festival in celebration of love rather than lust.
  
In 1537 King Henry VIII decreed by Royal Charter that all of England would celebrate Saint Valentines Day on February 14 and most of the world now celebrates the day by exchanging cards and tokens of affection. Of course one of the most common gifts to give your lover on Valentines day is lingerie.
  
</p>
<p>Why buy <a href="http://keepitintimate.com">Lingerie</a> for Valentines Day?
</p>
<p>Valentines Day gifts should be intimate and special tokens of love. Lingerie perfectly matches that requirement, making the recipient feel special and bringing pleasure to the gift giver as well. A well chosen Valentines lingerie gift is also a thoughtful present, showing you have taken time and care in selecting something the recipient will appreciate.
</p>
<p>What type of Lingerie makes the best Valentines gift?
</p>
<p>While the obvious answer is "<a href="http://keepitintimate.com">sexy lingerie</a>!" Sexy doesn't necessarily mean skimpy thongs and barely there bras! A woman looks and feels her most sexy in flattering underwear which feels good against her skin, enhances her figure and is clearly high quality, we are confident that you will find what your looking for when you shop for lingerie online with Ennia Lingerie. Sensual and chic underwear that can be worn everyday, whether for a romantic meal out or to make her smile at work is a far more thoughtful present than a black feather trimmed baby-doll which will be worn once and then be buried at the back of a cupboard.
          
 
          
If you want to make the best of both worlds and buy sexy Valentines lingerie online which will also become an everyday favourite why not try a set of beautiful deep red Leavers lace lingerie such as our Grace Range, and add a sexy pair of Grace Garters to your order, or why not say it with flowers and order the beautiful rosy pink and very feminine set of Gabrielle Lingerie, and include a thong for special occasions as well as a pair of traditional panties for everyday?  Gabrielle is currently on special offer so you don't have to spend a fortune to get exclusive, quality lingerie when you buy Ennia.
          
 
          
Also if you really want to impress you cannot go past the ever popular Ilisha set, a stunning Valentines lingerie set in fiery red and black and again made from the most exclusive lace in the world, Leavers. You can buy everything she will ever need in this range as there are two options available on the thong and panties and also you can include the wonderful suspenders and garters all of which are suited particularly to night-time wear and those special occasions.
          
 
          
The traditional colours for Valentines lingerie are red the colour of lust and passion, ( Ilisha, Sara, Samantha , Grace, Fiesta and Greta which was inspired by the fiery passion of the Flamenco itself), white with it's pure and innocent appeal Rebecca, Marianne, Rowena, Natalie and pink the traditionally feminine colour.  Pink is also associated with Valentines day since the burial of St Valentine, when the Pink Almond Tree came into blossom.
          
 
          
One of our most romantic sets of lingerie has to be the Anna range in dusky grey with candy pink Leavers lace. This range has a comprehensive range of items including the cheeky shortie, the chic French culotte and a body top to die for. We also have some stunning pink sets in our sale items, the Lysette range and the Monique  both feature the exclusive Leavers lace at unbelievable prices again proving that with Ennia you don't have to spend a fortune to get top European exclusivity.
          
 
          
You could consider buying lingerie in a colour to match a special outfit; the Danielle range is truly beautiful and comes in shimmering champagne, Hannah comes in a fabulous blue or Crystalle features stunning fresh green embroidery. We also have some fabulous ranges which feature subtle and delicate floral patterns such as the Alexa range with its tiny violet flowers or the Aphrodite with it's pale blue flowers giving it an ethereal quality which would not disappoint the goddess of love and beauty herself!
</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>Advice for men; </p>
<p>What type of Underwear do women want?
</p>
<p>Men often like sinfully dark coloured underwear but be warned however that while ladies like to be spoilt most women are at heart quite practical and if your loved one has no dark blouses or t-shirts to wear over the sexy black lingerie she would probably prefer something a little more subtle so she can enjoy your present on a regular basis!
              
 
              
Classy ladies appreciate classy <a href="http://keepitintimate.com">lingerie</a>, but they also appreciate your making the effort to choose something that is appropriate for them. Many younger women like to wear lingerie that is designed to be on display with sexy Leavers Lace edging to peek out of a neckline. Curvy ladies may prefer a full cup bra than a couple of silky triangles held together with elastic, and petite ladies may like a bra which subtly enhances their figure, However be warned unless you know she wants one most women would rather not receive a wonderbra as a Valentines gift! Ennia has a huge range of bra styles to suit every lady from the cleavage enhancing balconette and plunge bras to the unpadded bras which many women prefer to wear. The Joanna range now features a gorgeous unpadded bra in blue-grey Leavers lace to add to the already ever-popular set of lingerie. We also have a number of half-padded bras which can be a stunning compromise between padded and unpadded.
              
 
              
Thongs are sexy and Ennia thongs are also very comfortable, but many women don't like the feel of thongs or g-strings for everyday wear - if your lady falls into this category why not try a pair of beautiful and sexy lace shorties or our range of panties instead? (including thongs or g-strings)
              
 
              
Lace is both attractive and luxurious, but make sure you choose high quality lace such as Leavers Lace which is comfortable to wear and sophisticated - there's nothing worse than scratchy cheap lingerie against the skin or lace which shrinks when washed. You can find more information about Leavers Lace  For more information about buying Lingerie as a gift please check our information sheet on the link provided.
              
 
              
 
              
Advice for ladies;
              
Why buy lingerie for yourself for Valentines day?
              
First and foremost because you deserve it! New underwear makes you feel sexy and if you feel sexy you are sexy, so treat yourself to a new bra and panties, or to a full set with suspender belt and garters, and enjoy feeling sexy and sophisticated without spending a fortune!
              
 
              
You can also buy your self some underwear as a treat for your Valentine. Men love to buy their wives and girlfriends sexy Valentines lingerie in part because they love to see you looking so amazing, so why not choose your own lingerie and wow them with your new look after (or during!) a sultry evening  this Valentines Day. Lingerie to excite your partner need not be overpriced fluff whether they like black lace lingerie or white bra and panties you can buy quality lingerie at Ennia at a reasonable price that will set their pulses racing.
              
 
              
If your still not quite sure why not view all of our Full Lingerie sets, just click on the link your bound to find something your partner will like.
</p>


