Title: 
Lingerie

Word Count:
402

Summary:
This article tells the reader about the different styles and uses of lingerie.


Keywords:
sexy lingerie, high heel boots, panty hose, sheer lingerie, lingerie


Article Body:
Women have been turning to sexy lingerie to add spice to their romance since the time of Cleopatra. The feel of fine silk or lacey lingerie against the skin can be such a powerful aphrodisiac, that some of the most famous women in history swear by its success for the pursuit and capture of conquests in the game of love. 

There are as many different styles of lingerie to choose from as there are occasions to wear it. Lingerie can bring a sense of mystery and intrigue to any intimate encounter. 
Wearing sexy Lingerie can be as playful as it is adventuresome. Not only does sheer lingerie highlight a womans most sensual assets, it makes her look and feel more feminine.

For some women, deciding on the right bridal lingerie is the most important underwear choice she will ever have to make. Usually a bride will want to pick lingerie that looks sweet and innocent, but is still sexy enough to remind her new husband that while the wedding may be over, the honeymoon has just begun. 

Although bridal lingerie is usually available in the whimsical colors of virginal white, pristine pink and baby doll blue, it is also designed to be alluring and make a bride feel desirable on her special night.

Lingerie is the perfect seductive element to enhance any romantic tryst. If creating the right mood is the goal, nothing is as provocative as exotic lingerie to inspire romance. A tempting black corset or scarlet red push –up bra will make an unforgettable impression on any paramour. From fishnets to naughty nighties, exotic lingerie is guaranteed to steam things up in the boudoir and stir the embers of desire into a passionate fire.  

Smart women know the time tested advantages of slipping into something more comfortable. Just like the scent of a flirty perfume, sexy lingerie is a great way to draw a lover close, like a moth to a flame. 

Sheer lingerie can bring tantalizing new dimensions to anyones sex life. The visual delights lingerie has to offer are only limited by ones own imagination. When a woman feels fabulous in sexy lingerie, she also feels more confident and her sexual chemistry is naturally heightened. 
When a women dresses in sexy lingerie, what she is really doing is practicing the art of true seduction by introducing some sizzle and delivering an invitation to come and share the fantasy.


