Title: 
Logos4polos - Clothing Embroidery and T shirts printing Online

Word Count:
592

Summary:
Logos4polos are a UK based clothing company, providing clothing embroidery, logo embroidery, polo shirt embroidery and t shirt embroidery services.


Keywords:
Embroidery and printing Services, Clothing Embroidery, Polo shirt printing, T shirts printing 


Article Body:
Logos4polos are a UK based clothing company, providing clothing embroidery, logo embroidery, polo shirt embroidery and t shirt embroidery services. 

What is embroidery? Do I really have to have my company logo embroidered onto my polo shirts and t shirts? Isn’t word of mouth good enough anymore, every time someone turns up at my place of work they are wearing polo shirts or t shirts with embroidery logos and their company name on it. That’s it, I’m off to investigate the world of the embroider and screen printing worker.

Based in Southall there is a company called Logos 4 Polos who claim to be specialist in the world of corporate branding. They own their own embroidery machines and automated screen printing machines. I must admit that at first I was very suspicious with their claim that they could reproduce any logo with embroidery. My thoughts have always been based on the fact that a logo with finer detail had to go with screen printing to get the best results. But to my surprise I have been shown there is a better way. Embroidery machines only produce what the digitiser, (this is the person who redraws your logo in stitch form for the embroidery machine to read) gives them and that’s the key. At Logos 4 Polos there is a team of professional and creative designers who can produce such great results.

Your typical embroidery design is a left breast logo, followed by a larger print on the back of  a chosen polo shirt or t shirt. Other very popular items include baseball caps, fleece jackets, laptop bags and corporate shirts. All look great if the time is taken when reproducing your logos for embroidery or screen printing. Logos 4 Polos have taken the word customized and made it their own. Specialists in customized corporate clothing customized embroidery and customized screen printing. 

Basic rules for corporate branding/embroidery and printing.

1.	Chose a company with its own embroidery/printing facility, why go to a middle man – www.logos4polos.com has its own embroidery and screen printing machines.
2.	Keep your logo simple – for embroidery purposes the number of colours is not an issue as you can have up to 8 if you chose embroidery. Whereas with screen printing you have to be careful as the set –up costs are per colour.
3.	Small or big designs? Big embroidery designs on the back of polo shirts, jackets and fleece’s are visually very powerful but can be expensive, check with www.logos4polos.com for very competitive rates. Smaller logos such as left breast or on the arms of polo shirts are very good ways of advertising your company. For bigger designs with fewer colours screen printing may be a better option especially on t shirts.
4.	Corporate Clothing – Be wise in your selection of clothing, ask yourself the questions – would I wear this, are polo shirts the best option, t shirts are cheaper but do they portray the image my company wants to portray.
5.	Cost – the big issue – Some company’s put corporate clothing way down the list of items to spend their money on. A polo shirt with an embroidery logo on  not only gives your potential customer a visual image of who you are it also lets your employees know you expect them to be professional. Image is everything and www.logos4polos.com can help you look good.
6.	Get ahead of the competition – most people always look to the head so put a baseball cap with you customized embroidery logo on it.


