Title: 
Made in Italy swimsuit industry confirms its own prestige all around the world

Word Count:
495

Summary:
A bikini, bathing suit, swimwear or swimming costume is an item of clothing designed to be worn for swimming and fashion sea. The manufacturing and marketing of women’s swimwear of high quality and elegance are branded "Made in Italy".


Keywords:
bikini,manufacturer,beachwear


Article Body:
Some information

In English and New Zealand and some zones of Australian English, bikini are usually called togs. 

Some history: In all probability, since 1400 BC Roman and Greek athletes were used to dress costumes as much similar as the modern bikinis (This is well shown on frescos and findings of that historic  period).

This term is less common in other parts of the Commonwealth where it can also refer to clothes in general.

However, proper bathing suits (swimsuits) finalized to recreation and water sport activities, date back to the end of XIX century. Of course, speaking about women swimwear, they were one-piece swimsuits aimed to hide any sinuous, female shape.

Swimsuits can be skin-tight or loosely fitting and range from garments designed to preserve as much modesty as possible to garments designed to reveal as much of the body as possible without actual nudity.

On the contrary, modern bikini swimsuits, were created and introduced in the market by the Parisian  engineer Lous Reard ( the word bikini derives from an atoll of the Marshall Islands).

They are often lined with a fabric that prevents them from becoming transparent when wet.

Naturally this innovation on women’s swimwear outfit -with naked gluteus and belly-, provoked clamour and diffidence in United States, where only in the 50’s  was definitely accepted and introduced in the market.

Italian manufacturing of women’s swimwear

A bikini or two-piece is a type of women's swimsuit, characterized by two separate parts one covering the breasts, the other the groin, leaving an uncovered area between the two garments. 

Nowadays, after years of experience and style, the Italian production of bathing suits covers a big part of the business representing research, offer and purchasing volumes of swimwear.

It is often worn in hot weather and while swimming. The shapes of both parts of a bikini closely resemble women's underwear, and the lower part of a bikini can therefore range from the more revealing thong or g-string to briefs and the more modest square-cut shorts.

This is probably due to the great tradition, as well as in the sector of summer swimsuit fashion, also in the manufacturing development of the fashion clothing industry able to offer a trend and define fashion on a planetary level.

For a total globalization of swimsuit products, it is fundamental that those Italian Companies dedicated to the creation and development of summer swimwear,  adopt advanced  web technologies that will allow worldwide visibility and whole satisfaction of the sector demand.

For this purpose, Toscana Chiarugi offers experience and professionalism in the production and online sale of swimwear thanks to promotional investments and realization of a new online catalogue illustrating the whole new summer collection.

Chiarugi is a reference point on the web for swimwear  and lingerie sale, being  its users not only Italian but women in general, wishing to distinguish themselves by femininity and prestige.

Another score gained by the ‘made in Italy’ clothes manufacturing compared with the European and International Competition!


