Title: 
Make Your Wardrobe Come Alive with Coloured Tights!

Word Count:
484

Summary:
Have the winter blahs got you down? Are you ready to add a little zazz to your wardrobe? If so, it's time to lift yourself up and climb aboard the latest trend in hosiery: coloured tights.


Keywords:
tights,stockings,pantyhose,holdups,thigh highs,fashion tights, bodystockings,silk stocking


Article Body:
Have the winter blahs got you down? Are you ready to add a little zazz to your wardrobe? If so, it's time to lift yourself up and climb aboard the latest trend in hosiery: coloured tights. 

That's right. Coloured fashion tights have replaced stockings and pantyhose as the legwear of choice for fashionistas who want to pick up the pace and add some drama to their outfits. The choices are endless, so you can rest assured that you can find fashion tights that you love. Let's look at some options:

Fabrications for Every Occasion

Tights come in a wide variety of fabrications. Merino wool tights, for example, are perfect to keep your legs warm on a chilly winter's day. Pair your wool tights with a short wool dress and a thin belt for a fashion statement that's both stylish and comfortable. Cotton tights have a variety of textures, depending on the manufacturing process. They can feel like velvet and go from work to evening with ease, or can be luxuriously thick to keep your legs protected from icy blasts of wind. Tights made from a blend of denier and lycra have the wonderful smoothness of microfiber with the perfect measure of opacity that makes them an excellent choice for work or for a night on the town. 

Colours for Every Mood

When it comes to coloured tights, your choices are limited only by your imagination. From classic black to classy off-white, from chocolate brown to grape purple, from mustard yellow to slate grey, tights come in dozens of colours. In fact, the trend this season is to buy tights in virtually every color available, and use them as a wardrobe accessory. Want to kick that little black dress up a notch? Pair it with red tights and a skinny red belt and watch heads turn. If you're not quite ready for startling contrasts, go with the tone-on-tone look and pair moss green tights with a moss green skirt and sweater. Or choose complementary colors for a put-together look. If you're on the shorter side and want to appear taller, choose lighter coloured tights; if you want to lengthen your torso, opt for darker coloured tights. Whichever way you go, your choices are endless.

Kick Around Some Patterns

This season, the fashion story isn't only about colour - it's also about pattern. Make a funky statement with polka dot tights, red gingham tights, or give your legs a splash of color with a sumptuous pink and blue floral pattern. Want a look that's slightly more subdued by that still makes a statement? Go for tartan or argyle patterned tights. 

Of course, there are occasions when you might prefer holdups, thigh highs, a beautiful silk stocking, or even a body stocking, but for the sheer fun of it, you should treat yourself to coloured tights. Winter seems much less dreary when you have some fun with fashion!


