Title: 
Makeup and Prom Dresses:  Blending for Beauty!

Word Count:
607

Summary:
Ready for the prom of 2007? Remember, makeup and prom dresses can go great together with some careful thought. Use these prom makeup tips to create a beautiful blend...


Keywords:
prom dresses, prom, homecoming gowns, dresses, prom dresses 2007, for prom, formal dresses, quinceanera gowns, gown


Article Body:
You have purchased your prom dress, shoes, jewelry, and handbag. You have decided on whether you will style your hair yourself or go to a beautician. Now you need to decide if you will do your own makeup or have it done professionally. With 2007 prom dresses, it's all about fashion, and makeup is a part of that fashion statement that will make you shine!

If you are one that does not like to wear makeup, you will need to wear a small amount for your prom. Makeup will bring your features out and cover those unwanted blemishes. 

If you have decided to do your own makeup, put on your makeup before putting on your prom dress. This is a precaution to protect your prom dress from any drops or spills that may take place while you are applying your makeup.

There are many tips for applying makeup that can bring out your natural beauty.

Foundation and Concealer

The first step in applying makeup is choosing the perfect foundation. This is done by matching the makeup with your skin tone and complexion. Always make sure the makeup is well blended and there are no foundation lines around the neck. For any visible blemishes or dark circles under the eyes, a concealer can be used. Just dab it on lightly and blend it in good with the foundation.

Eye Makeup
 
Once your foundation is applied, your eyes are the next important step. You do not want your eye shadow to match the color of your prom dress, but you do want it to compliment the dress. In order to highlight your eyes, you will use a lighter shade or the base color from the lash line to the brow. Use a darker shade as a contour along the upper lash line from the center toward the outer corner, then back along crease. 

With an eyeliner pencil, draw a single line above upper lash line from inner to outer corner. Then, draw a line under your lower lashes from outer to inner corner.

Mascara adds the finishing touch to your eyes. Hold the brush vertically to stroke your lower lashes. Then, for your upper lashes, wiggle the brush back and forth at the base, and then sweep the brush upward.

Blush 

You may want to add a little cheek color just to make people think you have a natural glow. For applying this, you can use a cheek color brush and this will make blending easier.

Lipstick

Your lips can be brought out by lining them with a pencil, then filling them in with a creamy lipstick. This will give definition and shape to your lips. Glossy lipstick can be used for that stunning look.

Powder

Finally, after all your prom makeup has been applied, dust your face with loose powder using light, downward strokes. This can be applied by using a powder brush

Body Makeup  

You may want to experiment with the body makeup to highlight your prom dress. This is glitter powder or gel that can be applied to your arms and shoulders and you will look like you are under the stars

Just one tip: Do not use any of your friend's makeup (especially eye makeup). Bacteria may be in the makeup because it has been opened and used. This can cause eye infection or pink eye. If you are having your makeup done professionally, carry your own lipstick with you.

These makeup tips can also be used for other occasions in which formal dresses, homecoming gowns and Quinceanera gowns are worn. Makeup and prom dresses can blend to bring out your beauty on your special evening!


