Title: 
Men’s Leather Pants and Ladies Leather Skirts

Word Count:
567

Summary:
Men’s leather pants is the main part of any attire and is commonly known as trousers, all over the world. Men’s leather pants cover lower half of the body i.e. from hip to foot...


Keywords:
steel horse leathers, leather, jackets, pants, blazers, chaps


Article Body:
Men’s Leather Pants
Men’s leather pants is the main part of any attire and is commonly known as trousers, all over the world. Men’s leather pants cover lower half of the body i.e. from hip to foot. The pant word is modification of the French word Pantaloon. It is normally worn by peoples of Canada, South Africa, America and most of the parts of Asia. Wearing of men’s leather pants started from 16th century and so far it is the main part of all the attires.   

Men’s leather pants fastened on the hips with the help of elastic or by the buttons and in most of the cases belt is used for holding the pant on the hips. These are commonly made of cotton or terry cots material or mixer of both. They are the readymade garments or can be stitched from the cloth. In Scotland, it is also called as trews and in England they are called as trousers.

Characteristics of pants
Some of men’s leather pants are available with detachable legs and a zip is used to detach it from the waist portion. These leather pants are provided with number of front and back pockets. The other important accessories of the pants are pleats, waistband, fly, leg shape and belt loops.

The plates (wide strips) are provided for comfort and proper fitting. These plates are vertical folds provided near the waist .The waistband are provided for holding the leather pant on to the waist and can be of elastic or attached with buttons. The fly in case of men, is used for urinating and this provision is made with the help of zip or buttons. There are various shapes used for stitching men’s leather pants and serve purpose of comfort and fashion. Belt loops are used for fastening the waist in case of loose pants.

Ladies Leather Skirts
Ladies skirt is a conical shaped garment used for covering the lower portion of the body up to knee heights. These ladies leather skirts, like men’s leather pants, are not divided in two halves. Skirts are mostly of the same color that of the shirt so as to have appearance of single piece attire or garment. It is made from single piece material mostly of cotton, denim and poplin. The various accessories of ladies leather skirts include darts, panels, gores and plates (wide strips). There are two types of ladies leather skirts; one of them is up to knee height and other can be up to the ground level. In some part of the world, the leather skirt has bigger diameter and requires around three meters of cloth. The upper class ladies mostly wear these leather skirts as fashion and symbol of richness.

Ladies leather skirts are suitable for all occasions and are an important part of the ladies wear. Now day’s leather skirts are worn during wedding ceremonies as formal wear, which has its various advantages. The main advantages are loose fitting, easy to wear, provides comfort during movements and a unique beautiful look. 

In some of the countries, it is a must for the ladies to wear leather skirt rather than the pants or other type of garment. The only disadvantages of the ladies leather skirts are that they have to be cautious while climbing the ladders and they cannot sit by crossing their legs.


