Title: 
Men's Designer Ties: Look For Quality

Word Count:
352

Summary:
For an exquisite gift to that special man in your life, a designer tie can be just what you're looking for. They are a truly luxurious gift and will last for many years when properly cared for.


Keywords:
ties,men's ties,designer ties,shopping,fashion,shopping tips,men's fashion,neckties


Article Body:
For an exquisite gift to that special man in your life, a designer tie can be just what you're looking for. They are a truly luxurious gift and will last for many years when properly cared for.

How to choose one that is truly good quality? Price isn't always a good indicator. Here are a few tips to help you when shopping for men's ties:

BIAS CUT

You want a tie that has the fabric cut on the bias. This helps ensure that the tie falls straight rather than twisting or falling at an angle.

To test a bias cut, try this: take the necktie and make a tie knot. Drape it over your hand (make sure the knot lies on top). If the tie falls straight and not off center, the tie is likely cut on the bias.

TIE LINING

The lining could be cut too small for the design of the tie and can cause it to pucker or curl at the edges. Test the lining by draping an unknotted tie in half over your hand. Watch that the narrow end of the tie falls to the middle of the wider end. This is a good indicator that the tie is falling straight and the lining is sized appropriately.

STRETCH THE TIE

Grab the necktie at both ends and give it a good tug. If the tie retains its shape and is not misshapen once you relax the ends, it's a sign that the tie is well made and the fabric is of good quality.

LOOK FOR THREE PIECES

A good quality tie will have one piece for the back narrow end, one piece for the front wide and and one piece for the center neckband.

FABRIC

A fine quality tie is made from silk (not satin!) with the lining made from wool. Look for high wool content or 100% wool.

Keeping these tips in mind the next time you shop for a good quality men's tie will help save yourself from spending too much money on a shoddy necktie priced as if it were a well made designer label tie.


