Title: 
Men’s Bomber Jackets

Word Count:
714

Summary:
Leather has emerged as a force in men's outerwear this fall. Whether it's a bomber jacket or a three-quarter-length dress lambskin coat, leather's durability and versatility make it an important piece to add to your wardrobe.


Keywords:
leather jackets, leather trench coats, leather pants, leather, leather clothing, fashion,


Article Body:
Leather has emerged as a force in men's outerwear this fall. Whether it's a bomber jacket or a three-quarter-length dress lambskin coat, leather's durability and versatility make it an important piece to add to your wardrobe.

When trying on a bomber jacket, make sure to move your body. Walk around, move your arms front to back, even twist to look over your shoulders. Check for ease of mobility and a comfortable fit. The fabric of a jacket should not pull across the back area, around the hips or in the armholes. Also, be sure to check the sleeve length.

With proper care, your leather jacket will last many years, making it a wise investment. In fact, the longer you wear leather, the more "broken in" it becomes, similar to the way a baseball glove breaks in and becomes a part of you.

When purchasing a new leather bomber jacket, keep the following in mind.

Style: There are many styles to choose from, so think about how you will be wearing it. Most jackets today can be worn either dressed up with a shirt, tie and dress pants, or dressed down with a casual shirt and jeans or khakis. 

Weather: Many leather jackets now come with removable linings made of Thins late, pile or fleece - prefect for staying warm in colder climates. Take out the lining, and you can still wear the coat in spring and fall.

Sizing: A leather jacket should be on the loose side so it can be worn over a sweater or other piece of bulky clothing.

Durability: Price doesn't necessarily equal durability when it comes to leather outerwear. Lambskin is the softest type of leather and looks dressier, but it's less durable and more expensive than cowhide. Expect to pay $400 to $800 for a good quality lamb jacket. Cowhide is more rugged and generally costs less (anywhere from $300 to $500).

Types of Leather used to make bomber jackets

to fully understand the types of leather available; one must first know the term "grain". The grain is simply the epidermis, or outer layer of the animal's skin. While imperfections such as cuts, scars, and scratches will exist; the grain in its natural state has the best fiber strength, and therefore the best durability. The grain also has natural breath ability, resulting in greater comfort to the wearer.

Finished Split Leather

The middle or lower section of a hide that has been split into two or more thickness. A polymer coating is applied and embossed to mimic grain leather. Finished splits should only be used in low stress applications because they basically have no grain. If the 
Polymer coating is left out it is often used to make suede. Not considered to be riding grade, but can look good nevertheless.

Top Grain Leather

Top grain leather has been sanded to remove scars and imperfections, then sprayed or pasted for a uniform look. The smooth side is where the hair and the natural grain used to be. Top grain is not the same quality as full grain or naked leather, but thickness of 1.2-3mm makes this type of leather a very strong and durable riding grade material. 

Full-Grain and Naked Leather

Full-Grain leather is made from the finest hides, and has not been sanded to remove imperfections. Only the hair has been removed. In the case of Naked Leather, where nothing other than the dye is added; this very soft leather requires no breaking in period. Hides are typically 2mm thick, and must be hand picked for uniformity. The natural full-grain naked leather will wear better than other leather, and will actually improve over the years. This type of leather is the ultimate riding grade; the most sought after, and consequently, the most expensive.

For winter biking, a bomber jacket with a belt will allow you to adjust the jacket to fit snugly against the upper body. Of course, being able to fully zip up only adds to your protection from the wind. You can also wear a leather vest underneath your bomber
Jacket for extra warmth. For hot summer days, a leather jacket with air vents allows the air to circulate underneath the jacket and around your body. For an all year round jacket, consider one with a zip or snap out insulated lining.


