Title: 
Men Fashion Accessories and Clothing Tips

Word Count:
380

Summary:
A few decades ago if you would have asked this question, the term fashionable more or less was associated to women. However with growing times the word fashionable can now be heard in men’s vocabulary too.


Keywords:
men fashion accessories,men fashion,fashion,men clothing,fashion mn accessories,designer belts,designer belts for men,men eye care,men eye care wear,eye care,perfumes for men


Article Body:
Are men fashionable?

A few decades ago if you would have asked this question, the term fashionable more or less was associated to women. However with growing times the word fashionable can now be heard in men’s vocabulary too. If you have a look at the Men clothing catalog you will notice that it is very large and encompasses innumerable items ranging from designer watches and leather wallets to sleek eyewear, trendy belts, comfortable socks, exciting ties and fragrance perfumes etc. 

Fashion Man Accessories

• Designer belts for men: Designer belts for men are available in distinct styles and colors and are one of the most fashionable and happening accessories.
• Men eye care wear: Nowadays men just cannot compromise on their eye care wear. Comfort, fit, durability and of course style all are priorities while choosing men's eyeglass frames, contact lens and designer man sunglasses.
• Perfumes for Men: Modern men wear perfumes are an indication of their style and passion. Perfumes for men speak about the wearer’s attitude and defines a fashion statement for him. 

Clothing tips for Men

Short Waist Men

Short waist men should avoid wearing jeans and pants as much as they can. Avoid wearing short lengthy tank tops as they tend to highlight your short waist. A combination of pink shirt and black trouser will not go with your body type as it would interfere with the vertical flow. It would always be advisable to keep an inch higher on waist while stitching your pants.

Long Waist Men

Long Waits men need to do things the other way round when compared to short waist men. You should wear jeans as much as you can. You can wear contrasting color T-shirts and a double breast jacket to prevent people’s eyes from falling on your legs. You could also opt for belts with a high buckle.

Men with flat butts

Are you worried about your flat butts? You need to take special attention about your pants. Wear pants that give you proper fitting. Straight long pants will go with your body type.

Fashion tips that can help
• Bigger and bolder patterns make you look bigger than what you actually are.
• Horizontal pattern clothe help you look wider 
• Vertical pattern clothes help you look taller and thinner.


