Title: 
Mens Underwear – the Best You can Buy

Word Count:
335

Summary:
There was a time when guys didn't have many underwear options. There were briefs and boxers and neither came in styles that were all that satisfying. But, times have changed. In recent times, men have nearly as many underwear choices as women do and each style comes with its own little conventions. Perhaps the greatest change to mens underwear over the years has been in its fabrics.


Keywords:
Men's underwear, Mens Underwear, Boy Underwear, Sexy Underwear,Boxer Briefs, Male Underwear, Calvin Klein Underwear


Article Body:
There was a time when guys didn't have many underwear options. There were briefs and boxers and neither came in styles that were all that satisfying. But, times have changed. In recent times, men have nearly as many underwear choices as women do and each style comes with its own little conventions. Perhaps the greatest change to mens underwear over the years has been in its fabrics. All of the styles such as briefs, boxer briefs and thongs can now be easily found in cotton, polyester or silk blends. The days of wool long undergarments are long gone.

The mens underwear industry is experiencing an unexpected boom. Many leading manufacturers are involved in strong competition to achieve a major market share. For the benefit of international customers, the <a href="http://www.1underwearstore.com"><b>1underwearstore.com</b></a> offers a wide array of products ranging from sexy mens underwear, Boxer Briefs to Thongs, Trunks and many more.

It's hard to believe, but thongs do exist for men and they're even smaller than bikini underwear. With a thong, the genitals sit in a small pouch, while a string serves as the waistband and another goes up between the butt cheeks. If you're going thong shopping, look for nylon and spandex blends and stick with solid, bright colors.

Calvin Klein undergarments have a prominent presence at 1underwearstore.com. This brand is fairly well-liked among modern men. They are made from finest and softest fabrics to give that comfort you desire for. Even though the products are of international quality, the company still assures you of 100% money back guarantee, in case they fail to live up to your expectations. It continuously tries to satisfy its customers fully, not even 1% less. The portal makes your online shopping experience fast and smooth as it contains all the detailed information like product price, size, color and description with genuine pictures of it. You can make use of credit cards to pay the amount, though it accepts payments only through PayPal.


