Title: 
Modern Tips To Look And Feel Confident In A Crunch

Word Count:
492

Summary:
Looking good and feeling confident does not have to be a difficult task, even for women who do it all.


Keywords:
Modern Tips To Look And Feel Confident In A Crunch


Article Body:
Looking good and feeling confident does not have to be a difficult task, even for women who do it all. Modern women spend their days juggling life's daily necessities, which can result in back-to-back meetings and lunches on the run. Jane Buckingham, trend expert, author and host of Style Network's "Modern Girl's Guide to Life," knows that being a successful modern woman requires having a few tricks up her sleeve--especially when it comes to getting dressed. 

"Balancing work, family and play leaves no time for today's modern woman to deal with clothing worries, such as choosing the right look for any occasion, avoiding embarrassing situations and taking care of cherished pieces," says Buckingham.

Buckingham suggests these stylishly smart and practical tips to help busy women avoid wardrobe blunders and feel confident every day in the modern world:

Invest in a Classic Wardrobe

&#8226; Rather than rushing to the mall an hour before a date to find the "perfect thing" to wear, cultivate a great collection of clothes in advance by having a few key classic pieces that mix and match well. 

&#8226; Invest in a few high-quality T-shirts that go under everything from blazers to sweaters; try a few daring color choices to make a neutral wardrobe pop. 

&#8226; Since more than one out of five women (22 percent) have ruined a favorite top because of unsightly white marks, Buckingham recommends protecting a great wardrobe by using Dove Ultimate Clear Anti-Perspirant/ Deodorant, which stays on skin and not on clothes. For proof, turn shirts inside out to discover the beauty of alleviating white marks. 

Say "I Do" to Smart 

Wedding Style

&#8226; Wedding attire can be a complicated matter, and not just for the wedding party. If a particular dress code has not been requested on the invitation, a basic guideline for daytime weddings is to wear a light-colored dress. 

&#8226; When dressing for an evening wedding, err on the side of sophistication. Choose a cocktail dress that is elegant and skims the knees in an A-line cut. 

&#8226; Even though a flirty, strapless frock is the perfect garb for a wedding, one out of five women (20 percent) opt not to wear sleeveless tops altogether to avoid white marks. Apply a deodorant with translucent moisturizers, which form a barrier between skin and clothes to put the mind at ease. 

Distinguish Yourself 

In Business

&#8226; Dressing for success at a new job can be a daunting task. The trick is to look stylish and confident without being distracting. Instead of a full suit, pair suit trousers with a striped button-down shirt or classic wool wrap. 

&#8226; Steer clear of ruffles and sweet-looking prints in order to avoid giving the impression of being a shrinking violet rather than a bold risk taker. 

&#8226; Since more than half of women (51 percent) were at work by the time they realized that they had deodorant marks on their clothing, Buckingham also suggests using Dove Ultimate Clear to ensure confidence when conversing with a boss or colleague.


