Title: 
Most Popular Sweaters

Word Count:
406

Summary:
Crew neck and v-neck sweaters can comfortably be worn over a t-shirt with jeans for a more casual appearance. These sweaters can also look great with a nice pair of slacks and over a button down shirt, for a professional appearance in the work place or even on a date. These are simply a must for every wardrobe.

Cardigans that are made of cotton, wool or cashmere can be thin enough to wear beneath a jacket. They have a double zipper that allows you to be able to pull it on ...


Keywords:
sweaters, jumperrs, cashmere sweaters, cotton sweaters


Article Body:
Crew neck and v-neck sweaters can comfortably be worn over a t-shirt with jeans for a more casual appearance. These sweaters can also look great with a nice pair of slacks and over a button down shirt, for a professional appearance in the work place or even on a date. These are simply a must for every wardrobe.

Cardigans that are made of cotton, wool or cashmere can be thin enough to wear beneath a jacket. They have a double zipper that allows you to be able to pull it on or off with ease. These are ideal for layering, either over a t-shirt, a button down or beneath a jacket, with jeans, corduroys or dress pants. If you don’t own one already, go out shopping and try one on and see how you like it.

Polo sweaters can easily be found in the summer months. They are made of a light cotton material and have short sleeves. They make a stylish alternative to t-shirts and can keep you cool in the warmer months. They are look great when worn with khakis and would look great at work on casual Fridays.

Turtleneck sweaters is basically reserved for the colder winter months. Turtlenecks fit best when they are more fitted to the body and neck and should not be worn too baggy. A chunky cable knit turtleneck would look great with a nice pair of jeans. Whereas a light weight cashmere or merino wool turtleneck would look exceptionally stylish under dress jackets.

Cashmere sweaters are probably the most luxurious items you can have in your closet. Although wools and cottons share a warm place in the heart of your closet, the ultra soft material of the cashmere sweater can be worn comfortable all year round. If you don’t own one already, then try to make your first cashmere sweater a neutral tone such as black, charcoal or navy, a color that can be worn with just about anything.

Now that you’ve gone shopping and bought a closet full of these irresistible sweaters, here are a few tips on how to take care of them. Any cotton, wool or cashmere should be dry cleaned at least once per season. Although Cashmere and wool can be hand washed with a gentle laundry detergent like Woolite. As a matter of fact, your sweaters will come out feeling more softer by hand washing them then by dry cleaning.


