Title: 
Motorbike Leather Jackets and Bomber Leather Jackets

Word Count:
566

Summary:
Motorbike Leather Jacket and Bomber Leather Jackets are types of leather jackets available in the market.  The name motorbike leather jacket is itself suggestive that this type of leather jacket is mainly used by motorcyclists.  Bomber leather jackets were named after the American air force pilots worn leather jackets while flying aircrafts during Ist World War...


Keywords:
classy leathers, leather, jackets, pants, blazers


Article Body:
Motorbike Leather Jacket and Bomber Leather Jackets are types of leather jackets available in the market.  The name motorbike leather jacket is itself suggestive that this type of leather jacket is mainly used by motorcyclists.  Bomber leather jackets were named after the American air force pilots worn leather jackets while flying aircrafts during Ist World War.  These Bomber leather jackets are also known as flight jackets.

Leather jackets in form, whether motorcycle leather jacket or flight/bomber jacket are produced with an aim to provide protection against seasonal condition and security.  Though motorcycle leather jackets are used as fashion up-to certain extent the flight jackets are utilized purely for the purpose these are manufactured.

Like other motorcycle ride gear motorcycle leather jackets has its importance in providing you security.  When I say this it may appear ridiculous for you.  But surely I am totally wrong.  Wearing a leather motorcycle jacket will surely help you if you happen to met with a minor accident like missing or misjudging a turn.  Your leather motorcycle jacket will surely protect you from getting bruised.  You may have number of other questions while choosing a motorcycle jacket.  Then why only leather jackets?  I have number of reasons for your question.  Leather is known for its qualities like heat, cold, puncture and tear resistant.  That’s why your leather motorcycle jacket provides you protection in all seasons.  Leather jackets though some what expensive are more durable as compare to other available materials used for manufacturing jackets.  Leather can be stretched molded in a shape which suits you best.  The other qualities of leather like wicking away moisture and breathing ability makes you more comfortable when you wear your leather motorcycle jacket.

Leather motorcycle jackets are available for both sport bikes as well as common motorcycle riders.  These leather motorcycle jackets are available in various colors, designs and styles. 

Though the Bomber leather jackets, also known as flight jackets have become popular this popularity does not justify the aim these jackets were manufactured for.  Many people use these bomber jackets during their air travel as a fashion or as a status symbol.  Do you know why these bomber jackets were initially manufactured? These bomber leather jackets were specially manufactured for providing protection to pilots during Is World War.  During those days most of the aircrafts were without closed cockpit and aircrafts were not insulated.  These bomber jackets were introduced by American Army.  These bomber jackets consisted of zipper closures, wrapped high collars, fur lining and snug cuffs.  The first leather flying jacket was manufactured from ship skin.  The need to manufacture modified leather bomber jackets was felt for protecting pilots flying advanced aircrafts from high altitudes and low temperature regions. These modified bomber leather jackets gained popularity among general public due to its style, adventure and as a symbol of honor.     

The current version of Bomber jacket is manufactured with following specifications.  These bomber leather jackets have two inner pockets, zipped pen holders on left sleeve and slanted pockets on front and are mainly worn by defense personnel.

After long years the bomber jacket has retained its style and popularity.  Bomber leather jacket gives you ruggedly handsome look.  You may even use these bomber jackets as everyday wear.  As these leather bomber jackets are manufactured from full-grain hide these jackets are durable and will provide you protection against weather conditions year after year.


