Title: 
Move Over Guys: Women Want Sports Jerseys Too

Word Count:
465

Summary:
Luckily for female fans, NFL, MLB, NHL, and NBA teams have begun to recognize that women are longing for jerseys that reflect women's enthusiasm for sports, but that also have a feminine twist.


Keywords:
nfl,mlb,nhl,nba,pink jersey,vibrant jersey, alyssa milano, fashion jersey, glitter jersey


Article Body:
For generations, there's been a perception that men have an exclusive franchise on sports fandom. We see advertising images of guys sitting at home in front of their television sets, rooting on their favorite teams, or sitting in sports bars with their eyes trained on TV sets over the bar. Sports commentators are almost exclusively men, and the first woman reporter who did an interview in a locker room caused a huge controversy. 

Well, times have changed. Women are sports fans, too, and female sports fans are just as enthusiastic about their favorite NFL, MLB, NHL, and NBA teams as guys. Like men, women want to express their enthusiasm by wearing sports jerseys adorned with the numbers and names of their favorite players. Historically, though, women who wanted jerseys have been forced to settle for oversize men's sizes and cuts. The result? A far cry from a fashion statement.

Luckily for female fans, NFL, MLB, NHL, and NBA teams have begun to sit up and take notice, recognizing that women constitute a good portion of their fan bases. They've also discovered that women are longing for jerseys that reflect women's enthusiasm for sports, but that also have a feminine twist. Increasingly, female sports fans are finding that there are a number of jerseys created specifically with women in mind. Today, a woman can find a pink jersey, a vibrant jersey, a fashion jersey, or a glitter jersey from virtually any team in the NFL, MLB, NHL, and NBA. 

Breaking out from the pack in women's sports apparel is actress Alyssa Milano, known for her role in the WB's "Charmed" and for her love of baseball. Not only does Alyssa Milano have season tickets to the Los Angeles Dodgers, but she also has her own MLB blog. Moreover, she's gone to the next level and has designed a line of women's MLB apparel. Called "touch," her line features fan wear that exudes femininity. 

For example, the "touch" women's criss-cross white tank top features a shelf bra with a screened logo in the center of the chest area. The scoop back features criss-cross spaghetti straps that give the top its feminine appeal. Her baseball jerseys are tradition with a twist: the white body and colored 3/4-length sleeves may be old school, but the rouching detail at the hem on the side seam is purely modern. Alyssa Milano's spaghetti top features tie strings at the shoulders, while her short-sleeved hoodie features a zipper, contrast stitching, and the team logo near the bottom left hemline. Other jerseys accent short sleeves with glitter stripes.

There's no doubt that women's fashion sense is making a splash in the sports world. Replica storm jerseys, fashion jerseys, pink ribbon jerseys, and glitter jerseys are giving female fans one more thing to cheer about!


