Title: 
Must Have Clothing for Spring and Summer

Word Count:
386

Summary:
Spring is in the air, and summer is just around the corner. It is time to update your wardrobe, and get some clothing that say spring. We have put together five must have spring and spring into summer clothing:


Keywords:
womens clothing, clothes


Article Body:
Spring is in the air, and summer is just around the corner. It is time to update your wardrobe, and get some clothing that say spring. We have put together five must have spring and spring into summer clothing:

- Fun t-shirts. Nothing says spring and summer like fun, bright t-shirts. Pink and red t-shirts, with interesting sayings, flowers and embroidery say spring like nothing else. Get those fun t-shirts and start wearing them to get the spring to come sooner.

- A Spring Jacket. Everyone should have a cool spring jacket to wear. A jeans jacket is good and timeless. You can also get a fun corduroy jacket, or even a blazer. 

Get something that is fun to wear and versatile at the same time. You may want to get a jacket that you can wear with jeans and with a fun summer dress.

- Fun Skirts. Springtime is not springtime, until you see everyone wearing colorful spring skirts. There are so many styles and so many colors that the fun spring skirts come in. We love fun skirts in many different colors, so pick the colors that work best for you and get yourself one or three skirts. 

- Dresses. Just like with skirts, lots of women love wearing dresses in the spring and summer. Do you have a few dresses already? They are fun to wear, and are great for those warmer seasons.

- Lighter Pants, Capri and Shorts. We love jeans, we really really do. However, sometimes it is just too hot to wear jeans. And if it is, you have a few different options.

If you must wear pants, there are lighter pants, made from lighter materials than denim. You will not be as hot wearing them.

Capri, or shorter pants, became extremely popular a few years ago. They come in many different colors and lengths, and they are made from different materials. Pick up a few pairs of capris, they will become staples in your spring and summer wardrobe.

And, if you like shorts, they are also great to wear in the summer.

- Tank Tops. Looking into the summer, a few tank tops should always be in your closet. They are very versatile - you can wear them with other tops, under shirts, under jackets, with dresses, etc. 

What fun clothes will you wear this summer?


