Title: 
Neck Tie Tying

Word Count:
365

Summary:
A man without a tie seems to be half dressed up and neck tie tying is a very simple task if one tries these easy steps.


Keywords:
instructions neck tie tying, tying neck tie, neck tie tying, steps to tying neck tie


Article Body:
Shirts, pants, shoes and other apparels are incomplete unless you have a nice miss-match of neck tie to give you a perfect look in your dressing. Tying a neck tie is very essential in occasions like a formal meeting in the office, party or functions and workplace etc. 

Neck tie tying is a hard task for someone who is ignorant of the tips and tricks to manage one. Here we shall discuss some important factors or tips on how to tie a neck tie? For this the first step is that you should decide the most suitable color that matches your shirt and trousers. Normally solid tie could be worn with patterned shirts and designer tie with solid color shirts. You should never make your tie choice that might go funky with your dressing style. 

Secondly, if you are a beginner don’t just leave the task of tying a neck tie to someone else who knows it instead try it hard as many times unless you are confident enough of tying one. Steps to tie a neck tie are as follows: 

1. You should button up your shirt and collar too. Flip your collar up and wrap the tie around your neck beneath the collar. The wide part should hang twice the thin part along the dominant hand of yours, right or left as the case may be.

2. Then take the wide end and wrap it over the thin part, below your neck in such way that the long part goes around the short end once.

3. Then slip the wide end through the knot that has formed.

4. You need to tuck the long wide end through the knot.

5. Then pull the thin end from the wide end in order to tighten the knot.

6. Then hold the thin end with one hand that is in-dominant and slide the knot upwards with your dominant hand but don’t tie the knot so tightly that you feel uneasy to breathe.

There is much type of knot styles like the four-in hand-knot, half-windsor knot, windsor knot etc that goes well with your dressing style.

For more information visit our website <a href="http://www.tying-neck-tie.info">tying-neck-tie.info </a>


