Title: 
New Fashion Trends Take A Walk On The Wild Side

Word Count:
356

Summary:
A quick look inside today's fashion magazines reveals top designers showing off their animal instincts more and more. From runway to real life, wildlife prints are a fashion "must" and include everything from butterflies to zebra stripes.


Keywords:
New Fashion Trends Take A Walk On The Wild Side


Article Body:
A quick look inside today's fashion magazines reveals top designers showing off their animal instincts more and more. From runway to real life, wildlife prints are a fashion "must" and include everything from butterflies to zebra stripes. 

In fact, most fashion experts say this season's hot styles are a mixture of bohemian and wild safari. Tiger and zebra prints, jungle patterns, and tunics with detailed embellishments are a must-have fashion look that anyone can wear. Here are some tips that will help you pull it off:

&#8226; Stylists say that wearing safari animal prints, especially leopard, is a great way to add a bold, fashionable edge to your wardrobe. 

&#8226; If it's a transformation you're looking for, the butterfly motif is also taking flight in the fashion industry and can be seen on everything from shoes to hair clips, bags, tops and even gowns. Celebrities are catching on to the craze, as can be seen in the pages of beauty and fashion magazines. 

&#8226;Butterflies have begun to flutter from fashion into other industries as well. Because butterflies symbolize freedom and the confidence that follows, some brands have selected it as an icon. Most recently, Stayfree® has incorporated a pretty butterfly logo to its fun, aqua-colored Dry Max packaging. So if you're looking for a way to energize your wardrobe, stylists say to incorporate a butterfly element-whether it's a handbag, top, scarf or pin. 

&#8226; The animal trend reaches beyond leopards and butterflies. Fashionistas can expect to see a lot more clothes and accessories featuring animal elements in the coming months. 

Other hot trends to keep an eye out for include snakeskin accessories and sleek, African-inspired separates, as well as real and fake fur adorning jackets, sweaters and more. Luxe fabrics like croc and shearling and even fox fur collars were all the rage at recent fashion shows and are expected to hit the racks in the coming months.

When it comes to fashion, it's a jungle out there. Remember, with these bold safari-style prints and accessories, be careful not to overdo it. Sometimes, less is more.

Season's hot styles-Jungle patterns are a must-have fashion look that anyone can wear.


