Title: 
Paint a Picture with Sexy Lingerie

Word Count:
607

Summary:
Here’s a secret for all the women out there (if they haven’t figured it out already): men are visual creatures. There is something about lingerie that drives a man wild. And honestly, who can blame him? Who doesn’t look fabulous is oh-so-sexy lingerie?


Keywords:
lingerie,women,style,fashion,sexy,relationships,gifts


Article Body:
Here’s a secret for all the women out there (if they haven’t figured it out already): men are visual creatures. Just like there are verbal learners and visual learners, all the men out there sometimes need for you to paint them a picture in order to better understand a task. Here’s proof to this revelation: how often have you told your husband that the car is making a “thumping” noise. Does he ever believe you? Probably not, until he sees for himself that the cause of whatever is making the car thump. See, visual learner. The same goes in the bedroom. Sometimes, our men don’t quite understand what we want, so we have to paint them a picture, and we can do so with deliciously sexy lingerie.

How many men can resist a woman in any type of sexy lingerie? There is something about lace, ribbons, feathers, leather, or not-so-subtle sheer material that drives a man wild. And honestly, who can blame him? Who doesn’t look fabulous is oh-so-sexy lingerie? The answer is no one. Regardless how you feel about your body, sexy lingerie is the best way to begin loving yourself again (and maybe even get some loving in the process). After all, if women do not feel feminine in sexy lingerie, why do we purchase these fantastic frocks instead of the ubiquitous underwear? The truth very well may be that women love sexy lingerie just as much as men.

Outside factors can play a huge part in your sex life, including your job and responsibilities. Just because the spark may be hidden beneath a bundle of problems, stresses, and worries does not mean that it has gone out! People are too easy consumed with their problems to take the hints dropped by another individual about meeting their needs. Instead of dropping hints or becoming aggravated when your partner seems to blatantly ignore your specific needs, send him a visual message. Dress up in a drop dead gorgeous baby doll and meet him at the door. It’s guaranteed to send him over the edge.

One popular gift for birthdays, anniversaries, and holidays (especially the man-dreaded St. Valentine’s Day) is sexy lingerie. If you are tired of receiving ill-fitting, itchy, uncomfortable, and all around dreadful-looking lingerie, tell your spouse that this year, the gift is on you. This way, you can ensure that you get exactly what you want and your partner will be a happy boy once he sees you in your latest getup. Another option is to leave him a blatant visual hint: send him the webpage of the specific piece of sexy lingerie you want along with a not-so-subtle message of “buy us this.”

If you are surprising your man with a stunningly sexy lingerie spread, be sure to have all your elements into play. No one wants to enjoy the benefits of wearing provocative lingerie and then have to finish the dishes. Create and entire evening, day, or weekend where you can spend together without having to worry about the outside world. Throw in some jaw-dropping lingerie and seal the deal. Who could possibly complain? Remember, there is nothing in the world so important that it hides your spark, after all, that spark is one of the reasons that brought the two of you together in the first place.

So, what have we learned today? First, men are visual creatures and need to see in order to believe. Second, sexy lingerie is hands down the best way to convey to your man exactly what you want and need. After that, what more could you ask for?


