Title: 
Planning Colors for Your Wedding:  Wedding Dresses, Flowers, and More!

Word Count:
514

Summary:
Use this guide to plan your wedding colors. Great tips for wedding dresses, flowers, bridesmaid dresses, and more....


Keywords:
wedding dresses, bridesmaid dresses, flower girl dresses, mother of the bride dresses, prom dresses


Article Body:
Dreaming about your wedding is one thing; planning it is another. From wedding dresses to cakes and tuxedos to flowers - every aspect of your wedding must be carefully planned to "fall in place" on the big day! If you've been to one wedding or several, you probably realize the importance of wedding colors. Everything about the wedding is planned according the colors the bride chooses. So, here's a quick guide to help you plan your wedding colors.

Choose the Right Colors for Your Wedding Dresses

Many brides use their favorite colors for their wedding dresses - pink, red, fuchsia, burgundy, plum, mauve, purple, or blue. But before you choose colors, see if you can't find some photos of various weddings from the past. Look at a variety of color patterns and combinations before making your choice. You might find colors that you like much better than your usual favorites.

Consider how the colors of your wedding dresses will look with other colorful items once it is all put together for the big wedding day. The bridesmaid dresses will be matched with flowers, tuxedos, mother of the bride dresses, flower girl dresses, accessories, and even the reception decor.

Wedding Dresses with a Touch of Color

A growing trend is to add a touch of color to the bride's wedding gown. This is perfect for the bride who wants more than the traditional wedding gown. Some brides have color sprinkled throughout their wedding gown with embroidery. The gorgeous embroidery patterns come to life on the wedding dress when color highlights are added. These are usually available in a variety of colors painted on an ivory white wedding gown. 

Test Wedding Color Combinations

Don't be afraid to match unusual colors before making your choice. Some color combinations might surprise you. For example, not many would choose bright peach, bright yellow and white, but these are actually beautiful when coordinated together in wedding flower arrangements with yellow dresses! Try out a variety of combinations to find the right wedding colors for you.

Choose Colors that Complement You

It's your special day. Choose colors that complement your hair and skin tone. You'll want colors that make you look wonderful on your wedding day. If you normally look great in red, then you'll probably look fantastic amidst red decor and red bridesmaid dresses. Maybe you can even add some red embroidery colors to your wedding gown. Whatever color suits you should work fine for the wedding.

Other Considerations

Other things to consider before choosing your wedding colors include the colors of the church or building where the wedding will be held as well as the reception hall, the types of flowers available for that time of year (if using real ones), and the availability of wedding dresses in those colors.

Once you choose colors for your wedding dresses and flowers, you're ready to start planning the wedding. To save time, you can find a wide variety of wedding dresses, bridesmaid dresses, and even prom dresses online. Be sure to choose the colors you love. After all, it is your special day!


