Title: 
Plus Size Clothes Shopping Tools

Word Count:
391

Summary:
Two great tools are available to all women shopping for plus size clothing. Shopping online is fast, fun and easy!


Keywords:
plus size clothing,plus size clothes,plus size,online shopping,shopping,fashion,plus size fashions


Article Body:
Today shopping for trendy plus size clothing that fits well and looks great is easier than ever before. Clothing designers and merchants have finally discovered the huge market full figured women have to offer. We want stylish and comfortable clothing - and we are willing to pay for it.

Fabric choices, slimming cuts & shimmering glamor are available to us in abundance, but how to choose the best fit and most flattering size when shopping online? Trying clothes on before we buy is not an option.

But the good news is that as online shoppers, we have two very handy tools at our disposal:

Sizing Charts & Refund Policies

You will find plenty of websites online specializing in ladies plus size fashions. Before adding anything to your shopping cart (also called shopping bag or basket), check out the sizing chart on site. You will usually find this linked to in the same spot where you choose the size, quantity and color of the item to add to your shopping cart. If it is not there, look in the main menu navigation bar.

You will find that most stores offer sizing that is true to offline department store sizing. So if you are normally a size 2X, you should find that size fits the same when shopping online.

You will also want to know what the store Refund Policy is. The industry standard is between 30 and 60 days from time of shipment. You will see the date listed on the packing slip when your package arrives. With a generous Refund Policy, you are free to order 2 or 3 different sizes of the item you want! Try them on, keep the item that you are most happy with and return the other items for a refund.

What you will want to watch for is any shipping and handling charges. Most times the stores offer a full refund, but it is good to note any charges that may apply if you do opt for a refund. Sometimes it is still worth it if you find that perfect dress you just cannot get locally.

Because most of us do not have a lot of options when shopping for plus sized clothing at our local department stores, shopping online provides us with a happy alternative. Now we too can enjoy a wide variety and plenty of options for fun, trendy fashions!


