Title: 
Plus Size Lingerie Is Red Hot This Season!

Word Count:
407

Summary:
Valentine's Day may be over but plus size lingerie is still red hot! The color red and related shades of fushia, coral, cranberry and hot pink are popular in all types of lingerie, from sexy plus babydolls and bustiers to plus gowns, panties, and chemises.

Here are just a few of the red hot plus size lingerie designs that women will be requesting and wearing this upcoming season.


Keywords:
plus size lingerie, plus size women, plus size, lingerie, sexy, bustier, chemise, panties, gowns, baby dolls


Article Body:
Valentine's Day may be over but plus size lingerie is still red hot!  Red is going to be THE color this season, in all types of plus lingerie, from sexy plus baby dolls and bustiers to plus gowns, panties, and chemises.

Here are just a few of the red hot plus size lingerie designs that women will be requesting and wearing this upcoming season:

Burnout Baby Dolls 

Burnout is simply a term for alternating patterns of sheer and opaque fabric.  Burnout is featured predominantly in plus baby dolls this season.  One particularly red hot style is a burnout baby doll featuring a tie-die pattern and paired with matching short, burnout tie-front robe. 

Stretch Satin Jacquard Bustiers

Satin jacquard is a fabric that never seems to go out of style. You will find this lovely, intricately-woven, patterned material featured predominantly in plus corsets and bustiers.  One fiery red hot stretch satin jacquard design that's certain to be a big seller is a beautiful red bustier with a form-fitting style and hidden under-wire cups. 

Microfiber Chemises

Microfiber is a fine synthetic material that is breathable, washable and water-repellent. This soft, drape-able material is particularly popular this season in plus chemises.  One smoking hot microfiber design is a comfortable, lace trimmed chemise that's drapes over luscious curves in just the right spots! 

Long Charmeuse Gowns

Charmeuse, which is a satin-finished silk fabric, lends its wonderful draping quality beautifully to long gowns and robes. One flaming hot charmeuse design that is going to be in demand is an elegant, long, stretch  halter gown with lace under-wire cups, a super sexy side slit and a low back with six adjustable crisscross straps. 

Open-Front Crotchless Panties

Crotchless panties are a staple in every sexy plus womans wardrobe.  Crotchless panties can be feminine yet flirty when accented with lace, ribbons and bows. This season, one design that is smoldering hot is a red, open-front, design that is accented with soft lace along the top and a tiny red bow in the center.

From burnout baby dolls to open-front crotchless panties, plus lingerie styles are sizzling! These are just a few of the red hot plus size lingerie designs that will be adorning voluptuous curves everywhere this season.  Plus size women all lead busy, hectic lives.  Indulging in a few of the hottest plus lingerie styles is a great way to relax and be appreciated and adored for the irresistible, gorgeous woman that you are!


