Title: 
Plus Size Cocktail Dress – Making A Legendary Entrance

Word Count:
342

Summary:
So what exactly is a cocktail dress? My mom tells me that a cocktail dress I one that ends around your knees as opposed to being full length.


Keywords:
Plus Size Cocktail Dress


Article Body:
So what exactly is a cocktail dress? My mom tells me that a cocktail dress I one that ends around your knees as opposed to being full length.  But does it count if it hits mid calf?  I have always been confused on this.  My mom calls anything around your calf tea length but I think she made this up a long time ago.  Or her mom made it up and she just stuck with it.  

I looked up cocktail dresses on the internet and they seem to be in all shapes and sizes, they just aren’t full length gowns.  There is a wide array of things available out there.  Cocktail dresses for garden parties, some more appropriate for weddings.  I think the word cocktail dress encompasses a lot.  I even found websites devoted solely to plus size cocktail dresses, or so they claimed.  

I was intrigued when I saw these sites claiming to be devoted solely to plus sizes so I investigated.  The do have some very nice things; however you can understand my confusion when I see that half of the models are stick thin.  This sight says it caters to plus sizes, leading you to believe that the dresses are for larger women.  But then you look at the dress and the girl wearing it can’t weigh more than 110 pounds.  I admit I am not exactly sure what constitutes a plus size but I am pretty sure it is not a size two.

For some reason I finds this kind of angers me.  The culture in the US is one that makes 12 year old girls anorexic and puts 8 year olds on diets.  I feel this situation is just another example of what is wrong with our society.  A girl goes on a site claiming to cater to people wearing here size, and of course wants to see what the dress will look like on someone like her, only to be confronted with a thin lizzy string back at her.  Well I wonder how that makes her feel?


