Title: 
Plus Size Fashion Skyrockets

Word Count:
557

Summary:
Plus Size Fashion Skyrockets


Keywords:
clothing plus size fashion


Article Body:
America's plus size community is expanding. Studies show that the average dress size in the United States is already size 14. Furthermore, according to a research company, the sales of the plus-size women's clothes increased by 7 percent. These are evidences that the population of the plus sized people are indeed growing.

To remove the idea that skinny is the only way to be beautiful, there are have been many fashionable clothes that are made for the plus size person. Plus size clothes no longer hang in the end of the rack but are a whole new category of clothes. Indeed, a perfect 10 is not needed to sport the latest trends in fashion.

Clothes for plus size people are differently designed. These target the possible problem areas that a typical plus size people may encounter. Here are some reminders to keep up with the plus size fashion

• Keep accessories near the neck and sleeves. Scarves and stoles have worked wonders in the whole outfit. These divert attention from flabby arms and/or broad shoulders. For an illusion of slimness, wrap it around or across your shoulders.

• Do not highlight the problem areas (arm, hips and waist) with bold prints, bright colors and accessories. Horizontal stripes are not recommended if they are thick because they will only make you look wider. Thin horizontal stripes are fine because from a far they seem to look like a solid color. NOTE: color and pattern are not as essential as shape and fit.

• Embroidery is suggested to be near the skirt hemline. Cover the hips, if it is a problem area, with long tops

• Tops should slightly clingy to the waist to provide a slimming look. However, it shouldn't be too clingy or too loose either. Never wear anything that would make you look like that you are wearing a tent. Wide necklines are suggested.

* Choose fabrics that fit great and give structure. Fabrics that cling at the problem areas are of course not recommended. Heavier fabrics and heavier weight cotton are the ones suggested for plus size women. These fabric controls the body shape rather than body shape the clothes.

* Choosing the right hairstyle is also essential to prevent highlighting puffy cheeks and adding on a slimming illusion to your face

Following these reminders may aid the average plus size person in choosing the right clothes and accessories for them. Here are some basic items that would look fabulous on those plus size women.

1. Wide-leg trousers. Be sure that it fitting on the your body's widest part and would just flow straight down.

2. V-neck tops. This kind of tops makes your neck look longer. Thus, making you look taller.

3. A-line skirts. This kind of skirt gives you the hourglass figure. It also goes great with a lot of other clothes.

Today, plus size does not mean fat. It has already established its reputation in the fashion scene that it can be both sexy and sophisticated. In fact, more stores have added plus sizes in their racks to cater to more customers. Indeed, the plus size fashion skyrocketed in the market.

Fashion has a great impact in ones society. Sometimes, we cannot escape that society would somehow dictate what looks good or not. However, with the right clothes and right attitude, your feeling gorgeous and sexy wouldn't be so hard in any size.


