Title: 
Polo shirt as marketing tool

Word Count:
630

Summary:
One other way a company can maximize its publicity in order to further accentuate their company’s present in the community is to invest in customizing a tailor made polo shirt exclusively with the company’s logo or name. It will definitely create a lasting impression on clients and society alike, therefore making the company more recognizable and well known in the market.


Keywords:
polo shirts,polo shirt,embroidered polo shirts,custom polo shirts,embroidered polo shirt,golf polo shirts,polo golf shirts


Article Body:
It can also acts as a great gift or corporate souvenir for their guests. Moreover, with the availability of company’s polo shirt it would enable their employees to wear these shirts freely or at a certain day of the week during working hours. As it would be more casual than the ordinary working attire, it can create a more lenient environment at the workplace, thus making work more fun and relaxing.
A very clever way to get a company to be noticed by public is by embroidering the company logo on polo shirts. With wide varieties of designs, colors and styles to choose from at a very reasonable price, it has been a quite a popular choice for a lot of the companies. One rather new style of embroidered polo shirt is the inside pocket method. It’s a favorite among companies because of the inside pockets gives an extra security and invisibility to the shirt. This feature is great to conceal money and other valuables items. Not only that, the nature of the design makes the shirt neater and unique. One other way to personalized the polo shirt is to custom-made the buttons, on each shirts with the company’s logo. The cuffs and collars can also be stripped in company corporate color to show the significance. Some of the designs are embroidered with simple text only while other prefers to include image and elaborated fonts. Nowadays, there are also manufacturers who not only produce the shirts but also assist in designing it.
Corporate apparel polo shirts come in different types and styles for different causes and uses. The casual look and the comfort that they often have make them ideal work uniforms for golf club employees or waiters and waitresses at fast food outlets. The design and the overall color then depend on the type of establishment they are being created for. For companies 100% cotton polo shirts woven by pique knit are better because they allow for free flow of air and they keep the employee cool and they are very durable and will last for a long time. This limits the amount of money spent on new uniforms. Sizes cater for all body frames and they are available is a very wide range of colors that include plain white, pink, blue and green.
Embroidering is a method that can actually be applied to polo shirts in order to customize and make them unique. The employees can have a <a href="http://www.mylogoimprinted.com/Merchant2/merchant.mvc?Screen=CTGY&Category_Code=Polo_Shirts">custom polo shirt</a>with their name or initials threaded on it. This makes it less difficult for others to “accidentally” take shirts that aren’t theirs. Not only that by having the names personalized on the shirts, employees would be more encouraged to take good care of their own shirts. To accommodate the need to place mobile phones and other small items, additional pockets are placed at strategic locations on the polo shirts. Buttons and different color lining can be used to enhance the company’s identity on polo shirts.
To make the best out of polo shirts in terms of marketing aspects, company should be looking into sponsoring a sport team. It is a major advertising tool that is less expensive than media promotion as the sports team sponsored will be wearing the company name on their polo shirt such as lady golf apparels. Not only it can attract crowds and fan of the sport team, if the sport team is popular, chances are the fans will be wearing the polo shirts at matches too. When this happens, the company brand and name, literally will market by itself. Because of this, sponsoring a sport team is really beneficial for a company.


