Title: 
Port Authority Shirts and the Workplace: Answers to 5 Common Questions

Word Count:
477

Summary:
Here are answers to five common questions about Port Authority shirts and custom corporate apparel.


Keywords:
port authority shirts, custom embroidery, custom corporate apparel, plus size clothing


Article Body:
Business owners and managers sometimes miss golden opportunities to reinforce their brand and the image of professionalism for employees in the public eye. One such opportunity is the use of workplace clothing and custom corporate apparel, such as Port Authority shirts. Here are answers to five common questions about Port Authority shirts and custom corporate apparel. 

1. When I think of workplace uniforms, I think of heavy-duty fabrics. How is corporate apparel different?

While rugged fabrications are appropriate for workers in certain types of jobs, corporate apparel is designed with fashion and comfort in mind. For example, there are a variety of Port Authority shirts, some of which are appropriate for casual office wear and others that offer a more professional look. Men's Silk Touch Sports Shirts, for example, are short-sleeved and made from a lightweight poly/cotton pique, whereas Easy Care Shirts are long-sleeved and feature box back pleats, button-down collars, adjustable cuffs, and a single patch pocket. For women, Ladies Open Neck Blouses have a collar, front and back darts, and long sleeves. They are also available with three-quarter sleeves with fashion cuffs. The poly/cotton fabrication of these shirts makes them wrinkle- and shrink-resistant, while providing a look that's always fresh. 

2. Aren't uniforms more readily associated with industrial and delivery companies, or those who are in blue collar jobs?

While uniforms and blue collar work go hand-in-hand, many white collar employees appreciate the ease and comfort of wearing custom corporate apparel. In fact, many who work out in the field give positive reports about the aura of authority and expertise that such apparel conveys. In addition, many medical and dentistry professionals say that having employees wear custom apparel lends a casual professionalism to the office atmosphere while allowing them to bypass personnel issues that arise as the result of enforcing dress codes.

3. My employees range in size from petite to very large. Some wear plus size clothing. Wouldn't it be impossible to find one shirt that works for everyone?

Not at all! Silk Touch Port Authority shirts, for example, come in sizes ranging from Small to 10XL, and also are available in Tall sizes. 

4. Is it possible to buy shirts that reflect both our company colors and our company logo and name?

Absolutely! Port Authority shirts come in 20 different colors, while custom embroidery is both stunning and affordable.

5. How can custom corporate apparel reinforce our company's brand awareness?

Custom corporate apparel can enhance your company's brand awareness in a number of ways. Embroidered logos or company names announce your brand to your customers or clients. In addition, you can use customized Port Authority shirts as promotional items and giveaways for trade shows, community events, charitable work, and contests. 

Whether you have ten employees or 10,000, custom corporate apparel has a number of advantages, from standardizing dress codes to creating a corporate image to reinforcing brand awareness.


