Title: 
Prom Dresses 2007: Five Stunning Ways to Accessorize

Word Count:
672

Summary:
Getting ready for the big prom night? Here are five simple ways to accessorize your prom dress....


Keywords:
prom dresses, prom, homecoming gowns, dresses, prom dresses 2007, for prom, formal dresses, quinceanera gowns, gown


Article Body:
You are getting ready to go to the first biggest event of your life: Prom Night! You know this event only happens once in a lifetime and you want it to be very special. You have found your favorite prom dress and now you are shopping for the accessories that will flatter you and your dress.

Here are 5 Stunning Ways to Accessorize Prom Dresses 2007

1. Accent Your Prom Dress with Stunning Jewelry

Your jewelry plays a big role in accenting your gown and adding to your beautiful look. Always keep the jewelry simple, but elegant. When choosing jewelry for your prom dress, always consider the color carefully.

With a strapless style gown, a choker necklace would be the perfect choice. For a little extra charm, add earrings or a bracelet. For the spaghetti strap gown, you can choose a pair of stud earrings. Along with the earrings, you can wear a bracelet, but be sure your date will not be bringing a wrist corsage. You can be stunning in your deep V-neck gown with a delicate choker or long lariat. Just remember, do not go overboard with your jewelry. Your jewelry should compliment and not take away from your attire.

2. Hair Style Hints

Your hairstyle plays a very important role in the way your prom dress looks on you. Several weeks before the prom, experiment with your hair and see what style best suits you. This will also help you determine if you can style your hair yourself or if you will need to go to a beauty salon. If you have long hair, wearing your hair up will give you the elegant look, especially with a strapless gown. With short hair, try a new outrageous style where you will look entirely different than usual. If you have length hair, go for a bob. This is a great look especially when blown-out. Whether you style your own hair or go to a stylist, be sure your hairstyle compliments you and your prom dress.

3. Make-up and Prom Dresses 2007

One big step for looking beautiful is the way you apply your make-up for the prom. It is very important to find a foundation color that matches your skin tone and gives you that healthy glow. 

For those small blemishes and dark circles under the eyes, you can use a concealer that is a little lighter than the foundation makeup. You should cover the top eyelid with an even coat of a light eye shadow. If you feel you need more color, add a little darker shadow in the crease of the lid. Next, apply your mascara, but don't overdo it. Too much mascara will weigh down the lashes and give a clumpy appearance. For the finishing touch, add some light loose powder on the face. This will keep the shine off when you are having your prom photos made. Just remember, your facial look will be remembered just as much as your prom dress.

4. Prom Shoes

Don't forget the prom shoes. The shoes must be matched with your gown in order to make this a stunning combination. If you're wearing an elegant formal dress, try low-heeled slingback or satin shoes. These will compliment your outfit. With a simpler dress, wear prom shoes that feature beadwork or rhinestones. For a more casual dress, sandals would be an excellent choice. If you are wearing sandals, just be sure to have that pedicure!

5. Prom Handbags

Remember, the right handbag can compliment your gown and your figure. If you are a tall and slim person, you should carry a purse that is round or square shaped. A bottle-shaped handbag would look best for the not-so-tall person. Handbags come in so many assorted colors and sizes. Remember to purchase the handbag that is the right color for your dress and the right size for you. 

Your prom is a special night for you to remember and have some fun. There will be many more special nights. Search online for more stunning dresses for 2007 such as homecoming gowns and Quinceanera gowns.


