Title: 
Prom Dresses - Blending Comfort with Style

Word Count:
516

Summary:
Use these tips to find a gorgeous and comfortable prom dress for your special evening...


Keywords:
prom, fashion, dresses, clothing, gowns, homecoming, quinceanera, formal, eveningwear


Article Body:
Prom dresses are gorgeous and glamorous, but they can also be very uncomfortable. An uncomfortable prom dress can ruin your formal evening. That's why you should consider not only the style and beauty of your eveningwear, but also the comfort level. Beauty doesn't have to be painful. Fashion doesn't have to ruin the most magical night of your high school life. Use the guide below to look elegant and feel great on your prom night.

Prom Dresses for Comfort

When comparing prom dresses either online or at a formal eveningwear shop, consider the material of the dress, especially for the areas of your body where it needs to give a little. Prom dresses made of stretchy material in certain areas allow you to be comfortable and flexible while still keeping in fashion. 

Ask these Questions about any Prom Dress You're Considering:

*When you bend over to pick something up, sit or twist and turn while dancing, does the dress give in areas where needed? 

*When you sit to dine and need to move your arms freely, will the prom dress be comfortable?

*Does the material breathe so you won't get too hot during the prom or dinner? 

If shopping for your prom clothing online, ask questions about the material and if it gives and breathes for ultimate comfort. Order your prom dress far enough in advance so you'll have time to try it on and return it if you absolutely don't like it.

Prom Dress Materials to Consider

Stretchy fabrics for prom dresses are great for those moveable areas of the body while dancing and dining. They're also great for the tummy area for easier breathing. Look for prom dresses that are highlighted with stretch satin, stretch lace, stretch illusion, or stretch mesh. These materials will give and stretch as you move without taking away from the design of the dress. Other popular materials are ultrasuede, velvet, and silk or silk blends.

Items to Avoid

Avoid fancy fabrics that are itchy, hot, or those that can tear easily. You'll need a durable prom dress that can withstand all the movements while dancing. Also, avoid a lot of glitzy items that will make you uncomfortable or that can rub your skin such as sequence, lace, and beads. You might choose from prom dresses that are only modestly decorated with these items, but avoid excessive decoration for maximum comfort.

The Right Prom Dress Fit

If you want a tight-fitting prom dress that clings to your body, you better make sure you can walk, sit, and dance in it before buying! There are many styles of long, elegant dresses that are made for beauty and walking, but nothing else. Many homecoming gowns, eveningwear gowns, and Quinceanera gowns are made this way, but prom night requires much more movement than many other special occasions. So, choose a prom dress that allows you to move, even if it is tight fitting.

Don't settle for an uncomfortable prom dress. Shop around online at a prom dress specialty website for one that will allow you to make the most of your dream night!


