Title: 
Prom Dresses are for Curvy Girls, Too!

Word Count:
537

Summary:
Not only are curvy girls staking their rightful claims on the prom and homecoming scenes, but wonderfully fashionable prom dresses are available in all sizes.


Keywords:
prom dresses, prom, dresses, quinceanera, formal, eveningwear, homecoming, clothing, fashion


Article Body:
Those of us who grew up as plus-size girls may have less than fond memories of proms, homecoming dances, or even our quinceanera. Back in our day, self-esteem and body image issues were compounded by the sheer lack of plus-size prom dresses and formal eveningwear. Plus-size fashion was an oxymoron, and most of the clothing that was available simply wasn't appropriate for formal occasions. 

Thankfully, times have changed. Not only are curvy girls staking their rightful claims on the prom and homecoming scenes, but wonderfully fashionable prom dresses are available in all sizes. If you're a plus-size girl, there's no need to be a wallflower. You can dazzle and shine at your special event alongside your friends. 

Choosing Plus-Size Prom Dresses

It's never too soon to start shopping for prom dresses. When you do, be sure to check out two of the best plus-size lines: Calito and Igigi. If you're looking for a long formal, first think about the bodice. Do you want wide straps, spaghetti straps, or a strapless formal? Would you prefer that the bodice be fitted or more flowing? (Remember, don't be afraid to show your curves!)

Next, think about the skirt. Do you want a long formal where the hem reaches almost to the floor, or do you want something more playful, like a handkerchief hem or an asymmetrical hem? Then, consider your fabrication options. A satin crepe will hug your body and show your curves to their best advantage, an organdy will make you feel ultra-feminine, and a shimmer fabric will have you sparkling inside and out. 

Finally, find the right fit. Everyone's body is shaped differently, so don't be alarmed if you need to have your eveningwear altered. However, do make sure that you purchase the right size. You may need to get the advice of a trusted friend, sister, or even your mom in order to find the right fit - especially if you're used to wearing clothing that is on the baggy side. 

Fashion From the Inside Out

Once you've finished shopping for prom dresses, it's time to consider other fashion elements. One of the biggest mistakes that women make (regardless of their size) is not giving thought to undergarments. The right foundations can make or break the look you're trying to achieve. If, for example, you're wearing a clingy crepe, make sure that your bra is seamless and smooth. If your prom dress is strapless or has spaghetti straps, but you need support, find a strapless bra or shapewear that will give you the support you need without unnecessary discomfort. If you're going barelegged, that's fine, but if you're wearing pantyhose, consider wearing thigh-highs so you can forego the panty line

Accessories

Prom dresses generally need few accessories, so keep it simple. A beautiful pair of earrings may be all you need, or you might want to add a choker as an accent. Handbags should be compact and complement prom dresses, while shoes should be in keeping with the dresses' style. 

Above all, remember that beauty is as much about attitude as it is about appearance. When you have the confidence that comes from appreciating your body inside and out, you're sure to be the belle of the ball!


