Title: 
Prom And Homecoming Dresses For The 2006 Season.

Word Count:
822

Summary:
Now is the time to start searching for prom and homecoming dresses for 2006. It’s nice to allow yourself plenty of time, so you can relax and enjoy checking out all those gorgeous dresses before you decide which one is going to be absolutely perfect.

Before you begin searching for your prom or homecoming dress, you should have a clear idea in your mind of whether you’re looking for a full formal, semi-formal or dressy casual style. Most high school proms are full formal, s...


Keywords:
prom and homecoming dresses, prom or homecoming dress, dresses, ball gown, formal dress, dress, blac


Article Body:
Now is the time to start searching for prom and homecoming dresses for 2006. It’s nice to allow yourself plenty of time, so you can relax and enjoy checking out all those gorgeous dresses before you decide which one is going to be absolutely perfect.

Before you begin searching for your prom or homecoming dress, you should have a clear idea in your mind of whether you’re looking for a full formal, semi-formal or dressy casual style. Most high school proms are full formal, so it’s the perfect opportunity to wear that full length ball gown you’ve always dreamed of, or the kind of sophisticated formal dress you would reserve for the most glamorous occasions.

A homecoming dance or event will usually be less formal, but the dress code will depend on the event and on your particular school’s tradition. The best way to get an idea of the kind of outfit which will be most appropriate is to just ask the senior students, or graduates if you know any.

Now is the time of year when the major trends are beginning to emerge for the coming season. There are a number of looks which are shaping up to be the big trends for 2006, so you have plenty of choice.

Prom and Homecoming Fashion Trends for 2006

Black is the new black. Of course, classic black never really goes out of style, but the sophisticated black dress will be one of the strongest trends for the 2006 prom season. Slinky shapes with glamorous floor length skirts are the main focus.

Bold, dramatic black and white will also be an important look, in particular the classic black and white paneled bodice with a solid white A-line skirt. We’ll also see solid black dresses with dramatic white detailing.

Winter white is still an important look, particularly with silvery beads and details.

Colors for 2006 will be bold and dramatic. Soft pastels have most definitely made way for striking rich reds, dazzling blues, sparkling golds, sunset yellows and even tangy citrus orange tones. If you like to be really daring with color, this will be the year for bold contrasts of two or more strong colors.

The sexy Grecian style gown is tipped to be a particularly hot look for the 2006 season, after Kelly Clarkson really turned heads with the stunning gold silk dress she wore at the VMA Awards in August. If you have a sensational figure, now is the time to really show it off!

Strapless ball gowns were the main attraction at the Golden Globe Awards in 2005, worn by everyone from Kim Kattrall of ‘Sex and the City’ to ‘Friends’ favorite Lisa Kudrow, so we’ll be seeing a lot of this fabulous celebrity style in the upcoming prom season.

Fabrics will be shining, lustrous and glamorous, with satin and silk the main focus. We’ll also see lots of flowing chiffon, classic taffeta and gorgeous organza.

Beads, sequins, rhinestones, glitter, embroidery and and specialty detailing will also be a major trend, so if you love a little glamour it’s definitely going to be your year. There will be lots of beautifully beaded necklines and embroidered bodices. Extravagantly romantic lace, ribbons, tie-backs and bows will also be very much in vogue.

There’s no single strong trend in hemlines; it’s really a case of anything goes, be it a full floor length skirt, tea length, short or daringly short. We’ll also see everything from cheeky handkerchief hems to classic A-line shapes, long skirts with trains, funky asymmetrical hemlines, sexy slit dresses, and even elegant ballerina skirts. It’s really a matter of choosing the skirt shape and length which best suits your figure and shows off your assets.

Prom and Homecoming Accessories

Beads and embroidery will also be in very much in vogue for prom and homecoming accessories. There will be lots of beautifully designed beaded and embroidered purses and shawls to complement the season’s gowns.

You can never go wrong with strappy mid to high-heel shoes to complement evening wear. Bear in mind when you’re choosing your shoes that you not only want to look sensational, you also want to keep dancing all night, so look for evening shoes which are comfortable as well as stylish.

An alternative shoe style which will make a surprise appearance in 2006 will be ballet shoes. There will be lots of prom shoes in ballet styles, but there’s no reason why you can’t wear real ballet shoes, which are inexpensive and easy to find. With the right dress, they’ll look absolutely gorgeous.

And the hot tip for jewelry is chandelier earrings, which look great particularly worn with your hair up to show them off. This will be the year for bold, extravagant, sparkling jewelry, including brooches, necklaces, bracelets, rings and tiaras with every kind of jewel, from dazzling rubies and emeralds to classic diamonds and pearls.


