Title: 
Quick guide to choosing a new pair of sneakers

Word Count:
361

Summary:
Whether you plan going to the woods with friend or family, or simply you go to the local shop to buy something for the house, sneakers are the first choice since they are light and very easy to put on. It’s very important to have at least one pair ready anytime.


Keywords:
sneakers, shoes, clothing, clothes, fashion, sport, footwear, style, running, jogging


Article Body:
Sneakers are probably the most important items in a sports wardrobe. As interesting as it may be, you can’t jog in the same shoes you go to the office.

It‘s important to have at least one pair of sneakers handy each time you go out. Whether you plan going to the woods with friend or family, or simply you go to the local shop to buy something for the house, they are the first choice since they are light and very easy to put on.

How to decide which ones are for you?

That’s a simple task. Look for models that you really believe would look good on you. Once you have several pairs that you like, take a closer look at each of them. See if they are of quality, what material are they made of, the way the sole is glued.

Will they endure the kind of stress you are planning to make them have? If not, take them off the list. There’s no point in buying a pair of sneakers that will break after two weeks of use.

Next, consider if they will fit with the other clothes in your wardrobe. Usually, sneakers go well with most jeans and other casual pants. However, if you think you can wear sneakers with your business meeting suit, stop doing that! Drop it off your mind! There is no way you can wear sneakers with official clothes. Unless you deliberately want to shock people.

Once you’ve taken care of the above steps, all you need to do now is to know the best size. For that, it’s best to go to a local shop and try a couple of sneakers and see what the size in which you feel comfortable is. You can also look at your current shoes, but if you feel a bit discomfort, it’s ok to get a bigger size. Also, note that the sneakers you already own have passed trough the stretching phase, so their size might be a bit different.

Now that you know what to look for, it’s time to get yourself a good pair of sneakers.


