Title: 
Red Carpet Style: Leather Clothing for Women

Word Count:
610

Summary:
Everyone knows that it is not the person who is walking down the red carpet that is important, but rather their clothing! If you can’t be a star, do the next best thing and dress like one. One hot trend in Hollywood and all over the world is leather clothing for women.


Keywords:
clothing,leather clothing,women's clothing,style,fashion,leather,women,pants,skirts


Article Body:
Everyone knows that it is not the person who is walking down the red carpet that is important, but rather their clothing! If you can’t be a star, do the next best thing and dress like one. One hot trend in Hollywood and all over the world is leather clothing for women. Before you run out and purchase a pair of leather chaps or bulky biker jacket, think again. Leather clothing can run the gamut from smoking and sexy to sweet and subtle. Furthermore, leather clothing is available in all shades and hues of delicious colors, express yourself with juicy greens and pinks that are hot, hot, hot these days. Leather clothing can take you from the board room to the night club, what other type of material can boast the same thing?

Without a doubt, every woman’s closet should have a pair of smoking hot leather pants. Take advantage of the current skinny pants trend and invest in a great pair made of leather. Since leather acts as a second skin, it will hug all your curves and show off your best assets. Just look at how great your favorite stars look in their leather pants? Sharon Stone, Cameron Diaz, and Jessica Alba regularly hit the red carpet with colorful leather pants topped with flowing tunics or gauzy tops. This pairing is especially great for the summer time scene, as the lightweight materials of the tops create an ethereal look that softens the smoldering look of your leather pants. Think of it as a little bit angel and a whole lot devil!

Especially with the cowboy theme that is sweeping Hollywood, leather tops and jackets that feature miles of fringe and Native American beading are back in style. Again, avoid fashion overload with a fringed top, jacket, purse, boots, and skirt. Go classic cowgirl in a sweet leather jacket and denim skirt or play the vixen on the range in a barely there fringe top and painted on jeans. Get your ready to rope, ride, and steal hearts! Keep in mind that there is a difference between cool and kitsch, so if you start looking like a movie extra on “Brokeback Mountain 2,” you may need to reconsider your wardrobe.

Just like there are fashion hits with celebrities, the red carpet has seen its fair share of fashion misses. Who can forget Britney Spear’s “biker chic gone bad” outfit that she donned for the MTV Music Video Awards? Major leather overload! Take this into account when assembling your killer leather outfit. Avoid head to toe leather. One exception to this rule is a leather suit, which is quickly making its way back on the scene. Layer your suiting look with a top of another material and keep the color of your suit subtle. Nothing looks worse than a larger than life leather lime walking down the street! Look to colors like eggplant, teal, and even white if you are tired of the typical black and brown leather.

If you are still wondering about whether or not you dare to don leather, consider purchasing leather accessories first. A leather version of the popular Newsboy style of hat is perfect for a saucy addition to any wardrobe. Just look at songstress sensation Alicia Keys! Of course, who could go without a killer leather bag? Fashion-minded celebs like Jessica Simpson, Lindsey Lohan, and of course the celebutante herself, Paris Hilton are seldom seem without a leather bag in their hand. Keep in mind that leather can easily make the jump between day and night, so invest a bit more in a quality bag that will be appropriate for any occasion.


