Title: 
Selecting the Perfect Evening Attire

Word Count:
435

Summary:
Women have an array of choices when selecting evening wear. This is a clothing category that allows women to express themselves in many fanciful ways. There are few rules as to what is appropriate, so each woman can choose whatever suits her own style and personality.


Keywords:
evening wear, designer evening wear


Article Body:
Women have an array of choices when selecting evening wear. This is a clothing category that allows women to express themselves in many fanciful ways. There are few rules as to what is appropriate, so each woman can choose whatever suits her own style and personality. This flexibility is evident when watching award shows. Some celebrities have appeared in outfits that defied gravity while others seemed to have animals growing from their clothes.

Making an appropriate choice in women's evening wear depends to a certain extent on the occasion, the level of formality needed and the climate. In spring and summer, light colored gauzy fabrics are often seen. There can be an element of whimsy about these dresses. Short dresses are popular for evening wear in warm weather, particularly for outdoor events. 

In fall and winter, the general tone is more serious. While there are still many sleeveless and strapless gowns, they tend to be more structured. Taffeta, velvet, brocade and other rich fabrics are the norm. Black is always a popular color for women's evening wear in winter, but burgundy, deep blue and other dark, rich colors make fabulous alternatives. 

Some women even choose tuxedo like pantsuits for evening events. This can be a great alternative in cold weather, although a long dress in a winter fabric worn with a coordinating shawl or a fur wrap can result in the same level of comfort. 

<b>Celebrities love designer evening wear</b>

When actresses are interviewed as they walk the red carpet before award shows, one question they are always asked is, "Who designed your gown?" Designer evening wear has become a requirement for these posh events, so much so that many designers loan custom made gowns to top stars at no charge. 

Calvin Klein, Dolce and Gabbana, Valentino, Ralph Lauren, Donna Karan, Versace and more are popular with many of today's well known performers. But women aren't the only ones whose taste in clothes is an issue at these events. Men have become fashion plates as well and will also be asked the source of their designer evening wear. Armani is well known for his top quality suits and his tuxedoes have quite a following also. 

Knockoffs of the most attractive gowns seen on televised award shows are usually available in stores within a few weeks after the show to which they were first worn. These are unauthorized copies made to sell at prices regular people can afford. While a designer gown might cost $5,000, the department store copy will go for about $200. Unfortunately, the great bodies worn by celebrities are often harder to reproduce.


