Title: 
Sex Appeal and Style in Women’s Leather Pants

Word Count:
615

Summary:
One trend that seems to never go out of type is women’s leather pants. Get all of those misconceptions out of your mind and embrace the deliciousness that is quality grain leather. Yes, more individuals that bikers and cowboys wear leather pants.


Keywords:
leather,pants,clothing,clothes,women,fashion,style,trendy


Article Body:
One trend that seems to never go out of type is women’s leather pants. Get all of those misconceptions out of your mind and embrace the deliciousness that is quality grain leather. Yes, more individuals that bikers and cowboys wear leather pants and no, you will not squeak while walking down the street in leather pants. Yes, leather pants can be worn in the summer and also during the daytime. No, leather pants are not difficult to clean, nor are they outrageously expensive that only a choice few can afford them. If these are your reasons for not wearing a hot pair of women’s leather pants, you have run out of excuses, so get ready to shimmy and slither into a fantastic pair!

Leather pants are tremendously trendy, especially with today’s hot fad of the skinny pants. Virtually anyone can look fantastic while wearing skinny pants, and they work great with those super stunning stilettos or those big bulky boots. Keep in mind that any type of pants you choose should properly fit your figure. If you can’t wear skinny pants, then don’t buy skinny pants. Likewise, if you can’t wear low slung hip huggers, then don’t buy low slung hip huggers. You will look much better in a style that fits your body type than one that is popular, but looks awkward on your body.

If you are wondering what to wear with your women’s leather pants, the options are limitless. Unless you enjoy looking like a vampire hunter, drag queen, or dominatrix (and let’s face it, who doesn’t?), avoid wearing head to toe leather. Pair your steaming hot leather pants with a loose fitting top. One great thing about leather pants is that you can still be sexy and show off your curves without showing skin. For this reason, you can also choose a skin baring, super sexy top while still being appropriately covered. Everyone knows that bare skin overload (for example, a super mini skirt paired with a barely-there top) is horrifically outdated and even more inappropriate, so any outfit that include women’s leather pants is perfect for those who want to cover up without hiding their best assets.

Typically, women’s leather pants do not make their way into the work wear wardrobe, but today’s leather suits have completely shattered the mold. Usually, the only person that wears a leather suit is a bounty hunter or country music star, and neither look is particular attractive. However, by pairing your leather pants with a slim fitting leather blazer, you can create a spectacular look that is perfectly appropriate for wearing in a professional workplace setting. Be sure to offset your leather pants and blazer with a cotton or silk blouse. For an especially smart look, pair a crisp shirt with the leather outfit.

Leather is undoubtedly the fabric of amore, as few men can resist a woman in leather. Even though the “less is more” theory is a popular one with most men, there is something to be said about leather pants. Since leather hugs your curves and shows off your body, there is little left to the imagination, but the material is so buttery soft and inviting that they rarely stay on for very long once things get heated. However, if you would prefer to show a bit more leg, then hot pants are your best bet. Hot pants, yes another blast from the past, are back and sexier than ever, especially ones made of leather. These itsy bitsy pants keep the allure, feel, and look of leather, but still showcase your killer gams. What guy could possibly resist?


