Title: 
Sexy Lingerie - A beginners Guide

Word Count:
428

Summary:
Say ‘sexy lingerie’ and most people will think of black and red lacy peep-hole bras and crotchless panties! However, this concept is such a poor representation of what sexy lingerie is and what it does.


Keywords:
sexy lingerie, lingerie


Article Body:
Say ‘sexy lingerie’ and most people will think of black and red lacy peep-hole bras and crotchless panties! However, this concept is such a poor representation of what sexy lingerie is and what it does.  

It can transform a ‘normal’ body into one that would befit a model or actress and the physiological effects can make even more of a transformation! Read on…. 

Gone are the days when sexy lingerie was something that was bought by a woman or man to enhance sex – nowadays, it does so much more. 

Certainly, items such as silky baby dolls; pretty, colourful bras and knickers; suspenders; lacy teddies etc can enhance the experience of making love, but now women are seeing more to the picture that just that. 

Sexy underwear is steadily becoming a staple part of a woman’s normal day wear. Under many a suited, working woman you’ll see a hint of lacy bra or extra sheer stockings that give the lady a certain ‘oommpph’.   

Not only does the wearing of ‘sexy’ lingerie exude sexuality (sometimes unbeknown to the lady in question), wearing sensuous, pretty/ racy underwear can boost a woman’s confidence in her body ten-fold.  

The good news is that today’s sexy lingerie is no longer uncomfortable, scratchy and unpractical. Fluid lines, top quality lace and silk and other sensual 

materials, and, most important, a style suited for today’s woman (as opposed to yesterday’s stick insect shape) means they are like a second skin  - and a very flattering one at that. 

‘Larger’ ladies – and the term is used very loosely as around 40% of the UK population falls in to this outdated category  - are now catered for when it comes ot choosing pretty, fn and racy undies!  

Push up bras can make the most of an ample (or tiny) breast whilst lacy boy pants can flatter a round belly and cuddly bottom whilst thongs can show of sexy legs.  

Wearing beautiful, sexy underwear cannot help but have a positive mental effect on the wearer – and a more confident, happy person will radiate this and reap the rewards.  

The key to make the most of wearing sexy lingerie is to focus on a part of your body that is really great – and we all have at least one, it is just that we tend to focus on the less than great bits – and then dress to really show it off. Even if it is hidden under your suit, or a t shirt and jeans, you know that you are wearing .. and then so will other people!


