Title: 
Shopping for a Custom Jacket

Word Count:
464

Summary:
Whether you’re in the market for one custom jacket for yourself, enough for an entire team of little leaguers, or a company 1,000 employees, one thing remains the same: you’re in need of a quality jacket at an affordable price.


Keywords:
custom jackets, Shopping


Article Body:
Whether you’re in the market for one custom jacket for yourself, enough for an entire team of little leaguers, or a company 1,000 employees, one thing remains the same: you’re in need of a quality jacket at an affordable price. Jackets will fall into dozens of price categories within scores of quality types, so being confident that you are getting the most for your dollar is essential.

After deciding on a generalized price point per custom jacket, you’ll need to decide on a jacket style. From “Letterman” styles of jackets, to full zip fleece, to “coaches” jackets and everything in between, you have a lot of choices to contemplate before making your final decision.   If you are uncertain in any way as to making this important decision, you will need to contact someone who knows the ins and outs of the custom jacket industry.  

And while you’re looking for such a contact, look for a company that stands out amongst the masses- one in which each and every employee is trained in each and every aspect of the business at hand. Having one person who knows you from the first phone call until your custom order is in your hands is a bonus, but make sure that your person isn’t too specialized, for if they fall ill or take a vacation, you want to make sure your questions and concerns are answered to in a timely manner. 

On another note, be sure to find a company that doesn’t “nickel and dime you to death” with small fees that can add up to take a good chunk out of your checkbook. The low price on the jacket itself can quickly skyrocket when you add in any artwork fees and/or set-up fees, typesetting, or something that you’ve never even heard of. 

Don’t be afraid to ask to see a “proof” of your finished design before the art goes to press. If something isn’t quite as you had envisioned it to be, it will be much easier to change it now rather than after your jacket is printed. Also, be sure to get the price for the finished product in writing before signing and agreeing to your purchase.

Guarantees and warrantees always seem to add a finishing touch, creating a warm feeling inside, relieving any worries you may have.  Price guarantees are the most well-known, offering you financial reimbursement in the event that you find an identical item somewhere else (some will even increase the amount they give you back just for your troubles).

Finally, a company that will give you references of satisfied customers is a company that has a focus on customer service.  Customer service is an essential part of any custom industry, including custom jackets.


