Title: 
Sleep Chic With These Hot Sleep Fashion Ideas

Word Count:
408

Summary:
Even if you have outgrown slumber parties, you certainly have not outgrown fabulous sleep wear! Express you inner fashionista by enjoying a fantastic nightie or funky pair of pjs. Whether you are looking a sweet, old fashioned night gown for chilly nights in the winter or a sizzling, sexy teddy that will provide all the heat you need, sleep chic is all the rage! Before you don that ragged t-shirt and baggy pair of boxers, think of your significant other, who certainly would n...


Keywords:
fashion, clothes, beauty, style, clothing


Article Body:
Even if you have outgrown slumber parties, you certainly have not outgrown fabulous sleep wear! Express you inner fashionista by enjoying a fantastic nightie or funky pair of pjs. Whether you are looking a sweet, old fashioned night gown for chilly nights in the winter or a sizzling, sexy teddy that will provide all the heat you need, sleep chic is all the rage! Before you don that ragged t-shirt and baggy pair of boxers, think of your significant other, who certainly would not mind if you came to bed in something a bit more flattering. 

Check out stores like Victoria Secret for the latest nighttime fashions. From astonishingly revealing getups that will spend less time on the floor than on you to buttery soft flannel pajamas that are perfect for snuggling in front of a fire with a good book and a cup of hot cocoa, they will have it all! Just like your regular wardrobe, your sleep wardrobe should be rotated depending on the season. No one wants to spend a sweltering summer night suffering in a floor length flannel night gown! Furthermore, no one wants to freeze on a cold winter night on a light weight silk short set. When rotating your evening ensembles, also do not forget to swap out your robes and slippers! 

No one should neglect their sleep clothing, especially if you are going on a trip or planning a girl’s night out—or in—that will give you the chance to show off your new duds. Popular night time outfits include the classic night gown and the new classic, a pair of pyjama pants or shorts worn with a coordinated tee or tank. These super bedding outfits are available in sexy satin, comfortable cotton, fuzzy flannel, and everything in between! Any style, color, and pattern under the sun is available, so you are sure to find something that best defines your fashion tastes and personality. 

A terrifically popular trend these days is the Capri pyjama pants. Just like the stylish Capri pants that have taken the fashion world by storm, this great design has transferred into sleep wear. Capri pants are great for individuals who want an ensemble that they can wear the majority of the year, from warm spring nights to cool fall evenings. Also, many of your favorite designers have special night time fashions, so check our your favorite department store, boutique, or shop to see their selection.


