Title: 
Slimming Fashion Tips For Plus Size Women

Word Count:
547

Summary:
We all want to look our best, whether we're short and slim or tall and heavier. Here are a few tips I've collected for plus size women that will help us look our best.


Keywords:
plus size,plussize,plus size clothes,shopping,shopping online,shopping deals,plus size clothing


Article Body:
We all want to look our best, whether we're short and slim or tall and heavier. Here are a few tips I've collected for plus size women that will help us look our best.

Pants

Choose pants that are long enough for you. If your pants are too short, it visually cuts the length of your legs. The longer your legs look, the slimmer they'll appear.

Also choose pants that fit you well, not too tight or clingy. Fabrics that are too thin tend to cling to your legs and reveal bumps we'd rather keep out of sight.

Choose pants that are either boot cut, wider legged or flared at the bottom. The boot cut is slimming, while the wider cuts also add a slimming effect by keeping a visual straight line from our hips to our ankles. The worst choice would be a tight, tapered pant leg bottom as this enhances the width of your hips and thighs.

Capri pants are very slimming as well if they're the right length. Choose a style where the bottom of the pant ends a few inches above your ankles but below the widest part of your calves.

Skirts

Choose skirts that rest just above your knees. A mid-calf skirt cuts the length of your legs and draws eyes to the thickest part of your lower legs.

Again, proper fit is key here. Something too tight will visually enhance and draw attention to bulges that we'd rather not publicize. Also look for skirts that fit below the waistline if you have a thick waist.

Bras

A well fitted bra is a must for every woman. Not only to give support and comfort, but a too tight bra can pop out those back rolls like nobody's business!

If your cup size is not too large, consider trying a sports bra for a comfier fit that has adequate support. No wires here ladies!

Colors

Choose darker colors for areas you don't want the eyes to focus on and brighter colors for places you want to accentuate. Darker colors such as black and navy are very slimming and should be in every woman's closet.

Dressing from head to toe in one color is also very slimming as it makes a person look taller. Matching your pantyhose to the color of your shoes and skirts helps achieve this look.


Patterns

Stay away from large patterns and look for vertical stripes - thin is best. Thin stripes help give the illusion of length. Adding length helps give the illusion of a longer body, which helps you look thinner. Small, delicate prints can also be very flattering.

Fit

If your clothing is too tight, it accentuates and magnifies all flaws. If our clothing is too loose and baggy, we think we're hiding our size but the opposite actually happens: we magnify our size.

So many tips to keep in mind when shopping for new clothes! But the key points to remember are proper fit and visually lengthening fashions. We have so many options now in plus size fashions that we can find exactly what works best for our body types.

Permissions: Feel free to use and reprint this article on the condition that all content, links and anchor text are kept intact and unaltered in any way.


