Title: 
Steps to tying a neck tie

Word Count:
344

Summary:
Learn these simple steps to tie a neck tie and make sure that you go right with your dressing style.


Keywords:
neck tie tying, instructions neck tie tying, tying neck tie, steps to tying a neck tie


Article Body:
If men can run the world, why can't they stop wearing neckties?
How intelligent is it to start the day by tying a little noose around your neck? - Linda Ellerbee

Neck tie was born as a piece of material worn by roman emperors around the neck for reasons of climate of hygiene or climate and was considered to be a symbol of elegance and refinement.  It nicely expresses the personality of the wearer and had become an instrument in social relations. 

Today, if asked that what is the most important clothing accessory for a man besides shirts and trousers that displays his professional image? I’m sure your answer would be a neck tie.  In this professional world, your success depends upon your field, the way you communicate, manner in which you carry yourself and above all your dressing style speaks a lot about your personality. Even when you attend any official meetings, parties or go out for an interview, a neck tie is a must. 

So if you are a beginner and don’t know much how to tie a neck tie then simply follow these steps:

1. First face yourself in front of a mirror and then wrap your tie loosely hanging around your neck under the collar of your shirt. 

2. You have two ends of your neck tie whereby one is the wide end and the other one is the narrow end. Now you have to cross the wide end over the narrow end.

3. Next bring the wide end below the narrow end.

4. Again bring the wide end of the tie over the narrow end.

5. Then hold the wide end of the tie and bring it through the back of the loop formed.

6. Now hold loosely with the help of your index finger the front of the knot and pass wide end down through the loop.

7. Next remove your finger tighten your knot. For this hold the narrow end with your hand and draw the knot upwards to your collar.

Visit our website <a href="http://www.tying-neck-tie.info">tying-neck-tie.info </a>


