Title: 
That Chemical Bond Called Sexy Bra!

Word Count:
638

Summary:
Sometime, things just get so darn boring. It makes you see life like a 1950s movie without a touch of color to brighten up the day. But if you thought that there's no way you can perk up, think again.


Keywords:
sexy bras


Article Body:
Sometime, things just get so darn boring. It makes you see life like a 1950s movie without a touch of color to brighten up the day. But if you thought that there's no way you can perk up, think again.

Resort to some things that will cheer you up, boost your confidence, and eventually make a life that is full of life!

For ladies out there, you may opt for a sexy bra instead of the usual types of brasseries that you have. Most fashion experts contend that wearing sexy things like a sexy bra will definitely make you feel sexy.

However, the big question is: what makes a sexy bra? Is it the material, the design, the color, or the person who is wearing it?

Some of you might prefer to answer with the latter choice in mind. But nevertheless, sexy bra is still a bra and needs a little more positive characteristics to give you the support and comfort that you need.

So, when choosing a sexy bra, it is still important to consider these following pointers so that you'll not only feel sexy but confident and comfortable as well.

1. When you want to show some flesh and your sexy bra might just do the job for you, consider the color of your tops and your sexy bra as well. Do not show beige sexy bra straps under spaghetti-strap tops.

2. Do not wear plastic strap sexy bras with halter-tops. It will not be a pretty sight even if you are wearing a sexy bra.

3. A single hook looks very neat, but it is not practical for fuller busts. A fastening with two or three hooks is much comfortable and supportive even during some hot steamy nights.

4. All straps should have adjustable levels fort the hooks to accommodate fluctuation of weight or washing changes. A stretch sexy bra with Lycra will get bigger over time and may not look sexy anymore, so does a sexy bra woven with a firm cotton material.

5. Women often wear sexy bras that are too tight thinking that it will give their breasts that needed lift. This should not be the case. A sexy bra can give you that much needed lift to show off those eye-popping cleavage at the same time fits just right. With this, you do not only look sexy but more confident.

6. Have a wardrobe of sexy bra. Think of the occasion that will call for it. Sexy bra looks good with laces on and looks even great with evening gowns or even with a simple night lingerie.

Have fun with it!

7. Remember that if your sexy bra lets your breast bulge above the cup or out of the sides near the armpits, creating lumps under the clothes, then the cups are too small.

8. On the other hand, if the cup material puckers or the breast doesn't entirely fill a molded cup, then it is just too big.

9. Likewise, if your sexy bra rides up in the back and is higher than the front, then the band is too long.

10. A nice, comfy sexy bra should never leave red marks on the skin after it's taken off because it means that your sexy bra is just too small.

11. A colorful, laced sexy bra is a definite turn-on. But remember not to wear then under a white or light-colored shirt. This will not make a good impression on you.

12. Do use a matching halter bra and pull it down with a low-back adaptor. This will definitely make you look sexy and cool.

There you have it! Just follow these simple rules on the dos and don'ts of wearing sexy bra and you'll never have an embarrassing moment. Indeed, a sexy bra partnered with a confident wearer equals a one hot summer night.

That is what chemistry is all about!


