Title: 
Women’s Clothing - Today’s Fashions

Word Count:
551

Summary:
Today’s women’s clothing are a line of ultimate representation of a woman’s body confidence that will make her all the more stylish and glamorous. Find about the lessons of women’s clothing and the cardinal rules of dressing up in relation to your body shape as you read on.


Keywords:
womens clothes,womens clothing


Article Body:
Today’s women’s clothing are a line of ultimate representation of a woman’s body confidence that will make her all the more stylish and glamorous. Find about the lessons of women’s clothing and the cardinal rules of dressing up in relation to your body shape as you read on.

1. The Summer style

The heat is on! Pull on your khakis and that plain shirt. – oooh, don’t even try to. Plain tees are too boring to beat the heat. Get load and do it thru colors. Summer is all about kooky pattern mixes, wild and exotic colors. Try on some batiks or embroidered fabric tops, uniquely patterned skirts or clothes that are rich in colored pretty ruffles. If you want to still stick with your jeans, pair it up with off-the-shoulder tunic as a cover up.

2. The Simple but elegant style

Dressing up sexy does not always mean micro mini skirts and super tight tube tops. Try on some sassy classic look. Make it loose, not tight. Full-skirted, not gripping. Flatter the looseness of a longer, full-skirted dress that will go with your height and don’t be afraid to stand out. Skinny and tall women will look good on belted dresses with stiff pleats that are so forties look.

3. Cheer up style

Who says only the kids can dress sweet and funky? Deduct 8 to 10 years your real age with colorful, swooshy dress that will make you feel dancing the Mary Poppins’ way. It's okay to dress sweet and funky as long as you know where to wear it and the right accessories to go with it.

4. One of a kind find

The perfect way to make a fashion statement is to try on women’s clothing that are hot and would seem uniquely yours. Floral and metal studs are classic embellishment combos to the unusual fabric.

5. Shape up!

Covering up isn’t flattering. And broad expanses of fabric emphasize body shape and size. Bare backs, knee-length or shorter skirt, v-neck tops and three-quarter sleeve t-shirts will help you show off some shape. The most flattering with women's clothes are straight leg or boot cut jeans that will sit on your hips, your waist or just below your hip bone. And remember, that full, round shapes on top and bottom will make you look a bit more round.

6. Red alert!!!

In every women’s clothing diary of style, Red is a classic color that has never bored anyone. It embodies power, bold confidence and certified trickery for figure-flattering because of its deeper-hued incarnation. Also, it has an amazing power to absorb light and conceal darkness.

7. Wear Black when you’re in doubt.

True enough, black makes everyone look slimmer. It is the safest color to be in. Take note of this, black will never fade in the language of fashion, especially in with women's clothing.

8. Look great in a shift

Shift dresses has a slimming effect because they are constructed with darts at the bust line and seams that enhances curve and waist-shape. Most shift dresses are either knee length or shorter. But both lengths give the same universal slimming effect.

There you have it. I hope I do gave you some useful tips and lessons on women’s clothing. So, dress and feel good at any size!


