Title: 
Work Uniforms: Dress Better Than The Rest

Word Count:
432

Summary:
Whether you spend your days knocking door to door selling insurance policies or cosmetics, or wiggle under cars changing drippy oils and fluids, looking your best with a hot to trot work uniform is a career must.


Keywords:
work, job, career, shirt, uniform, attire, pants, apparel, clothes, clothing, dickies, business, coveralls


Article Body:
Whether you spend your days knocking door to door selling insurance policies or cosmetics, or wiggle under cars changing drippy oils and fluids, looking your best with a hot to trot work uniform is a career must.

If you work with any type of liquid material like paint or grease, or natural foundation like cement or dirt, purchasing two or three sets of coveralls for work uniforms would be the best protection for your underclothes. This is especially true if you are a hard-working man and are sick and tired of washing your soiled shirts and pants and trying every technique to eliminate those stubborn stains! 

For the white-collared professional, looking neat and well kept is a career necessity. Whether you sell, buy, trade or distribute, the appearance of your work uniform is a reflection of your business philosophy. Keep it simple by purchasing solid color plain or pleated dress pants or slacks work uniforms, then make sure they are regularly laundered and pressed.

When choosing tops for work uniforms, a smart pick would be a long-sleeved button down light-colored collared shirt. A solid colored blouse or dress shirt would be appropriate or possibly one with thin, light-colored pin stripes. 

Sometimes, the steamy hot sun rears its ugly head and short sleeves are a must for work uniforms. In that case, be sure to choose a cotton or polyester button-down with a neutral color. Fortunately, women can opt for a professional-looking knee or ankle-length skirt to wear to work on those warmer days. 

For men, a nice addition to your button-down work uniform shirt would be a necktie. If you aren't adept at typing one, there are plenty of great clip-on styles available. At first glance, it's difficult to distinguish between the two styles, so it probably doesn't matter which you choose! For women, a neckerchief or scarf neatly secured under the collar with a bow showing in the front would be a classy move for a work uniform. If your company has a theme logo, try to coordinate colors with your choice of accessory. For a professional look, keep any accessories simple and small. Top off the work look by keeping your hair pinned away from the face and secured in a braid or low-hanging pony tail.

If your work environment is more casual, you still must maintain a professional appearing work uniform. Choices for a work uniform could include a polo shirt with your name hand-stitched on the chest or, for a fun look, a Hawaiian-style or colorfully printed button-down shirt that is not faded and looks crisp and fresh.


