Title: 
Binge eating | Binge eating disorder | Compulsive exercising

Word Count:
593

Summary:
The term bulimia means excessive or abnormal desire for food which is better described as ox-hunger. Bulimia Nervosa disorder has the character of repeating occurrence of binge eating which develops the person with lack of sense. For more about binge eating, binge eating disorder, compulsive exercising, visit: http://www.eatingdisordersonline.com


Keywords:
binge eating, binge eating disorder, compulsive exercising, night eating, orthorexia, bulimia nervosa, bulimia symptoms, bulimia treatment.


Article Body:
The term bulimia means excessive or abnormal desire for food which is better described as ox-hunger. Bulimia Nervosa disorder has the character of repeating occurrence of binge eating which develops the person with lack of sense for having no control on eating behavior and encourages self-induced vomiting and intake of laxatives and drugs to get rid of this eating habit. This eating disorder is usually of three main types; Bulimia Nervosa, Anorexia Nervosa and Binge Eating Disorder. It involves long lasting and obsessive eating pattern in the person suffering from this eating disorder. From the past 20 - 30 years, the number of people suffering from this disease is enormously increasing at a faster pace.  

Anorexia nervosa is a disorder which compels people to starve themselves in an obsession of becoming thin. This disorder mainly affects teenage girls but men are no longer remaining exceptional in this case. 

Bulimia nervosa, abbreviated to bulimia generally, is a disorder where an individual goes through the binge-eating session, followed by their worsening health. They often develop self-induced vomiting feeling of guilt for having eaten much. People suffering from bulimia nervosa tend to develop bulimia symptoms like this. They usually scare and suffer from an artificial preoccupation of gaining weight in their own body. People who suffer from this disorder greedily consume food in a huge quantity in an attempt to get rid of their stress and in another to deal with their anxiety feeling. 

People having binge eating disorder intake high caloric foods in a frequent manner but this does not induced themselves for vomiting unlike people with bulimia nervosa sufferers. Studies and research have reported that binge eating disorders are likely to run in different generations of the family, so it is obviously a case having genetic links. 

This is a psychological disorder that mostly affects women and very occasionally, it affects men. Bulimia nervosa affects every individual physically as well as with the underlying cause in relation with the reaction of being overweight, self image issues, self consciousness and lack of food control. Therefore, bulimia treatment is a significant thing for every person suffering from this psychological disorder, although the complete treatment is bit difficult. Because the sufferer never admits to the problems they are suffering from and develop tendency to hide this eating habit. Getting embarrass is another issue they have but this disease can prove to be extremely hazardous effect to their physical health. If the immediate bulimia treatment is not given to the person, he/she may begin to have problems such as electrolyte imbalance, esophageal tears, cardiac problems, gastrointestinal disorders, stomach disorders and dental problems. In the later stage of the disease it is become difficult for the person to normal functioning and the person become more prone to illnesses and colds. They may also develop more bruising on the surface of skin and may intend to have more broken bones from a simple fall. if anybody would find with this disorder and bulimia symptoms, approach him to obtain bulimia treatment for this as soon as possible. 

There are many options of treatments a person suffering from bulimia nervosa can adopt. It includes medications, psychological treatment and support treatments for in patient and out patient, and dental treatments with compulsive exercising. While going through a treatment, person strictly needs put away him/herself from overeating and night eating habits. If any body is suffering from bulimia nervosa, it is important for you to support them in any way otherwise, treatment alone will not going to help them with their problem in any case.


