What to Expect When Flying in a Jet Air Ambulance

Medical patients requiring transportation over a range of 500 miles or more wouldn't dream of traveling by ambulance.  Air travel in such scenarios often makes much more sense, but traveling via conventional aircraft and commercial airlines may not always be the most comfortable and safe option for patients.  For this reason, patients requiring air ambulance services for long-distance travel will typically fly in a specifically equipped  jet.

If you or someone you know ever need to travel by air ambulance in a jet, know that the patient will be receiving the highest quality service possible.  The staff on the air ambulance jet is highly trained.  The flight crew are not only experienced pilots and very familiar with flight safety, but they are also informed and educated about the specific needs and circumstances related to flying medical missions.  The goal of the flight crew on an air ambulance is to provide the highest safety standards possible while ensuring the patient's comfort from the point of origin to the destination in the speediest time possible.

One jet that is commonly used for air ambulance transport is the LEAR 35A.  This specific type of aircraft uniquely outperforms many other jets when it comes to transportation by air ambulance.  The reason the LEAR 35A is great for such travel is the fact that the aircraft is one of the most efficient models for travel for long transport.  The LEAR 35A has a high safety record.  This type of aircraft is less noisy than others in the industry making it very useful.  

Most air ambulances have executive-style interior allowing for maximum comfort during the flight.  A comfortable interior on the air ambulance allows the patient to rest in a medical environment during the transport.  The door to the LEAR 35A jet is larger than most other cabin doors.  This is yet another feature that makes the patient more comfortable.  Loading and unloading on this type of aircraft
Is easier on the patient.  

Such air ambulance jets are frequently able to land at smaller airports.  Access to more airports allows the patient to land closer to the hospital for convenience, comfort, and most importantly safety.  When time is of the essence, every second counts.  

The air ambulance jet contains standard equipment for use during the flight from the point of origin to the destination.  Each piece of equipment is thoroughly checked to ensure reliability before every single flight.  Laptops and printers are available on air ambulance flights for use during the trip.  The medical staff can keep accurate data information and print it out for use by other medical personnel upon the patient's arrival to the destination.  

Other standard safety equipment on an air ambulance flight includes equipment to perform cardiac and respiratory lab tests, defibulators, ventilators, and equipment to monitor the patient's vitals and stats during the trip.   

Travel by jet can provide a safe, practical, and speedy method of transportation for patients requiring critical care over a long distance.  An air ambulance is equipped with high-quality medical equipment
And trained staff in order to provide the highest safety standards and the best comfort possible to patients.  
