What is the Cost of Air Ambulance Transport?

If you or someone you love will be needing air ambulance transportation in the foreseeable future, then it is time to start doing a little homework.  It is important to start compiling a list of air ambulance services that will be able to meet the needs.  After comprising a list of potential air ambulance transport companies, it is time to compare costs.  Just like any other business or service, prices will vary.  

There are many variables that can affect the cost of air ambulance transport.  You can receive quotes from contacting the air ambulance service company yourself or by contacting a broker.  Do be aware that the broker will find the lowest cost possible, then add an additional fee for his or her services to the cost.  Whenever possible, it is wise to deal directly with the air ambulance service company.

The type of aircraft needed for the transport will directly affect the cost of the air ambulance service.  It is important to know the distance of the flight before deciding on a specific type of aircraft.  Cost alone should not determine the aircraft used for transport of the patient.

Another factor that influences the cost of the air ambulance service is the number and type of medical staff needed for the flight.  If the patient requires two trained people on board, the cost may be dramatically less than a patient requiring an entire specialized medical team.

Frequently, the cost of the air ambulance transport will include the fee for ground transportation to and from the aircraft.  This is commonly referred to as bedside to bedside service.  Also, the cost often includes the cost of any additional passengers where applicable.

Many  private insurance companies will cover the cost of air ambulance transportation if it is deemed to be medically necessary.  It is wise to check with your insurance provider before calling to make arrangements for the air ambulance transportation, if possible.  If it is unable to prove coverage for the service before the time of the flight, secured payment is usually required.  For most companies, acceptable forms of payment include major credit cards, wire transfers, certified checks, or money orders for the amount of the flight.

The actual cost of the air ambulance transport can range widely.  Typically, the fees run between $10,000 and $100,000. 

Due to the extreme expense of the air ambulance transport, it is advisable to compare costs whenever possible.  If the patient has insurance coverage, learn the facts about what air ambulance transportation costs are covered and under what conditions.  Dealing directly with the air ambulance service company can be a method for saving money by doing a little research on your own.

A broker can locate air ambulance service, but will charge additional fees.  Be specific about details such as needed medical staff and type of aircraft when asking for quotes.  Also, learn what specifics are included in the cost when making the decision to select one air ambulance service company over another.  With a little research, patients and their family can get the best service at a great value.     
