Title: 
Lease Option Technique

Word Count:
355

Summary:
Why do people sell properties using lease options? There is a reason that some of the most successful real estate investors use the lease option technique.

No Down Payment: I know what you're thinking, "I would never offer such a thing!" You don't have to. As a real estate investor rich in tools to find motivated sellers, you could get your next home using this lease option technique with no money down. You don't have to tell the seller that an option fee may be customary!...


Keywords:
Loan,online loan,pay day loan,online,loans,online home loan


Article Body:
Why do people sell properties using lease options? There is a reason that some of the most successful real estate investors use the lease option technique.

No Down Payment: I know what you're thinking, "I would never offer such a thing!" You don't have to. As a real estate investor rich in tools to find motivated sellers, you could get your next home using this lease option technique with no money down. You don't have to tell the seller that an option fee may be customary! 

Principle Pay Down: If an option is accompanied by a lease the possibilities are greater for increased equity build up. By applying a portion of the monthly lease payment amount to the purchase price of the property one has the opportunity to widen the gap between the market value and the loan amount. Depending on whether the monthly rent amount is inline with market rates...this is free money! A 30-year amortized, $100,000 loan at 7% begins at approximately $82 per month of principle payments. A $100 per month rent credit beats that, dollar for dollar, every month for almost 3 years! 

No New Loan: Possibly the most noteworthy advantage of using a lease option in the residential market is that when the optionee begins the purchase process no "new loan" is required. The prerequisite for this may be working with the right and informed mortgage broker but is usually easily accomplished through a refinance. This can mean no additional out-of-pocket money for closing. 

Appreciation: One of the typical advantages of controlling a property using an option is that the buyer retains the right to capture some, if not all, appreciation during the term. The longer the term, the greater the appreciation can be. In the single-family arena, where terms are usually 12-24 months, even moderate amounts of property appreciation can add up. For the buyer, especially, every percentage point of appreciation counts. And, if you're nice enough to offer (or get) a 24-month term in a market increasing at 3% annually, $6,000 on a $100,000 property is significant. 

It is better to use your own strategy against you, if you are in the market for new home.


