Title: 
Customer Service in Business

Word Count:
568

Summary:
This article gives an overview of the positive effects of having good customer service in the food industry. Return customers, word-of-mouth advertising, and being unique as there has been a decrease of good customer service will be the reward.


Keywords:
concession trailers, concession trucks, concession business, vending


Article Body:
When you begin any business, one of the most important things to remember is that good customer service is a necessity. The food concession business is no different. If anything, it’s more important to be friendly and have a good relationship with your customers because it’s even more difficult to build up a loyal clientele as a mobile food vending business. There are three major reasons to make sure that your employees know how important customer service is. The first is the very simple fact that if customers are treated kindly, they will return. The second is the awesome fact that if they like the customer service, they will recommend your business to others. The final reason to be great in the customer service department is that since good customer service has almost become a thing of the past and your business will stand out for it.

Customer service is a very important aspect of any business and one of the effects of great customer service is that you will have repeat customers. Repeat customers are a commodity that should be valued and catered to. Doing this will make it very easy for the people to want to come back to your establishment. The opposite side is that while many customers are very loyal when a business pleases them, they are also very reluctant to come back if they have a bad experience. You will likely never see the customer again if they have such a bad experience. Even if you make a mistake with an order, if you are quick to cater to the customer, you will see them again, most likely.

Another effect of great customer service is that satisfied customers make for great advertisement. They will be loyal, but they will also tell their friends about your business. This is great because a truly happy customer will find ways to make sure their friends try you too. Once the friends have tried your food and service, the cycle continues. They will return and tell their friends as well. The down side of this is that if your customer service is poor, that will travel even more quickly than a good report. This, in turn, will effect how other potential customers will view your business. Once you have this bad reputation, it’s an uphill battle to get people to stop and try your food.

One final reason to have excellent customer service is because there is hardly any good customer service out there anymore and your business will stand out. If you can do anything to make your business stand out, do it. This is a way to stand out in a good way. For years now, good customer service has been sadly reducing in all kinds of industries. A chance to be a leading customer service business in any industry is a great one and you should take it.

There will always be that one customer that you can’t please. That one person, that no matter what you do, you can’t do the right thing by them. Move on from this customer. Take care of your loyal return customers and try to give them as memorable of an experience that you can. With good customer service and good food, there is no limit to what type of business you can build or the amount of money that you can make.


