Title: 
Live Answering Service

Word Count:
304

Summary:
With so many automated answering services for businesses out there, customers often find themselves extremely frustrated, wishing they could talk to a live answering service instead.  Answering services have gone the route of letter writing – it’s all gone to computers in an attempt to make life simpler.  However, most customers prefer to talk to an actual person when it comes to their concerns, rather than a cold, unfeeling machine.


Keywords:
Answering Service, Phone Answering Service, Live Answering Service, Internet Answering Service


Article Body:
With so many automated answering services for businesses out there, customers often find themselves extremely frustrated, wishing they could talk to a live answering service instead.  Answering services have gone the route of letter writing – it’s all gone to computers in an attempt to make life simpler.  However, most customers prefer to talk to an actual person when it comes to their concerns, rather than a cold, unfeeling machine.

From the moment that an actual person answers a call made or transferred to a live answering service, a bond begins to form.  Personal interaction begins from the very first greeting, and the feeling that your customer is not just a commodity to be transferred over to an automated recording can be overwhelmingly touching.  Of course, with today’s busy communications demands, your customers may only receive a friendly sounding voice and an upbeat manner, but that’s really all that’s necessary to maintain a positive outlook regarding your business.

With the personalized attention and interaction that goes into a live answering service, the needs of the caller are professionally met, but with a personal touch that makes the customer feel as though their concerns, complaints, and questions are truly important to the business.

This should be kept in mind when looking for a service for your business.  A live answering service will be received by your customers with open arms, as they will be able to voice their concerns to someone who might actually be able to sympathize and care about what problems they may have.  Such a benefit will make your customers feel important and cared for, which is exactly what you want for them.  When a customer feels cared for, their opinion of your business is much higher than if your customer was transferred to a cold, unfeeling automated service.


