Osteogenic Sarcoma and Back Pain 

When doctors access osteoarthritis and osteoporosis, they will also consider Osteogenic sarcoma, or Osteosarcoma. The symptoms are amazingly similar in comparison, yet different in several ways. For instance, if osteoporosis is present the patient will experience back and joint pain, fatigue, and so on. Likewise, if Osteogenic sarcoma is present the patient may feel pain, limited range of motion (ROM), immobility, and so on. 

Osteogenic sarcoma is a malignant or benign bone tumor, yet when Osteogenic sarcoma is present, the bone malignant is present. The tumor causes invasion of the ends that rest at the elongated bones. Etiology aspects claim that Osteogenic sarcoma may limit certain activities, such as osteolytic and osteoblastic. 

The physical aspects are considered when the cell growth is unregulated and controlled by linking cell divisions. If lack of control and regulation is present, it can result in growth of abnormal tissue, which contains a tumor and/or tissues. Osteoblastic activities may cause bone-forming cells (Osteoblastic) to overdevelop or under develop the bones. Anytime the connective tissues are interrupted, it causes intense problems over the entire body. 

When osteoblasts start, the tumor begins dissolving the soft tissue and the bones, which presents danger, since the growth can travel to the lungs. (Tumors may be growth that develops into cancer, which emerges from lumps or swelling) 

Symptoms: 
When Osteogenic sarcoma is present, the patient may experience pain. Limited mobility is present as well, which causes weakness and can lead to fractures. The soft tissues often mass, spreading over the site where the tumor resides and causes the tissues to heat. The body temperature will elevate, which increases the symptoms. 

How doctors diagnose Osteogenic sarcoma? 
Doctors will often use a variety of tests, such as bone scans, aspirations to test bone marrow, biopsy, CT (Computerized Tomography) scans, blood chemistry, and so on. 

Once the tests are completed and if increases in alkaline phosphatase, cancer cells, mass, etc are noted, a diagnostics is set in motion. The diagnostic leads to medical management, nurse intervention, care, etc, which doctors will then monitor the patient to weed out further complications. 

Further complications may include metastasis and/or fractures. Fractures are severe, yet metastasis is spreading of cancer that starts from the tumor. Once it begins to spread, it travels through the body, exporting its tiny clumps to the cells and transports itself via the blood or in the lymph. The tumor is malignant, which develops and spreads if cancer is present. Osteogenic sarcoma then is dangerous. 





Treatment: 
Doctors often recommend a high-protein diet. The patient is also monitored, and treated with heparin lock therapy. As well, the patient is recommended radiation therapy, lab studies, etc. Calcium and phosphorus is also prescribed. While Osteogenic sarcoma can cause back pain, it is wise to seek information from ACS. (American Cancer Society) Having an overall view of your diagnostics can help you focus on finding a cure, or better health. 

ROM exercises, painkillers, and so forth are often prescribed when Osteogenic sarcoma is present. While the pain often starts in the various areas, thus it can spread throughout the body. The patient is often prescribed NSAID. Some activities are limited, since it can increase the pain. The patient is also advised to avoid infectious people. 

Nurse intervention often includes various treatments, which the purpose is to avert further complications, such as paralytic ileus, urine retention, sensory/motor deficits, infection, and muscle spasms. 

In addition to Osteogenic sarcoma causing back pain, osteoarthritis, osteoporosis, spinal fusions, gouty arthritis, and rheumatoid arthritis can all cause back pain. Rheumatoid arthritis is perhaps an autoimmune disease. Ultimately, it is transmitting through genetics. 

