Osteoporosis and Back Pain 

Osteoporosis causes back pain, since it affects the joints, lumbar, thoracic, and so on. The common symptoms of Osteoporosis are weakness, joint pain, back pain, height loss, unsteady gait, Kyphosis, or Dowager’s hump, and so on. Osteoporosis affects the metabolic bones, which leads to dysfunction and results in bone mass reduction and increases in porosity. While the thoracic involves the chest, if you read more about edema and related illnesses you can learn how it causes back pain. 

What causes Osteoporosis varies. Osteoporosis may emerge from drops in estrogen levels. Estrogen is a hormone that works in harmony with a selection of steroid hormones. The hormone produces in the ovaries, which stimulates sexual heat (estrus) and develops the female secondary sex characteristics. Estrus is the sexual heat we feel as females, which starts at regular intervals when excited. 

Lack of exercise, immobility, and deficiency of calcium is also considered when Osteoporosis is present. Protein deficiency, bone marrow disease, deficiency of Vitamin D, Cushing’s syndrome, Hyperthyroidism, liver disease, and increases in phosphate is all linked to Osteoporosis. 

When Osteoporosis is present the bones rate often exceeds the rate in which the bones form. Osteoporosis causes phosphate (Phosphoric Acid) to increase stimulation, which are affected by the parathyroid activities, and increases in “bone resorption.” 

Parathyroid glands are located near the thyroids, which is where parathyroid activities start to increase when Osteoporosis is present. Osteoporosis also causes estrogen to slow bone resorption. Bone resorption is the process where the bones resorb or uses other mechanics to resorb or partially fuse fluids, chemicals, etc, which emerge from hormones, such as estrogen. When the fusions are partially acting it performs actions, yet when the action is interrupted, it causes responses, in turn causing change in conditions, such as pressure or temperature. 

The actions behind Osteoporosis cause back pain, joint pain, weakness, and so on. Doctors will often order X-rays and photon absorptiometry tests to discover Osteoporosis. The tests help the doctor see thinning of the porous bones, or increases in the curves of the spine. In addition, mineral drops are noted within the tests when Osteoporosis is present as well. 

Once the doctor diagnosis the patient with Osteoporosis, he/she orders medical treatment and nurse interventions. Management includes supplements, which are commonly Vitamins D, C, Calcium, specifically Calcium Carbonates-Os-Cal. Estrace or Estradiol is added also, which is estrogen supplements. The patient is recommended to join in activities, only when tolerated. To treat the pain, doctors often prescribe NAID-based prescriptions, such as Dolobid, Naprosyn, Naproxen, Motrin, Ibuprofen, Voltaren, and so on. 

A diet must be maintained when Osteoporosis is present. In addition, the doctor monitors the musculoskeletal system, since disorders can cause additional interruptions. Doctors will generally monitor the patient’s activities, as well as limit their activities, since Osteoporosis can cause fractures or breakage of bones. The problem will lead to further complications. At this time, there are no surgical interventions to fight Osteoporosis, yet Osteoporosis is common, which experts are diligently searching for cures. 

When doctors consider Osteoporosis, they must also weed out Osteogenic Sarcoma, or Osteosarcoma, as well as Gouty arthritis, Osteoarthritis, and related disease. Many of the disease challenge doctors, since their symptoms are similar in comparison. 

If you were recently diagnosed with Osteoporosis, you may benefit from correcting the posture and training the body mechanics. Your doctor probably recommended that you do this, otherwise inquire within. 

If you were recently diagnosed with Osteoporosis, you may also want to learn more about your disorder at the Osteoporosis Foundation. Learning more about your diagnose can help you to gain control over the disease. 


