
Weight Loss and Back Pain 

In society, we are surrounded by small, medium, and large bone structures. The structure of the muscles and bones play a part in how the body is framed as it matures. Weight factors are considered by bone structure also. For instance, a medium-bone woman at the height of 5”2 can weigh up to 135 without being overweight. A larger bone structured woman can weigh a few pounds more without tipping the scale. 

Obesity however has taking over our country do to changes in feasting patterns, and the meals we eat. The damning changes include the FDA, which permits harmful additive food products, which the additives endorse, cravings. We see obesity in our future at higher scales than ever in our history. Why do you think 12 and 14 years old children are running around with large buttocks and breast? Ask FDA about the additives. The problem is these children take for granted the benefits, since down the road those buttocks and chest will balance with midriffs, thighs, and so on. 

Now you can take those cans of beans off the shelves, sit around, and do nothing about your weight, however if you do not loose weight it can lead to serious back pain. Back pain is THE worst condition of all pain we can experience, yet the condition spreads out from a wide array of causes. 

Back pain emerges from a chain of reactions, starting with the skeleton bones and moving to the skeletal muscles. Once the bones and muscles are targeted, the reactions carry on to collagen, calcium, phosphates, magnesium, joints, ligaments, tendons, cartilages, synovium, fibers, connective tissues, nerve roots, nerve endings, and gradually moves to the largest component within our body’s structure, known as the Central Nervous System. Now we have serious complications in the making. 

The chain reactions affect our hormones, metabolic; weight bearing muscles and joints, and moves to deterioration. Now, the chain reaction may not occur in like order, yet in one fashion or the other each component of the body is affected over time. 

Obesity increases the chain reaction. Back injuries alone can lead to obesity. For instance, if at one time you lift or catch a heavy object, person, etc, later down the road your back may fail, causing you enormous pain. The pain slows your actions, as well as causes emotional responses to produce symbolism messages, which can alter your life dramatically. You may feel helpless and continue life lying on your back, pitying your condition and failing to see how you can relieve your pain. Inactive muscles lead to obesity. 

In view of the fact, we see that the muscles must have proper movement daily to avoid such problems. Exercise is the key that opens the door to healthy spines and closes the door to obesity. Stop fat in its track by working those muscles. 

Emotions are powerful and tricky. You can stop the emotions from playing tricks on your mind by taking action now. If you have, a weight condition set a plan, and attempts to loose the measured weight at a scheduled interval. For instance, set your mind to loose five pounds by the end of the month. Once you loose the weight, you will notice a change in your spine, which includes reduced back pain. Set up a regimen of exercises that are suitable for you to achieve your goal. 

Tip: Dance aerobics help you to burn fat quickly. 

When you loose weight, it strengthens the muscles in your tummy and spinal column. The health advantage increases the chain reactions natural flow. Natural flow is achieved, since you reduce the amount of stress added to the joints and muscles. In view of the fact, you want to choose stretch exercises and workouts that do not overexert the joints, or muscles. 

