Are Digital Baby Monitors Safe for Children?
	
Today, almost everything has gone digital. Cellular phones, computers and even simple household appliances, such as telephones and microwaves, have all switched to digital technology. However, the growing concern of many is whether these hi-tech gadgets can be considered safe for our health, especially in gadgets such as baby monitors that are usually placed in such a close distance to children. 

A lot of parents nowadays fear that if they use a digital monitor to help them keep watch of their child, they might be exposing their offspring to too much of electromagnetic radiation and this may cause significant damage to the child’s nervous system. Children, after all, are much more prone to damage as their systems are still developing at such a young age. So we ask the question that many of these parents want to know, is it really safe to use digital baby monitors for children?

What is Electro-SMOG and How Does It Threaten Our Health?

Electro-SMOG is the electromagnetic energy that is emitted by common gadgets in our home such as our televisions, cordless phones, microwaves and digital baby monitors. Studies have been made over the years claiming that too much exposure to electro-SMOG can result to health problems affecting the nervous system of the body. A person may have such initial symptoms of headaches, disruptive sleep patterns, chronic fatigue and abnormal behavioral patterns in children. 

How Are Baby Monitors Different from Other Gadgets with Electro-smog?

Because of the huge possibility of the electromagnetic energy used in the digital technology of modern baby monitors, a lot of parents are fearful for the safety of their child. But on the other hand, manufacturing companies of these digital monitors claim that the amount of radiation that their baby monitors emit are at levels that do not pose serious danger to children. 

Phillips is one of these manufacturing companies that claim that the level of electro-smog released by their gadgets are 10,000 times lower from the safety norms that are accepted internationally. The company also adds a recommendation that for parents to have total peace of mind, they can position the monitoring device at least a meter away from the child.

Going digital in such technologies has many benefits, but there really are minimal risks involved. The digital models of baby monitors have proven over the years to be better in reception as compared to that of the older analog version. These models have also proven to be much better at providing privacy for the family. However, for many parents who are concerned with the safety of their child, switching to modern technology can certainly be frightening. 

But as long as one knows how to set certain prevention methods such as placing the monitor at a safe distance from the baby (at least one meter) and not adding a lot of other appliances inside the baby’s room such as televisions or computers, then much harm on the child’s health can greatly be prevented. Always keep in mind that the monitor’s distance from the child is very important. 

The greater the distance of the monitor from the child, then there is also a greater reduction to the amount of exposure to radiation. Most manufacturing companies nowadays have also been improving their products to make them less health threatening.

In conclusion, parents can always have the option for opting to the hi-tech digital baby monitors especially because its many benefits, but if fear for the safety of the child is still present, always remember that there are precautions that one can follow to minimize risks. 
