Baby Monitors: Mom’s Best Friend

Pregnant mothers take care of themselves during gestation knowing that everything that they come upon would affect the tiny baby growing inside them. She would take every precaution to avoid anything that is detrimental to the baby. Part of it would be choosing the appropriate nutrition and activity to ensure the baby’s safety. The mother already loves the unborn child. 

After nine long months of waiting, finally a baby is born into this world. Seeing how cumbersome the baby is, the parent’s protective nature is invoked. Any parent would vow to do everything for the baby and would not let anything harm the newborn. She would want to keep an eye on her child 24/7. However, there are a variety of roles that a parent has to perform. She has to divide her time in taking care of the baby and fulfilling her responsibilities to other family members, and most especially to themselves. 

A mother has one, two, many things to do around the house while making certain that their well-being plus their husbands satisfaction is maintained. Keeping watch of the baby round the clock is simply an impossible feat. Nowadays, the wonder of technology has contributed much to the comfort of mankind. And mothers are truly blessed to have baby monitors in their aid that would ease their burden. 

What are Baby Monitors 

Baby monitors are technological device that serve as a pseudo mother who is in vigil at bedside. It is a radio transmitter that release FM (Frequency Modulated) signal most commonly between the ranges of 48,830 to 48,890 MHz. These devices have two components, the transmitter and the receiver. Transmitters are being placed 8-10 feet within the baby or closer if possible. 

Sounds coming from the baby are being picked up and a signal is then transmitted to the receiver. On the other hand, receivers are being carried around the house or place somewhere that is accessible to the mother or whoever it is designated to keep watch of the baby. Usually, the transmitter is plugged into a socket from its stationary position while the receiver is battery operated since it could be brought anywhere. 

What Baby Monitors Do

Baby monitors generally help mothers oversee the baby without being stuck inside the baby’s room all day. Through this, mothers are able to do what must be done around the house thereby accomplishing a lot. From the time baby monitors have been first released, countless of innovations have been made. 

A variety of products not only permits auditory signals to be heard but even allow the mother from the receiver’s end to visualize their baby and play music to soothe the baby even from a distance. To this date, they are no longer just an electric device to keep an eye when the baby cries but offers a number of advantages in ascertaining the baby’s well-being. 

Some top of the trade devices have sensors placed under the baby’s mattress that detects even the most subtle of movements including the baby’s breathing. When no movement is detected for a span of 20 seconds or if breathing is below the medically accepted rate, an alarm is triggered thereby notifying mommy. 

This proves to be truly useful in perceiving life threatening conditions. Whatever type moms choose to have, it will contribute enormously in making mom’s life easier. Baby monitors are definitely mom’s best friend.
