Baby Monitors and Their Role in the Safety of Your Child
	
In the fast paced world we live in today, many obstacles come with juggling family life and work, especially with a new baby in the house. Often times, parents find it difficult to manage their efforts of doing chores while watching the baby. 

No one can be at two places at the same time, and it has been one of the major dilemmas of parents who still want to be productive around the house but more importantly want to prioritize their child’s safety. This is the very reason why baby monitors have become very useful to many parents. These gadgets allow parents to monitor the baby’s activities while they are not inside of the nursery or are working at a distance. 

What Is a Baby Monitor and How Does It Work?
	
A baby monitor is a gadget set that has a transmitter and receiver, which sends either sound or video (depending on the type) for the parent to be able to supervise the activities of the baby while he or she is away. 

There are different types of these monitors –the audio, video or sensory. The audio baby monitor receives and sends sound so that the parent could hear the baby from a distance. The video monitor on the other hand works like a tiny TV by having a camera record the baby’s movements while the parent could watch on a small screen receiver. And the sensory monitor is a movement detector that alarms the parent when it cannot perceive any movement from the child for more than 20 seconds.

How Does It Play A Role In the Safety of the Child?
	
What baby monitors basically do, is allow the parents to know their child’s activities and to watch out for any possible problems from afar, especially if the baby is asleep. Through this, they could at least do their usual work without having to feel worried that their child might not be safe inside the room alone. Many of the hi-tech monitors nowadays, especially the video or even movement sensitive monitors instantly alert the parents when there are problems detected. 

Sensory monitors even send alarms whenever it cannot detect movement from the baby for 20 seconds or more. Even the simpler models of these monitors like the audio monitor at least keeps the parents aware if their baby needs them, especially when the child cries. With this technology, parents are given a way to make sure that their baby is safe especially during times when no one is left inside the room to watch the child. 

Nowadays, it is really difficult for any parent to be able to be by their child’s side 24/7. But despite such circumstances, it is good to know that technology has managed to make life easier by giving busy moms and dads the option keep an eye on their precious little one even when they aren’t in the same room.

And no matter how busy life may get, it is at least assuring to a lot of families that there is a gadget available that truly contributes to their peace of mind and adds to the precautions that parents place in providing for their child’s safety. 
