EVPs And Baby Monitors: Ghosts or Just Interferences?

Baby monitors are devices that help parents put their tabs on their babies even though they are not are not in the same room? But what if baby monitor transmitters pick up more than what they are supposed to?

It has been the topic of discussions that baby monitors, especially audio types, pick up more than just sounds coming from the baby. Some parents tell stories of their baby monitors picking up EVPs.

What are EVPs

EVP is short for the term Electronic Voice Phenomenon. EVPs pertain to sounds or voices that are allegedly coming from beyond the grave. In the world of the ghost hunters, EVPs are voice recordings that are sent by ghosts or souls that have not moved on. These are sometimes used to prove that there really is life after death.

While some ghost hunters use sophisticated gadgets and devices to hunt down ghost phenomenon, there are those who use baby monitors. Baby monitors are good for this kind of activities since they are quite sensitive to sounds as well as other factors in the environment.

There have been a lot of reported cases by parents that they are getting signals from the baby units that are not relevant to the baby or the environment. Instead, they receive muffled, indefinable, and sometimes almost inaudible sounds which resemble voices and words coming from a human. When examined by experts, these sounds can’t be technically explained. But when examined by professional ghost hunters, they turn out to be ghost voices also known as electronic voice phenomenon.

Baby Monitors and Interference

Baby monitors can either be wired and wireless. Both types of devices have their own advantages and disadvantages. For wireless devices though, one of the disadvantages is interference. Interferences can be in the form of intercepted voices from other wireless devices such as wireless phones or static sounds. These interferences can also cause sounds to be muffled and inaudible.

So Are EVPs Real?

Do you believe in ghosts? Do you believe in the afterlife? These questions seem to have no specific and factual answers and so does the question “Are EVPs real?” A sound is just a sound and it all depends on how they are interpreted. If the sound of a cat is interpreted as a moo of the cow, then it comes from a cow. If an inaudible noise is interpreted as voices of people from the afterlife then it comes from people in the afterlife.

So are EVPs real? It all depends on what you believe in and how you interpret these kinds of sounds.
