Flats And Baby Monitors: Fixing Interference Problems

Flats and baby monitors have a very interesting relationship – the former may cause problems for the latter. This has been the concern of parents who use baby monitors in their flats. Because of the number of tenants who also use different gadgets, interference among baby monitors is quite common. With this kind of setup, security and comfort of your baby may be put at risk.

Fixing Interference Problems

Baby monitors are great help for parents who are always on the go. These gadgets enable parents to multi-task – do other chores while still being able to watch over their baby. However, these gadgets may sometimes cause annoyances rather than comfort and relief especially when you live in close proximity with your neighbours such as in flats.

Wireless baby monitors are usually the gadgets that experience this kind of problem. They experience interferences because of different factors one of which is the use of other wireless devices either in your flat or in the flat of other tenants. Luckily, there are several ways on how to, if not eliminate, at least minimize the existence of interference.

On top of the list is changing the channel or frequency of your baby monitor. If two devices are running on the same frequency, it will cause interference. So to prevent this from happening, you should try to change the frequency of either device. Wireless baby monitors are usually equipped with switches that allow parents to change frequencies easily.

The next option in fixing interference is by properly placing the baby monitor, both the baby’s and the parent’s units, in the proper location. What does it mean by proper location? It means that the baby monitors should be placed as far away as possible from other wireless devices. This includes cell phones, cordless phones, and routers. Microwave ovens could also cause interference on your baby monitor.

Since it is inevitable that you will be using other wireless devices around your flat, one of the best things you could do to prevent interference is to always prioritize your baby monitor. This can be done through switching your baby monitor on first before any other device. By doing this, you are giving the baby monitor the chance to get the most excellent signal it can. After that you can switch on all other devices but you should always have the cordless phone switched on last.

Another way to fix interference issues is by using digital baby monitors instead of analog ones. The latest digital technology has incorporated some fixes to solve interferences. The only setback with this solution is that it may cost you a little bit more. But if you do have the money for it then by all means, then go ahead and purchase one.

All of these are just some of the ways on how to fix interferences in baby monitors. They are not 100% percent fool proof solution but they will be able to help minimize interferences especially when you live in a flat. Of course, you should always remember not to depend too much on your gadgets and other devices.

If you can afford to spare some time, please do tend to your child as much as you can. No device can amount to the bonding between a parent and a baby other than by spending personal time with each other.
