Shopping For Mobile Baby Monitors

When you're a parent, you need to make use of every probable idea you can come up with in order to provide excellent care to your baby. Luckily, the modern world has brought in numerous parent-friendly products that offer help and support to first-time – or even experienced – parents. Mobile baby monitors are examples of such useful devices that make parenthood more manageable than you would expect, especially if you're a single mom or dad. 

What is a Mobile Baby Monitor?

In essence, a mobile baby monitor is a radio transmitter coupled with a receiver. The set is synchronized to a predetermined frequency band that gives off a frequency modulation (FM) signal once it is switched on. More often than not, these portable monitors send out signals between the range of 49,830 MHz and 49,890 MHz.

Why do you need to buy one?

Mobile baby monitors make it possible for parents to keep tabs on their infants without the necessity of staying awake or standing outside the nursery door all night. A typical baby monitor set consists of two parts: a radio transmitter and a portable receiver. The radio transmitter must be positioned 8 to 10 feet away from your baby's crib. Then again, you can always position it closer to the baby for better reception of sounds. 

The signal picked up by the radio transmitter is then passed on to the portable receiver, which can be carried effortlessly around the house. For as long as the receiver is within the range of distance supported by the device, you will be able to hear the sounds coming from your baby's room even if you are in another part of your house. 

To recharge the radio transmitter, simply plug it into the socket as it usually sits still at the side of your baby. Batteries, on the other hand, operate the portable receiver. Although this can be an addition cost, the price you pay in order to take pleasure in its portability is certainly worth it. 

What are the disadvantages of Baby Monitors?

First and foremost, baby monitors work more efficiently between ground floor and first floor areas. However, if your home is made of thick concrete walls or has aluminum siding, then this can terribly decrease the strength of the transmitted signal.

Parents who own baby monitors have also reported instances of interference. From time to time, their receivers are able to pick up signals from their neighbors' wireless devices – baby monitors included. Because of these occurrences, a lot of people have made it a point not to mention any private or confidential information while the baby monitor is switched on.

Interference with cordless phones and wireless routers is also a common problem. Every now and then, your baby monitor may compete with these wireless devices for better signal reception. For that reason, it is better to purchase one that features a channel adjustment capability. This way, you can change frequency bands every time you encounter interference problems.

Of course, you also need to factor in the cost of buying a baby monitor. The high-end versions can cost as much as $300 dollars or more. These mobile baby monitors normally feature a video monitoring option that allows parents to keep a closer eye on their babies. Then again, if you prefer the cheaper variety to the pricey ones, be prepared to shell out around $40 to $90 for the radio models.
