The Problems Behind Baby Monitors In Blocks Of Flats

Time and again, parents turn to technology for quick fixes to various parenting problems. These solutions are often in the form of gadgets that have the potential of making life a lot easier for the middle-class, working parents. Then again, if you live in an apartment building with a dozen – or more – tenants, you could come across a number of additional setbacks every time you try to use a wireless device. Baby monitors in blocks of flats definitely face the challenge of interfering with each other.

Fixing Wireless Interference

Baby monitors basically provide parents with an extra pair of eyes or ears. As helpful as these gadgets may be, they could also turn out to be a nuisance every time you encounter interference problems. Unfortunately, such instances could take place quite often if you live in a flat with very close (as in proximity) next-door neighbors. 

There are actually a number of ways to get rid or avoid interference issues when using baby monitors inside an apartment building. Here are some of them:

1) Change the frequency band.

Most modern wireless devices are equipped with capabilities of channel adjustments. This is one way of patching up interference problems. The process may be as effortless as sliding a switch or pushing a key. If you happen to be using a router with a wireless connection, then you should at least stay away from the uppermost or lowermost channels. These frequencies have a propensity of interfering with other devices in your home, including the baby monitor.

2) Switch on the baby monitor before other devices.

In order for the baby monitor to obtain the most excellent reception and transmission using the 2.4-GHz channel, you need to switch off all devices that operate in the same frequency. Then switch on the baby monitor followed by your other wireless gadgets. Remember that the base unit of your cordless phone should be switched on last. 

3) Purchase a digital baby monitor instead.

To make sure that your neighbors will not be able to pick up the sounds transmitted by your baby monitor, buy a digital type as an alternative to the analog version. This way, you can rest assured that the only sounds you'll hear are the ones that have originated from your baby's room.

4) Keep your electronic devices at a safe distance from each other.
 
If channel adjustments still won't work and the substitution of the appliance is not an immediate alternative, make an effort to keep the conflicting devices at a safe distance from one another. Doing so will somehow reduce the likelihood of interference.

Other Safety Tips

- Don't ever use a mere baby monitor to justify your absence. Parental supervision is undoubtedly important, especially if you live in an apartment building where strangers can easily come and go.

- Do not position a baby monitor's transmitter or receiver near water. Like any electronic device, baby monitors can cause an electrical shock if not used properly. 

- Adhere to the manufacturer's strict instructions at all times with regard to the usage and the placement of baby monitors inside your home. 

-  Handle the baby monitor with care. Do not recklessly carry the device around. Also, avoid clutching the monitor by the antenna because it can easily break.

- Safeguard the baby monitor from direct heat sources, as well as the glare of the sun. 

- Do not forget to position the baby monitor's receiver or transmitter on a sufficiently high surface that could not be reached or disturbed by other children. 

Those were some of the things you can do for problems with baby monitors in blocks of flats. If you can't completely get rid of the dilemma, you can at least do something to minimize its annoying effects.
