The Advantages and Disadvantages of Wireless Baby Monitors

Baby monitors, just like with other gadgets, have taken advantage of the developing modern technology. What was once a simple transmitter and receiver system have gone up a notch to provide parents the ease of watching over their baby without sacrificing comfort and security. As of today, parents have different choices of baby monitors one of which is the wireless baby monitors.

But even with all the advantages these gadgets provide, it is inevitable that there are also disadvantages.

Comparing Wireless With Wired Baby Monitors

Baby monitors can come as wired and wireless devices. Wired baby monitors, as its name implies, makes use of wires to be able to connect the transmitting device and the receiving device. This is a very good system when it comes to baby monitors the only setback is that, the length of wires makes mobility quite impossible. The receiver would more or less just stay in one place.

Wireless baby monitors however are more flexible than wired ones. Since it is wireless, the limitation that the length of wires provide does not apply to it making it more possible to move around the house while still being able to monitor your baby.

Almost all types of monitors, whether audio or video, can be wired or wireless. It all comes down to budget and preference.

The Advantages of Wireless Baby Monitors

As have been mentioned, the most advantageous feature of a wireless baby monitor is mobility. Imagine being able to move around the house doing all the necessary chores without losing the ability to watch over the baby. You can transfer from room to room or while even in the bathroom and still you won’t lose track of what is happening to your baby.

Another advantage of these wireless devices is the ease of setting it up. You do not have to fidget with wires to be able to set your baby monitoring system up. Just setup the wireless device for the baby anywhere you want in the room without worrying whether the length of the wire is enough to reach the other room where you will setup the receiver.

In terms of aesthetics, wireless baby monitors also provide parents an advantage. You do not have to worry about wires sticking out or going out of place.

Last but not the least you can easily transfer the device from one place to another. For example, if you want to leave your baby in the living room for a while, you can get the device from the baby’s room and transfer it to the living room without going through the difficulty of moving the wires.

The Disadvantages of Wireless Baby Monitors

If such devices have advantages, then it is possible that they also have disadvantages. This is true with wireless baby monitors. The most disadvantageous aspect of these wireless devices is interference.

Wireless interference may come as irksome sounds, static sounds or buzzing sounds. In video monitors, interference may come in the form of fuzzy or static reception. These wireless interferences are usually caused by other wireless devices around the house like the wireless phone or a router. Other wireless baby monitors from your neighbor’s house can also cause interference. Fortunately, there are ways to solve these kinds of problems like adjusting channels or changing frequencies.

Another disadvantage of wireless baby monitors is the range. It may have been freed from the clutches of wires but they are still limited on how far the distance of the baby’s device is from your device.
