The Perks Of Using Baby Video Monitors

The security and comfort of the baby always come first before anything else. But as much as you would like to always stay beside your child, it is inevitable that there are other things that also need to be taken care of. Doing two things at the same time, watching over your baby and doing your other household chores, seem quite impossible. So what do you do? You can use baby video monitors.

What are baby video monitors?

Baby video monitors are the advance version of the simplex transmitter and receiver system of baby monitors. In the past, baby monitors are only one way transmissions – audio from baby’s room are sent to parent’s receiver and that’s it. But with the fast development in technology, baby monitors have also been improved. One of these improvements is the baby video monitor.

Baby video monitors, instead of just using audio, now make use of visuals. Parents can now opt to choose whether they want a camera installed so that they may be able to monitor their baby visually. The camera sends feeds to its partner video monitor used by the parents.

Wired or Wireless

Baby video monitors can either be wired or wireless. There is really not much difference between the two in terms of monitoring quality except for the fact that wired devices use wires while the wireless ones don’t. If you intend to use the video monitor at only one location, then you may opt to use the wired version. But if you intend to use the video monitor in different places all over the house then it would be a good idea to avail of the wireless devices. Take note though that wireless video monitors also have their limitations. The device for the baby and the device for the parents must be in their proper range with each other or else wireless intermittent connection may occur.

Conventional Baby Monitors VS Baby Video Monitors

The question whether to use the conventional simplex baby monitors or the baby video monitors will all fall down to preference. If you think that using the conventional baby monitors would be enough for you to monitor your child, then so be it. But if you think that having visuals over your child would make you feel that your child is safer, then go for baby video monitors.

Baby Video Monitors Extreme

The usual setup for baby video monitors is that a camera is placed in the baby’s room then a monitor, usually an LCD type, will be carried by the parent. But now, video monitors have gone to the extreme level. Parents can now use the baby video monitors to watch over their youngling even when they are at the office. With the help of an Internet capable computer, parents can now access their baby cameras anywhere at any time.

Most of the time however, this system is used to keep tabs on your nanny, caretaker or babysitter instead of the baby. You may want to make sure that whoever is in charge of your baby at that moment in time is giving his or her utmost care and love.

Other uses of these baby video monitors system over the Internet is when you badly want to see your baby but can’t since it still office hours. Just log-in to your baby cam at home and in an instant you will be able to see your baby.
