The Different Types of Baby Monitors

Our children are our most valuable possessions. If only it was possible to be able to watch over them 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, then you would. This is most especially true when it comes to babies since they are dependent on their parents with everything that they do.

Unfortunately, parents are only humans and as such, you also get tired and will need rest from time to time. And what better way to rest than from the comforts of your room. This is where baby monitors come in handy. With these devices, you will still be able to monitor your baby even if he or she is in another room.

What Are Baby Monitors?

Basically, a baby monitor, also known as a baby alarm, is a device that can be used to monitor your children or babies even if they are located in a separate room than yours. It is a simplex transmitter and receiver system that can be used to remotely listen for different noises made by your kids and babies.

A transmitter device with a microphone is placed in the room of your baby (usually near the baby). Another device with a receiver and with speakers can be carried by you, the parents, or the baby sitter, or anyone who is taking care of the babies. With baby monitors, you can keep track of your baby’s even if you are doing something else in the proximity of your house.

Types of Baby Monitors

Baby monitors have evolved through the years. From the simple transmitter and receiver device, different baby monitors have been developed. Currently, there are two types of baby monitors: video baby monitors and audio baby monitors.

Video baby monitors, as the name implies, use video footages for overseeing events in the room where the baby is located. It incorporates the technology used by webcams in computers. Instead of only using the simple transmitter with microphone, a camera is installed with it. The receiver, instead of just having speakers, already has LCD screens installed along with them.

Video baby monitors have also taken advantage of the current technology of the Internet. With the video baby monitor installed in the room, parents can access the cameras and view the conditions of their babies even when they are at the office. All they need is a computer with Internet access and voila! Instant video feed direct from the baby’s room.

The other type of baby monitor is the audio baby monitor. This is the descendant of the basic uni-directional system used by basic and usually old monitors. These new types of baby monitors however have been integrated with new technology. Instead of just being able to hear your baby, you can now actually talk back to him or her. 

There are even some devices that will let you send commands to the baby’s device to play different music to hush him or her back to sleep.

Both types of baby monitors, audio and video, can either be wired or wireless. The wireless devices may, in some cases, be more advantageous than the wired devices since you will be able to go anywhere anytime for as long as both devices are within range.

The set back of this setup though is that wireless connections seem to be more affected with different interferences than the wired devices.
