Using Baby Monitors In Blocks Of Flats

Parents, with the hustles and bustles of modern life, turn to technology to help them with various things. These technological help come in the forms of devices that can make one’s life easier especially if you are busy with work. This holds true with the devices called baby monitors which are used by parents to watch over their babies.

But these devices all have their limitations. In the case of using baby monitors in blocks of flats with a dozen or more tenants, the devices may encounter several problems which include interference.

Resolving Wireless Baby Monitor Interference

Baby monitors are devices that help parents watch over their babies. But no matter how these gadgets may seem to help, there are times when they become annoying especially when you encounter interferences. Baby monitors, specifically wireless ones, may experience a lot of interferences especially when you live in flats with short proximity from other tenants. The chances of interference are doubled if next-door neighbors also make use of wireless baby monitors.

Fortunately, there are several ways on how to resolve interference issues when using baby monitors in blocks of flats.

1) Change The Frequency of Your Device

Wireless devices such as baby monitors are created to have the ability to change frequencies. This ability of these devices can help in resolving any interference problems. If you think this is difficult to do, think again. It can be as easy as just flicking a simple switch on the device.

2) Proper Location

Wireless baby monitors react to other wireless devices. To prevent interferences, try to place the baby monitor as far away from wireless devices as possible. This includes wireless phones, cell phones, and routers.

3) Prioritize Your Baby Monitor

If it is unavoidable that you use wireless devices other than the baby monitor, make sure that you prioritize your baby monitor. Before switching on any other wireless device, switch your baby monitor first. This will help the device get the best reception. It would also be good to note that you should switch the cordless phone base last.

4) Using Digital Monitors

The latest technology has spawned a new breed of baby monitors – digital. These types of baby monitors have been made to counter any kind of wireless interference. This may cost a little more than the analog versions, but if you do have the money to spare, then try to go digital.

Tips When Using Baby Monitors in Block of Flats

1) As much as baby monitors can help parents, personal supervision is still very important. It is more important when you live in a flat where there are a lot of people and strangers can easily come and go.

2) Just like with any electronic device, do not let your baby monitor, either the transmitter or receiver, get in contact with water. These devices have enough electricity in them to cause shock.

3) Baby monitors always come with a manual or an instruction booklet. Always follow the instructions of the manufacturer religiously so as not to encounter any problems with the device that you purchased.

4) Baby monitors, especially the parents’ units are very handy and can easily be carried around. Always remember to carry the units with care because they may break. 

These are just some of the things you can do to resolve interference when using baby monitors in blocks of flats. They may not work 100% of the time but they will 100% surely minimize instances of interferences.
