Why Purchase Baby Monitors With Two Receivers?

A baby monitor enables you to keep tabs on your baby without having to stay awake all night long. You can even do house chores during the day while making sure that your little one is safe and sleeping soundly in the next room. This helpful gadget actually comes with a wide variety of options to choose from. Perhaps you want to purchase baby monitors with two receivers so that you and your other half could both monitor sounds coming from your baby's room.

Having more than one receiver makes it possible for both parents to keep a closer eye on their little bundle of joy. You may also keep the second receiver on stand by in case your main one runs out of battery juice. In addition, an extra receiver may also come in handy especially if you have a tendency to lose things like phones, remote controls, etc.

Facts About Baby Monitors

Before you shop for a baby monitor that suits you, try to get the lowdown on these valuable modern-day parenting gadgets. A baby monitor, basically, is a radio transmitter that lets you listen to sounds coming from your baby's room. This efficient and compact device is made up of two parts: the radio transmitter and the portable receiver. 

A baby monitor is especially useful when your little one is still very young. By means of the receiver, you will be able to monitor awakenings in the middle of the night. In this way, you will know when your baby needs feeding, a diaper change or, perhaps, your mere presence and the comfort of your touch. At daytime, a baby monitor also provides you with an enormous freedom to do other things during your baby's naptime. 

As a rule, you need to place the radio transmitter within 10 feet of the crib so that it can pick up even the slightest sounds made by your baby such as breathing and movement. You can then carry the portable receiver around during the day or just leave it plugged in at the side of your bed at nighttime. These days, a good number of baby monitors are battery-operated. Some models even have extra capabilities including a video monitoring feature and an option that lets your baby hear your comforting voice.

Factors To Consider When Buying A Baby Monitor

Low-battery Indicator – As much as possible, you should purchase a baby monitor that has a low-battery indicator. In this way, you will be alerted whenever your batteries need replacement. 

Compactness – The smaller the size of the baby monitor, the more effortlessly you can carry it around. Be sure that you buy a model that allows you to place the receiver inside your pocket. An option that lets you wrap the portable device around your waistline is also an excellent alternative.

Sound-activated Light – It can be difficult to monitor baby sounds if you're trying to vacuum the floor or watch television. Fortunately, a number of baby monitors now come with a sound-activated light that illuminates each time it detects noise. This feature allows you to immediately know that something's going on without even hearing the sounds.

Double Receiver – Opting for baby monitors with two receivers is an excellent idea; that is, if you don’t mind shelling out more money than you're supposed to. At present, there are certain brands on the market that offer buyers with an option to buy additional receivers. Of course, you can always stick to the traditional choice – single receiver – in case the extra receiver is beyond your budget.
