Why You Should Use Digital Baby Monitors

Baby monitors are the parents’ best friends when it comes to keeping tabs on their babies. These devices provide an extra ear and extra eye to ensure the safety of the little ones.

In the past, baby monitors were simple gadgets making use of a transmitter and receiver system. But now, as modern day technology progresses, so do the baby monitors. As of today, digital baby monitors have risen up to provide parents better quality and functionality when it comes to baby monitors.

Digital Baby Monitors and Other Baby Monitors

One obvious difference between digital baby monitors and other old baby monitors is that it’s digital! This however does not in any way mean that the former is far more superior to the latter. It’s just that they use newer technologies to aid parents in taking care of their babies. 

Advantages of Digital Baby Monitors

Digital baby monitors make use of modern digital technology thus giving them a little bit of an edge against other analog baby monitors.

When it comes to audio and video baby monitors, quality offered by digital technology is superb. Another advantage that digital technology has is that it provides clearer reception. The digital receivers, whether a microphone or s camera, are also more sensitive to sound and visuals respectively.

One problem of analog baby monitor devices is the fact that there are instances when neighbours can actually tap in to the signal of your baby monitors and listen. With the digital technology, privacy is kept since it broadcasts private signals that only you, the parents, have access to.

Another dilemma that has plagued analog baby monitors before is the range. There is no total mobility since parents can easily get out of range from the baby unit. But with digital monitors, the range of the devices has been extended making it more possible for the parents to roam around the house without worrying of getting out of range.

Disadvantages of Digital Baby Monitors

Digital baby monitors do also have their fair share of disadvantages. One of the most controversial topics about digital technology in baby monitors is health risk. Since these digital devices make use of signals like electro magnetic waves, they may cause health problems to babies especially when they are at that stage when growth and development is on "rapid mode."

A solution developed to counter this problem simply states that parents should put the baby monitor as far away as possible from the child without sacrificing the quality of monitoring. This way, exposure to the harmful waves is, if not eliminated, at least minimized.

This next issue can be a disadvantage for some people but not for others. This issue is about the price. Digital baby monitors are quite more expensive compared to other baby monitors. This is expected though since it is using the latest of modern technology. If you have the right budget or extra money to spare, then the issue of price is not really that of a disadvantage for you.

Conclusion

Digital baby monitors are the latest devices that have emerge from the baby monitor market. They may have some edge over older analog gadgets but the latter are nevertheless still effective. If you opt to use the latest technology when it comes to baby monitoring, and if you have extra money to spare, then digital baby monitors are the right devices for you.
