Title: 
Mesothelioma: Your Health In Jeopardy

Word Count:
355

Summary:
Are you at risk of Mesothelioma? 

If you are above 40 and have ever been exposed to asbestos continuously for more than 2 months in last 15-40 years, then you are at risk of Mesothelioma. It is a rare but deadly cancer of membrane cells, which covers some vital parts of our body like lungs, abdominal cavity and heart, called mesothelium. Like in other cancers, in mesothelioma the membrane cells divide ruthlessly causing abnormal growth, which ultimately damage the lining o...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Are you at risk of Mesothelioma? 

If you are above 40 and have ever been exposed to asbestos continuously for more than 2 months in last 15-40 years, then you are at risk of Mesothelioma. It is a rare but deadly cancer of membrane cells, which covers some vital parts of our body like lungs, abdominal cavity and heart, called mesothelium. Like in other cancers, in mesothelioma the membrane cells divide ruthlessly causing abnormal growth, which ultimately damage the lining of vital organ such as lungs and abdomen. 

Causes of Mesothelioma 

Asbestos a mineral, used in different processes including building, shipyard and manufacturing in the days of World War II and for a few more decades, is the main cause of Mesothelioma. Researches have proved that those who have worked in asbestos related industries are mostly at risk of Mesothelioma. The minute asbestos particles go into human body through nose or mouth during inhalation, talking or any other reason. They reach lungs or abdomen and damage the lining, causing Mesothelioma. Due to its long latency period, mesothelioma can attack you even 15 – 40 years after the inhalation of asbestos particles. Even the family members of person working in asbestos related industries could be vulnerable to mesothelioma. 

Treatments for Mesothelioma 

Because Mesothelioma is a newly found disease, many doctors may not be able to diagnose it. However, if you have a known history of asbestos exposure you should ask your doctor to look for the symptoms of this disease. The good news is that there is a treatment for mesothelioma in the early stages. Some treatment options for mesothelioma cancers are surgical removal of the effected tissues; chemotherapy and radiotherapy. However, the prognosis of later stage mesothelioma patients is bleak and the average survival time after diagnosis is 12-24 months. 

Mesothelioma Compensations 

The owners of Asbestos related industries were quite aware of the health hazards of asbestos. However, they persisted with its use without issuing any warnings or taking steps for avoiding the health hazards. This is the reason why US courts have awarded huge sums as compensations to the Mesothelioma patients/families by the companies/persons responsible for causing asbestos exposure.


