Title: 
Mesothelioma Statistics - An Eye-opener

Word Count:
406

Summary:
What are Mesothelioma Statistics? 

Mesothelioma statistics are data about mesothelioma – a dangerous cancer that affects the lining of the lungs and the abdomen. In some cases, mesothelioma can affect the heart and reproductive organs too. It is a fatal disease with patients surviving for only one-two years after the diagnosis. 

What have Mesothelioma Statistics Revealed? 

Mesothelioma statistics have revealed that nearly seventy to eighty per cent of all cases of me...


Keywords:



Article Body:
What are Mesothelioma Statistics? 

Mesothelioma statistics are data about mesothelioma – a dangerous cancer that affects the lining of the lungs and the abdomen. In some cases, mesothelioma can affect the heart and reproductive organs too. It is a fatal disease with patients surviving for only one-two years after the diagnosis. 

What have Mesothelioma Statistics Revealed? 

Mesothelioma statistics have revealed that nearly seventy to eighty per cent of all cases of mesothelioma have been directly traced to prolonged exposure to asbestos. Asbestos was a frequently used material in construction, railroad, factory, shipyard and automobile industries. Mesothelioma statistics were able to highlight the link between asbestos and cancer nearly sixty years ago. However, unscrupulous industries have chosen to continue using asbestos for profit motives.
 
Mesothelioma statistics also portray mesothelioma to be a silent killer. This is because the disease lies dormant in the body for periods between ten to fifty years. It is usually diagnosed in patients when they are between fifty and seventy years of age. Normally the diagnosis of mesothelioma is only after the case has reached the last stage and there is very little hope for the survival of the patient. 

Mesothelioma Statistics Related to Mesothelioma Treatment: 

The sad reality is that mesothelioma has no cure. According to mesothelioma statistics, after diagnosis, the average survival rate is only 12-24 months. Even with early detection and treatment, the survival rate can be stretched out to five years. Mesothelioma treatments are very expensive and usually range – between four hundred thousand and eight hundred thousand dollars. This is the reason why most of the mesothelioma patients have to file lawsuits to recover medical and other costs related to this killer disease. 

Is There Anything That Mesothelioma Statistics Is Not Able To Reveal? 

Mesothelioma statistics reveal only the numbers of patients who have already been diagnosed with mesothelioma. This number is between two to three thousand new cases every year. However, mesothelioma statistics is not able to reveal or predict the numbers of people who continue to slowly develop the cancer inside them. There is no statistical data to provide the probable number of mesothelioma patients in the coming future. 

How Can Mesothelioma Statistics Be Helpful? 

Government regulations make mesothelioma patients eligible for compensation. Mesothelioma statistics can help in providing valuable information about the disease for compensation claims and lawsuits. Moreover, mesothelioma statistics can also help the mesothelioma victims and attorneys to gather valuable information for supporting their compensation claims.


