Title: 
What is Mesothelioma Cancer?

Word Count:
482

Summary:
Mesothelioma is a form of cancer that affects the abdominal cavity, chest cavity, and the area around the heart.  It has an uncommon nature that makes it difficult to diagnose and treat.


Keywords:
mesothelioma cancer,mesothelioma,asbestos


Article Body:
Mesothelioma is a form of cancer that affects the abdominal cavity, chest cavity, and the area around the heart.  It has an uncommon nature that makes it difficult to diagnose and treat.  It has been connected with exposure to asbestos, which is a material that was found in many work environments.  There is a small amount of people that are diagnosed with this terrible disease.  

Normal mesothelioma therapies include surgery, radiation and chemotherapy. You should keep in mind that if you choose one course of action for mesothelioma treatment, you might preclude other courses. All of your options should be considered as soon as possible.

When individuals have a prolonged history of working with asbestos, they are at higher risk of Mesothelioma cancer.  It will take the people that have been exposed to this type of asbestos to not have any kind of symptoms for up to forty years.  This means that the average age of the people that are finding out that they have this problem are between the ages of fifty and seventy.  There are more men that are being diagnosed than women.  This is due to the fact that there were more industrial settings found to have the asbestos. 

Mesothelioma cancer will cause fluid to accumulate between the lung lining and the chest cavity.  This can be determined through a chest x-ray as well as a CT scan.  A biopsy will have to be performed to confirm the diagnoses.  

Mesothelioma cancer is a life threatening disease and should not be left untreated.  If someone had this type of cancer, they need to seek the help of a medical professional as soon as possible.  There are forms of treatment that have to be set into place so that the person has a chance at their life.  

In recent years asbestos has not been used in anything.  Since it has been determined that it is so dangerous to one’s health, the federal government has forbad the use of this type of material in any industry or products.  A lot of the industries in the fifties and sixties were contaminated with asbestos that caused many people to have mesothelioma cancer.  

Many sources are dedicated to help the victims of this awful disease.  Many agencies are going to great lengths to help the people that have been affected and the families that have had to suffer because of this terrible disease.  Even though this is a rare disease, it can affect thousands of families each year.  

Some of the treatments of Mesothelioma cancer include surgery, radiation and chemotherapy.  You need to keep in mind that if you choose one course of treatment for this disease, you may have to take on another challenge or even try another form of treatment for it to work.  You must keep going and try all that is offered to ensure that you beat this terrible disease.


