Body Building for a Woman


Men aren’t the only ones who can build a great body.  Body building for a woman is a great way to lose weight, get fit, and look great.  An effective body building program won’t make a woman look muscular necessarily.  This is one reason why many women hesitate to start lifting weights and exercise intently.  What a good body building program for a woman will do is sculpt a beautiful body that you can be proud of.

Body building in general started gaining popularity in the 1970’s after the release of the movie “Pumping Iron” starring Arnold Schwarzeneggar.  It was about this time that the women’s liberation movement began rising in popularity as well.  As women started standing up for their rights, they also began to exercise their options to do what men were doing – and that included body building.

Now, there are two categories of body building women:  those who work for health and those who work for competition.  Of course, any body building program for a woman will have great health benefits, but those who want to compete will find themselves working in a different way.

Many women hesitate to start a body building program because they don’t want to look like male body builders with huge muscles and oversized shoulders and legs.  But women are different from men in that they cannot naturally produce the huge amount of testosterone that men have which contributes to large muscles in men.

Body building for a woman is more about sculpting muscles to look toned and strong – not to become large and massive.  It can happen for those women who choose to use illegal substances such as steroids.  But body building for a woman who chooses the healthy route will simply make a chiseled body that looks and feels great.

Many people think the female body is naturally a work of art, but it’s easy to get off track with the stresses of every day life – especially for women.  They are expected to hold to a pre-conceived ideal of what a woman is supposed to look like.  But every woman is different just as every woman’s body is different.

Body building for a woman can make her more confident, feel better about herself, and look great in the process.  Many people think that the strong, chiseled muscles that female body builders have IS the ideal of what a woman is supposed to look like.  Getting healthy and staying healthy is important for everyone.  Body building for a woman can help get her there and stay there.
