Body Building Exercises


In a body building program, the exercises that you do can make all the difference between an effective program and one that won’t do much good.  The good thing is that there are many, many body building exercises you can incorporate into your workout that will help grow your muscles and keep you fit and trim.

For big legs, you’ll want to do a lot of barbell squats and dead lifts.  The resistance you are putting on your legs when you perform these types of exercises will push your muscles to make them grow.  That’s the point of an intense workout program in the first place.  Lifting weights with your legs instead of your arms will help the quadriceps and hamstrings become tight and fit.

When working your arms, the body building exercises you should count on will consist a lot of barbell and dumbbell curls and well as bench presses.  It’s easy when performing these exercises to just concentrate on lifting the weights, but what you really need to do is focus on the strain the weights are putting on your arm muscles.  Really push them as you are lifting and feel how they are working in response.

Great abs are formed much in the same way as any other muscle group.  They need to be worked, strained, and pushed in order to become toned.  You can get that toned, sculpted look by doing simple sit ups and crunches, but weights can help too.  Try hanging from a chin up bar and lifting your knees up, or get on a machine specially designed to tone the ab muscles.

When working the upper back, a pull-down bar machine will make all the difference in the world.  This is a two handled curved bar that is attached to weights with a pulley system.  You pull the bar down with your shoulders behind you.

It’s important when choosing body building exercises that you pick the ones that you are physically able to do.  Then be very conscious of the way the exercise is supposed to be performed.  If you don’t pay special attention to your form, you risk injury which can set back your body building program significantly.

Do your research on what types of body building exercises will work specific muscle groups and then incorporate them into your workout regimen.  Pick a variety of exercises that will make your body everything you dreamed it could be and do them on a regular basis.  The reward is a toned, fit body that you can be proud of!
