Body Building National Championship


When you start competing in body buildings contests, you have many, many choices.  Mention a national body building national championship, and the choices are just as diverse.  There really is no one national championship for body building, there are many.  But some are considered more important than others and carry more weight.

National body building championships are sponsored by various organizations.  For example, the NPC National Body Building championship contest is thought to be one of premier contests among serious body builders.  NPC (National Physique Committee) is a very well-respected organization and their national championship events are always well-attended.

Many body building national championships are sanctioned by NPC.  If a contest carries the NPC name, you know you’ll be entering a competition that will be well-run as well as carry some weight.  If you’re lucky enough to win one of their body building national championships, you can wear the title with pride.

The Amateur Athletic Union (AAU) is another organization that sponsors national body building championships.  These contests are, obviously, for amateur athletes and can be great places for beginning body builders to start out with before moving on to more involved contests.

Then, of course, you have the Mr. and Ms. Olympia contests which often are considered THE national body building championship competitions.  Made famous worldwide by Arnold Schwarzeneggar when he won back in the 1970’s, these contests are highly competitive with the winners often looked upon as people with perfect bodies.

Some body building magazines will also hold their own national championship contests.  Magazine like Muscle & Fitness and Flex will sponsor body building contests and feature the winners in their magazines.  These contests can be great ways to gain some incredible exposure for you as a serious body builder.

When you are looking for a body building national championship, find one that is sponsored by a well respected organization such as the NPC.  When you participate, know that the others are out to be considered the best in the country just as you are, so you will want to be on top of your game when competing.

If you are lucky enough to win a body building national championship, you will be an award winning body builder.  That’s a title you can be proud of and one that you should let people know about.  You will be taken seriously as a body builder when you win a body building national championship, so be proud of your accomplishment.

So get out there and compete!  You’ve worked hard, it’s time to show off your body and gain notoriety for your efforts.  Body building national championships are the way to go.  Good luck!
