Body Building Magazines


When you are serious about body building, you will want to subscribe to a few body building magazines so that you can learn more about this great sport.  Body building magazine offer so much information to both professionals as well as amateurs, that NOT subscribing to one is a huge mistake.

Besides the obvious advice that the articles will offer you, you will see much more inside the pages of popular body building magazines.  You will get pictures of people who are considered to be ideals in the industry.  You will receive reviews of popular supplements that can enhance your body building endeavors.

You will get information about the latest contests and competitions and how to succeed when you decide to enter a contest.  These magazines have articles written by experts in the field and can offer up tips and techniques that you probably won’t find anywhere else.

It’s a good idea to subscribe to at least two body building magazines if you are an avid enthusiast.  When you read these magazines, pay special attention to what the articles have to say.  They can offer up some amazing information that will help you in both your workouts as well as with your diet.

What are the best magazines to subscribe to?  The choice, of course, is personal, but there are a few magazines that remain in the forefront of the body building industry.  Here are a few to consider:

* Flex

This magazine is considered the “bible” of hardcore body building.  They do interviews with experts in the field and offer up some amazing advice for both the experienced as well as novice body builder.

Find them online at www.flexonline.com or subscribe to the paper edition for just $29.97 per year for 12 issues.

* Muscle & Fitness

This also is a highly respected magazine in the body building industry.  Each issue refers a lot to the principles of fitness and body building.  They give some good information on nutrition, weight training, and many other topics of interest to body builders.

Find them online at www.muscleandfitness.com or subscribe for $29.97 per year for 12 issues.

* Ms. Fitness

Touted as one of the best body building magazines for women, each month, they give information about upcoming contests, new developments in the area of female body building, and much more!

Their web address is www.msfitness.com.  You can also subscribe for the low price of $12.00 per year for four issues.

When you are serious about body building, you can’t go wrong when you subscribe to body building magazines.  They can help keep you on track with your goals and make you shape the body you’ve always wanted.
