Body Building Clothing


There are two categories of body building clothing that we can refer to.  The first involves what you wear when you work out.  The other is what to wear in a body building competition.  The variety of body building clothing is a million dollar market filled with choices and possibilities.

When you are doing your work out, the key to what clothing you wear is comfort.  You will want to wear clothes that you can move about in easily.  You will be sweating, so you want the fabric to be breathable and allow for enough ventilation that you won’t become over-heated.

Some companies manufacture body building clothing that is both stylish as well as functional.  For certain people, looking good at the gym is important for them.  Still others could care less what they look like.  They’re there to work their muscles and grow their bodies.

For both men and women, good choices in body building clothing include tank tops and shorts.  You can also choose sweat pants or spandex pants that will hold in the sweat you will be generating.  This can lend to weight loss as you lose fluid and work your muscles.

Body building clothing that you wear at competitions or contests is very different from what you will wear in the gym.  In contests, the emphasis is on showing off your body.  Clothing in body building competitions can be very important.

You will want to choose something that will show a maximum amount of skin without being too risqué.  For both men and women, that means swim suits.  Men should pick a small Speedo-type suit, and women should choose tasteful bikinis.

Showing off your muscle tone depends on the judges being able to see all muscles you are focusing on.  By exposing as many muscles as you can, you can show off what you’ve been working so hard to achieve.

Pick a color that is complementary to your skin tone.  You will want to tan before competing, so a light color is always a good choice.  Men usually are barefoot in these competitions while women often opt for high heels, but going barefoot is also very appropriate for women as well.

While the clothing you choose for body building isn’t as important as the workout you get, it can make a difference between an effective workout and one that isn’t.  If you are constricted by clothing that is too tight, your body building efforts will be in vain.  Plus, you won’t want to get overheated during a workout or else you risk injury to yourself and contribute to fatigue.  

Choose your body building clothing with comfort in mind for the workout portion, and baring the most amount of skin for competitions.  Once you make your choices, let your body building clothing speak for itself.
