John Cena on Body Building


Many people know John Cena as one of WWE’s most prominent wrestlers.  But the reality is that John Cena is also known as a beautiful specimen of what body building can do.  John Cena has been fully involved in the body building industry for many years, and he has come to be known as one of the premier body builders of modern times.

Not only has John Cena found worldwide fame as a professional wrestler, he has also found amazing respect in the body building world as a great example of what effective body building can do.  He is constantly featured at the Arnold Expo and many people want to emulate his body as well as his workout regimen.

Most people get into body building to sculpt a beautiful body.  John Cena is no different.  He wanted a great body, but he also wanted to be super strong.  When Vince McMahon approached him about joining the WWE, the temptation was just too much to resist.  But, really, when you think about it, it’s a natural transition.

Professional wrestlers all have amazing bodies.  Their muscles are tight and toned just like professional body builders.  They just use their muscle mass for different entertainment purposes.  That doesn’t make John Cena any different than Arnold Schwarzeneggar.  Cena just chose to use his physique in a different way.

One of the best parts of John Cena’s body building career is that he pursued the sport as a profession.  He graduated from Springfield College with a degree in exercise physiology.  When he couldn’t find work in his chosen field, he opted to go with professional wrestling in his career path.  And nothing could have proved to be a better choice than that for him!

What does John Cena say about body building?  The answer is that he advocates pretty much what the other expert say:  Choose a program that fits your lifestyle and your goals; never give up on your aspirations; work like you’ve never worked before and always remember why you are doing what you are doing; and make sure that you work all your muscle groups equally.

John Cena has made an amazing career out of his body building prowess.  He is truly a beautiful specimen and a great model for what the human body can do.  When you want to build your body, you could take a few hints from John Cena on how to build a great body with amazing strength.
