Women’s Body Building


The images conjured up when you mention women’s body building are often flawed.  When we speak of women’s body building, we’re not talking about beefed up women with huge muscles who resemble their male counterparts.  No, women’s body building is much more than that.

Body building for women means working out for fitness sculpting a tight, toned body.  It means losing body fat and weight by working out with weights and performing a well-balanced cardio workout as well.  It means taking good care of your body making it something you can really be proud of and show off.

Women are unable to grow muscles like men when they undertake a body building regimen.  The testosterone that males naturally produce isn’t produced in a woman’s body in the same amount.  Testosterone is what helps grow muscles, so unless women use testosterone supplements in their body building workout, they won’t grow the same way men do.

But women can follow the same body building guidelines as men when they are devising their workout program.  You should have a well-balanced workout plan where you work each muscle group in your body at least one day a week.  Focus on straining the muscles so you get maximum results out of the resistance that weights can supply.

An intense cardio workout is also important as it will give you the strength and energy you’ll need to continue your workout.  Get on a treadmill or a stair step machine at least twice a week and work up a sweat.  If you’re more comfortable with just doing a cardio workout when you’re not weight lifting, that’s fine.  Try weight lifting on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday and do your cardio on Tuesday and Thursday.

Follow a strict diet plan also when you are undertaking a body building program.  That doesn’t mean depriving yourself of food, that means changing your eating habits so that the things you put in your body work for you instead of against you.  That means lots of protein and carbohydrates and cutting down on your sugar intake.  You should also be drinking lots and lots of water as well.

Women’s body building is rising in popularity as more and more women have begun taking a real interest in the way their bodies look.  As a sport, women’s body building is also a very competitive industry.  When you undertake a fitness program, you should give it everything you have, but be sure you do it right.  You don’t want to risk injury.  What you do want is a great body you can be proud of.  Now get out there and go for it!
