Addressing a Bullying Victim - Tips for Teachers

Bullying is all too common in schools today. It is also a problem that should not be taken lightly; bullying can have serious consequences. Children bully for many reasons and sometimes it resolves itself and other times permanent damage can be done to bullying victims. Because of the possibility of physical and emotional injury, all cases of bullying must be taken seriously.

Teachers are often the first adults to realize that bullying is occurring because they can observe children interacting. Helping a bullying victim can be a sensitive matter, but both bullies and bullying victims must be dealt with to ensure that the bullying stops. If you are a teacher or caregiver, there are some tips you can use to help a bullying victim.

You should let the bullying victim know that you care about them and are concerned about what is happening. At the same time, being overly sympathetic especially in front of others can be counter productive. Do not try to discuss the problem with a bullying victim until you are alone or not in the presence of any other children. Ask that the bullying victim tell you exactly what is happening and reassure them that their feelings are normal and that it is not their fault. Let the bullying victim know that talking about their problem to your and their parents will only help the situation and is the right thing to do. Give the bullying victim tools and information to cope with and prevent further bullying issues.

Talking to the parents of the bullying victim is also important. Parents and teachers working together is the best way to stop bullying and help a bullying victim. You should also speak with the parents of the bully so that they can address the problem at the cause. Explain what is happening in a non-confrontational manner and dispel any misunderstandings about bullying that parents may have. Many parents think that bullying is normal and is no big deal, but once they know how serious it can be they will be more concerned.

You should give parents tools and information to help them address bullying issues with their child. Teachers play an important role in preventing and solving bullying problems. Both the bullying victim and the bully should be counseled on ways to deal with their problems to prevent bullying in the future.

Bullying is a very common problem that children face, and eventually you will have to deal with it head on. Remember that it is a touchy subject with most children and they may be reluctant to talk about it. Because bullying can turn into a serious problem, it should not be ignored. Do your best to reassure the bullying victim and make the bully aware that their actions are not acceptable and can have serious consequences. Parental involvement is also important and can go a long way to solve the problem. Addressing both the bullying victim and the bully in a timely fashion is the best way to curtail bullying in your school.
