How Fast Your RC Car Can Go?

The best way to get started with RC cars is getting a simpler and slower vehicle. It may not be your dream RC car but it will prepare you to boost its speed and power. Getting help through other enthusiasts will make it easier for you to get going in the RC car world. There are accessories and tools available for RC cars that you can employ to tune it and prepare it for the tracks.

The Pre-built RC car

But before you can do that, the electric RC car may be for you. This is a popular choice for the starters in the RC car world. It is equipped with a rechargeable Nickel Metal Hydride battery pack, which comes with a quick charger when the power runs out. A full-charged battery may typically bring your RC car running for hours. This already comes pre-assembled with typically a 2-channel RTR (ready-to-run), radio system. This is pre-assembled to fit needs of new modelers and/or backyard drivers.  

When you are done with the electric-powered RC car and have finished learning with all the basics, you may start considering getting a gas RC car, powered by nitromethane-based fuel. If you prefer otherwise and you think you have improved your skills, you can instead upgrade your car's speed and operations. A new engine or hotter motor can be added. You can start getting rid of the bushings and replace them with ball bearings. There are many RC car accessories you will find most essential in upgrading your car so check out the store.

RC car kit 

The RC car kit will be most ideal for you if you want more fun and consider yourself professional enough to the assembling job. A kit comes with all necessary parts, such as the body, engine, electronic or motor speed control, plus owner's manual for the instructions. In building your model, trimmings of excess material may be required from the clear Lexan plastic material of the body. With a special polycarbonate, you can paint the body with the color of your choice. 

Along with the chassis that comes with the kit, you get some tools needed for the building of your model such as nut drivers, screwdrivers, pliers, and others. One edge of building a kit over a pre-built car is that it will make you understand how the machine works. This comes in handy when there are needs of tuning and during maintenance of the car.  

Ready for the competition

Preparing your car for the competition would require lots of works. Sometimes, when getting a competition-version RC car does not include the engine as it is typically left to the hands of the driver the kind that he prefers. In other cases, the kit is sold with the chassis only so the rest of the parts would still be left at your judgment. Your work with the car should allow for a competition car that will have more aggressive power and higher speeds.

How fast you want your car would go depends on your work. If this were meant for the competition, you would not want it to be left behind the track so you better get all the necessary details and works done. 

On the other hand, if you are a beginner you better not expect the best results. It is natural for beginners to get mistakes on the first scenarios of the competition. As you move along with the track, you will find yourself going better. 

Mingling with the rest of the competitors would offer you tips and tricks with the works. For additional information, you can research everything you need to build the fastest RC car by visiting websites and reading books.
