What You Need to Know About Nitro RC Cars

Because of the movie "The Fast and the Furious" many people today think that the word "nitro" means having something extra on your car that boosts its speed. Thus, many people who encounter the term "Nitro RC Car" think that it refers to an RC car that's been upgraded. 

This thinking could also be due to the fact that many people think that gas powered RC cars actually run on gasoline. This is a very wrong assumption. The term "Nitro RC Car" is actually synonymous with "gas powered RC car" because of the fact that this type of RC car uses a specialized mixture of nitromethane and lubricant to run. 

So what do you need to get started with Nitro RC cars?

1) Experience- Before you go ahead and get a Nitro RC car, you need to have sufficient experience with an electric RC car. This is because of the fact that Nitro RC cars can be too much to handle if you are a noob in RC car usage. This is the reason why people who want to get into the hobby of RC cars are advised to get electric RC cars before they move on to Nitro RC cars. 

2) Interest- Without the right interest to drive you, why would you get into Nitro RC cars? You need to have some reason in order to truly get something from the hobby of Nitro RC cars. This is because Nitro RC cars will cost you some money and nobody spends money on something that they will not profit from in some way. The "profit" in this case does not refer to financial gain exclusively.

3) Information- You need to know different things before you get started with Nitro RC cars. This is because Nitro RC car racing can be a very complicated business. Having the right information can help you a lot in getting the car that you want and taking care of it. In fact, having the right information about Nitro RC cars can help you profit from the hobby financially.

4) The right materials- Many people wonder exactly what tools and materials you need to get into the Nitro RC car hobby. Here are just some of the things you are going to need:

a) Nitro RC car kit- This pretty much contains everything you are going to need to build yourself a "basic" Nitro RC car. This is a kit containing what you need to build the car itself including the engine, the chassis and the whole enchilada. Beginners are advised to stick to the specifications found in the manual included with Nitro RC car kits. As you progress in the hobby, you may want to divert from the basic look of your car and start customizing your vehicle.

b) Fuel- The nitromethane-castor oil mixture used in powering Nitro RC cars can be found in various hobby shops and stores. Remember: you must never attempt to use gasoline to run your Nitro RC car. The fuel used to run Nitro RC cars is less volatile than gasoline for the reason that the engine may explode if used with gasoline. This means that if you want to enjoy the Nitro RC car hobby for a long time, use only the type of fuel recommended. By doing so, you will ensure that Nitro RC car racing will grow with you.
 