Getting Hooked with RC Cars

Radio controlled car or RC car is one of the most played toy car by kids and even teens.  RC car lovers spend much of their time playing car racing with this radio controlled cars. It offers an endless amount of thrill and excitement of race and the speed of each type of car.

RC car consists of two units – the car and the remote control or radio. Radio control consists of two sets of joysticks. One is to control the backward and forward movement and the other is for side-to-side movements. Less expensive radio controllers are powered by a number of rechargeable batteries. The other type of radio controller is also powered by batteries but with actual gas-powered engines.

With the growing popularity of RC cars, manufacturers offer different kinds of models and types to fit with every buyer or user. Some makers offer RC cars for kids in low cost and some were modeled after the real-life counterpart such as Ferraris, Porsches and Lamborghinis.

There are different kinds of RC cars that you can select, from its body type, model, style, color or in any size. On the other hand, there are some distinctions you need to consider in choosing RC car. 

First, you will choose between electric RC and gas powered cars. Then you’ll choose for road racing or off-road racing models. Also if it is assembled or non-assembled as you purchase it and lastly, if you want to have it a car type or a truck type.

Car racers usually choose the RC cars that run on nitro gasoline or the so-called Petrol RC cars. It is the most popular and the fastest growing piece of the RC cars. Using petrol vehicles, you now can purchase the popular RC trucks that can jump at high speed and go off the road driving. And if speed or velocity is more of your concern, acquire the race cars that are inevitable in prepared tracks or along pavements.

Typically, petrol RC cars operate fast unlike the electric cars. Some of the nitro cars run in 70 to 90 mph. This electric or gas powered RC cars run on a special fuel made just for radio controlled cars. 

The most popular sizes of nitro RC cars are 1/8 and 1/10 scale. 1/8th scale is popular for off-road trucks and buggies while the 1/10th scale is the industry standard for on-road racers. The 1/8th scale come with a 2 or 3 speed transmission.

Most of the petrol RC cars or nitro cars have a pull engine that is similar to a lawnmower for easy operation. It is very important to follow instruction in running the nitro vehicles because it is more complicated than electric cars.

Nitro vehicles are available in the 2-stroke motor or the less conventional 4-stroke version. The 2-stroke motor requires a fuel oil mixture and the 4-stroke motor has a reservoir of oil and can run on straight fuel. The 2-stroke is more suitable in racing because it has the advantage of producing the higher rpm or the revs up faster. On the other hand, the 4-stroke engine is much better for off-road use because it has more power and torque.

It is necessary to regularly maintain and check your nitro vehicle for long last usage and also for better performance. Some loves on tuning and tweaking their cars. Always check the car parts such as header, pull start cord, differential, air filter and the clutch.

