Different Types of RC Car Bodies

The term "RC car body" usually refers to the shell or outer covering of the RC car. This gives the general appearance of the RC car. There are some things you should know about RC car bodies:

Two classifications - there are two general classifications of RC car bodies. These are based on how you get them:

a) Pre-built- This is the type of RC car body that comes with pre-assembled cars. This type of RC car body usually has a look that's more or less similar to other bodies that a company builds. It is often the case that people buy this type of RC car body in order to showcase the craftsmanship. Many pre-built RC car bodies are based on real cars. This means that you can buy almost any type of car you can dream of.

b) Customized- There are people who choose to shun the uniform look of pre-built RC car bodies and prefer instead to add their personal touches to its look. Customized RC car bodies are often made use of by long time enthusiasts who want to accomplish one of two objectives:

1) Aesthetical enhancement- People who want to make their RC cars look better than what's conventional often try to customize their own RC car bodies. There are many who succeed in this endeavor, but there are also a lot of people who just end up buying a new pre-built RC car body.

2) Performance enhancement- There are those who design RC car bodies to achieve the objective of enhancing a car's performance. Many people who customize RC car bodies often do so in order to improve the aerodynamics of their vehicle. This helps them speed up the RC car.

There are also certain recognizable types of RC car bodies available today:

1) Realistic- This, of course, refers to the various types of RC car bodies which are modeled after real cars. It is often the case that this RC car body type is based on a winner of a competition such as the World Rally Championships. It could also be based on "cool" cars such as the Hummer.

This RC car body type is often judged by its faithfulness to the original. It is also highly regarded for the craftsmanship. People who own this type of RC car body often make use of it in "on-road" races as it minimizes the potential for damage.

2) Monster Truck- This type of RC car body is made for one thing: bashing. It is often the case that people who have this type of RC car body make use of their RC cars to leap ramps, "off-road" races, and generally to have as much fun with their vehicles as possible. The monster truck RC car body is often made to be durable which means that it can survive most of the maneuvers that owners put it through. This is the undisputed king of RC car bodies.

3) Racing buggy- These are vehicles made to race. Whether it's off-road or on, it is definitely made for speed. This type of RC car body is made to conquer every type of terrain you put it in. It has a distinctive triangular shape meant to make this RC car body more aerodynamic as you use it to dominate every race.
 