Why People Love to Watch RC Car Videos

A lot of different videos can be found on the internet. Some can be silly. Other videos can be touching. Some videos can be eye-opening. There are videos which can be enraging to watch. There are videos that some people may find amazing. There are videos that some people may find fascinating. RC car videos may be among the last category. Why exactly do people find RC car videos so fascinating?

a) Bashing- Many people love watching RC car videos because these videos show them what can potentially happen to a car if it goes through various types of "experiments" and miniature disasters. Most people just enjoy watching RC car videos because they are able to see different miniature cars going through just about every type of abuse. While some people may just take pleasure at watching various RC cars getting bashed, others are impressed with just how durable certain RC cars are.

Some people just like to watch RC car videos because of the fact that they see a sort of metaphor in it. In RC car videos, they might see their ability to survive any type of obstacle in their lives.

b) Similar interests- Some people might watch RC car videos because of the fact that they are also interested in the hobby. Some people might want to get into the hobby and thus, watch RC car videos to help them get started. There are also those people who are already into the hobby but they wish to improve their skills in handling RC cars. These people may watch RC car videos in order to see if a certain maneuver is possible.

Other people may also like to watch RC car videos because they are looking for something new to try. These people often watch RC car videos in order to study new maneuvers and to try and hone their RC skills. 

There are also people who study RC car videos of competitors. Yes, there are competitive RC car races held all over the world. A participant may study an RC car video of an adversary in order to prepare for a race. People often try to anticipate a person's moves in order to prepare defenses for anything that an adversary could try. By watching RC car videos, people can study different maneuvers in detail and learn how to counteract them.

c) Imitation of life- Many people watch RC car videos because they just want to see the different maneuvers that may not be possible with real cars. RC cars can do so much more than just run around a track. RC car videos feature different cars jumping ramps, insane aerial flips, gravity-defying stunts, and other types of maneuvers that people could only dream about doing with a real car and survive.

The reason that we love items such as RC cars is the fact that these give us an opportunity to actually reach the unreachable. It allows us to do the different types of stunts that we could only see on movies. And we are able to do all these without actually damaging anything expensive like an actual car.

People watch RC car videos for different reasons. If you ask a person why he or she likes to watch RC car videos, however, the answer you would likely get is this: "it is just so cool".
 