Get into the Game! Race Your RC Car

The most exciting part of having RC car is by joining a car racing game. Kids and Adults enjoy playing RC car racing game on off-road or on-road tracks. But before you join the race there are steps you need to take to prepare for that competitive car game.  

First, select for the best RC car racing tire wisely. Choose the tire that is matched to the surface that you will use in car racing game. Also choose the best type of motor, maintenance and size that you will use to win the game. 

The touring and racing cars like Ferraris, Lamborghinis and Porsches are the best and popular choices for on-road use. Your car must be run in smooth surface tracks for best performance. Conversely, trucks and buggies are not good in racing game because it is not as fast as the touring and racing cars. But they can be run anywhere and can even jump on hump tracks.

The on-road vehicles are the most popular type of radio controlled cars. It is the best choice if you want to hook up in car racing. It runs in paved surfaces, built-in smooth race tracks and even in streets with an amazing speed. On the other hand, off-road vehicles can run anywhere. These are the sturdy and truck type RC vehicles that can handle jumps, hills, and uneven terrain, even sand. Off-road vehicles come in two or four wheel drive and a variety of electric and nitro trucks and cars from which to choose.

The radio controlled car has two popular sizes - the 1/8 and 1/10 scale. The 1/10th scale is the standard size for the on-road users and is best in car racing game while the 1/8th scale is more popular for off-road use like trucks and buggies.

When it comes to motor, the best type to use is the nitro powered engine. It can produce higher rpm’s that is suitable for racing. It can run up to 70 mph which is the fastest speed in RC car racing game. The resulting high speed and acceleration is what the car racers want in this type of engine.

Two wheel drive car is less expensive and much easier to work on. But if you want a better handling and traction, pick the 4 wheel drive. This would make an ideal choice for car racing game.

Still, maintenance is the most important in having a RC car. It is a definite requirement especially when using nitro powered motor. Always maintain car parts such as Air filter, Clutch, Header, Differential and Pull start cord. Keep the parts and tools properly for long last use. 

So now you already have the best radio controlled car for car racing game. You are now ready to face the challenge in RC car racing. Joining car racing game would not just give you excitement but also you’ll gain more friends and different ideas on how to keep your car running in its best performance. You will learn some tips from RC car enthusiasts by hanging out with them but be careful who you listen to because some of them might just fool you.

You can also see the latest radio controlled cars in action when you’re in tracks. The best combinations of RC cars are competing and you will see which the best of all. Goodluck! 
