What RC Car Accessory You Should Get for a Well-Maintained Car

One of the hottest hobbies on the road today, RC cars and trucks will let you experience the real world of road race tracks and events but no red lights and speed limits for you. You simply drive that RC car or truck of yours and decide on yourself how fast you can go. 

You also got options to choose from. Just like the real automotive world, the radio controlled world of cars and trucks provide the same choices of futuristic concept cars, on-road and off-road cars, entry-level buggy, and monster trucks, and, nitro-powered cars, even mini-cars. 

There are endless options for everyone and RC cars and trucks are for all personalities and ages. The choice is yours; it solely depends on your preference. On the other hand, if you need more information you can get advices from different fellow enthusiasts. 

Again, just like with the “real” on-road and off-road vehicles, radio controlled ones require the same kind of maintenance and care from you. This is to ensure you keep your vehicle in top condition so to avoid failures. 

Maintaining them would include everything from keeping them powered, whether through electricity or nitromethane-based fuel, to replacing parts and accessory. You also must have a certain stock of standard RC car/truck equipment for the maintenance. 

In addition, there is a plethora of accessories that are available for you, which you can get for your RC car. If you want to keep your vehicle always aesthetically pleasing and aggressive, or want a higher level of experience on the road, RC car accessories will allow you to attain these.

Accordingly, the following top RC accessories are amongst the components that your car should not go without:

1.	Starter boxes. Starting your new vehicle will include break-in of its new engine, which could be tough process at first. With the starter box, though, this is made easier by eliminating the need to pull-start the RC car. It gives the boost needed by the engine’s break-in; thus your car gets you going in no time. 

2.	Fuel. Of course, without the fuel, you won’t go anywhere with this car. There are specially formulated fuel kinds for RC cars, and you can get one, which is recommended by the owner’s manual provided. 

And since, you will probably do the re-fueling job, you might as well include in your purchase a fuel filler bottle, which will fit your car’s need. There are several sizes available, with long, angled tips to allow for speedy process as well as to prevent spills. 

In addition, a fuel cleaner and rags will be handy accessories in cases there are spills and drips.    

3.	Glow plugs. Instead of ending your fun in driving because of glow plug failures, with spare glow plugs you can change bad plugs along the course. In addition, a small kit stashed in your box will be best idea. This is usually included with the spare glow plugs, glow plug igniter, glow plug wrench, and charger. 

4.	RC tools. These are the specialized tools to keep your vehicle going. A standard RC tool kit usually includes: magnetic balancer, gear puller, temperature gauge, tool pouch, and glow plug wrench. 

5.	Air Filter Oil. Replacement of the air filter at an interval is a must. At this case, it will always be better if you got special air filter oil with you to improve the function of air filter and keep the life of the engine longer. 

