Title: 
3 Ways To Become A Media Bimbo

Word Count:
406

Summary:
Bimboism is rampant in today's media climate where those who do get their fifteen minutes of fame squander it with empty words and idiotic antics. Think about how much of YOUR time is wasted when you watch TV, listen to the radio or read newspapers or magazines. How long do you stay with a story if it's not pertinent to your interests or if the interviewee is dull? With so much competition for your attention it's easy to move on to the next best thing. 

If you don't want t...


Keywords:
media, media  coaching, marketing, publicity, PR


Article Body:
Bimboism is rampant in today's media climate where those who do get their fifteen minutes of fame squander it with empty words and idiotic antics. Think about how much of YOUR time is wasted when you watch TV, listen to the radio or read newspapers or magazines. How long do you stay with a story if it's not pertinent to your interests or if the interviewee is dull? With so much competition for your attention it's easy to move on to the next best thing. 

If you don't want to become the next bimbo and instead touch the hearts and the minds of the nation, here are three things to avoid. 

1. Give a fatty bone. 

The quickest way to lose interest is to ramble. When you can't make your point succinctly your audience tunes out-literally. They change the channel or they shift their attention. To keep your audience jazzed respect their time by getting to the point of what they want to know. Give them value every second you're speaking. Shave off any unnecessary fat and get to the bone, the real core of what you have to give. 

2. Be professorial. 

In my experience people who have the highest degrees are the biggest bores. They speak with the jargon of their industry or training using long sentences and obscure ideas. Simplifying is the key to communication. One of my favorite clients, syndicated technology columnist and national correspondent for KCBS news Larry Magid, is an exception. He can take the most complicated ideas and turn them into a Zen garden. He puts each word stone in the right place at the right time to create order, simplicity and understanding. Follow Larry's path to your own garden by taking the big idea down to its roots. Refuse to be high fallutin' by making your knowledge inaccessible to the masses. 

3. Praise the Lord. 

Preaching will set people hellbent against you. I don't know about you but when someone tells me what to do I automatically rebel. Whenever you're attached to an idea and try to push it on someone it's natural to resist. When you have an agenda people sense it. If you're unattached to the outcome your audience will be more receptive to you and your ideas. Allow them to make their own choices based on the information you impart. Tempt them with heavenly insights and offers.


