Title: 
3 Lifesaving Tactics to Stay Afloat In a Constantly Changing Marketplace

Word Count:
338

Summary:
Let’s face the facts... old-fashioned marketing tools aren’t going to keep your business a growing and prosperous entity in today’s marketplace.  Hey, this month’s hottest techniques and information will be obsolete in six months.


Keywords:
advertising, markets, products and services


Article Body:
Let’s face the facts... old-fashioned marketing tools aren’t going to keep your business a growing and prosperous entity in today’s marketplace.  Hey, this month’s hottest techniques and information will be obsolete in six months.  Now, I’m not saying that old marketing principals can’t be upgraded and incorporated successfully, but as a rule marketers have to stay on top of the latest marketing trends. 

If you’re wanting to stay ahead of your business savvy competitors you’ll need to implement 3 tactics to stay one step ahead.

1.  Watch For New Advertising Methods
You never know what will work for you unless you take the time to experiment!  Who knows?  The next marketing experiment you test may be a million dollar idea.  Keep your eyes peeled for the latest marketing news.  

It never pays to put all of your eggs in one basket.  Don’t neglect the tried and true marketing tools that have been successful in the past.  Invest about 20 percent of your advertising budget and time into testing for new marketing strategies that will increase your profits.

2.  Spruce Things Up
Don’t get stuck in a rut.  Yeah, you have products that have been successful for years, but what would happen if you gave them a “face lift?’ Would you attract new customers?  Would your old customers enjoy the change?  You’ll be surprised at what a new packaging will do for old product sales.

Sprucing up doesn’t have to stop with your products.  A few minor changes in the store appearance can bring new life to your place of business as well.

3.  Diversify
The more products you have to offer, the more insulation you have against the decline in popularity of one particular item.  Don’t go out on a limb, when you’ve got a good thing going.  Look for products and services that compliment your current products and services.  

Don’t let the speed-of-light changes in the market take your business under.  Stay afloat with these proven tactics.


