Title: 
5 Surefire Ways For Teachers To Make Money This Summer

Word Count:
349

Summary:
For Teachers, the summer months, although a great vacation, can also be the perfect time to make some extra money and reduce debt.

What are the options for a Teacher to make money during the summer with a short-term business that can end when summer does?

1. Tutoring.
I know it sounds obvious, but tutoring can bring in decent cash. You already have the connections through school, so marketing your tutoring business (and building a customer base) can be fairly easy – es...


Keywords:
Teachers to Make Money This Summer


Article Body:
For Teachers, the summer months, although a great vacation, can also be the perfect time to make some extra money and reduce debt.

What are the options for a Teacher to make money during the summer with a short-term business that can end when summer does?

1. Tutoring.
I know it sounds obvious, but tutoring can bring in decent cash. You already have the connections through school, so marketing your tutoring business (and building a customer base) can be fairly easy – especially if you let parents know you offer tutoring before the school year ends.

2. Babysitting
If you enjoy working with young children, you can work a few hours each week babysitting. Your hourly pay will be less than if you opt for tutoring, but you can still make a respectable $10 an hour babysitting. As a mom, I know how hard it is to find reliable, trustworthy babysitters, so you’d easily be able to get regular sitting jobs.

3. Summer Camp
Hold a summer camp at a local park or even at your own home. Host a week-long camp, and plan activities. Parents will love the break from their kids, especially knowing the kids will be well taken care of and they’ll be having a great time.

4. Online Auctions
Take the opportunity to list all your extra treasures on eBay. You’ll clean out your home of junk as well as bring in some well-deserved money. If you’re feeling ambitious, you can even list other people’s items and take a percentage for the effort.

5. Vacation Helper
Many families go on vacation during the summer. They need reliable people to house sit, water plants, get the mail and sometimes pet-sit as well. You’d be providing a very valuable service with little effort on your part.

These are just a few of the many ways for you to make some extra money during your summer break. The important thing is that it does not take a large amount of cash to start your own business. You can start with just word of mouth and take it from there.


