Title: 
A 21 Yr Old Underground Singaporean Marketer Reveals How He Makes 5 Figure Income In Affiliate Marketing

Word Count:
273

Summary:
There are many  ways one can earn money online. One of the easiest way is definitely via affiliate marketing. Have you heard of Affiliate Marketing? Affiliate Marketing is basically promoting other people products and getting a commission whenever a sale is made. However, Affiliate Marketing  has evolved to such an extent that you can make money even without making a sale!


Keywords:
ppc, cpa, affiliate marketing, ppc marketing, AM, IM, ppc to cpa, cost per lead, cost per action,


Article Body:
There are many  ways one can earn money online. One of the easiest way is definitely via affiliate marketing. Have you heard of Affiliate Marketing? Affiliate Marketing is basically promoting other people products and getting a commission whenever a sale is made. However, Affiliate Marketing  has evolved to such an extent that you can make money even without making a sale!

Companies will now pay when you generate a lead for them. A lead is basically a prospect that the company will promote their products to in order to earn their revenue. We as affiliate marketers just have to help company generate that database of leads for them.

I have been into Affiliate Marketing for a few months now and what I can say is that it is one of the easiest method of making huge amount of money online without having the need to care about inventory, about creating products or even paying wages to worker.

I have successfully used Pay per click to drive massive amount of traffic to my website and made more than US$10,000 in just 3 months. Its not rocket science and definitely not a get rich quick scheme. It takes a considerable amount of effort and hardwork but it is definitely achievable. It just took me 3 months while i am studying or my degree. Besides, i am going to reveal to you my secret and 
i'm sure you can do it in a much faster time.

Affiliate Marketing via pay per lead is definitely the future of Affiliate Marketing and I urge you to find out more about pay per lead marketing and start making money online today!


