Title: 
A Beautiful Plan – Maintaining a Down Line with RFS

Word Count:
394

Summary:
A large part of success in any Network Marketing venture is understanding and taking advantage of the companies compensation plan.  If the plan is garbage, you may be an expert marketer and still, you will have trouble making money with the company.


Keywords:
Home Business, Marketing, Business, Work At Home, Internet


Article Body:
A large part of success in any Network Marketing venture is understanding and taking advantage of the companies compensation plan.  If the plan is garbage, you may be an expert marketer and still, you will have trouble making money with the company. Too often with network marketing companies you need to develop down lines of thousands of people before you start to see any real turnover.

RFS helps you stop worrying about where you will find thousands of people to convince to join you business by linking up with GRN (Global Resorts Network) and its accompanying compensation plan.  GRN combines a MLM type comp plan with a direct sales type comp plan.  It pays you big on the initial sale, one thousand dollars, but also rewards you for how deep you can grow you organization.

Your front line is totally devoted to you.  You make an addition one thousand dollar commission on every sale that anyone in your front line makes, minus the first person that makes a sale in your front line, they bump up to the guy who brought you in.  You make a thousand of the sale initially but not off any of the sales that this person will ever make.  Don’t worry, this is designed to help you.

Maybe you have fifteen people in your front line after the second month.  That is fifteen thousand dollars you made in the two months.  But now your front line has also been making sales and you pulled another ten thousand from eleven sales made by your front line.  All of the sales by different legs of your front line are people that could potentially become the equivalent of another person in your front line, if they make the first second line sale in that branch.  

This works way down the line, rolling people up to you so you can make a thousand off of each sale they make.  This makes educating, training, and motivating your down line very profitable as if can mean tens of thousands of dollars for you over and over again.

Maintain your down line, feed them your successes, teach them your ways.  Get them driving as much or more traffic than you, being in more forums, blogs, articles directories, co-reg lists, co-ops, key words, networking community personalities than you could ever possibly be in yourself and profit.


