Title: 
A plus C Systems and Affirmative Insight, Inc. announced an exclusive partnership.

Word Count:
327

Summary:
Cracow, PL/Toronto, CA - March 13, 2006 - A plus C Systems has signed Affirmative Insight, Inc. as an exclusive partner for international business activities in Canada. This partnership serves as a significant step as A plus C Systems respectively continue to expand their international presence.


Keywords:
it,asset,network,monitoring,analyzer,license,management,hardware,inventory,pc,audit,uplook,statlook,anasil,work,time,control,track,record,user,software,internet,usage,computer,employee


Article Body:
Affirmative Insight Inc. provides information technology solutions in the areas of IT security, networking, service and support, e-business, web design, web hosting and software development. By partnering with A plus C Systems, Affirmative Insight, Inc. expands its offer with a comprehensive suite of software products – Uplook, Statlook and Anasil – tool kit for IT asset management and network monitoring.

“We are excited about our partnership with A plus C Systems. It offers us additional capabilities and expertise which will only benefit our customers. Together, we provide our customers with a full range of effective solutions which enable them to optimize their IT resources.” said Baris Tuncertan, President of Affirmative Insight.

A plus C will work closely with Affirmative Insight to provide pre-sales and post-sales support, customer service and technical assistance to business partners and clients throughout Canada. Companies that share the need for IT resource management and its optimization can now enjoy the numerous benefits of Uplook, Statlook and Anasil, including: PC audit, license management, hardware inventory, Internet connection monitoring, user tracking and network traffic monitoring.

Milosz Cechnicki, CEO of A plus C Systems said "We are delighted to partner with a company with such an excellent reputation in providing defense related services and offerings. This relationship is essential to our strategic growth in this region".

<b>About A plus C Systems</b> 

A plus C Systems is an independent software vendor specializing in IT asset management and network monitoring solutions. Flagship products are: Statlook – a cost effective system for daily software and hardware inventory and user activity monitoring and Anasil – network monitoring and management system An internationally operating company A plus C is now creating its authorized partner system around the world.

<b>About Affirmative Insight Inc.</b>

Affirmative Insight Inc., an Information Technology solutions provider for small to medium size enterprises, helps to streamline their business operations. The mission statement of Affirmative Insight Inc. is: Helping companies to build secure, reliable and scalable Information Technology Solutions.


