Title: 
Architectural Outsourcing

Word Count:
319

Summary:
The outsourcing industry worldwide is booming. There are very few Information Technology sectors which are not into outsourcing. 
The question arises, that when everybody is jumping on the outsourcing bandwagon for obvious benefits, then why not the construction and real estate industry.


Keywords:
3d modeling, real estate


Article Body:
The outsourcing industry worldwide is booming. There are very few Information Technology sectors which are not into outsourcing. 
The question arises, that when everybody is jumping on the outsourcing bandwagon for obvious benefits, then why not the construction and real estate industry.

One aspect where the real estate industry can immediately benefit is in outsourcing designing of 3d models or renders of their present and future projects. It is widely acknowledged that the 3d representation of a real estate venture creates a stunning impression in the mind of the buyers, if designed appropriately.

Today, architects and builders recruit in-house designers who design 3d models for them. But then most of these people are not 3d specialists, not at least specialists in designing 3d models for real estate ventures. To achieve this purpose one needs the help of civil engineers, architects and designers working in tandem. Also, the cost of outsourcing this work is much less than compared to getting it executed in-house.

Also, to allocate resources to 3d modeling is a problamatic affair for such consultants and companies as their core business is construction and not 3d design.

To tap this opportunity many companies have emerged worldwide who specialize specifically in 3d modeling. For an architect or builder to outsource such work to these specialist companies, is a proposition of significant benefits. Not only it saves them costs but also takes the headache off their shoulders.

Also, the architectural expertise and the design expertise of 3d modeling companies 
can be combined to create life-like models which would be utilized on the project website, brochures and other sale materials.
After all, a real estate venture is not a virtual commodity and folks would like to have a glimpse of the future before they invest.

Many architects have already realized this and a significant amount of work is being outsourced. Its time others realize it too and make a head start.


