Title: 
Are postcards worth their price?

Word Count:
408

Summary:
Since its introduction up to the present time, postcard is still one of the best medium of communication. We can recall that postcards were used as means for brief communication. It was the best choice then because they are light and inexpensive.


Keywords:
4 color printing, 4 color brochure printing, 4 color postcard printing, 4 color poster printing, 4 color sticker printing, 4 color flyers printing


Article Body:
We appreciate. We criticize. We laugh. We mourn. We are moved by postcards. 

Since its introduction up to the present time, postcard is still one of the best medium of communication. We can recall that postcards were used as means for brief communication. It was the best choice then because they are light and inexpensive.

Nowadays, postcards are not only used to express our hi’s and hello’s, it is now popularly used as a marketing tool. Whenever there is an upcoming event, a product launching or a new service to be made available postcards can be your reliable ally. 

Postcard is a great way to market tourism. Just by mailing them, you can make people desire to travel. Just by using luscious pictures, you can make people starve with food cravings. Just by making your business known to your target, makes the latter long for it. 

Sense of seeing is pretty powerful. It can drive other senses crazy. In fact, it can lead them to ludicrous wants. That power is also imbibed in postcards. 

Postcards are most effective when done in full color. 4 color postcard printing adds dimension and create dramatic effect to your postcards. One or two-color printing may be too plain and simple for your artwork might as well use the color process that can bolster your postcards aesthetic as well as functional value.

In deciding whether to use 4 color postcard printing or not, you have to weigh first its pros and cons. Clients, designers and printers are more at ease with this printing process. It maximizes design flexibility. In fact, it can create an almost limitless palette. However, this process can be a bit expensive compared to one or two-color printing. It can go as high as 4 times the price of a two-color printing job. 

4 color postcard printing is good for postcards because it brings out brilliant images. It uses four pieces of film – cyan, magenta, yellow and black. Each color uses one film. Two-color printing is cheaper because it only uses two films. Thus, it takes less stripping and plating. Moreover, it will only take little time in order to finish the printing job.

Exact colors can also be produced with the use of PMS or Pantone Matching System. This process is often resorted to create accurate colors that match the company’s logo or traditional design. This process may seem the most costly. However, if you want exact colors, try this.


