Title: 
Are You A Business Opportunity Seeker?

Word Count:
424

Summary:
Business opportunity seekers are people who have expressed an interest in a home-based business, extra-income opportunity, multi level-type marketing, or entrepreneurship by signing up on one or many websites that align business opportunity seekers with the most appropriate and fitting offering available.


Keywords:
business opportunity seekers, seeking business opportunities, mlm, network marketing


Article Body:
If you are involved in any type of multi-level, network marketing program, home based business, or other type of direct sales program, then you are probably interested in building your business using business opportunity seekers. These are people who have expressed an interest in a home-based business, extra-income opportunity, multi-level marketing, or entrepreneurship by signing up on one or many websites that match business opportunity seekers with the type of offering they are looking for.

There are also people who may not be interested in actually running a business of their own, but simply want to make some extra income working for someone else. In this instant, what they may be looking for is to get a second or part-time job. Those who are serious business builders are business opportunity seekers who want to be in charge of their own fate, and be able to make their own decisions on business matters, not simply do what someone else wants or tells them to do.

There are a number of list providers on the internet that specialize in gathering information on perspective business opportunity seekers, by asking them to fill out a simple form about what type of money making venture they are looking for. The lead company then compiles this information for sale to multi-level marketers (MLM) and other types of businesses who need fresh responsive leads, not just lists that have been circulated to thousands of people.

Making calls to these people will not be a positive experience because they have already been bombarded with calls from your competition. They dont want to hear what you have to say. On the contrary, actually speaking with a true business opportunity seeker is a refreshing experience, because this person really wants to listen to you about what you have to offer. Lead companies also sell pre-qualified leads that can greatly increase your efficiency and level of success. These pre-qualified business opportunity seekers have been contacted by the lead company to verify the type of opportunity they are looking for, so that they can be matched as closely as possible for just the right fit.

Business opportunity seekers have always been the primary target for any MLM, direct sales, home based businesses. It is not always possible to continue recruiting new people from your warm market only. At some point, all multi-level marketers must search for business builders outside of their group of family, friends, and co-workers to connect with those people who are just waiting to be found. So, are you a business opportunity seeker?


