Title: 
ATM Machines - Does Your Business Need One?

Word Count:
491

Summary:
If you’re reading this article, then the answer is probably yes, but before we get ahead of ourselves. You need to ask yourself a few questions regarding the actual location you plan on placing your new ATM machine.

1. Do you have customers asking for the location of the nearest ATM machine?
2. Do you have at least 200 people a day visiting your location?

If you answered yes to both of these ATM related questions. Then I’m about to show you why you need to buy an ATM m...


Keywords:
ATM machines, ATM business


Article Body:
If you’re reading this article, then the answer is probably yes, but before we get ahead of ourselves. You need to ask yourself a few questions regarding the actual location you plan on placing your new ATM machine.

1. Do you have customers asking for the location of the nearest ATM machine?
2. Do you have at least 200 people a day visiting your location?

If you answered yes to both of these ATM related questions. Then I’m about to show you why you need to buy an ATM machine and how your going to make a great profit with little or no effort.

The key to being successful in the ATM business is to find ATM placement locations that will make you money. ATM sales are based on traffic count, so let’s figure out how many people will use your new ATM machine on a daily basis. The formula I am about to show you is the same formula that is used by every ATM dealer and ATM distributor in the country when placing ATM machines. Trust me when I tell you this formula is tried and true.

ATM dealers and ATM distributors look at one thing when deciding weather or not to place an ATM machine at a particular location. The rule of thumb goes like this. 3% - 5% of the foot traffic that actually sees the ATM machine will use the ATM. So let’s figure that you have a total of 300 people a day coming through your doors, and let’s say that you are charging a $2.25 surcharge per valid withdrawal. If you take the middle road that 4% of the people that see the ATM machine will use it. Then you can count on your new automated teller machine to generate you a minimum of 360 transactions per month at $2.25 per valid withdrawal. That comes out to $810 per month or a total of $9,720 per year. All that from one ATM machine at one location.

The next question is how much will your new ATM machine cost. This question is a little harder to answer simply because there are so many ATM machines to choose from. Such as Class 1 Armored ATM machines, Indoor ATM machines like the Triton 9100 ATM machine, Through-The-Wall ATM machines, Scrip ATMS, etc. But one thing I can tell you is that 75% of the ATM machines used in non-bank locations are non-armored ATM machines. A good non-armored ATM machine is the Triton 9100 ATM machine. The Triton 9100 ATM can be purchased from either an ATM dealer or an ATM distributor servicing your area. The price for the 9100 should range between $2,950 and $3,800 depending on what options you choose.

So there you have it, if you have customers that are currently asking you for the closest ATM, or if you have a large amount of foot traffic coming in or walking by your location on a daily basis. Then you will most definitely profit from owning your very own ATM machine.


