Title: 
Beautiful Costa Rica Real Estate For Sale

Word Count:
308

Summary:
Costa Rica is a country that is situated between Panama and Nicaragua.  
It is bordered not only by the Pacific Ocean but the Caribbean Sea as  
well. This country is divided by mountains and volcanoes. About 19,000  
square miles make up this country and over 800 miles of this country  
is coastline. It has some of the most breathtaking landscapes and  
beaches that you will ever see.


Keywords:
homes in costa rica


Article Body:
Costa Rica Eye Consulting is offering  
property in the beautiful country of Costa Rica. This is a team of  
professionals who are committed to finding the perfect Costa Rica  
property for you.

Costa Rica is a politically stable country with low living costs and  
high quality homes. You will enjoy excellent weather because of the  
geographic location. Access to local foods and fruits give this  
country a small island feel with the convince of big city amenities.

Costa Rica Eye Consulting has an easy to navigate website which makes  
finding your dream home or vacation property a breeze. Not all  
properties and listed on their website as some owners would like to  
keep their sales discrete. Contacting them will open the doors to new  
unlisted properties.

Clicking on the picture of any property will bring up the all the  
statistics that you would need to make an informed purchase. You will  
find that most of these properties offer a lot of house for the money.  
If you have ever thought of investing in property in Costa Rica, maybe  
now is the time to do it.

In order to have a truly international flair to this website, the  
script has been written in English, Spanish and German. Assuming since  
you are reading this you will need to view the website in English. To  
do so click on the British flag in the upper right hand corner of the  
navigation bar. The telephone number and email address are at the  
bottom of the page in case you have a question about any of the  
properties.

About ( http://www.costaricaeye.com )
Costa Rica Eye Consulting offers beautiful competitively prices homes  
in Costa Rica. With great a customer support team and an easy to  
navigate website you should not have a problem finding an investment  
property, vacation property or your dream home.


