Title: 
Best of Tucson Gem and Jewelry Shows

Word Count:
584

Summary:
Every year Tucson, Arizona holds its annual Tucson Gem and Jewelry  Fair - the only one of its kind. A quiet city in the middle of the desert transforms into a spectacular  Gem and Jewelry Marketplace, attracting industry professionals from all over the world.


Keywords:
gem, jewelry, mineral, show, tucson


Article Body:
J.O.G.S. Tucson Gem and Jewelry show is the largest and most popular independent jewelry trade shows in the Tucson, Arizona area.  Wholesale manufacturers, miners and international dealers gather at the Tucson Expo Center, the site of the J.O.G.S. show, every winter.  
Buyer attendance at the J.O.G.S. show exceeds 27,000, composing over 4,000 jewelry firms.  The majority of these are registered business owners representing the retail jewelry industry of the United States.  The attendees of the J.O.G.S. show are owners of gift shops, private galleries, boutiques, department stores, and retail jewelry shops.  The buyers are able to buy jewelry right on the floor as it is delivered; this makes J.O.G.S. a cash and carry show.

For the 2008 show, there will be approximately 800 booths of exhibitors selling wholesale finished jewelry, cut stones, gems, beads, coral, turquoise, amber and much more.  The exhibitors are divided up by pavilions.  

Must see at J.O.G.S.

A truly one of a kind Southwestern jewelry pavilion can only be found at the J.O.G.S. show.  It is composed of great Mexican and Native American designs of turquoise and coral set in silver.  Exhibiting are the top dealers, miners and manufacturers with the largest stock of jewelry from Albuquerque, Mexico and China.

The American Amber Association presents, at the J.O.G.S. show, the largest U.S. Amber pavilion.  The pavilion is composed of amber designers and amber manufacturers from all the Baltic countries famous for their amber source.  If you are an amber retailer or are just an amberholic, you will love this pavilion.  The J.O.G.S. show is your once in a year opportunity to buy these great designs at an excellent price.

The Art Gem Décor pavilion contain some of the most beautiful décor items crafted out of stones, gems, copper, wood, metal and other materials.  These are museum quality pieces created by some of the most talented artists in the world.  This is truly one of the most unique art collections you will ever see, it is like an art show inside the J.O.G.S. show.  Besides the exquisite art pieces, you can also find some great everyday interior design pieces.  Other J.O.G.S. pavilions include the many international pavilions which represent the rich jewelry heritage of Indonesia, Hong Kong, Thailand, Mexico and Nepal.  

Products at the J.O.G.S. show

There are products at the J.O.G.S. show to suit just about any buyer.  The product range covers all price points, from high end one of a kind designs to everyday popular items available at wholesale prices.  Often buyers rely on the expertise of the wholesale sellers to pick out next season’s hottest selling lines.  Buyers can be seen purchasing large quantities at wholesale prices as well as occasional one of a kind purchases intended for personal and private collections.

Venue of the J.O.G.S. show

Each J.O.G.S. show is held in the state of the art Tucson Expo Center, one of Tucson’s largest professional convention centers.  The whole show takes place under one roof and on the same floor, ensuring that buyers visit every booth and no vendor gets left out.  Great promotion, a complimentary lunch buffet for the buyers, top security and a red carpet atmosphere has been responsible for the success of the J.O.G.S. show.


