Title: 
Brochuriffic Printing

Word Count:
447

Summary:
Tradeshow, real estate listing, data sheet, new product promotions and the likes will never be complete without promoting them via brochures. Perhaps, brochure has its own way of wowing the public and persuading them to participate, purchase or subscribe.


Keywords:
4 color printing, 4 color brochure printing, 4 color postcard printing, 4 color poster printing, 4 color sticker printing, 4 color flyers printing


Article Body:
Tradeshow, real estate listing, data sheet, new product promotions and the likes will never be complete without promoting them via brochures. Perhaps, brochure has its own way of wowing the public and persuading them to participate, purchase or subscribe. 

But the most bothersome aspect is the budget. How will you make your brochures look terrific yet inexpensive?

There are various brochure printing processes available these days. The first is the two-color brochure printing. As the name implies, it only uses two colors. Most often it comes in black and white or a monochrome of a color. This is the cheapest kind of printing process for brochures. However, this may not be applicable to all designs. Some may appear classic, some may appear dull and lifeless. 

Another process is the 4 color brochures printing. Most of the catchy brochures we have these days are printed in this process. 4 color brochures printing uses CMYK colors. These are cyan, magenta, yellow and black. These colors are used to create other colors that will complement the colors in your design. There are computer software programs that convert any text or image to CMYK. In this manner, it will be easy for the printers to work on your brochure printing needs. 

Colors can be a little tricky especially when you see them on your computer monitor.  Computer screens use RGB color. Red, green and red colors will result to different colors than those created through the CMYK process. In fact, if you print your brochure on an inkjet or laser printer, the result will be far different from that printed through 4 color printing. 

One of the main highlights why lots of people are choosing 4 color printing is that the inking or mixing process is computer-controlled. Moreover, they are getting consistent colors all throughout the printing job. Plus they are getting it at a competent price. These are probably the reasons why 4 color brochure printing is the most popular choice among savvy entrepreneurs. 

6 color printing is also a good choice. This process uses 6 colors to create more colors than the usual printing process. The drawback though is that this process may not be good to your resources.

If you want an exact color match for your brochures, go for pantone colors. Colors are meticulously mixed in order to come up with the exact color. Thousands of colors are available through pantone. There are books showing them. All you have to do is to choose from them.  Let your imagination soar, chances are the colors in your mind can be achieved through pantone. The drawback though is that it is costly.

Now you have choices. It’s up to you how you can optimize them.


