Title: 
Business Dress Code - What to Wear While Prospecting

Word Count:
350

Summary:
Business dress codes are an important element of your overall marketing message.  A highly effective and innovative marketing tool is to put your company logo on articles of clothing that are a good for your desired business dress code.


Keywords:
Business Dress Code, Business-Dress-Code


Article Body:
Business dress codes can be tricky to navigate as a consultant.  You are going into other people's businesses so your personal business dress code has to appeal to a wide range of clients. This is also true when you are prospecting for future clients.

The business dress code that you use when prospecting will depend on the event.  You always want to dress to be your best but you also have to know your audience.  The first time you attend an event or meeting it is best to wear a sport jacket and tie.  This type of business dress code is very middle of the road.  Not too conservative but not too casual. 

Business Dress Code and Marketing

A very good choice, especially for people who hate getting dressed-up, is to use your clothes to advertise.  When you are in a situation where business casual is appropraite, do some branding and marketing through your attire.  
Wear a polo shirt with your logo on it
Have your logo put on a sweater
For sporting events, wear a logoed ball hat
At the very least wear a name tag that has your name and logo on it

This is a great way to incorporate a business dress code that is not only professional but productive as well. Don't feel like you have to be the snazziest dresser but use your business dress code to send a marketing message and convey your professionalism.  

The Bottom Line On Your Business Dress Code

Incorporating a business dress code that is not too formal and not too causal is often the best bet.  This type of business dress code allows you to appeal to the maximum amount of people and it allows you to feel comfortable within a mixed crowd.  These will both help boost your confidence and prospecting success. Adding logoed attire to your business dress code is a highly effective way to get your company name out to people while maintaining your professionalism. 

Copyright MMI-MMVI, Computer Consultants Secrets. All Worldwide Rights Reserved. {Attention Publishers: Live hyperlink in author resource box required for copyright compliance}


