Title: 
Buzzquotes - Your Source for the Best Insurance Leads on the Web!

Word Count:
528

Summary:
Quick update! Buzzquotes is a company we reviewed a few years back. They started off with excellent ratings, and then dropped a bit. But now they are back on the radar.


Keywords:
Buzzquotes Insurance Leads Auto Homeowners Health Life


Article Body:
Quick update! Buzzquotes is a company we reviewed a few years back. They started off with excellent ratings, and then dropped a bit. But now they are back on the radar. You can find out for yourself by filling out their information request form. They will send you free information on their lead generation programs. We are very impressed with their customer service, and they are excellent at lead generation. Leads they provide: Auto Insurance, Homeowners Insurance, Health Insurance and Life Insurance.

"This lead resulted in a $25,000 annuity sale on the first appointment. My commission on this sale was enough to pay for 100 leads." - John W.

"It is much easier to leave the home with a check when the potential client is ready to buy. That is what buzzquotes.com gives the agent, a client that is done shopping and ready to buy." - Ben P.

"Sold another one! Out of about 16 leads so far, I've sold 4 that have yielded approximately $6700 in first year commissions. Great return on investment!" - Mark R.

"One appointment close. Good, easy sale." - Matt R.

"I have been using buzzquotes since last November (2006). I have sold 20 policies for 36 leads since november. If the info on the lead is correct I have a better than 50/50 chance to sell them. Part of my success is quality companies that I represent, part is my ability, and part is the excellent leads from buzzquotes.com. Thank you very much" - Adam F.

"This was my first one million dollar term insurance policy I have sold! Thanks to buzzquotes." - Lance V.

"Sold $500,000 term life policy. Picking up $45,000 SPDA next month from maturing CD's, plus three Roth IRA's. Will write additional $250,000 of life in February after birth of baby, and are starting discussion of voluntary, payroll deducted retirement plan for 200 employees. Great results from one lead." - Dick L.

"I sold a policy on the husband and wife and got two referrals." - Bradley W.

"Thanks buzzquotes the leads are great, keep 'em coming!" - Shawn B.

"Sold a pair of Health policies, replacing their old Health plans. Buzzquotes led me to a knowledgeable consumer whom I closed 2 days after getting the e-mail. Way to go!" - Jason C.

"Thanks for this lead. I was able to help this prospect obtain life insurance to fund his business buy-sell agreement. Thanks." - Lucy C.

You can buy any type of Insurance leads. Auto Insurance, Homeowners Insurance, Health Insurance and Life Insurance.  You pay as you go, and they do not have time commitments or sign up fees. That's always good. 

Buzzquotes philosphy of providing leads to no more than 3 industry professionals in any area keeps the competition down, they are not spread to thin, and their leads produce results. So, you should give them a test drive. To get more information from buzzquotes fill out this no obligation form, and they will email you a free info pack.

The only way to know for sure if buzzquotes is the right choice is to give them a shot. Buy a few leads, and if they are not what you wanted in a lead generation company, try another one. We are getting great feedback, and they have been very consistent.


