Title: 
Caring about your clients shows through in all you do

Word Count:
441

Summary:
Caring about your clients and your product or service shows through in a hundred subtle ways to your clients. In my experience, I've found that people that either work in healthcare or start a business in the healthcare industry do so because they really, truly care about helping people. Does that show through in your marketing materials?


Keywords:
caring about clients, caring, keeping clients, clients, Kelly Robbins, show you care, marketing materials, communication


Article Body:
Copyright 2006 Kelly Robbins

Caring about your clients and your product or service shows through in a hundred subtle ways to your clients; regardless of whether you are in the healthcare industry or not.

In my experience, I've found that people that either work in healthcare, or start a business in the healthcare industry do so because they really, truly care about helping people. I also have found that most people in the healthcare industry - no matter if they are chiropractors or coaches or copywriters - are very passionate about what they do. They truly care about making someone’s life better.

And because they know at the core of their being that they can help you or someone you know live a better, possibly pain-free, healthier life they tell everyone they know about it. They do a good job talking about it and often give talks in the community and with their clients.

My question to you is...does this passion, this sincerity, this caring show through in all your marketing materials too? Does it shine through on your web site and your brochures? In the handouts and flyers you put around town? When you talk with people your sincerity and passion is shown by not only what you say, but in your body language, the tone of your voice, the sparkle in your eye...and people pick up on that energy. Communicating that in written materials is not as easy because people can see all of these subtle yet powerful things.

Here are a few things you can do in your written materials to demonstrate you're caring:

**Know what keeps your prospect up at night and be sure your sales letter or web site talks about those concerns in a friendly and personal way. It may be a pain in their leg, not being able to ski with their family, or not having the energy to make it through the day.

**Know about their pains and fears. When you are truly concerned about your prospects welfare it will shine through in your writing.

**Write like you talk. Be conversational and write to a fourth grade level. No big words or words that you have to explain their meaning.

**Picture one of your clients (or a good friend that's experiencing a pain) and talk to them. Write how you talk, not how you write. Writing marketing materials is different and it's ok to break the rules. You are not getting these published in academic journals or writing your dissertation.

**Give examples of people you've helped and how it's affected them in a positive way.

**Be yourself and let your personality show through.


