Title: 
CD and DVD Replication Take Marketing to the Next Level

Word Count:
520

Summary:
In today's world, multimedia rules. For that reason, CDs, DVDs, and even HD-DVDs should be part of your marketing repertoire.


Keywords:
CD replication, DVD Replication, HD-DVD replication, FlexDVD, DVD duplication, CD Duplication, HD-DVD Duplication


Article Body:
Every business needs to have an edge, and it's been proven time and time again that creative, attention-grabbing marketing strategies can push a product into prominence, garner media attention, and reinforce brand awareness and loyalty. In today's world, multimedia rules. For that reason, CDs, DVDs, and even HD-DVDs should be part of your marketing repertoire. 

Getting Your Message Out

Whether you need to send out training materials to employees or product information to prospective customers, CD replication services or DVD replication services can help you place your information in front of your target audience in a format that they will embrace. Similarly, you can easily use CD duplication or DVD duplication services to make thousands, hundreds of thousands, or even millions of discs that can be sold, handed out a trade shows, bound in along with magazine advertisements, or bundled inside mass mailers. And, when your goal is to disseminate the highest quality images that technology has to offer, you can even take advantage of HD-DVD duplication services. 

Finding the Right Partner

Whether you're interested in HD-DVD replication or CD duplication, it's critical to choose the right company with which to do business. Here are some characteristics to look for in a manufacturer:

Experience: Your multimedia disc will say volumes about your company, so you need to ensure that the manufacturer you work with has extensive experience in CD and DVD replication, media services, and information technology. 

Customer Service: The company you use should place a premium on customer service, and should have a client roster that contains repeat customers. 

Cutting Edge Technology: Look for comprehensive premastering, mastering, and replication services for all CD and DVD formats, as well as the ability to copy protect your discs. For example, the company should use a laser beam recording machine to transfer your digital information onto a glass master, which is then developed and activated, and then transferred to a bath to grow the stamper that will provide you with DVD replication or CD duplication.

Quality Control: Ensure that the company you select has exceptional quality control standards. For example, the first discs that are replicated should be tested bit-for-bit against the original, and should also be played in a variety of drives and players to test functionality. 

Creativity: The service you choose should be able to go beyond standard round discs and provide you with creative options that include customized designs and disc shapes. You could, for example, distribute a CD that is the size of a business card, that is in a shape that reflects the nature of your business or the theme of your campaign, or that has other unique characteristics. 

Packaging: At the very least, the company you work with should be able to offer UV cured inks and up to five-color printing on durable labels for your CDs or DVDs. Beyond that, the best companies also offer incredibly effective packaging services that will make your CD or DVD stand out from the crowd. 

From products to promotions, you can use CD and DVD replication that will put you ahead of your competition and enhance your company's image.


