Title: 
Creating the Ultimate Cover Letter

Word Count:
527

Summary:
Cover letters are a very important part of your presentation, whether you're a student in college or a candidate applying for a job. While there is virtually no limit to the different designs you can use with your cover letter, there are some general guidelines you will want to apply to make sure it is professional. It is first important to make sure your cover letter has an excellent appearance. The paper size used for cover letters is generally 8 and 1/2 by 11 inches.


Keywords:
Staffing, temp agencies, employment, temporary agency, resumes, cover letter, interview, job advice, careers, contractors


Article Body:
Cover letters are a very important part of your presentation, whether you're a student in college or a candidate applying for a job. While there is virtually no limit to the different designs you can use with your cover letter, there are some general guidelines you will want to apply to make sure it is professional. It is first important to make sure your cover letter has an excellent appearance. The paper size used for cover letters is generally 8 and 1/2 by 11 inches.

While the color white is almost always used, other acceptable colors include light beige. The cover letter should always be typed on a high quality typewriter, and if you are using a computer, it should be printed out on a printer which is laser based. Using an old typewriter or dot matrix printer will reduce the quality of your resume, even if it is well written. It is also important to make sure your cover letters are never produced in mass. Each one should be unique, and should target the specific company to which you are applying for employment.

It is also important to make sure you use the correct format. For most tasks, the best format is the business correspondence cover letter. If you're not sure what it looks like, you can go online to look at different examples. These examples can give you ideas for how you want your cover letters to be designed. When you send your cover letter to a potential employee, if it is impersonal, it will likely be thrown in the trash. Anyone can mass produce a cover letter or resume. Taking the time to tailor you work towards a specific individual will impress them, and they will be much more likely to look over your resume.

Make sure you learn the name of the person or organization that you're sending your cover letter to. The name must always be spelled correctly. If you have had a good interview with a company, and you send a follow up letter with incorrect spelling, it can ruin your chances of getting hired. When you write your letter, explain how you learned of the company and why you are interested in working for them. You should also explain what type of position you're interested in.

The next thing you want to do is to demonstrate your qualifications for the job. It is best to write two powerful sentences explaining why you have the necessary skills to perform the job you're interested in. After this you will want to let the potential employer know that your resume is enclosed. It is also important to make sure you don't end the letter incorrectly. Many people make the mistake of providing their number and asking the potential employer to call them if they're interested.

A better way to end the letter is by giving the potential employer your number and informing them that you will be calling them. What this does is tell the employer you are persistent, and will take the initiative. It says you will continue contacting them until you get a response. This is the type of impression you want to make.


