Title: 
Critical Small Business Decision #7:  Stock Inventory Or Dropship Product For Your Online Store

Word Count:
422

Summary:
Planning on an Internet storefront?  Every small business owner needs to take these things into consideration when laying the foundation of a "click and order" operation.


Keywords:
wholesale,dropship,drop ship,small business,home based business,work from home


Article Body:
Starting a business online could be much quicker than starting one offline.  However, as a small business owner, you need to be prepared to spend a fair amount of time and energy to make your business profitable.  After all, that is why you're going into business isn't it?
 
An online business is still one of the greatest work from home business opportunities on the planet.   You may even have a grand vision for an online store, but find yourself struggling to handle the basic details of getting your store up and running.  One essential detail is selecting the products you will use to "stock" your store.  You will also have to decide if you want to keep an inventory or want to use dropshipping.  Starting a store online can be as challenging as starting one offline, but it if you understand what's involved, this doesn't necessarily have to be the case.  By identifying and using the right resources, you can make your start-up a smooth one.
 
The key to having a profitable online presence instead of just another online enterprise is creating or locating good quality products that you can sell for a profit.  One way to do this is through drop shipping.  Drop shipping allows small business owners, like you to establish a professional relationship with vendors who wholesale the products you want to sell.  These vendors will ship customer orders directly to them rather than you having to stock inventory and do the product fulfillment yourself. 

Prior to opening your store, it is critical to have the foundation of your business firmly established.  Organization must be an integral part of this process.  As your list of vendors and dropshippers increases, you should have all of their contact information in a convenient location for easy access.  Don't short-circuit this part of the process, it is  amazing how much time you can save by being organized and by having established contacts within your product market.  Take the time you need to build your store right from the ground up and business will virtually run itself in due time.  
 
A number of factors will contribute to the ultimate success of your business whether that business is online or offline.  The Internet, especially, is often viewed as a way to "get rich quick" rather than as a way to build a good business with a greater reach.  You will get out of your business what you decide to put into it.  Today's technology allows small business owners to build their businesses faster, but it


