Title: 
Custom Vinyl Decals and Magnetic Signs Give You a Competitive Advantage

Word Count:
530

Summary:
Huge billboards might be cost prohibitive, but there are a variety of less expensive types of signage that can bring customers into your retail store, drive traffic to your website, and create an awareness of your products and services.


Keywords:
Custom Wall Lettering, Custom Wall Graphics, Custom Signs, Custom Banners, Magnetic Signs, Vehicle Lettering, Vinyl Grap


Article Body:
If you own a small- to medium-sized business, you likely face stiff competition for customers or clients. In such a competitive marketplace, the business that comes out on top is the one that uses every means available for creating brand awareness and advertising its products or services. Even if your marketing efforts include splashy media campaigns, costly pay-per-click search engine marketing, and direct mail pieces, you should also take advantage of less expensive means for sustaining awareness of your company. If you don't have a large marketing budget, it's even more important to find creative ways to build awareness of your company and get the word out. 

One of the best ways to advertise is through the use of signage. Huge billboards might be cost prohibitive, but there are a variety of less expensive types of signage that can bring customers into your retail store, drive traffic to your website, and create an awareness of your products and services. Best of all, high quality customs signs can be ordered over the Internet at a fraction of the cost of creating custom signs locally. What follows is an overview of the types of signage that is available and how you might incorporate it into your business.

Custom Vinyl Decals: If you own a retail store, your doors and windows are essentially premiere advertising space. When you create a custom vinyl decal for your door or window, you have a powerful advertising mechanism. Custom vinyl decals are also ideal for bumper stickers, so if you belong to a booster club, are advocating for a political cause, or want to provide a giveaway to your customers, you can design your own bumper 

Custom Window Lettering: Lettering with your business' name on it is important for your storefront, but vehicle lettering can be an even better advertising bet. When you have custom vehicle lettering, you are advertising your business whenever you or your employees are behind the wheel. You can customize these vinyl graphics to incorporate your logo, your business name, your website address, your phone number - or anything else you want potential customers to know. 

Custom Banners: Whether you're having a sale or another type of event, custom banners draw attention to your business. When you design your banner, you can include your logo and have access to a wide selection of colors, fonts, special effects, borders, and graphics. 

Magnetic Signs: If you need signage that is temporary, magnetic signs provide you with inexpensive yet valuable advertising. For example, if you or your employees use their personal vehicles for deliveries or to call on customers or clients, magnetic signs can easily be attached to the vehicle and then taken off at the end of the day. 

Other Types of Signage: The best custom sign companies can produce a huge variety of signage. In addition to custom vinyl decals, window lettering, banners, and magnetic signs, they can also do everything from custom wall lettering and custom wall graphics, to boat lettering and registration numbers, to license plates and digital decals. 

Virtually every business that advertises - from network marketers to franchisees - can utilize these inexpensive marketing methods to spread the word without breaking the bank.


