Title: 
Do a background check first before you hire someone!!|Detectiveunlimited|

Word Count:
388

Summary:
Depending on the particular position, it might be necessary to check applicants’ driving records, criminal history, educational achievements, and references, and to verify whether they actually worked where they say they did...


Keywords:
people search, background check, records search, Ancestry Archives, adoption and birth parents, birth certificates, bankruptcy files, genealogy, public records, vital records, identity theft


Article Body:
Today, numerous companies conduct background checks, including several firms that offer their services over the Web. And while it’s important to find a company that’s competent at verifying credentials, it’s also crucial to check for the right things. "The level of deception that exists is frightening. A lot of people think nothing of misrepresenting their qualifications and lying about past events," says Lou Adler, president of Power Hiring. In the past, courts have consistently ruled that employers are liable for the actions of their workers while on the job -- a fact that makes screening even more imperative.

Depending on the particular position, it might be necessary to check applicants’ driving records, criminal history, educational achievements, and references, and to verify whether they actually worked where they say they did. Foreign workers must have an H-1B visa, and obtaining information from foreign institutions can prove difficult. Further complicating things is the easy availability of false documents over the Internet and, increasingly, outright identity theft. "An employment offer should be conditional on passing a background check," observes Jane Paradiso, recruiting solutions practice leader at Watson Wyatt Worldwide. "These days, the stakes are too great to ignore."

DetectiveUnlimited provides powerful background check features with extreme ease of use, making it an ideal choice for home users or professionals alike, all from the privacy of your own home. Unlimited searches! Investigate Anyone in any US State and Country Online. Plus Complete sources for ALL Public & Vital Records. Advanced Tools for People Searches. A Massive Collection of Investigation resources. These resources are used by private eyes & law enforcement agencies around the world. This is the 100% legal, private and accurate way to conduct your own research & investigations. 

Public Records, Birth Records, Court Records, Criminal Records, Social Security# Records, Police Records, FBI Records, People Search, Property Records, Arrest Records, Bankruptcy Records, Childcare and Nanny Screening, Felony Arrests, Inmates locator, Judgment Files, Plaintiff/Defendants, Adoption Records, Probate Records, Death Records, Sex offenders, Skip Tracing, Small Claims Records, Unlisted home & cell phone numbers. Marriage Records, All Vital Records. Warrant Files, Unlimited Background Checks, Divorce Records, Criminal Record Checks, Identity Theft, Fraud and Alias Files, Military Records, Birth and Marriage Certificates, Legal Records, Genealogy, Employee Background Verifications, Prison Records, DMV and DUI Files, and much more!! 

http://www.detectiveunlimited.com is your online detective..


