Title: 
Don’t Get Caught By Work At Home Scams

Word Count:
511

Summary:
You've decided that you want to give up that 9 to 5 and be your own boss.  You've decided on your niche and done some research into it.  But how do you avoid getting caught by work from home scams?


Keywords:
work from home scams, scams, avoid scams, home business scams


Article Body:
You've decided that you want to give up that 9 to 5 and be your own boss.  You've decided on your niche and done some research into it.  What do you need to do next? Source a product to bring in some money.

There are many websites out there that are legitimate, enabling you to build a substantial business and earn money working from home on the Internet.  You could be answering questionnaires for $20 each, reading transcripts of books prior to being published, writing articles. However, there are others, generically called “get rich quick schemes”. These schemes encourage you to spend money that you haven't got with false promises on the returns on your investment. The people who run these schemes (scammers) prey on the naïve or vulnerable and reel them in.  Once, you are under their spell there is no letting go.  Some, even ask you to pay money upfront stating that they'll double even quadruple it for you!

The auction sites are the worst sites for these people to hide in and wait for their prey. You've probably all visited one at some time, searching for that special gift for a family member, friend or even yourself.  The scammers advertise their merchandise, usually something that is a much sought after product. You see it and snap it up, pay, they get your money and you don't get the goods.  This happens time and time again.  

Help is available though.  The Better Business Bureau (bbb.org) and Federal Trade Commission (ftc.gov) are two organizations that are there to help you keep away from these fraudulent scams and check out the legitimate ones on the Internet to prevent you from losing you're hard earned cash.  They are encouraging people to complain to them about these scams.  If you get caught up in one, no matter how much money is involved, you MUST report it and stop it from happening to some other unsuspecting person trying to look for an honest way to make a living online.

You owe it to yourself to check out the Companies or people that are advertising a scheme or goods.  Do they have testimonials and are they real?  Follow them up by contacting the people who have made the testimonials.  Visit their sites and check them out through the Better Business Bureau and Federal Trade Commission.

Forums are a good place to get some help.  They are full of valuable advice.  You can read up on the benefits and pitfalls of schemes or ventures you are intending to embark on or perhaps you'd like to ask some specific questions.  All of the members have had to start from somewhere and they will give you good, honest advice.

Ensure that you are aware of what is happening and beware of that email dropping into your inbox stating that you can “get rich quick”.  There is no easy way to make money on the Internet, it takes a lot of time, effort, determination and hard work.  

Remember:- If it looks to good to be true, it probably is.


