Title: 
Employing an Executive Dashboard

Word Count:
510

Summary:
Learn how to use an executive dashboard.


Keywords:
executive dashboard, management dashboard


Article Body:
<p>Every business is looking for a competitive advantage over their competitors.  Many businesses derive their competitive advantage from the method they employ to process and analyze their information.  We live in an era of information.  It seems there is no such thing as too much information.  Whether this is true or not businesses are forced to find efficient ways to present the data they have stored on their servers. Many successful and cutting edge companies rely on executive dashboards to present their data in a meaningful and organized manner. 

<p>You might ask what exactly an executive dashboard is.  That is a great question and fortunately the answer is not to difficult.  We all have a pretty good idea of what a dashboard is.  Anyone who drives a vehicle benefits from a dashboard. In a car the dashboard displays all the vital information of the automobile.  It tells you your speed, fuel status, engine temperature, rpm’s, and many more essential vitals related to your car.  In the business setting executive dashboards offer the same sort of insight into the vitals of business.  

<p>Executive dashboards, sometimes known as a management dashboard, provide a brief yet powerful view into the health of your company.  A management dashboard can be used to display almost any information a business executive could want to know about his company.  Dashboards have the capability to present information inputted from excel spreadsheets.  

<p>An executive dashboard adds value to your business by presenting the information in a visually stimulating manner. You no longer have to browse through rows and columns of data to identify positive and negative trends.  Now you can input all your sales information into the executive dashboard, and view the information as graphs and charts which are easy to interpret.  This method of delivering information facilitates efficiency and decision making within companies.  Because the executive dashboard provides unprecedented ease of use and flexibility the value they bring to the table proves invaluable. 

<p>The amount of information an executive dashboard can present is amazing.  You name it the dashboard can display it. Executive dashboards are typically scaled to accept data on sales, inventory, expenses, balance sheet items, income statements, and much more.  The dashboard software proves to be quite flexible and scalable to the needs of any business. 

<p>To be competitive as a business you must at the very least keep pace with your competition.  Tools like executive dashboards can be valuable enough to push your company to the front of the race.  A management dashboard offers such a wealth of information and myriad of benefits that it can hardly be ignored.  If you are considering taking your business to the next level and are looking for an advantage to help you succeed, then you need to look into executive dashboards right away.  No other business tool can present the information you need to analyze the data in quite the same way an executive dashboard can.


