Title: 
Fancy Dress 1970s style guide

Word Count:
478

Summary:
No-one takes anything badly it's just a great fun event. Everyone wishes they were back in the seventies or eighties.


Keywords:
1970's fancy dress costumes, star wars, grease


Article Body:
No-one takes anything badly it's just a great fun event. Everyone wishes they were back in the seventies or eighties.

What fun it is admiring all the 70s fancy dress people have made, hired or purchased fancy dress online and people watch, everyone seems to be smiling with total strangers meeting for the first time laughing at each others 70s and 80's costumes. 

With a huge alternatives from Grease 70s costumes with the Pink ladies, Star Wars Storm Troopers and Darth Vader, or if you're really brave there's always the Rocky Horror Show fancy dress available to make your fancy dress party go with a swing. You could give your costume party a political theme, or turn your apartment into a zoo and make everyone come as their favorite animal!


It's amazing how many 70s fancy dress costumes there are to choose from too. It just show's you how well-liked the 70s fancy dress party theme is, and some of the girls outfits are very sexy too. You have the apparent ones of Abba, the Pimps, flower power and glitter but you have some others if you're going in a group. You have the whole Scooby Doo gang available now, you can be whatever Marvel Super hero you ever wanted to be. Grease 70s costumes with the Pink ladies, Star Wars Storm Troopers and Darth Vader, or if you're actually daring there's always the Rocky Horror Show fancy dress obtainable. 

The recent comeback of films like star wars has made the fancy dress industry even more popular and it is not just films that help drive trends. TV programs like ITV's grease will help the look of Danny Zuko and Sandy.

So if you're thinking of having a party and looking for a theme, you couldn't do better than decide to make it seventies fancy dress because once they have their 70s fancy dress on, they are already in the frame of mind to party. Remember in order to have a 70s party you don't have to wait to halloween, you can organize it on your birthday, your mates birthday, some special date or even a work event. 

Among the wide-ranging population, costume parties also occurred with growing frequency from the late 1940's onward, even though for the most part the costumes were straightforward affairs until the mid 70's.
With the typical high street retailer supplying fancy dress costumes almost disappeared this has been replaced by many high quality online suppliers of fancy dress costumes who be able to offer a massive range and fast release.

With fancy dress selection the other considerations is thinks like wigs, face paint and accessories and these can help to make your overall look really set the scene. Face paint is a great to attain a low budget concluding look for your costume where you either don't want to wear a mask.


