Title: 
Favorite Camping Memory

Word Count:
428

Summary:
What is your favorite camping memory?  If you are like me you have many camping memories.  Camping in the outdoors remains my fondest memories of growing up.


Keywords:
Static Caravan Insurance


Article Body:
I was recently going through the garage getting the camping gear together for an upcoming trip and was just flooded with memories from my childhood.  Some noise brought me back to reality and I realized with a chuckle a tear had formed in my eye.  That is how strong the memories of camping are for me.

This one memory of camping was so fun I thought I would share it with you.

I was just a young boy, maybe 8 or 10 years old.  My family often went camping.  My dad loved to hunt and fish.  One of my favorite destinations was the beach.  The surf, the waves, the breeze, it was a whole different world.  There was so much to explore and feel and touch.  Camping at the beach will always be my favorite memories.

This camping trip was especially memorable.  It was a day unlike any other.  We arrived at the beach and frantically chose a spot for the tent.  Dad was anxious to get in the water and start fishing.  I was just anxious to get in the water.  The day was full of adventure and after a long day we finally snuggled into our sleeping bags.  Camping at the beach was great because you could always hear the roar of the waves.  This night the waves seemed closer than usual I thought as I dozed off.

I awoke in the middle of the night with waves crashing inside the tent.  The full moon had caused an extremely high tide and the tent was engulfed with water.  I awoke to screaming and commotion and fell right off my sleeping bag down into the cold water.  I rose to my knees just in time to catch a wave right in the face.  I laughed aloud at the same time I screamed.

It was the absolute funniest thing you have ever seen.  This camping trip to the beach was hilarious.  Mom and Dad running around screaming as the sleeping bags and camping gear were floating away on the waves.  I ran and jumped with glee.  I laughed until I cried.  It was the funniest thing I will ever remember in my life.

I don’t remember much else about that camping trip.  I am not sure if we stayed or went home.  I will just never forget that gleeful night under the stars with waves crashing into the tent.  This truly was one of those great camping moments.  Over the years there were many, but this one will always be my favorite.

So what is your favorite camping trip?


