Title: 
Feng Shui Improves Productivity in Cube Farms!

Word Count:
395

Summary:
Use Feng Shui when decorating work cubicles improves productivity.  Avoid harm to your business with these EASY Feng Shui cures!


Keywords:
feng shui, decorating work cubicles, cube, cubicles, office space, cube farm, productivity, décor


Article Body:
When decorating work cubicles, a little knowledge of Feng Shui can go a long way.  Here are a few helpful hints that will improve your day in the cube.  By implementing these simple changes, you will immediately feel dramatic improvement to your work day.

The biggest Feng Shui problem with cubicles is that your back is to the entranceway.  You are unable to see when people approach the doorway behind you, causing a constant unsettling environment for you.  Feng Shui is about harmony of your environment, and having your back to the entranceway is a major disruption to that harmony.  Fortunately, there is a “cure”!  To cure this problem when decorating work cubicles, place a mirror inside the cubical that reflects the entranceway behind you.  This way, you can always see who is approaching you from behind.

Even though a cubical is a very small area, it is still an office.  The rules of Feng Shui that are applied to regular sized offices (and living spaces) also apply when decorating work cubicles.  For example, you should always sit facing one of your lucky directions, and never sit facing one of your deadly directions (See www.fengshuibytroy.com to calculate your directions).   Also, in 2005, you absolutely do not want to sit facing west!  This is where the Grand Duke resides, and facing him during 2005 can cause severe financial problems.

Follow the overall directional placement of Feng Shui when placing decorative items on your desk, or on the walls of your cubicle.  Electronic items, like your computer monitor, are best placed in the West or North West.  Candles and items red in color should be kept in the South.  A small moving water feature can be placed in SE, E or North - just don't put it behind you.

The most important thing to remember when decorating work cubicles is to avoid clutter!  In such a small area this can be difficult, but it is still very important.  A cluttered desk makes for a cluttered mind.  As far as decor, keep things around you that are indicative of your business.  General business pictures and decor is appropriate, as well as a few personal family items.  Unless you are a photographer of swimsuit models, avoid racy photographs and things that are not related to work.  Appropriately decorating work cubicles is your best bet to increase your work productivity.


