Title: 
Get Ready For Halloween Today!

Word Count:
504

Summary:
Halloween is one holiday that most children really enjoy, but too many parents get stressed out over it. Some simple planning though will help you get ready for it instead of dreading it. Costumes are always an issue for children and they should have some say in what they get to wear. Put a dollar amount limit on it if they want to have a costume purchased instead of made.


Keywords:
halloween costumes, great halloween costumes, discounted halloweed costumes


Article Body:
Halloween is one holiday that most children really enjoy, but too many parents get stressed out over it. Some simple planning though will help you get ready for it instead of dreading it. Costumes are always an issue for children and they should have some say in what they get to wear. Put a dollar amount limit on it if they want to have a costume purchased instead of made. 

All costumes should be tried on so you know they are going to be a good fit for your children. Too many accidents happen due to eye holes not lining up correctly and them tripping over the bottom of it. Take care of these issues before Halloween so that they can just slip it on that night and go out. 

Make sure you explain Halloween safety to your children before the big night. This way they will pay attention because they won’t be overly excited. Try it out during dinner the week of Halloween to ensure it is fresh in their minds. Explain they need to use sidewalks and never dart between cars to cross the street. This should only be done at the crosswalks. It is a good idea to give each child a flashlight or a glow stick so they are easier to notice. They also need to refrain from eating any candy that they get until an adult has carefully inspected it. 

It is easy to serve up a fun and scary Halloween meal without too much effort. Since you know the little ghosts and witches will be eating plenty of candy in the days to come you can be proud to serve them something healthy as well. For just a couple of dollars you can purchase brain Jell-o molds. Mix up a meat loaf and let it sit over night in the refrigerator. These molds are made from plastic so you can’t bake in them but the design will become indented in the meat as it sits overnight.

Serve up plain white rice or even broccoli rice with the meatloaf on a plate as brains and maggots. Your children will really enjoy eating them and this doesn’t take very much effort to complete either. You can also make a delightful and delicious punch to serve with it. The night before fill up rubber gloves with water and tie the ends shut. Make sure you separate the fingers as you place them in the freezer. 

In a punch bowl mix black cherry juice with a two liter of 7-Up. Place the hands into the mixture for icy hands that are very real looking. To make the punch even for Halloweenish, add some scoops of rainbow sherbet to it. 

Getting ready for Halloween doesn’t have to be expensive or time consuming so have fun with it. This is a holiday that people of all ages can enjoy. Start making your plans for it today so that everyone can have a good time without worrying about last minute details.


