Title: 
Getting Your Business Online In An Hour

Word Count:
419

Summary:
Are you in a hurry to get your business online? Do you have a limited budget but want professional results right away? In the past, this was an impossible demand but today, with the advent of website builders, it is not only possible but realistic.

You can get a website up and running with no knowledge of HTML or any other web technology. If you know how to use a word processor, chances are, you can figure out how to use a website builder. Different website builders come w...


Keywords:
website builder,web site builder,create your own website,build your own website


Article Body:
Are you in a hurry to get your business online? Do you have a limited budget but want professional results right away? In the past, this was an impossible demand but today, with the advent of website builders, it is not only possible but realistic.

You can get a website up and running with no knowledge of HTML or any other web technology. If you know how to use a word processor, chances are, you can figure out how to use a website builder. Different website builders come with different capabilities but overall they are easy to use and quick to setup. Most site builders also walk you through the step by step process of getting your website live for the world to see.

But can you expect professional results with a site builder? Most of them come with professional grade templates for you to choose from. Some customization can be done to these templates. Things like color scheme, logo graphic and the like are often customizable so that you reduce the chance that someone else using the very same site builder software will have an identical looking website. Using the templates that come with most website builders is actually a good thing. It keeps most people who are new to web design from committing some common web design errors.

For most business sites, the bare minimum number of pages you'll want to have live is two. The main home page being your sales page stressing the benefits your prospective customers will get by doing business with you and a contact us page that will let your visitors know how to contact you. You could technically include your contact info on the home page and reduce your overall page count to one but it is seldom necessary to be so concise. Once you are up and running, you can always add more pages.

Keeping your website creation project under an hour will require you to get to the point right away. Remember the difference between feature and benefit. Feature being what your product or service will do for the customer and benefit being what they will get from what the product or service does. Make sure to make a list of benefits to doing business with your company as opposed to another one. Make it easy for them to do business with you.

With a website builder, getting a website up and running doesn't have to take you much time, money or grief and the results may impress you.


