Title: 
Guide to business and data trends

Word Count:
538

Summary:
If one factor is to be named on which#today’s business world stands it is undoubtedly the data management system of organization. The significance of data captures and interpretation is such that many make and break of most business organizations and big corporate houses


Keywords:
business,data,management,corporate


Article Body:
If one factor is to be named on which	today’s business world stands it is undoubtedly the data management system of organization. The significance of data captures and interpretation is such that many make and break of most business organizations and big corporate houses depend on efficient data management. Collecting data known, as capturing data at the first place is indispensable for any business house. All type of trading needs data, to manage both the internal and eternal working of the company. Information about details of products dealt by organization, employees working for the growth of company and the marketing opportunities available each aspect need to be studied carefully and analyzed for business promotion, expansion and even day-to-day normal running of business.

Data manipulation and interpretation has been an integral part of enterprises since long only the methods of data entry, storage and retrieval keep on being upgraded to suit growing needs of business world. Older methods of huge paper work for data management requirements of a company have long given way to the computer age and an era of paperless offices is on its way to live for long. Computer handling of data is much more efficient, reliable and fast for all types of data needs in any business. Gathering huge amounts of data at one place and being able to manipulate it easily is one of the greatest advantage of digital data setups. 

Computerized information’s can be stored on variety of media depending on the requirement, nature and volume of data. Very Large amounts of data that is necessary to be retrieved only when needed can be stored on secondary storage devices for permanent accumulation. Hard disks and CD-ROM’s have been popular in acting as data repositories. Data can be written to CD-ROM’s by way of burning them using CD-writers and information in hard-disk is stored with the help of any computer. 

Even data sharing and transfer has become a matter of minutes by the invention of computerized data management. Information about anything in business can be easily accessed by anyone whoever has the powers to do so even of he is situated at remote distances. In special business organizations where data transfer and sharing is vital for its success emergence of computers has been a heavenly blessing and has given a huge boost to its economic status. Airline reservations, railway bookings, knowing the performance of business in different branches of the organization all has been made easy by introduction of digital computing systems.

These data spreading and keeping of backup copies, apart from serving good to the business has also created threat of data theft and data damages for business. Hackers from all over world and also social technical culprits impose high risk of accessing and misusing vital facts of business. Apart from natural damages like that of fire, flood, lightning or sudden accidents business data needs to be safeguarded from ill- intentions of some malicious human beings. All these necessities have given intense boost to data security software and other safety measures implied by companies. Even the extra costs incurred in beginning for implying protection against anticipated data loss are worth being considered for long term gains of business houses


