Title: 
High speed print & apply

Word Count:
304

Summary:
A company has launched a high speed print and apply solution for variable information labelling.


Keywords:
print and apply,printing,labelling,label application,thermal transfer,labels


Article Body:
A company has launched a high speed print and apply solution for variable information labelling.

The ALX 720 is suited to the print and application of information such as pricing, ladder or picket fence barcodes, stock numbers, batch codes and general promotional labelling.

It prints and applies up to 250 labels a minute, depending on label size, and has a label stop accuracy of ±  0.5mm.

The system uses the latest thermal transfer, near edge, 300dpi print head technology to produce high resolution output in a choice of 17 fonts, including OCR/A and OCR/B, as well as two scaleable fonts. Digitised drawings and logos can be imported for incorporation in print designs.

Applying labels to the top, sides and base of a variety of cartons, containers, packages and products, the ALX 720 prints at speeds of up to 300mm per second and labels at speeds of up to 30 metres/min.

The company says that, unlike 1:1 print and apply systems – where label application is limited by print speed – the ALX 720 has a label buffer between the print head and dispensing edge. This, it says, enables greater flexibility and optimum speeds to be achieved at both print and apply stages.

The unit features the company’s automatic product speed following technology as standard. This ensures accurate labelling through the continuous monitoring and automatic adjustment of the labelling speed to much product presentation to the labelling edge, says the manufacturer. Print and dispense functions are controlled through individual membrane keypads, located on the front of the cabinet, with system status visible on integral LED displays.

The control system incorporates 1 Mb of dynamic RAM memory as standard, with an RS 232 serial interface also included. This enables print data to be generated and controlled from a linked PC, mini or mainframe computer system if required. An optional RS 485 interface is also available.


