Title: 
Home Business Opportunities: Where Marketing is King

Word Count:
616

Summary:
The home based business is increasingly based entirely upon online marketing, advertising, networking, and sales. In other words, you never have to leave the comfort of your own home in order to successfully achieve your financial goals.


Keywords:
home business, marketing, advertising, home based business, income opportunities, business opportunities, mlm, call cent


Article Body:
Whether you're ready to give up the 9-to-5 grind and be your own boss, or whether you're looking for a second income, there are many home business opportunities available today. The widest variety - and some would say most lucrative - income opportunities are found on the Internet. Likewise, the home based business is increasingly based entirely upon online marketing, advertising, networking, and sales. In other words, you never have to leave the comfort of your own home in order to successfully achieve your financial goals. 

The Heart of Home Business Opportunities

But at the heart of most of these business opportunities is the MLM, or multi-level marketing approach. An MLM involves what's called an "upline" and a "downline." Your upline consists of the person who introduced you to the home business opportunity (and the person who introduced him or her, and so forth), while your downline consists of the people to whom you introduce to the opportunity (as well as the people to whom they introduce the opportunity, and so forth). In a nutshell, part of the income you generate is paid to your upline, while part of the income your downline generates is paid to you and to your upline. 

The success you achieve in an MLM is largely dependent upon your marketing and advertising ability, as well as your ability to close sales. In essence, it's a numbers game. You need a critical mass of leads in order to close enough sales to produce a profit, and to create the downline you need in order to receive passive income from their sales. 

Home Business Opportunities that Work FOR You

The traditional MLM involved holding house parties, selling products, and convincing other people to sign up for the home business opportunity. Many people have tried any number of these income opportunities and failed. Why? Because most people aren't natural salespeople, and they have a limited number of contacts. They simply don't have access to the numbers of people necessary to create the substantial downline that's needed to generate residual income.

The new wave of MLMs, however, are Internet based and don't require stocking inventory, holding house parties, or wearing out your welcome with family and friends in an attempt to convince them to buy products or hold parties. Instead, these new home business opportunities utilize the power of the Internet to draw prospective downline members to you. In other words, these are income opportunities that work for you, and that give you an advantage over traditional MLMs. 

The Secret to Success

Online home business opportunities utilize the strengths of the Internet. A good opportunity will, for example, give you the tools you need to accomplish the marketing and advertising aspects of your business - without ever having to test the goodwill of your circle of acquaintances. You may, for example, have your own website to which you can drive traffic. An Internet traffic generator can send thousands - or hundreds of thousands - of prospective downline members to your site. 

Traditional MLMs fail for many people because we have a hard time closing the sale. In contrast, the new wave of home business opportunities employs a call centre to close all of your prospects for you. 

Similarly, Internet-based home business opportunities will often have an expensive means (such as an e-book) of teaching you everything you need to know about harnessing the power of the Internet to achieve your financial goals. This information is invaluable for both the business opportunity you sign up for and for future endeavors. 

A home business can provide you with freedom on so many levels - time, money, satisfaction - that it simply makes sense to avail yourself of the new wave of Internet income opportunities.


