Title: 
Home Base Loan Officer Positions

Word Count:
401

Summary:
If you are a loan officer looking for a little more freedom and flexibility in your work day, you may want to consider a home base loan officer position.


Keywords:
Sales, marketing, loan officer, mortgage, leads, telemarketing, skills, training, blog, selling, internet mortgage lead


Article Body:
If you are a loan officer looking for a little more freedom and flexibility in your work day, you may want to consider a home base loan officer position.

Most mortgage broker shops will allow for you to work from home once they have trained you on their system and have acclimated you to their products and services.

Most mortgage companies, banks included, prefer for their mortgage representatives to work  from home because it saves the company money in the way of office space.

Finding a home base loan officer position should not be too difficult if you are looking in the right places. Most loan officer positions that you see in want ads and on Yahoo’s hot jobs put work from home in their job description.

Working from home can have its challenges at times, so make sure it is the right choice for you.

For instance, I was a loan officer working for a mortgage company. After six months of learning the ropes in the office, I made the decision to work from home.

After working from my home base for about three months, I began to feel lonely. I began to miss the comradery that I once had with my fellow co-workers in the office.

I began to feel as though I were no longer a part of the rat race.

And although I was supplied with all of the necessary equipment to run a home based office, I still felt as though I was lacking in some of the resources a large office had to offer.

My advice to you would be this. If you decide to work from home, consider partnering with another loan officer to work with you. Obviously one that you like and trust, just so you have someone to bounce things off of, if nothing else.

Or, work from your home base on your own for a while to see how you like it. If you begin to feel that the environment is a little stagnant, than consider bringing in another loan officer to work with you.

In the end, if a home base loan officer position is what you want, than do it, it just may be the right fit for you. The beauty of the loan officer position is that many options are open to us, so if you don’t like the home atmosphere, go back to the office.


