Title: 
Honest Riches/ Thank You Rich Jerk Review

Word Count:
1353

Summary:
Holly Mann is an army veteran. When she returned home, she wanted to make an income from home, so that she could simultaneously take care of her children. After successfully making websites, she put her experience into one e-book, and now sells it for just twenty dollars! Save your Starbucks money for a few days, and you've just got a new ebook! And you've improved your health as well! ;-)

Here is all the content on the e-book:

Chapter 1: Make Cash Now With No Start-Up ...


Keywords:
high, income, business, opportunities, holly, mann, ebook, money, work, at, home


Article Body:
Holly Mann is an army veteran. When she returned home, she wanted to make an income from home, so that she could simultaneously take care of her children. After successfully making websites, she put her experience into one e-book, and now sells it for just twenty dollars! Save your Starbucks money for a few days, and you've just got a new ebook! And you've improved your health as well! ;-)

Here is all the content on the e-book:

Chapter 1: Make Cash Now With No Start-Up Money

This chapter explains what affiliate programs are and a method you can use to promote your products: free! On Holly's LiveJournal group for ebook owners, one individual shows how he made over $500 through this advertising technique. On the LiveJournal group, you can find out how to more effectively use this technique.

Chapter 2: Profiting From Product Reviews

This chapter is one of the most loaded and most useful ones. It contains information such as how to find your perfect niche, how to write product reviews, and where to submit that review. I loved this chapter, but be aware, you will have to spend a small amount for some services. I spent $30.67 for the services, but they were dead useful. They all came with a 'free trial' version, which I used to experiment. All my expenses have come so far from here, because most of your initial work will be here.

Chapter 3: Website Design

In this chapter, you figure out which website builder's to use, where to find a designer, and where to get "turnkey websites" (premade websites ready to use for making a profit). The only idea I appreciated in this section was the blog section. It showed me how to make a blog at http://blogger.com, but if you decide to make a blog, definitely use WordPress. It is the best blogging program in the World Wide Web. I love it, even this free version. Eventually, you have to get your site hosted. When you decide to take that step, my suggestion is to use http://1and1.com. I plan on upgrading to their cheapest plan. Even though its only $2.99/month, it provides everything you need to start a small site.

Chapter 4: Content Is King - Building Your Online Presence

This is an awesome chapter. It shows you the last program that made up my $30.67. She calls it a cash goldmine, and it is. This program helps you find 'key phrases' with few competitors and many searches on the major search engines. In addition, you find out how to increase your site's search engine ranking for free and how to get free traffic to your site. These two things really are free, and work well. They don't involve you getting spam emails, weird offers, or anything like that. Here's a hint: good writers will love this!

Chapter 5: Profiting Per Click, Per Sale

This chapter tells you how to use AdSense and other programs like it to get traffic to your site. AdSense is a great tool to make cash. What you do is put ads on your site- you've seen them everywhere, they say Sponsored by Goooooogle. When someone clicks on these ads, you get money! This chapter also exposes an alternative to AdSense which can make much more money than AdSense. Once you have your site up, this becomes an incredibly useful chapter!

Chapter 6: Search Engine Optimization

Here's a quote from the e-book: "The purpose of optimizing your website is so that search engines can easily search your site, navigate through it and categorize it. As well as creating a graphically appealing, informative site for your visitors, you need to concentrate on building a strong keyword-based theme throughout the site." This is essentially what SEO is, and Holly's e-book clearly explains how to utilize this technique. You may find more complex guides and programs for SEO on the Internet, but these will cost at least double of Holly's e-book. This is a very useful chapter, and when used with Holly's LiveJournal Forum, can be make your house a cash machine!

Chapter 7: Tricks to Get Your Website a Higher Ranking

I'm in love with this chapter. She doubled her revenue with this free technique. It also shows you where to get free e-books, articles, pictures and recordings whose copyrights have expired. Honestly, does it get better than this? Even if you just want to read a bunch of books, buy Holly's e-book for an instant library! ;-)

Chapter 8: Website Statistics & Tracking

This chapter shows you the best website staticstics program to use. "It provides precise, detailed information about each site visitor, where the person is from, how long the person stays on each page, entry pages, exit pages, key words used to reach your website, referrals, etc. so you know exactly what advertising techniques are working for you and what you should improve on."- quoted from Holly's e-book. Its of no use until you have your site up, but right now I find the Blog Stats that WordPress provides enough. Remember http://1and1.com? If you just get the $5/month hosting service, you get a multitude of tools not available in the $3/month service. One of those tools is a detailed website statistics and tracking program! So you can host your site and get the tools too!

Chapter 9: The Money Is In The List

You might have seen this chapter's tactics in use before. Have you ever signed up for a free newsletter or ezine? This chapter tell's you how to be on the giving end of the newsletter/ezine. You can't utilize this chapter's ideas with a free blog, which dissapointed me. I hope to expand to a hosted blog, which has many more capabilities. But imagine the power of this tool. Lets say you have 1000 people on your list. You have a new product which costs $50 to buy. You send out a newsletter about this product, and 5% of the recipients buy your product. You've just made $2500!

Chapter 10: Advertising Your Website

This was a somewhat pitiful chapter. Its not in-depth enough to be of much use, but at least it gives you a basic overview of how to use AdWords to your advantage. For a review on the best and most complete guide to AdWords, check out my Beating Adwords Review. Trying the pay-per-click game can be dangerous if not done correctly. You might just be losing more and more on clicks and not converting. You really need to find more resources for pay-per-click.

Chapter 11: Power of Press Releases

This chapter explains how to get traffic after you've done the things in the previous chapters. Once you have done SEO, and designed your site, you send out a free press release to tell the world that "Big Gaming Co." is out and ready for business! This is a useful tool, and Holly directs you to where you should go for free press releases, and paid/preferred ones which get up faster and probably have better placement.

Chapter 12: Dropshipping & Wholesalers

Holly gives some good resources for dropshippers and wholesalers. "Dropshipping is where you sell products on the Internet and forward the orders to the dropship supplier. The dropshipper ships the product to your buyer, as if it came from you."- quote from e-book. I've tried out the whole ebay business so I have some experience in this. From what I've heard, most e-bayers, and the people influenced by PowerSellers don't trust dropshippers very much. I would read up more on this matter before you try it out.

Chapter 13: Ebay Advertising Tricks

Holly shows some nice tricks she uses with ebay to generate more traffic. I liked this section, since it could be easily utilized if you're an ebay seller. But hear me out- starting an ebay business is a very time-consuming task! Consider your time restraints before starting an eBay business. Read some other books for ebay selling- this is not a how to sell on eBay section.

I hope this gives you a good overview of what to expect from Holly Mann's ebook. You can expect a high income with your online business, but only after hard work.


