Title: 
How You Can Find the Financial Success You're Seeking

Word Count:
815

Summary:
Not long ago, I received a question from a customer that really boiled down to "what can or should I *do* in life to find the financial success I'm seeking for me and my family?" In this article, I'll answer it.


Keywords:
business, profession, financial success, wattles, wallace d wattles, wallace wattles


Article Body:
Copyright 2006 Tony Mase

Not long ago, I received a question from a customer that went something like this (I've edited out the personal details):

"Tony, I would really like to ask you a question and hopefully you will provide me a very honest answer."

"I see many different opportunities available everyday via the mail, email, media, promotions, ebooks, etc."

"Tony, I have a family to support and I want you to know that I am a born-again Christian and have a very good personal relationship with Jesus everyday of my life."

"My problem is that I have searched and searched and I continue to search for a way to earn a good living for my family so my wife can quit working. HOW can I truly find the prosperity that God promises and wants for his children? What can I do in life?"

"I just got fired today after trying in-home sales and not meeting my monthly quota! I am NOT a high pressure salesman, but I do want to provide people with a good product or service. I really need to find a solution! Is it to start a website and provide info or products? I would GREATLY appreciate your honest answer!"

This question really boils down to...

"What can or should I *do* in life to find the financial success I'm seeking for me and my family?"

It's an excellent question and one I'm asked practically every single day in one way or another.

In his book "The Personal Power Course", Wallace D. Wattles, best known for his classic masterpiece "The Science of Getting Rich", wrote:

"... you must know what you want to do. First, choose your business. Choose the one that seems most in line with your tastes, and which will require the use of your strongest faculties. Select for your life work the thing you most WANT to do. Do not become possessed by the idea that you must be fixed by circumstances in some business or profession which you do not like, and barred out from the one which you WOULD like. Even though you are making money, you are not successful so long as you are doing something you do not like to do, and not doing the thing you want to do. The man who feels that he is misplaced is neither wealthy nor successful. Perhaps the most essential part of wealth-culture consists in finding the place where you will be happy in your work. If you are not happy in your work, you are a slave."

And, therein lies the key...

If you want to get rich, however you define rich for yourself, it's vitally important for you to decide what *you* want to do based on what you *like* to do.

Here's the deal...

You can get rich in *any* business or profession.

Let me repeat that...

You can get rich in *any* business or profession!

Don't believe me?

Just take a look around you and you'll see there are people who got rich in *every* conceivable business and profession.

No further proof is necessary.

So...

Since it's obvious you can get rich in any business or profession, why not chose a business or profession which you like?

You see...

Most people have this backwards. They put the "cart before the horse", so to speak.

They decide they want to get rich and immediately start looking for a way or ways to make more money without any regard whatsoever to what they like to do or, just as important, what they *don't* like to do.

In other words...

They look for a business or profession to get into based purely on the money they think they can make.

Now...

This may work for some.

However...

It's never worked for me.

Whenever I've done anything purely for the money, which is exactly what I spent the majority of my life doing, not only was I absolutely miserable in the process but every single time, without exception, I failed!

So...

My "honest answer" is this...

First...

Ignore *all* the so-called "opportunities" floating around out there. More often than not, these so-called "opportunities", regardless of whether they're online or offline "opportunities", are nothing more than the opportunity for someone else to get your hard-earned money!

Second...

Sit down and decide what it is *you* like to do.

Third...

*Think* of a way or ways to earn money doing what you like to do.

Although you may have to develop some abilities, skills, or talents to earn money doing what you like to do and/or you may have to temporarily do something you don't like to do to earn money while you're working towards earning money doing what you like to do...

Ultimately...

Doing what you like to do, combined with constructive thought and constructive action, will bring you the financial success you're seeking for you and your family.


