Title: 
How To Select The Perfect Web Host

Word Count:
866

Summary:
Although choosing a Web Hosting  Company for your organization may seem like a simple task,  it is vital to take some time off and look out for the best one available in the market. Here are some top features that you must look into while selecting a good web host:


Keywords:
Compare best web hosting


Article Body:
How To Select The Perfect Web Host

Although choosing a Web Hosting  Company for your organization may seem like a simple task,  it is vital to take some time off and look out for the best one available in the market. Here are some top features that you must look into while selecting a good web host: 
•	Reliability - While selecting a web hosting company for your web site, you must look for its reliability. You should determine the experience level of the web host. Don’t forget to read public reviews about the web host that you are considering to hire. The best way to find a good web host company is by asking people who have used or currently use its services. Fortunately, there are news groups and forums dedicated to web hosts and their services that’ll help you out in this regard.
•	Customer Support Panel - Every website faces one problem or the other at different times. So, in such circumstances, when you need the assistance of professionals, you should find out whether the customer support panel will be available to help you or not. The hosting company that you are hiring should be able to quickly repair any problem in your website. This means that you must be able to reach someone from the hosting company 24x7.
•	CGI Access - For novices in the Internet industry, we must tell you that CGI is an access facility that gives the users an ability to run their own program on their website. Initially, this may not seem a big deal, but with time, as the company grows, you will want to gain as much control as possible. You must make sure that the web hosting company provides you CGI access that allows you to write, read and execute anything on the server.
•	POP Account - Safety comes first on the Internet. A larger number of Internet experts and hackers are on the look out to steal your hard earned money and your valuable company information. So, in order to provide safety to your web site, you must make sure that the web host will provide you with a POP account, which will give you a password protected access to the e-mails sent through your e-mail address on the web site.
•	Domain Name - The domain name of your web site acts solely as your identity on the Internet. So, you must make sure that the domain name provided to you by the web host should include the name of your business or the targeted keywords that you want in your domain name. It is advisable to approach a web host that allows the users to select their own domain name.
•	Storage Space and Bandwidth - The web hosting company that you are looking forward to should provide you with enough bandwidth and storage space, which is required for efficient working of your website. Storage space is simply the amount of files that can be stored on your account. Bandwidth is the transfer of data from the server to the user and vice versa. 
Beware! There are lots of inferior web hosts in the market, but an experienced and reputed web host is the only one who will provide you with the ultimate web hosting solutions. 
The other things that you must focus on while choosing a web hosting company include, a user-friendly site builder program, shopping carts, Blogs, forums and other scripts. In some cases, you may want .NET service, while in others, you may look for PHP. You may also require a particular CMS that is available only with some of the hosts.
One kind of web hosting is shared hosting, in which, various websites are positioned in a single server component linked to the Internet. Each website is given its own space, partition and section on the server, thus, separating it form the other websites. This method of hosting is extremely cost-effective, as many people get to share the total cost of maintaining the web server. Shared hosting can be done in two ways - Name based and IP based. In name based method, there are various host names on a single individual machine, while in the IP based method, each individual host has its own IP address and one of the main benefits of using this method is that it can employ its own SSL certificate.
If your website has started receiving a lot of traffic as well as SQL requests, then you can hog your shared server and can dissatisfy other customers. In such a scenario, you can opt to move towards a dedicated server or a Virtual Private Server (VPS). A VPS will provide you a root-level access to your server simply like that in a shared hosting account. In comparison to dedicated hosting, VPS is quite cost-effective, but dedicated ones have better configurations of the hardware. With a VPS plan, the users will still share the physical resources but will be able to enjoy a private server, but with a dedicated plan, you have the entire web server all by yourself.
For a detailed comparison of the top 5 hosting companies and more information about starting a web based business please follow the link below.


