Title: 
How to Start Your Own Janitorial Business

Word Count:
360

Summary:
If you are hard working, blue collar person thinking about starting your own business from a scratch and have only a small amount to invest, you may consider janitorial cleaning service business. Every business needs immaculately cleaned once in a while and often times in a day if it is public premise.


Keywords:
areal building services, building cleaning maintenance services, janitorial cleaning services, property management services.


Article Body:
If you are hard working, blue collar person thinking about starting your own business from a scratch and have only a small amount to invest, you may consider janitorial cleaning service business. Every business needs immaculately cleaned once in a while and often times in a day if it is public premise.

Once you decide to start a janitorial cleaning business. Like any other business, there are lots of steps involved you need to take into account:

1.	You need to decide and register your business name.
2.	Get the business registrations and licenses from your Local County or city hall.
3.	Start up cost
4.	Income Potential
5.	Printing marketing materials

If you are intending to work from home, you need to consult the zoning guidelines governing your residential area to check whether starting this business from home is allowed.

Doing the right things from the start will take your cleaning business to the next level of success.

It is important to sit down and figure out what will be start up cost to build a janitorial cleaning business. Your start-up costs can be around $500 - $5000. You can even start on a part-time basis working from home with just a vehicle and minimal amount of equipment.

However, janitorial expert recommends you that you should have at least $50000 as an initial investment to start this business right.

Starting your janitorial cleaning business as a home based business will put you in a much better position allowing you to...

1.	Keep your expenses low until you succeed in establishing some accounts and customer base.
2.	Offer lower prices as a part of your initial business strategy.
3.	Work flexible hours primarily on a part time basis
4.	Increase your hours of operation

Once you establish your identity as a successful janitor/janitorial cleaning service provider in your area and surroundings, you can rent or lease a space with adequate parking and storage space to store your equipment and supplies efficiently and safely.

A janitorial business lacks glamour and may seem "mundane", but the janitorial service industry has shown remarkable growth over the past decade and many experts believe that the outlook for the industry over the coming decades is very bright.


