Title: 
How To Get Control Of Stagefright And Feel More Relaxed And Confident In Front Of Any Audience

Word Count:
442

Summary:
Remember the last time you got up in front of others to sing, give a presentation, or just to state your opinion? Did you feel awkward or maybe even a little afraid?

You might have found yourself making silly mistakes or blanking out on what you were supposed to say.

Most of us suffer from stagefright at some point in our lives. In fact, the vast majority of people avoid having to get up in front of an audience. They limit themselves from much of the success they would ...


Keywords:
speaking,performing,stagefright,success,self-confidence


Article Body:
Remember the last time you got up in front of others to sing, give a presentation, or just to state your opinion? Did you feel awkward or maybe even a little afraid?

You might have found yourself making silly mistakes or blanking out on what you were supposed to say.

Most of us suffer from stagefright at some point in our lives. In fact, the vast majority of people avoid having to get up in front of an audience. They limit themselves from much of the success they would enjoy if they could just get over their stagefright.

Feeling uneasy in front of a crowd is perfectly understandable. Even famous performers suffer from serious problems with stagefright, sometimes to the point where they have to stop performing.

But it doesn't have to be that way. Stagefright can be conquered. Here are some professional tips that will help ease your mind on stage, making your next performance, presentation, or report a breeze.

1.) Try to remember when you first experienced stagefright. Somewhere in your past there was one time that set the fear and anxiety into motion. It could have been a simple teasing from a family member when you made a mistake. If you are able to pinpoint the incident, it will help you to get past your stagefright.

2.) Practice a technique called Future Shaping. Close your eyes and remember a time when you felt the most intense stagefright experience ever. See it, feel it, or imagine it in your mind. Next, imagine yourself feeling the way you WANT to feel in that situation. Imagine you're replacing one feeling for another. Practice this technique often, and you'll notice a big difference the next time you get in front of an audience.

3.) Here's a strategy that uses a little hypnosis. When you begin to feel stagefright coming on, take a minute and close your eyes. Breath deeply and slowly two or three times. Calm yourself down, then snap your fingers together when you feel better. Tell yourself that, if you should feel stagefright coming on again, you will simply release it by snapping your fingers. Practice this technique from time to time for best results.

People who have no problem getting up in front of a crowd seem to have success fall into their laps. Always being ready to speak will make others see you as a leader. You'll get more prospects, move up at work, and gain the admiration of others.

As a speaker or performer, getting past stagefright will improve your performance immensely. With all the simple, helpful techniques that are available, there is no reason to have to live with stagefright.


