Title: 
How To Make Your Marble Tiles Last Longer

Word Count:
566

Summary:
Marble is a stone commonly polished and utilized in fine building work, furniture, or decorative art, and may be white or colored. Marble is porous, and easily stained, or etched by acids. Should this happen, wipe off any spills immediately, as you would on a wood surface. Avoid setting beverage glasses directly on marble as they leave rings.


Keywords:
marble flooring flooring interior design marble tiles


Article Body:
Marble is a stone commonly polished and utilized in fine building work, furniture, or decorative art, and may be white or colored. Marble is porous, and easily stained, or etched by acids. Should this happen, wipe off any spills immediately, as you would on a wood surface. Avoid setting beverage glasses directly on marble as they leave rings.

To preclude stains and soil from being absorbed into its porous surface, it would be best to seal marble with a paste or sealer. Acids must not come in direct contact with marble as they generally etch the surface. Alkaline solutions will be absorbed by the marble and break down the surface leaving it rough. If marble tiles are properly sealed, damp-mopping should keep it clean. If soil does not remove easily, wash the tile with a solution of mild detergent and water, then rinse thoroughly. Remove stains promptly. 

Removing Stains from Marble Tiles

Get an absorbent material such as a napkin, paper towel or facial tissue. Dampen with a recommended chemical to dissolve the stain; mix whiting with the chemical to make a soft paste to cover the stain. The wipe should be left on the stain from 1 to 48 hours, depending on the age and depth of the stain. Plastic wrap, held in place by masking tape, can be put over the wiping agent to keep it damp. Mix only enough for immediate use; A fresh batch should be mixed if a second application is needed.

Acids: Fruit juice, carbonated beverages or other acids will etch, or damper shiny surfaces, if allowed to remain on marble. Wipe up acid spill immediately, and wipe the surface with a wet cloth. If surface is etched, some form of polishing may be required.

Oil Stain: Oil stains may include butter, hand cream or lotion. As quickly as possible, spread surface with an absorbent fine powder such as whiting or even corn starch. After a short time, brush to remove and reapply more powder. Let stand 24 hours. To remove: Scrub with a hot detergent solution and stiff brush or wipe with ammonia-dampened cloth, and in either case, rinse and wipe dry. If all the oil alkaline solutions are not removed using these alkaline solutions, try a solvent. Make a wipe dampened with acetone or amyl acetate, or with a home dry cleaning fluid. Proper ventilation with windows open to remove odors, is necessary. Do not use near a spark or flame, and do not leave the solution on for too long.

Organic Stains: Tea, coffee, colors bleached from paper, textiles or soft drinks. Get a wiping material soaked with 20% peroxide, at hair bleaching strength, and add a few drops of ammonia.

Rust: Usually the result of metal items such as a lamp, metal container in which plant is placed etc. Use a commercial rust stain remover. Follow directions exactly and do not leave on surface for long periods as acid in many rust removers can etch the surface.

For general maintenance, it is advised to dust mop interior floors frequently using a clean non-treated dry dust mop. Sand dirt and grit do the most damage to natural stone surfaces due to their abrasive qualities. Mats or area rugs inside and outside an entrance will help to minimize the sand, dirt and grit that will scratch the stone floor. Ensure that the underside of the mat or rug is a non-slip surface.


