Title: 
How to Increase online Business by One way link Exchange

Word Count:
644

Summary:
Link Exchange is a must but be sure if you link to other sites is not a link farm. Link Exchange is belong to 
two way link building because it needs a reciprocal link. To practice of exchanging links with other websites 
or sites, you may request a link exchange to other websites by email or online form. You place their link on 
your site and vice versa.


Keywords:
one way link exchange, link exchange, submit link


Article Body:
Link Exchange is a must but be sure if you link to other sites is not a link farm. Link Exchange is belong to 
two way link building because it needs a reciprocal link. To practice of exchanging links with other websites 
or sites, you may request a link exchange to other websites by email or online form. You place their link on 
your site and vice versa. Usually when you ask a link exchange to another webmaster, your request is under a 
review,if they will accept your request or decline. They evaluate your website if relevant or not. More relevant 
sites that are linkings, the better. The two relevant sites will gain a website rank and google page rank.


Two kinds of Link Building:

1.) One Way Link Building

2.) Two Way Link Building

One-Way Link Building, is a link to your site with no link back to or no reciprocal link. To obtain a permanent 
link your site to the reputable and relevant site without reciprocal or exchanging link.

Two-Way Link Building or a Reciprocal Link, involving a link to your site from an external source and a link 
from your site back to the external source.
One of the best ways of getting a website promotion done is by doing Link Exchange.  Doing Link Exchange is 
not such an easy job as you would need to consider a lot of things.  Remember, at the end of the day your 
objective is to promote your website.  One wrong step could generate a very bad publicity for your website.
Link Exchange normally happens on a symbiotic factor but is not limited to it.  To understand how to promote 
a website with link exchange, understand the concept of link exchange.

Link Exchange - A story!

Link Exchange was conceptualized on a small yet silly story.  A small time trader who used to sell potatoes in 
a wholesale market to vendors used to get paid "x".  On certain seasons, the demand for his potatoes went down.  
At this time, one vendor from the whole lot approached the small time trader and asked him to sell all the potatoes 
to him.  Now, this greatly benefited both the parties as the small trader was able to sell his wares irrespective 
of the ups and downs in the demand.  On the other hand, the vendor greatly benefited as well as he was able to 
stock up the potatoes.

A similar analogy is applied to Link Exchange.  Two websites identical in the services provided exchange their 
links and pledge popularity to each other.  Hence, both the websites benefit from mutual co-existence.

How does Link Exchange benefit either websites?

The working of Link Exchange is synonymous with the travails of a new website rushing to get popularity.  
One easy way of doing so is to link up with existing websites that are already popular in the internet.  
As the existing websites are very popular, you could gain a lot when you link with them.  In essence, it is 
a free way of generating traffic to your website.

The issue here is not many existing websites that are popular would want to enter such an arrangement with a 
new website especially if the new website is a competitor.  Hence, you would find it difficult to exchange links 
with PR5 links.  In such cases, what you could do is to optimize your webpage and acquire a decent amount of 
popularity on the internet.  Once you do so, you could exchange your link with a PR5 Link.

Remember, Link Exchange is all about you benefiting from the weblink you linked to and the other webpage benefiting 
from you.  There is principle of good faith here and you should do well to stick to that principle.  Slowly but surely 
as your website builds up its credibility, you will realize how critical Link Exchange is for you.


