Title: 
Increase Profits by Marketing to Existing Customers

Word Count:
289

Summary:
Business owners want more leads, more customers, more sales. It sounds logical: attract more customers and more sales will follow, leading to increased profits. But is this the best way to maximize profits? Sometimes it’s difficult to see the forest for the trees.


Keywords:
fat profits, automation profit, increase profit, increased profit, maximize profits, fast profits, profits online, autopilot profits, process improvement profit, the profit, profit source


Article Body:
Business owners want more leads, more customers, more sales. It sounds logical: attract more customers and more sales will follow, leading to increased profits. But is this the best way to maximize profits? Sometimes it’s difficult to see the forest for the trees. 

What about the customers your business already has? 

It can cost up to seven times more to acquire a new customer than it can to sell more to an existing customer. Yes, generating leads is important, and attracting many new customers may lead to fast profits. But looking after your existing customers, providing quality service and developing a long term relationship will allow you to tap into an ongoing profit source. 

Marketing is the most powerful tool for attracting customers, and search marketing techniques can pinpoint the preferences of your target market using data from search engines. Knowing what your market is thinking is the key to generating fat profits. Online strategies are vital to uncovering the potential of your business. Once you have found your niche and have a sophisticated marketing strategy in place, you need to systematize your business to achieve automation. Profit will come with satisfied customers and having the proper systems in place will ensure that customers are satisfied, employees are productive and your business is generally running on autopilot. Profit is more or less guaranteed once this is the case. 

 Increased profits are achieved through a step by step process where marketing and customer satisfaction are at the core of the business. While there are methods to quickly generate leads and achieve fast profits, a certain level dedication is required to create a truly successful business. There is no quick fix solution to achieve the profit and success you want.


