Title: 
Instant Income with Road Map to Riches

Word Count:
318

Summary:
Breaking News! Tens of thousands of people worldwide are Discovering Roadmap To Riches every month.


Keywords:
roadmap to riches, brian grant, home based business, work from home


Article Body:
Our unique "Sales Center" system allows you to capitalize on the Massive Growth that R2R is now experiencing. The company has already proven to create Six to Seven Figure Incomes in less than 3 months.

Ordinary people are achieving extraordinary incomes in record time through the combined power of duplication and leverage.

People in Home Businesses have been trying to create systems to FACILITATE the selling process. Telling you join here, and you don’t have to do any selling. Then they sell you a website that they say will take your orders for you. But you know almost every time, someone has to contact them and ask them for the money! I call that person a salesman, because that’s what salesmen do - Ask for the Money! Then WHY do they say this? Because, they know that 95% of people don’t like to sell, or simply aren’t comfortable with selling.

They want you to believe you don’t have to with their self replicating websites, online movies, and conference rooms, but these systems only take you so far. Ultimately, you will still have to talk to people and close the sale if you want to make money with any other system. Very few People will send in money after only viewing a website, listening to a conference call, or listening to a online audio message. They need to talk to a live person first! That person is your personal Sales Representative at the Roadmap To Riches Sales Center!

Frank Thomas as been heavily involved with advertising in the offline business world for 14 years . He has however bee closely affiliated with internet marketing since 1998, teaching and helping  fellow  marketers how to apply his innovative brand of "guerrilla advertising". His desire to see others succeed has propulsed  him into the ranks of some of the best known mentors in the industry. For more:
http://www.rocketwealthsys.net/main


