Title: 
Invoice Discounting For Canadian Companies

Word Count:
339

Summary:
Is your company based in Canada? Read this article to learn about invoice discounting, a tool to finance Canadian companies.


Keywords:
invoice discounting, invoice factoring, factoring company


Article Body:
Do you own a small or medium sized business? Then you know that obtaining business financing in Canada has not been an easy task. Until very recently, the Canadian business financing scene was dominated by banks and large institutions. They were always willing to provide business loans and credit to large businesses. But what about small and medium sized business owners, who could not easily qualify for a business loan? 

Until recently, you were out of luck. But this is changing, now factoring companies have been setting up shop in Canada, offering their business financing and invoice discounting services to small and medium sized business owners across the country.

Do any of these sound familiar?

1. You do business with large commercial clients. They pay slowly and that is hurting you
2. You need money to pay salaries and suppliers
3. You are turning large orders away because your funds are tied up in slow paying invoices

Although these problems appear different, they have a common root. You have slow paying clients and they are affecting your business. The solution to this problem is to accelerate client payments using invoice discounting (also known as invoice factoring). Invoice discounting allows you to break the 45 day payment cycle and reduce it to 2 days. And it works without affecting your clients at all.

The invoice discounting premise is very simple. You sell your invoices from good (but slow paying) clients to a factoring company. The factoring company takes a small discount and advances you a substantial portion of what is owed to you.

Invoice discounting gives you the funds you need to run your company, while the factoring company waits to get paid by your client. This provides you with the necessary funds to run and grow your business and eliminates the headaches and uncertainties of waiting for payment. And as opposed to banking loans, invoice discounting is very easy and quick to obtain.

If slow paying clients are holding your business growth back, then invoice discounting is the solution that will help you grow.


