Title: 
Is Starting A Home Day Care Right For You?

Word Count:
525

Summary:
Starting a home daycare business is a good way to make extra money, especially for stay at home moms. The start up costs are low, it's easy to promote a home daycare, and the money is good. Because of today's popularity with dual income families, childcare providers are in high demand in many areas.

So what's the downside? Is there a downside? Unfortunately the answer is yes, there is a downside to any business venture, be it child care, opening a restaurant or working fro...


Keywords:
daycare, day care, family, home, children


Article Body:
Starting a home daycare business is a good way to make extra money, especially for stay at home moms. The start up costs are low, it's easy to promote a home daycare, and the money is good. Because of today's popularity with dual income families, childcare providers are in high demand in many areas.

So what's the downside? Is there a downside? Unfortunately the answer is yes, there is a downside to any business venture, be it child care, opening a restaurant or working from home in a makeshift home office. The question that remains to be asked: is starting a home daycare right for me?

In order to succeed at running a home daycare, the child care provider must love children. This may seem like it should go without saying, but unfortunately there are some people out there who do it more for the money than for the children. Success does not follow those who do not work with what they love. The provider must also be very patient with children. Even if you have your own children, somebody else's child may have habits, manners, and tantrums that can be extremely hard to handle if you're not prepared for it.

Taking care of many children at a time also ties you down to your own home. Ideally, the day care provider will have the means to take all of the children out on a little field trip occasionally, but this is not always possible especially if you are the sole provider of childcare for your home. It's not always the provider that's affected by this. The spouse of the provider must also understand that after being tied down to the home for hours and days on end, the occasional break away from the home can be re-energizing.

The daycare provider must be able to provide a loving, stimulating environment for the children to flourish in. You must provide a way for the children to have fun, learn, and to socialize with other children. You must have toys, books and supplies suitable for the ages of every child that you will be taking care of. Having your own children that are approximately the same age as the children that you are watching really helps also. This way you will already have all of the toys, books, and supplies and your own children will be able to socialize with other children in their peer group.

One common mistake among daycare providers is that they don't look at the daycare as a business. It's easy to overlook this as you develop relationships with the children and their parents. In order to have what it takes you have to be prepared to possibly make some difficult business decisions, such as the termination of child care services due to non payment from a deadbeat parent. There are other considerations and roadblocks such as state licensing requirements, supply expenses, and taxes.

In the end, only you can decide whether starting a home day care is right for you or not. With a dedicated, loving person armed with the right information daycare can be a very profitable, fun, and rewarding business.


