Title: 
LG Phones

Word Count:
513

Summary:
LG Phones help to marry technology that is at the forefront of the cellphone industry with unique and cutting edge designs.


Keywords:
LG Phones


Article Body:
LG Phones help to marry technology that is at the forefront of the cellphone industry with unique and cutting edge designs. The cellphones and various accessories are very advanced compared to some other cellphone companies. They are popular within the United States and abroad. LG is working to bring its customer base connectivity at high rates of speed utilizing EVDO and HSPDA technology. At this time it is in the lead as the quickest growing cellphone company in the country. LG holds over twenty-seven percent of the domestic market in cellphones with sales of over nineteen million cellphones just within the CDMA market. Another 2.2 million GSM cellphones have been sold for use. Their cellphones are offered in a variety of colors, styles, and platforms by which to be used.

Benefits Offered to Customers by LG

Customers that are unsure about their next cellphone purchase are able to take the cell phone chooser test. The test will choose the five top choice in cellphones based on the customers answers on the test. There are twenty questions that ask what the customer is looking for in their next cellphone. LG stays on the cutting edge by offering special interest phones to customer such as the Iron Man phone and Prada phone. Automatic touch sensitive screens are a popular feature of LG phones. The goal of LG is to intermingle entertainment with a classy case.

Some Current LG phones being Offered

The Chocolate by LG has become a favorite of LG customers everywhere. The Chocolate is filled with features and has a slender design to it. The keypad is sensitive to the user's touch, a top notch music and video player, and 1.3 megapixel camera with camcorder round out the phones features. 

LG Fusic allows the user to carry along music to any destination. It is the only cellphone in America to utilize an FM transmitter. It's speed is perpetuated by EVDO connection with quick download times and the ability to get the most up to date music. Added features to the phone are Bluetooth capability and it is a one stop entertainment system all within the packaging of a cellphone.

V by LG offer the most up to date in strides in cellphone technology. The V by LG uses V Stream for allowing users to view video footage from their phone and the capability of download. The V comes equipped with a cutting edge MP3 player and speakers. A miniSD storage card allows the user to file away pictures and videos to watch at a later date. The VZ navigator employs GPS technology to let the user know where they are and give directions when requested.

The LG Migo keeps parents in kids in touch throughout the school and work day. There are a host of speed dialing features along with an emergency key in interest of child safety. The child is able to get through to someone in case of an emergency. Parents can determine the range children can travel with their MIGO phone. If a child moves beyond that range the parent is alerted.


