Title: 
Making money online has become easy!

Word Count:
430

Summary:
Internet has become a big money making machine.Today internet has improved to its capacities in meeting the needs of general public. Blogging has become one of the ways to increase revenue on the internet. There are people who are earning money by giving their time for ‘blogging’ and throughout the day they work hard to reach the potential to reach a good amount of avenue through that.


Keywords:
swapw, blog make money, make money smart, internet marketing, internet investment


Article Body:
I remember some one recalling, “Internet has become a big money making machine”, when you think of statements like these, it might give you certain picture of how internet can be money making machine. Today internet has improved to its capacities in meeting the needs of general public. 

Well, http://swapw.blogspot.com is about the success of making money through different avenues provided. Recent investigation on the success of making money was found in ‘blogging’. Blogging has become one of the ways to increase revenue on the internet. There are people who are earning money by giving their time for ‘blogging’ and throughout the day they work hard to reach the potential to reach a good amount of avenue through that. 

It is very easy to blog, you have to register with sites as www.blogspot.com and make an account with them to start earning revenue on it. While registering you have to first decide on the types of blogs you want to be there on your blog site. You can choose from the below topics:

1.	Earn money
2.	Marketing
3.	Product reviews
4.	website reviews
5.	Personal blog
6.	Photographic blog
7.	Blog on animals as pets
8.	Blog on writers
9.	Blog on freelancers
10.	Blog on Jobseekers

These are just some of the examples for you to consider when you are considering to start a blog of your own. After having your personal blog, and once you know how to start it, than you can get registered with www.mylot.com , www.payperclick.com, www.payperpost.com these are some of the sites that will help you to earn money while you blog. 

The other way is through Google adsense and Google adwords, You can have google advertisements on your blog and earn revenue from it from Google itself, it is very easy, you have to register with Google adsense, and complete the registration process, after that Google adsense has many categories of advertisements and you can choose your categories and get HTML code for the category you have chosen and paste it on your blog, this will enable you to earn tremendous revenue from google adsense, if you do it perfectly. 

Google adwords, you have to pay per click, it is a way of introducing your blog to the visitors and for that you have to pay a certain amount starting from 5 cents or 1 cent for per visitor to your site. There are many successful bloggers using Google adwords and they have earned a considerable amount of money in that process, it is one of the easiest ways to earn money as well.


