Title: 
Monday Morning Mindfulness - 05/01/2006

Word Count:
1167

Summary:
A bi-weekly ezine


Keywords:



Article Body:
You are receiving this newsletter because you subscribe to Monday Morning Mindfulness. You may also read this newsletter on-line at my website.

May 1, 2006                                  Number 223
 
Table of Contents
1. On Special Offers and Invitations
2. On Valuing Values
3. On a Great Speech
4. On Global Ageing
5. On Recommended Reading
6. On Announcements
7. On Subscribing and Canceling (at the end of newsletter)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Welcome to Monday Morning Mindfulness . . . to my clients, colleagues and friends. Join me every other Monday in getting motivated and inspired to act/think/feel differently. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1. ON SPECIAL OFFERS AND INVITATIONS 

Would you like to be more successful with your business? Scroll down the page and listen to an audio message from Coach Sandra. 

Have you ever thought about being a well paid speaker? Learn how to connect with your audience? Persuade people to act on what you say? You can get answers to these questions and more at: Approach the Coach. Ask me your number-one question about speaking skills or speaking professionally. I will answer your questions by email within 48 hours. 

What if you could have two coaches sitting by your side and guide you through the skill of speaking confidently and persuasively? Now you can. An Audio CD , Power Presentations for Professionals, will help you master a few simple, yet sophisticated strategies. Do you want to learn how to give a compelling speech? Would you like to know what sets leaders apart? Are you ready to prepare a speech that hits your audiences hot buttons? In this audio CD, two professional speech coaches share the lessons they've learned from their combined 46 years in the field. High content and useful application for business professionals, emerging speakers and coaches. Look below for the link.

2. ON VALUING VALUES

Would you agree that the 20th century brought us a staggering amount of knowledge? We experienced huge changes while creating the worst century for making trouble to the environment and massive killings of human kind. So I ask, how can we be so smart and yet so stupid? Albert Einstein put it this way: Ethics is what should be (values). Science is what is (facts). It is driven by questions and influenced by cultural values and religion. It appears that science and technology were developed without any ethical values in the 20th century. 

The Coach wonders . . . can we correct this in the 21st century? 

3. ON A GREAT SPEECH

Here are a few points to keep in mind when you are delivering a speech , whether you are trying to inspire or persuade an audience to take some action. 

Always have someone introduce you - include your credentials, your experience in this area, why you were selected to speak vs. someone else.

Grab the audience's attention with a strong opening- ask a question, make a startling statement, tell a story.

Provide a concise statement of purpose of the speech Challenge your audience - tell them what they need to hear, not just what they want to hear. 

Present the solution- provide the plan to solve their problem.

Keep to three major points - this helps with retention Conclude by asking for something: action, willingness to think differently, make a change. 

The Coach asks . . . when you speak, are you a service provider or a broadcaster? 

4. ON GLOBAL AGEING

The largest global survey into attitudes towards ageing and retirement ever conducted has found that, around the world, people want to abandon traditional models of retirement in favor of self-sufficiency and a mix of work and leisure. Given a choice, most people (36 per cent) think their government should enforce additional private savings, rather than increase the retirement age (23 per cent), raise taxes (12 per cent) or reduce pensions (12 per cent). Personal bank HSBC's Future of Retirement: What the world wants study surveyed 21,000 people and 6,000 companies in 20 countries and territories and found that, while many older people want to work, and most employers recognize their skills, opportunities are still limited.

The Coach sez . . . there are enormous challenges and opportunities presented by global ageing. 

5. ON RECOMMENDED READING

Paul Coelho's personal legend is the journey he takes in his Book, The Alchemist.' It's 'a saga of sudden journeys, chance encounters and fellow travelers arriving at timely moments, a story in which the asking of questions is more important than the answers, for the answers are different for each of us.' This book has been read by over 100 million people in 56 languages. The fable, about a shepherd boy leaving home to find treasure, is the author's effort to try to find a meaning for his own life. Read more about this book on my website.

The Coach thinks . . . there may be some questions that have no answers. 

6. ON ANNOUNCEMENTS 

Visit my new Blog (an online journal) to learn about the benefits of having a Niche, 'Twelve Step Process For Effective Email,' 'What Makes a Successful Speaker?' and 'Ten Tips to Motivate Your Audience in to Action and on to Your Website.' Tell me what you think . . . and add your own comments. 

'Speak Like a Pro for Profit': Struggling to get clients? Want to have a full speaking calendar? This e-book contains proven tips and techniques to become a polished presenter to speak effectively to anyone, anywhere, with confidence. I wrote this for speakers, coaches, authors and business professionals who want to deliver persuasive presentations and/or grow a profitable speaking business. Only $8.95. 
'This book provides practical and sound advice. I have worked with Sandra and find her knowledge and guidance invaluable.'
--Dr. Christine Wood, Pediatrician, speaker, author 


Let's meet in; Denver, May 9-13; Phoenix, AZ, May 21-23; Palo Alto, CA, June 20-28; Orlando, FL, July 22-25 (NSA convention) When you are visiting San Diego, contact me. Lets share conversation. 

About the Author 

Coach Sandra Schrift shares a few easy-to-read insights in this bi-weekly broadcast, and welcomes positive responses and input. Her 13 years as the founder/owner of The Podium Speakers Bureau in San Diego afforded her the privilege to work with many outstanding professional speakers and meeting planners nationwide. She knows what the Meeting Planners want . . . and knows what speakers need to know! 

If you are an executive, you will benefit by strengthening your presentation skills, so that whatever audio-visual aid you use will enhance, rather than distract from, your message. 

As your coach, Sandra provides you with greater focus, increased ways to prospect, more ideas for getting referrals, and just more business. 

E-mail Sandra for your Complimentary 30- minute Coaching Call.

'Living at risk is jumping off the cliff and building your wings on the way down.' 
--Ray Bradbury 

Thank you for reading this issue of Monday Morning 
Mindfulness Look for your next issue on May 15, 2006 
--Coach Sandra 

If you have a comment you would like to share, please email me. I appreciate hearing how this newsletter is influencing your personal and/or your professional lives. Once a month, I will feature one individual for all of my subscribers to read about. 

Invite a friend, speaker, coach who would enjoy reading MMM to subscribe. Copyright 2006, Monday Morning Mindfulness. This content is copyright please copy it right when you pass it on!


