Title: 
Moscow Apartment Rentals Give Business Travelers an Edge

Word Count:
487

Summary:
Although business has never been better, it's sometimes hard for business travelers to navigate Moscow's landscape, culture, and language. That's why many are eschewing hotels and are instead opting for a fully serviced apartment rental in Moscow.


Keywords:
Moscow, serviced apartment rental, business class, short term rental, fully equipped, Moscow rentals


Article Body:
After years of post-Soviet Union floundering, Russia is reemerging on the world stage as a political, social, and economic powerhouse. According to Time Magazine, which named Russian President Vladimir Putin its 2007 Person of the Year, "Russia's economy has grown an average of 7% a year for the past five years. The country has paid off a foreign debt that once neared $200 billion...worker's salaries have more than doubled since 2003."

The Bear is Back

The Bear is back...big time. And this means that Western businessmen and businesswomen are flocking to Russia to make investments, make deals, and make money. Moscow is, of course, at the heart of the action. But although business has never been better, it's sometimes hard for business travelers to navigate the city's landscape, culture, and language. That's why many are eschewing hotels and are instead opting for a fully serviced apartment rental in Moscow. 

Short Term Rentals

If wisely chosen, a short term rental offers several distinct advantages over hotel accommodations. Business class Moscow rentals come fully equipped with the amenities that Westerners have come to expect while traveling. For example, high quality hotel linens, toiletries, and toilet paper are provided, as well as Western-style beverages and snacks. A fully equipped kitchen means that business travelers can prepare familiar foods and don't have to spend an inordinate amount of time in restaurants. The best Moscow rentals also come fully equipped with a washing machine and ironing board, so that travelers can pack sparingly. 

But while amenities are nice, the ability to communicate both locally and with the home office is crucial for most business travelers. To that end, a business class short term rental often includes a free high-speed Wi-Fi Internet connection, a computer printer, scanner, and copier, and telephone service with free local calling. For entertainment, free satellite or Internet television with English language channels is provided. 

Finding the Right Source for Moscow Rentals

When looking for a short term rental in Moscow, the key is to find a service that is owned and managed by Westerners. Not only do they speak English, but they also understand what the Western traveler wants and needs. It's also important not to skimp on quality. Rather than going with a budget service, instead opt for one that excels in providing businesspeople with accommodations in upscale locations that include everything necessary for living and working in comfort. In addition, ensure that the service you choose has staff members that speak English and that can ensure that your stay in Moscow is stress-free. Finally, through its website, the company you choose should be able to provide you with a variety of information, including maps, transportation advice, and guidelines for navigating Moscow's visa requirements.

Working in a relaxing, homelike atmosphere in a foreign land helps keep businesspeople focused and free from distractions. That's why business travelers who choose the best Moscow apartment rentals often gain a distinct competitive edge.


