Title: 
Old And Used Are Still Good

Word Count:
492

Summary:
Farm equipment can amount to thousands of money. They are expensive, but then, you won't be able to operate your farm without them. Even if the machines can last forever when properly chosen and maintained, there is no getting around the fact that they are too costly, discounting even the amount for their upkeep. If you don't want to shell out that much buck, there are several alternatives. For machines with periodic use like machines for pasture mowing, professional help can...


Keywords:
used farm equipment, farm equipment


Article Body:
Farm equipment can amount to thousands of money. They are expensive, but then, you won't be able to operate your farm without them. Even if the machines can last forever when properly chosen and maintained, there is no getting around the fact that they are too costly, discounting even the amount for their upkeep. If you don't want to shell out that much buck, there are several alternatives. For machines with periodic use like machines for pasture mowing, professional help can be availed for a fraction of the machine's cost. You can also borrow equipment from richer neighbors who do have the money to buy those machines. Renting and leasing is also a good option if you are up to shelling out monthly payments, which in time, may amount to more than what the machine costs. But for machines that you would use regularly or even daily for basic farm operation such as a tractor, you would do well to buy second hand farm equipment, used farm equipment, and other discounted machines.

Buying used machines may suffice for farm chores. They are also sure to be more tolerant of your pocket than new equipment. Though new equipment have the advantage of coming with warranties and new technology, their almost prohibitive price is enough to tip the balance towards purchasing second hand farm equipment, used farm equipment, and other discounted machines. Buying used equipment are not at all bad. Farm vehicles, particularly tractors have much longer lives than cars. "New" tractors could be as young as 10-20 years old. Stephenson, a used equipment dealer says that "old" equipment and tractors are the 40's-60's models. He gives the example of the 40's model Ford 8N being still a top choice for those buying used equipment.

Cars' worth is measured by service years and mileage whereas tractors' are measured by work hours which are counted by the engine meter. Dealers of second hand farm equipment, used farm equipment, and other discounted machines conclude that most farmers don't even clock in 200 hours of tractor work per year. An agriculture professor, Ron Schuler asserts that even tractors in their 40's can still do well even if they have clocked long hours. He insists that proper maintenance is the key to making these used equipment last. Hence, there really is no difference between buying new equipment which you also have to maintain from used machines, aside from the latter having friendlier prices.

Used tractors, second hand farm equipment, used farm equipment, and other discounted machinery are advertised in classifieds, auctioned or sold by individual farmers. But to be sure, it's best to buy your used machines from established dealers that provide tune-up services and limited warranty. It is also advised to research the different models to find the suitable machine for your chores and needs. It's of no use to you even if you bought a discounted equipment if you aren't able to use it because of unsuitability.


