Title: 
Online Home Business challenge

Word Count:
433

Summary:
People searching the internet for a suitable home business come across many promises that these businesses will make them rich over night. This article is an attempt to emphasis the importance of getting detailed advertising training before and when starting your home business and list many advertising methods.


Keywords:
home,business,affiliate,programs,work,at,home,network,marketing


Article Body:
More and more people are trying to profit joining many types of home businesses and in the same time the numbers of home businesses offered are increasing rapidly. Every internet surfer notice thousands of home businesses advertised and they promise the surfer their ability to make him rich in no time. People sign in to these businesses hoping to get extra income. After they set up the business and feed in all the necessary information find them selves facing fierce competition to sell their products or promote their affiliate programs. Being new to business, most of them get lost searching for a cheap way of advertising their new business and so quit after or during the first month, many wait for a while until they forget the humiliation and start all over again and continue in a vicious circle. Few home business seekers find a good and wreath while business.
The main problem that challenges the home business beginner is how can he sell or promote his new business not realizing that in the world of online, selling is more difficult than offline as you can't see the customer and interact with him, you can not assure him face to face. Whether online or offline , unless the customer get to know you or no about you, he is not going to buy or promote straight away ,so what can a beginner in home business do to attract people as his website(assuming having one) does not rank well for search engines so selling through it is not effective and he can't afford to use paid advertising , what can he do to start a profitable business .First of all he is required to take the subject of online advertising more seriously and read about in more details for the internet is loaded with so many free studies ,books and articles about advertising. The following are some of the advertising method to be used by the online home business marketer:
1.word-of-mouth: direct face to face 
2.Free classified advertising sites: Be a member in  thousands of them  ,then start advertising for free.
3.Ezine advertising: be a member in some of these sites to add opt-in customers to your list.
4.Pay per click advertising: Yahoo adword,google       adword,many other sites.
5.Traffic exchange advertising: Free membership and advertising.
6.Newspaper advertising
7.Direct mail.
8.Magazine advertising.
9.Business cards.
10.Joining professional/business organizations.
11.Vehicle advertising.
12.Sending ads with invoices.
13.TV advertising.
14.Radio advertising.
15.Bench/bus stop advertising.
16.Local website advertising.
17.Email advertising.
18.Community involvement.
19.Forums, message boards and newsgroup.

                    Abdul
         helping YOU make money online!                                   http://gafoor.payitforward4profits.com/


