Title: 
Pallet Covers

Word Count:
322

Summary:
Pallets are platforms that are used for transporting or storing things. They are used especially in industries like factories, warehouses, retail, food storage, grains, chemicals, pharmaceuticals, etc. Pallets are often placed in rough industrial conditions with high humidity, pollution, and dust levels. It is thus very important to use covers for protecting the pallets.


Keywords:
pallets, pallet racks, pallet rack systems, pallet trucks


Article Body:
Pallets are platforms that are used for transporting or storing things. They are used especially in industries like factories, warehouses, retail, food storage, grains, chemicals, pharmaceuticals, etc. Pallets are often placed in rough industrial conditions with high humidity, pollution, and dust levels. It is thus very important to use covers for protecting the pallets.

Pallet covers not only protect the pallets from dust but also provide insulation against excessive humidity, thus lowering the chance of rusting, scratches, and corrosion. They also protect wooden pallets from insects and keep the contents of the pallets safe. They also keep the pallets separated from one another. Pallet covers are a very cost-effective alternative to cardboard boxes. 

There are different kinds of pallet covers: clear, flat polyethylene, heavy duty/light duty, waterproof, disposable/reusable, etc. Pallet covers are also available in various sizes. They can also be ordered as per requirements. Pallet covers are generally ordered in bulk. Sizes range from 72” to 102” in length for short as well as tall pallets. There are also perforated covers available in the form of a roll. Some covers have pleated sides for flexibility in expansion. Some suppliers provide reusable pallet covers that are made of durable canvas, suitable for all weather conditions. These covers are also resistant to mildew and mold. Other attractions include Velcro openings for easy accessibility, draw cords at the bottom for insulation, double-thick canvas surface, etc. 

Pallet cover prices range from $120 for a 90-quantity roll to $260 for a 100-quantity roll, depending upon the size and the quality of the cover. Pallet covers are also custom designed to suit individual requirements. They are available in different colors, as well as with personalized logos or markings on the cover for a customized look.  

Pallet covers can be ordered online at exclusive manufacturer websites. The internet is a good source for comparing prices and options of various products. There are many sites that provide information about pallet covers.


