Title: 
Perfect Packing For Men

Word Count:
456

Summary:
packing suggestions for men


Keywords:
luggage,discount luggage,luggage sets,travel accessories,mosaic luggage,vera  bradley luggage,mosaic luggage, lightweight luggage


Article Body:
Packing for men is a more difficult task than packing for women.  The size of their clothing, and all that cotton seems to make it a more complicated.  I begin by lining the bottom of the case with underwear.  The underwear has been packed inside a packing cube so my husband doesn't have to "unpack."  He just places the cube in the hotel drawers.  The packing cube also levels out the bottom of the suitcase where the bars for the pull up handle are stored.  Then I’ll use a shirt packing case or organizer.  These are made by several manufacturers and consist of a form that you can fold a shirt around (similar to the way shirts are displayed in department stores.)  These will keep the shirts from wrinkling by securing them neatly so they will not move about in the suitcase.  I then stuff my husband’s shoes with his socks.  I place the shoes in shoe covers to protect the clothing and then these are put around the perimeter of the suitcase.  I also roll up some sweatshirts and shorts for casual wear or to use in the hotel gym.

      I use a leather case for his shaving and toiletry needs. Anything in an aerosol can I will pack for him keep in his carry on case.  The leather case has a water resistant lining because I know that many bottles and containers can loosen in travel.   This case is also placed around the perimeter of the case.  I pack his slacks on hangers, laying them out the long way so they are folded only once.  Packing with hangers avoids the need to re-hang them on the hotel hangers once he's arrived in his room. The shirt holders can go directly to the bureau drawer along with the packing cubes that have filled with his underwear.   I also tuck a small folding laundry bag inside the packing cube.
   
      When he needs a sports jacket or a suit I will pack in a garment bag.  He has two different sizes, depending on the amount of jackets he is taking.  I have never found a way to fold a jacket in a suitcase without it needing professional pressing when he arrives at the hotel.   One of his suitcases has the garment bag inside the case.  Whenever I do pack a jacket or suit for him, I'll pack a travel steamer. They have dual voltage so they can be used around the world, and they will use any type of tap water.  My husband has found it quick and easy to use the steamer whenever it's necessary to remove the slight packing wrinkles.
   
      Secure the suitcase with a TSA approved lock and he's on his way.


