Title: 
Promote Your School or Business with Custom Imprinted Padfolios

Word Count:
544

Summary:
Finding the right balance of utility and promotion are important factors in choosing items for promotion. After all, promotion only happens if the items are found to be useful enough to be used on a regular basis. That’s why imprinted padfolios make a great choice whether you’re promoting your business or university. Everyone can use a well put together organizer and always having a paper and pen on your person makes jotting down information on the go a real life saver.


Keywords:
padfolios,  imprinted padfolios, custom padfolios, custom imprinted padfolios, writing pads.


Article Body:
Finding the right balance of utility and promotion are important factors in choosing items for promotion. After all, promotion only happens if the items are found to be useful enough to be used on a regular basis. That’s why imprinted padfolios make a great choice whether you’re promoting your business or university. Everyone can use a well put together organizer and always having a paper and pen on your person makes jotting down information on the go a real life saver. 

You can get prospective students pumped up about the idea of attending your college by offering a ringbinder padfolio that will surely come in handy for students of all ages. For example, the Ringfolio Binder features an open gusseted pocket for storing handouts, a one inch ringbinder for quick reference, as well as storage for CDs, pens, and electronic accessories. The Multi-Pocket Ringbinder lives up to its name with a one inch silver ringbinder and plenty of pockets for notes, pens and electronic devices. Continuing education students will appreciate the executive ringbinder series, including the Executive Ringbinder Notebook with its zippered closure, two inch binder and several pockets for notes, and the Leather Executive Ringbinder, which features the patented Quadrafold organizer and a handy calculator.

Speaking of calculators, there are a number of padfolios offered by MyLogoImprinted.com that include them, which will come in handy for students studying everything from business to science. Our exclusive patented Calculator Writing Pad and Calculator Padfolio Deluxe both feature a convenient fold-out calculator. The former includes multiple pockets for storage, while the latter pocket large enough for most documents. Another great choice is the Insight Calculator Padfolio, which also features multiple storage pockets and a gusseted pocket large enough to store files. 

But the custom imprinted padfolios aren’t just for businessmen or students. They’re also handy organizers that anyone can find convenient, and none more so than our attractive junior padfolios. The Motion Junior Padfolio is the perfect size to grab on the go and features plenty of organizer space and a unique rotating calculator that can be viewed from the interior or exterior. The Color Block Junior Writing Pad will stand out with its eye catching color combinations, multi-function organizer and Velcro enclosure. The Visions E_Organizer will be a huge hit with ladies that prefer to avoid the fuss for carrying everything but the kitchen sink on their quick errands. This small case will allow you to carry everything you need, thanks to an outside easy access pocket, pockets for PDAs or MP3 players, a memory stick, CDs and cards, from ID to business. 

Whichever custom printed padfolio you choose, you can be sure that you’re getting the best bang for your buck. Why? First of all, MyLogoImprinted.com is so sure that they offer the best quality padfolios for the lowest prices that they stand behind this statement with a low price guarantee. Plus, they offer a one color, one location imprint with your company name and logJay Powers is a specialist in the Ad Specialty Promotional Products Industry. o with the price of the padfolio. That means you can promote your school or business affordably and with a handsome product that anyone would be proud to carry.


