Title: 
Safety Certification for Painting Contractors

Word Count:
378

Summary:
If your maintenance budget for the current operating year has a taken a hit, you may be wondering how to get a commercial painting project accomplished along with everything else. Two possible solutions to project budgeting are purpose driven spending and changing the contracting process.


Keywords:
commercial painting budgets,industrial painting contractor,painting company,commercial painting company,industrial painting company,painting contractors,painting surface,commercial painting,painting company,exterior painting,deck coatings


Article Body:
Whether you're an owner of a massive facility that's about to undergo a restoration or you're a small business manager who's contracting out a warehouse refinishing job, you want to know that your industrial painting contractor is properly trained in safe and effective painting practices. Fortunately, the Society for Protective Coatings (SSPC) has developed a sophisticated set of certification programs to help business owners like you make smart, safe decisions about their hires.

SSPC Safety Certifications for Industrial Painting Contractors

"	QP1: Industrial Coatings, Steel Surface Prep
"	QP2: Hazardous Paint removal
"	QP3: Indoor Facilities Surfaces and Coating Apps

The SSPC Safety Certifications break down into three main classes - QP1, QP2, and QP3. A QP1 certified individual is deemed safe to do work relating to industrial coatings and surface prep for steel work. QP2 certified painters are qualified to remove hazardous paint. QP3 certified industrial painting contractors are qualified to prepare surfaces and coating applications for an indoor facility (open or covered).

SSPC Specialty Certifications for Industrial Painting Contractors
"	QP6: Thermal Spray Prep/Metallic Alloys
"	QP8: Polymer Coating/Cement Surfaces

The SSPC offers additional certifications for specialized industrial painting contractors, as well. The QP6 designation deems an individual safe and capable to perform work relating to prepping thermal sprays and coating surfaces of certain metallic alloys, such as aluminum and zinc. The QP8 certification, on the other hand, relates to an individual's ability to manage polymer coating and cement surface jobs acceptably.

You can also look to other work certification boards, like OSHA (The Occupational Safety and Health Administration) to determine the "safety IQ" of a given industrial painting contractor. Of course, the SSPC and OSHA are only two of many organizations designed to promote and objectively evaluate industrial safety.

 If you're hiring an industrial painting contractor, get a full report on their team's safety training. Also, be sure to provide information on special hazards or potentially dangerous materials at your facility. If necessary, get a lawyer to read over your contract and advise you. 

Remember - a single accident or careless error could potentially lead to a series of lawsuits that can harm your business. Avoid the headaches by choosing an industrial painting contractor with an outstanding reputation for safety and the certifications to back up that reputation.


