Title: 
Save Money - Use Projector Bulbs

Word Count:
547

Summary:
Halogen lights have become popular as an overhead projector light. These projector bulbs provide high-intensity light that gives the presentation better lighting and dimming that ensure positive image precision. Here are the characteristics of the projector bulbs that you should consider in purchasing one. The projector bulb comes in many design, brand names, model, wattage and voltage. To identify whether the projector bulbs would fit your projector equipment, make sure lear...


Keywords:
bulb projector,bulb dlp projector,bulb lcd projector,bulb light projector,bulb overhead projector,8mm bulb projector,bulb projector equipment


Article Body:
Halogen lights have become popular as an overhead projector light. These projector bulbs provide high-intensity light that gives the presentation better lighting and dimming that ensure positive image precision. Here are the characteristics of the projector bulbs that you should consider in purchasing one. The projector bulb comes in many design, brand names, model, wattage and voltage. To identify whether the projector bulbs would fit your projector equipment, make sure learn your projector bulbs before purchasing. These bulbs have been used in:

- Business presentations
- School reporting
- Home-based cinema

1. Type and Shape

Check the base and note its type and shape. Make sure you know what the brand and model number of the projector bulbs for your projector - they should be listed in the user manual. If you happen to have lost your user manual, try the company website - they likely offer for download the user manuals that you can print off. This would ensure you don't go to the store and end up coming back with an incompatable bulb. If you are not aware of the brand, describe the shape of the projector bulbs base to the attendant at the light store. You could specify by telling the assistant about the shape of the bulb itself. 

2. Size Matters

The size of the glass bulb is important. Basically, projector bulbs differ in the sizes of the bulbs' envelope or casing. The size of the projector bulbs would distinguish your bulb purchase if it is a foreign brand, if your projector is used in movie projectors or for slide show projector alone. 

3. Knowing Is Half The Battle

The tungsten filament is a wire that reacts to the heat that occurs when the lamp is turned on. The shape of the filament would help you ask for the exact model or projector bulbs. Since each model makes use of varieties of wires and places the wire in different locations on the bulb, it would be easier for you to break down your choices for your projector bulbs’ purchase.

4. The voltage and wattage

These items determine the overall output of the projector bulbs. The projector bulb that gives out brighter light does not necessarily mean that the wattage is higher than the bulb that produces a dimmer light. Make sure that you are aware of the consuming voltage and wattage of your projector bulbs. 

Note: 

All of the bulbs that are purchased for projectors are coded into three letters (e.g. ELH, DEK). These letters are assigned to all models that have the same filament reactivity, wattage and voltage. Since the material of the glass base does not have anything to do with the codes, you could choose your own style and could still purchase the exact bulb needed. These codes have no connection with the brand of the projector bulbs. This is done because choosing the perfect projector bulbs is vital in the handling of the projector, the bulb manufacturers follow a coding for their costumers to purchase easily and avoid confusion. Knowing this three letter code would be an advantage for you and the assistant at the store. 

- It is advisable to purchase a lower-powered projector bulb
- Bulbs last up to 2,000 to 4,000 hours, depending on the usage amount of the projector
- Projector bulbs are made up of halogen lights


