Title: 
Share Your Knowledge with Others for Cost-Effective Online Marketing

Word Count:
496

Summary:
Learn how sharing your knowledge with potential customers can be a cost-effective marketing opportunity for your business...


Keywords:
questions, answers, cost-effective, online, marketing, ads revenue sharing, knowledge, creation, 


Article Body:
Every day, online surfers are seeking information on millions of subjects. Whether they need to know how to fix an appliance, promote their online business, play better golf, or how to write a book, there are plenty of questions to go around. If you own a business and are quite knowledgeable in a particular subject, you can benefit from cost-effective online marketing through knowledge creation and management.

Questions and Answers are Lucrative for Your Business

Imagine answering questions for very targeted Web surfers every single day and getting free exposure for your website in the process. Wouldn't this be the ultimate form of online marketing for your business? When you provide answers to those tough, not-so-common questions in your field of expertise, you're doing just that. 

You'd be amazed at how educating potential customers can help increase your business. It's a secret that marketing gurus have known for years, but many online business owners fail to recognize its potential. When you provide answers to questions from a targeted readership, then your business suddenly hits the spotlight as the "expert" in its field. Potential customers will begin to trust you simply by reading your articles. They will feel as if they already know you when they arrive at your website, and they will be much easier to convert to real paying customers.

Free Advertising and Ads Revenue Sharing

There are two ways to use knowledge creation and management for your benefit online. One, you can add knowledge through articles and tips posted at your own website or in a newsletter. Two, you can publish your articles and tips at other websites to receive advertising benefits. 

Some websites will allow you to advertise free through ads or a bio on your particular article pages. Others might allow you to share revenue from other businesses that advertise on your article pages. This is called ads revenue sharing. Both can offer long-term benefits, especially as the traffic to your article pages grows over time.

Multiple Opportunities

Online marketing through knowledge creation and management can be focused on one particular knowledge-based website or multiple websites. The choice is yours. With multiple websites, you might post the same article on many different websites (if allowed) or you might write different articles for only one website. Either way, you'll have multiple opportunities to advertise your business or to enjoy profits from ads revenue sharing.

Cost-effective online marketing through knowledge creation and management gives you the freedom to share what you know with your targeted audience without paying for advertising or taking unnecessary risks while implementing a marketing strategy. 

Search online for specific questions you can answer and write articles based on these questions. Or, you can hire a writer to put your thoughts into words for you. Either way, you can provide answers that will draw targeted readers to your website for years to come. Once you establish yourself as an expert in your field, your online business will grow like never before!


