Title: 
Shopping Wiser for Electronics

Word Count:
366

Summary:
It has always been easy for commercial analysts to predict and analyze the buying traditions of the American public. But this year, their job will get a little more complicated as a shift begins in the usually predictable consumer seasons, a result of economic and technological factors thrown in one shopping bag.


Keywords:
international trade, importers, exporters, import, export


Article Body:
It was common observation that people mass forward to their nearest electronics shop the very day after Thanksgiving to buy their early Christmas wares and gifts. That date has been pegged by many businessmen as one of the unbearable cart traffic days of the entire year, if it’s not already the most unbearable. And after the long holiday period, it is expected that some opportunists who are looking for nice bargains trek and dole out some cash that should have been spent during the December days.

This is not the case in today's time. Store owners are now wise to sweep their holiday inventory, opening their establishments in the following year with products that might not already be on the customers' "to buy" lists. That is due to the use of the latest supply management software. Supply management software monitors demand and the products kept in the supply room daily. The management calls for shipment when it is needed.    

The effect is on the price of the products. Price cuts now occur seldom and sporadically, and it is now impossible to hunt for the newest sale items since there's nothing left in the racks to put on markdown. The inventory is kept lean until the latest gadgets and gizmos are introduced. Before, home electronics that didn’t make it to people’s wish lists last holiday will be up for sale come next year. Now, an average customer who is not much into the latest electronics will be surprised that a flat screen t.v. he's been dreaming to buy after Christmas is still normally priced.

For the hard-core intelligent shopper, there is some way to go around this emerging trend. First, you have to know that the peak buying season usually happens at the start of spring. It would also be nice to avoid impulsive buying. Always look for latest news on the release date of novel products and what stores are offering the best bargains. And it would also be helpful too to look at the market performance of gadgets since some electronic products do not enjoy a
healthy market demand. That means that a price drop may be in the offering soon.


