Title: 
Small Business IT Consulting: What Micro Small Business Look For

Word Count:
350

Summary:
Small business IT consulting requires certain skills when working with micro small businesses. Know your operating systems, software and networking to perform small business IT consulting.


Keywords:
Small Business IT Consulting, small business computer consulting, IT consulting, computer consulting


Article Body:
What is a "micro-small business" looking for in a small business IT consulting professional? You need to know desktop PC hardware.  You need to be good on notebook PC’s, have a good comfort level with PDA’s and various kinds of printers, and be familiar with modems, dial-up, cable, DSL and power protection. 

The Importance of a Strong Software Background

From a software standpoint, you want to be successful in this one to ten space as part of your business. Again, a strong software background should be a part of your small business IT consulting practice; it should not be the main focus of your business. 

Be Familiar with Operating Systems

In terms of a software perspective, in small business IT consulting, you should be really comfortable with desktop and notebook operating systems, mainly Microsoft Windows.  However, depending on the industry and your specialty, the small business could be utilizing Mac or Linux operating systems.  

A small business IT consulting professional should be really comfortable with things like Microsoft Office, Quick Books, ACT and Goldmine. 

Security and Networking Abilities

As a small business IT consulting professional, you should be really comfortable with anti-virus software as well as personal firewalls and remote control software.  From a networking standpoint, a micro-small business will require a small business IT consulting professional to be familiar with peer to peer lands. 

A small business IT consulting professional should be comfortable configuring the popular Silho (ph) routers that are on the market for being able to share a DSL or cable connection. Additionally, you should be comfortable setting up live access points and adapters.  

The Bottom Line about Small Business IT Consulting

At a minimum the small business IT consulting professional should possess knowledge of 25 to 50% of the areas mentioned above if you want to be able to effectively support a micro-small business.  Keep in mind that in supporting a micro-small business, you are generally dealing with a non-technical small business owner. 

Copyright MMI-MMVI, Small Business Computer Consulting .com. All Worldwide Rights Reserved. {Attention Publishers: Live hyperlink in author resource box required for copyright compliance}


