Title: 
Smoked Salmon As A Corporate Gift Or Executive Gift, Not A Glass Golf Ball.

Word Count:
512

Summary:
A corporate gift that is appropriate, an executive gift that is appreciated, a client gift that is actually remembered; what actually works? Smoked salmon gifts have become in vogue for more than just party appetizers.

There are numerous industries which interact with clients that would be better off giving a real gift of appreciation at the close of a deal, or business sale, than gifting some cheap logo scribed trinket. For an executive gift or corporate gift you may cons...


Keywords:
Smoked salmon, executive gift, corporate gift


Article Body:
A corporate gift that is appropriate, an executive gift that is appreciated, a client gift that is actually remembered; what actually works? Smoked salmon gifts have become in vogue for more than just party appetizers.

There are numerous industries which interact with clients that would be better off giving a real gift of appreciation at the close of a deal, or business sale, than gifting some cheap logo scribed trinket. For an executive gift or corporate gift you may consider a fine gourmet gift of class and distinction, Alaska smoked salmon.

Real estate, mortgage, and corporate executives are constantly looking for the closing gift that will appear genuinely thoughtful, and be sincerely appreciated and remembered by their customer or client. A corporate gift, like a glass golf ball on the desk plaque, just doesn’t work for most people. You may say, 'but it is cheap, and you can purchase them by the case, and even have them engraved.' Sure you can, and you can certainly go with that, but your corporate image will reflect those same under laying tones. What does the recipient perceive? A cheap gift. You know, about as useful as the chiropractor’s bent pen.

One mortgage company came up with a great solution to this need. At the close of every deal, their clients receive a gourmet gift box of smoked Alaskan salmon. Inside the box is 8 ounces of smoked sockeye salmon from Alaska. A recipe is included for a smoked salmon appetizer. Smoked salmon hors d'oeuvres make the perfect addition to a party with smoked salmon appetizers and dips. 

At Christmas, one University sent every member of their board, an executive gift of a smoked salmon Wood Gift Box. This beautifully crafted wood gift box enclosed an 8 ounce fillet of Copper River Sockeye Salmon. In gourmet circles, Copper River Sockeye salmon is recognized as the premiere red salmon of the world, for flavor and taste. Smoked sockeye salmon has the bright red appearance and succulent flavor that gourmet chefs from around the world, integrate into their entrees and salmon recipes.

A corporate gift or an executive gift would be far more appealing if it were something unique and something really good to eat. Smoked salmon is an ideal choice. Today smoked salmon is packaged in foil retort packages and is COMPLETELY SHELF STABLE, which is easily mailed across the country. Smoked salmon gifts fits any gift giving occasion or designation. Companies can purchase wholesale cases of smoked salmon gift boxes for very affordable prices.

For corporate and business gifts, smoked salmon makes a great gift if a party is to be attended, you would be amazed at the reception. Imagine business associates asking, where did the smoked salmon come from? Who brought it? Does the glass golf ball on the desk get that kind of referral?

Do your business a favor, and make the investment of giving a gift that actually has ROI. 
Remarkably, smoked salmon from Alaska is healthy and a good source for important nutrients and Omega 3. Can the glass golf ball do that?


