Title: 
The Great Thing About Virtual Offices

Word Count:
500

Summary:
Running a business online is all about flexibility and freedom. One of the keys to this is your virtual office.


Keywords:
online business, internet, web, ecommerce, office, virtual, flexibility, business


Article Body:
Running a business online is all about flexibility and freedom. One of the keys to this is your virtual office.

The Great Thing About Virtual Offices

Imagine you decide to open a business offline, for example a store selling tools. You will have to find a location, commit to tens of thousands of dollars in rent and, most importantly, actually go to work everyday. After all, who else is going to open the front door each morning? On top of this, your pool of customers is limited to those willing to drive to your location. All of these limitations and aggravations associated with a physical store go by the wayside when you go online. 

Having worked online for a very long time, I can tell you the freedom to work when you want to is by far the best aspect of the Internet. Here is the proof. As I am writing this article, it is 1:13 p.m. I am at home. I am wearing sweats. After being up all night on a project, I am thinking about going back to bed. This is all possible because I have an online business. In fact, our business is so virtual oriented that I have never physically met some of my programmers. They live in other countries! Sounds like a good excuse to travel, however.

Being online gives you massive freedom and flexibility because you are not limited geographically. Your business should revolve around your laptop. If possible, you should try to store every bit of information online. Taking this approach turns you into a virtual business with a virtual office and lets you access work whenever you want from wherever you want. What do I mean by this? 

Assume you have an online business selling something on the web. Where is your physical office? To figure it out, take a look around you. If you are in an airport, that is your office. If you are at home, your office is there and so on. This flexibility is crucial because it gives you access to your business at all times. You will never get this with a physical location. 

You are probably wondering about a business address and meetings with clients. Neither is a problem with a virtual office. You can use one of the various mail box services for your business address. Just make sure they list the box number as a suite. As to meetings, you just go to clients who will appreciate the fact you don’t make them come to you. If you must host a meeting, you can rent conference rooms in “executive office suites” in any town or city.  Compare the cost of renting an office suite versus leasing a physical office for three or five years, and the virtual office advantage should be very obvious. 

I love my virtual office and you will to. It saves you money, gives you flexibility and is one of the primary benefits of running a business on the net.


