Title: 
The Berry Tree Reviewed

Word Count:
369

Summary:
Many people have put money away for savings, whether in a savings account or an investment account. However, if you are like the many others out there, a savings account or investment account simply does not give you the return that you are expecting.


Keywords:
The berry tree review, savings,  investment, home business


Article Body:
The Golden Ticket: Putting Your Savings Into Perspective Berry Tree Review

Many people have put money away for savings, whether in a savings account or an investment account. However, if you are like the many others out there, a savings account or investment account simply does not give you the return that you are expecting. When in your retirement years, it is important to make the most of every dime to ensure that you have enough to keep the quality of life you had established prior to retirement. 

The Berry Tree can be more profitable than any kind of savings method out there. There are many reasons for this. First, think about the amount of money you are putting into your savings account or investment account each month. Let us assume, for the sake of this article, that you are putting $500 each and every month into an account. Again, for the purpose of this article, let us say that you are earning a 5 average return on the investment account. 

Now, it is important to understand a little about the Berry Tree. First, you pay roughly $50 each month for your membership. When you compare that $50 to the $500 you are putting into the account each month, there is a huge difference. Now, that $50 a month will cost you $600 a year. It could take you as many as two years to fill your first tree and start earning $1,336 each month, this is give or take, depending on your desire and drive. In that two years, you will have paid $1,200 total, which really would be less since your earnings might cover your monthly membership fees. 

That is a $1,200 for two year investment that allows you to earn $1,336 each month. Now, you need to have a look at that investment account. With that 15 and you still make $500 a month payment, you would have to pay more than $156,000 into the account over the spam of twenty-six years to reach that kind of monthly income potential. If you were only paying $50 in the savings account, it would take sixty-six years and $40,000 before you would see $1,336 a month. 

Really when you think about it in terms of investment, time, and return, The Berry Tree, just makes sense.


