Title: 
The Ultimate Business Model - Creating Residual Income Streams

Word Count:
662

Summary:
Every successful business has understood and mastered one basic principle. That principle can be summed up in two words: Repeat Business. 

Pick any major business name: Microsoft, Walmart, McDonald's... 

The reason behind their success is repeat business - the simple fact that most of their customers are repeat buyers. Sure, they get new customers as often as they can. But the majority of their business, and profits, come from repeat buyers. These businesses depend on t...


Keywords:
make money online,marketing,internet marketing,home business, work from home,work at home


Article Body:
Every successful business has understood and mastered one basic principle. That principle can be summed up in two words: Repeat Business. 

Pick any major business name: Microsoft, Walmart, McDonald's... 

The reason behind their success is repeat business - the simple fact that most of their customers are repeat buyers. Sure, they get new customers as often as they can. But the majority of their business, and profits, come from repeat buyers. These businesses depend on their existing customers to earn consistent profits. 

And it's no surprise that the number one reason most businesses go out of business very quickly is this...they don't take care of they existing customers. They don't build a relationship with them, and they definitely don't sell to them more than once. 

Just about every business you see, either online or offline, is so busy finding "new" customers that they forget about their existing customers. 

You want to know what the biggest marketing secret on the planet is? This is it. This is the biggest secret. It's not coming up with new marketing ideas or trying every new marketing twist that you hear about, or running after every new marketing manual that hits the web promising to teach you a new marketing trick. 

The secret really is no secret these days... 

Repeat Business! 

That's the secret to business and marketing success! 

One of the most powerful things you can do to build your business and make a killing in profits is to sell to the same customers over and over again. There's nothing wrong with finding new customers, as long as you continue to sell to your existing customers! That's where the real money is. 

It's a simple strategy. It's a powerful strategy! And it works very well for me and for many other marketers. Having your own responsive "opt-in" mailing list allows you to use that strategy. 

But... what if I told you that there's something even better?! 

What if I told you that you could sell to a customer just once, and earn a profit every single month, for many, many years - maybe even for the rest of your life?! 

And what if I told you that you are not limited to the number of customers you can sell to? That means that if you were to sell this to 100, 1,000, or even 10,000 customers, you would earn a profit from each of those customers every single month, without having to lift a finger to do any additional work? 

Well... believe it or not, a business like that exists! And you can be a part of it so you can claim your share of the profits right now! 

Now, you will still need to find your customers. That goes without saying, and you're probably doing that right now anyway. But the beauty of this system is... that's all you have to do! 

Everything else is done for you! The product, the selling, the follow-ups, and believe it or not, even the customer support is taken care of for you! 

That leaves you with a lot of time and energy that you usually would have spent on doing the above tasks. With this model, you can use all that saved time and energy on getting more customers and increasing you cash payments every month! 

That is the ultimate business model! 

The structure of this ultimate business model is simple. It includes a product or service that customers want and are willing to pay for, not just once but every single month! 

That means you sell to the customer just once and get paid every month for as long as that person remains a customer. 

And because someone else takes care of the product, the selling, the order fulfillment, the customer service and the repeat sales every month, you are freed from those tasks so you can concentrate on getting more customers and increasing your monthly profits!


