Title: 
The no non-sense way to make money. Build your own Adsense Empire.

Word Count:
961

Summary:
Tired of all the fluff and gimicks, I'll give you some sure fire ways to get you on the right path to making money online with your own web site or blog.


Keywords:
make money online, Frank DuPont, Google Adsense, Adsense Empire, Make money with adsense


Article Body:
Tired of the bull.. No fluff lets get into this, and make real money.

Webmasters who are in the know. Are aware that Adsense generates a sizeable source of additional advertising income.
Which is why most of them use it to go after high paying keywords. They have special lists that tells them what the keywords are and have already used various methods of identifying them. 
And yet, after putting up these supposed-to-be high paying keywords into their pages, the money they expected to come rolling in is not really coming in.

So. What seems to be the problem?

Having the pages with the proper keywords is wonderful. But driving visitors to those pages is a whole different ball game.
From the old school guys who've been around since the early days. To the new school guys who have learned from the oldies mistakes to jump into the game early and make big bucks from the start. What do we all need?

Say it with me now.. Traffic! very good class. 
You see, the key to your success online in anything, and especially when it comes to making money with adsense is traffic. Learn it, Live it, Prosper.

So How can I get some?

Well, first lets optimize our pages with meta tags for keywords, descriptions, titles. Some people who read this will say to themselves (duh). You'll also come across those who will say, "Bah, meta tags are so outdated, no search engines use them anymore." Well, I say, it is better to be with it and not need it, than to be without it and in need.

You'd be surprised at the number of people who just completely ignore this step. Those guys must have fat wallets to pay for ads during popular TV shows, and run $1,000 a day ad campaigns with the various online advertising companies.

But for the wise, the best kind of traffic is FREE traffic, and the only way you're going to get free traffic is if your pages are able to be easily found by the search engines.
You optimize your pages, so that your pages can clearly communicate to the search engines web crawlers, what your page is about. So that they can properly determine who to show your results to. That is what they are after. Search engines want to provide their users with relevant content for the results that they're searching for. So give them what they want, and they will give you what you need. Do it, and do it right. 5 minutes of optimization can end up being the difference between 10,000 visitors and 1 visitor. You.

Now, lets stop for a moment and think about how visitors are using your web site. 
After a visitor has landed on a certain page, they have the tendency to click on another page that sounds interesting. They get there because of the other links that appear on a page that they initially landed on. 
This is called site navigation. It is all about enabling visitors to move about your site. And one important way of maximizing your earnings.
A typical web site will have menu links on each page. The wording on the links is what grabs a visitors attention and gets them to click on one of the links that will take them to another page of that web site. Links that have "free" or "download" are oftentimes good attention-grabbers.

*Tip time.*  (There are people selling information like I'm about to give you for hundreds, if not thousands of dollars. Maybe I'm foolish? Here's some knowledge on me. You're welcome.)

This navigation logic can also be applied to driving traffic to your high paying pages. There are some web sites that are getting a lot of traffic from search engines, but have low earnings. The trick is to try and use some cleverly labeled links to get the visitors off those pages and navigate them to the higher earning ones. 

This is one great way of turning real cheap clicks to real dollars. Are you paying attention?

You can also use graphics to grab your readers attention. Some people may think this is a little sneaky, those people must live off of daddy's trust funds. Trust me. There is no limitation to what you can do to make your link noticeable. 

If you are after the success of your site, you will do everything it takes to achieve that goal. 
Be creative. As far as many Adsense advertisers are concerned, there are no written and unwritten laws to follow regarding what they write. Take what you do seriously!

As long as you do not overstep the guidelines of the search engines, then go for it. 
You're going to want to learn everything you can about the Adsense program itself though. 

I'll tell you more about that in a second.

Now for the most important thing, content. The best web sites are the ones that appear to be updated often, and ran by people who are passionate about their topics.

You want visitors. 
Give them a reason to come, and give them a reason to come back. 
Master this, and you'll be envied by all of your friends.

So, now you're just about ready to start building your own Adsense Empire. 
Or are you?

Become a money making machine. Be the envy of your friends. Make a full-time living from your home, doing something you love.

To find out more. Come visit my web site. Build your own Adsense Empire.

Hey, I can only do so much. I'll give you the information and then some. But it is up to you to apply it.
Have a dream. Gain the knowledge. Then get off your butt, and get to work.

Best of luck everyone.
-Frank


