Title: 
The truth about fake degrees

Word Count:
369

Summary:
I discovered a little known secret: In some smaller countries or territories only small control over the criterias according to which private Institutions, colleges and unversities, can grant degrees exist. I then discovered "Instant Degrees"


Keywords:
Education, College, University, Studying


Article Body:
This is the age of e-learning; requirements - a PC with a internet connection; target audience - interested group of students and also be adults; mission and vision - "the world is your classroom" and the world-wide-web - the instructor; outcome - studies and tutorials over the internet and acquire an undergraduate, graduate or post-graduate education, or associated certification, or professional degree.

It's the online degrees that are offered these days by several online institutes and universities. And if you go by the statistics of these online institutes, believe me, they are really impressive; the fastest growing sectors in the arena of higher education. Some people saw this as an opportunity, thus the birth of fake online degrees and diploma mills. Capitalizing the consumer desire for a competitive career edge, these diploma mills rake up an unbelievable $500 million dollars a year!

Go online, search in Google and you'll come across thousands of these diploma mills. Acquire a mind-blowing degree at low cost, within a remarkably short time, with very little or no efforts from your part. No admission fee required, no studying required. Sounds very tempting aren’t it? And surprisingly many people do go for these kinds of fake degrees that finally turn out to be a total loss of money. And some of the ugly truths centering round these fake degrees are:

1. Fake degrees stand meaningless. No matter wherever you use it, it'll be validated as a fake certificate.
2. With the help of these fraudulent degrees you may get a chance to join a small company, but risk factors will accrue once you start moving up the ladder.
3. You'll always be under the fear and tension of getting caught, and once caught, your employer has the full authority to penalize you.
4. In case of large organizations, candidate's resume are called for thorough screening and verification. Using fake degrees out there will make you stand disqualified for the post applied for.

With these truths exposed, it's high time that you realize the worthlessness of fake degrees. There's little risk involved if you go with Instant Degrees but take care of the others. Want to acquire an online degree? Go for an accredited one from <a href="http://www.instantdegrees.info">Instant Degrees</a>.


