Title: 
The Practicality of Artificial Trees

Word Count:
312

Summary:
If you are not the kind of person that likes plastic trees, remember the artificial Christmas tree you had in your home last year and you spend countless amounts of minutes – maybe even hours – in front of it opening gifts with the family?


Keywords:
artificial flowers, artificial trees, artificial plants


Article Body:
Artificial trees are perfect for homes, restaurants, hotels, and offices because they need little to or no maintenance to keep them looking alive and beautiful. It is popular to add a natural touch to your space with an artificial tree or two. They look just like real, live trees and all you have to do is pick out the one you like and have it shipped, or take it home yourself. Once you get it all set up you can sit back and enjoy with no watering, trimming, or fertilizing necessary. You also don't have to worry about them growing too big for it there location.

Artificial trees have trunks that act as a central support and there is an external covering that makes them look realistic. The artificial trunk is attached to a plane base that provides support for the entire tree. Artificial trees come in an assortment of materials such as plastic, canvas, fiberglass, steel, and preserved palm. These trees can cost anywhere from £20 to £1,000 depending on the size, materials used, and quality.

There are other materials such as steel and fiberglass which tend to cost more but they are more durable. They are generally dug into the ground or put in a pot where they will stay healthy and vibrant looking for years to come. There are super durable artificial trees that are poly-blend plastic and can hold up to weather. The trunks of these trees are sometimes pressurized pine which gives the tree a more natural look, while keeping prices low.

Artificial trees can be potted into containers just as real tree are. You can do this by getting a plastic pot, then tape up the holes. Next mix the weights such as stone, brick, or rock then expand cement foam to cement tree in to the pot. Now you can place your tree anywhere indoor or outdoor.


