Title: 
The Construction Industry - Exactly How Healthy Is It?

Word Count:
400

Summary:
If you are considering entering into the construction field, especially as an equipment operator, you’ll find the field is thriving and should continue to do so.


Keywords:
Heavy Equipment Training, Bulldozer, Jobs for G.I's, Construction Jobs


Article Body:
When one is considering entering a new line of work, the first thing they should do is research that given field.  Certain things to consider include how that particular industry is currently doing and what are the predictions for that field.  If you are considering entering into the construction field, especially as an equipment operator, you’ll find the field is thriving and should continue to do so.

First of all, there is always going to be a need for road repairs, bridge maintenance, and new constructions will continue to be needed.  The government alone spends billions of dollars on construction projects each year and there does not seem to be any inclination that they will slow down.  New housing developments are being created everyday in all areas of the country, as there is continually a housing shortage.  The construction business is thriving.

The September 11th attacks of terrorism on the United States have had impacts on every industry in the United States and the construction industry is no exception.   Due to Homeland Security, many such developments have been redesigned to further their safety in case of an act of terrorism and even moved to a different location if they are near an area that might be a target.  However, the construction industry has not slowed down and it is as strong as ever.  

The fact is the construction industry is the largest service industry in the United States.  Due to the demand placed on the construction industry, most construction companies are constantly looking for individuals who are qualified to work in this field.  Many individuals, however, are not qualified and they start on the bottom, hoping to get trained in areas where there is better pay.  

Where do individuals wishing to get a heavy equipment operator’s education stand?  With new developments and construction projects continuing to thrive, the heavy equipment operator will always have a job.  In order to complete the new construction jobs, there must be someone to run the heavy equipment.  

Unfortunately, with all of the natural disasters that have taken place in the United States alone, such as the flooding in California, the tornadoes in the mid-west and the hurricanes along the east coast, the construction business will continue to thrive.  From road repairs and bridge reconstruction and new housing developments to commercial developments, construction companies will continually be looking for workers that are qualified.


