Title: 
The Right Restaurant Supplier Can Make All the Difference

Word Count:
382

Summary:
Last month, I opened my third restaurant in twelve years.  Anyone who knows anything about the restaurant business will tell you that success of that nature isn't easy to come by.  I started out with a small diner on a not so busy intersection.  By offering impeccable service, great food and a friendly decor, I have been able to expand my business to include additional eateries in higher traffic locations while maintaining a healthy profit margin.


Keywords:
restaurant supplies and equipments, restaurant,  restaurant success


Article Body:
Last month, I opened my third restaurant in twelve years.  Anyone who knows anything about the restaurant business will tell you that success of that nature isn't easy to come by.  I started out with a small diner on a not so busy intersection.  By offering impeccable service, great food and a friendly decor, I have been able to expand my business to include additional eateries in higher traffic locations while maintaining a healthy profit margin.  The truth of the matter is, however, that I certainly couldn't have done it alone.  I have a great staff at all of my locations, some of the best food distributors in the area and loyal customers that recognize the value of a well cooked, well priced, timely meal.   One other valuable asset I have that so many overlook is a good business relationship with my full service restaurant equipment supplier.

Good equipment suppliers understand the equipment needs of their customers and can help ensure that you receive the best units for your particular circumstances.  The better equipment suppliers out there will also offer design services for streamlining your kitchen, which will help you with efficiency and make life easier on your kitchen staff.  The company I use has been a lifesaver in this respect.  Anyone can sell you a product, but so few are willing to tell you where to place it, how to maintain it and ways that you can save money by getting the best product for your individual space.  Restaurant owners shouldn't have to wonder if they are using the right equipment and using it correctly.  Because of my business relationship with an excellent supply house, I know everything there is to know about my equipment and how to keep it in excellent condition.  I have my kitchen set up in such an ergonomic and efficient way that it allows my staff to do their work without having to worry about traversing the entire room and running into one another.

I don't take any business relationship for granted, but especially not this one.  I know that if I have a failure, need advice on a new station or just want repair information, one phone call can solve it.  The value of that is something I can count on to help me succeed.


