Title: 
The Business Of Home And Commercial Alarm And Security Systems

Word Count:
482

Summary:
Alarm systems are intended to defend lives and possessions if they are installed, used, and maintained properly.   Datum show that homes without a burglar alarm system (for example) are five times more likely to be targeted.  Alarm systems are also great for fires and other crises.


Keywords:
alarm systems


Article Body:
Alarm systems are meant to protect lives and belongings if they are positioned, used, and maintained properly.   Datum show that homes without a burglar alarm system (for example) are four times more likely to be targeted.  Alarm systems are also great for fires and other crises.  Alarm systems are installed strategically in consultation with home and building owners.   Another benefit of alarm systems is that insurance companies will render diminished rates for building and/or homeowners insurance if the proper burglar and/or fire alarm systems are installed.  And dont forget, Fire alarm systems are operational and on-duty 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year.  

There are a throng of divergent applications for alarms.  The most frequent are of course the fire and trespass types, but other applications are being unfurled at a ardent pace.  Think of applications such as medical alarm systems (also called personal alarms, and medical alert devices).  These systems are conceived to activate the EMS service in the event that a sufferer becomes injured, sick or ill.

Alarm systems can be stand-alone (i.e. a acoustic device is set off in the case of an intrusion or fire event), or they may be monitored by an outer monitoring company.  Remote alarm systems are exploited to connect the control unit to a preset monitor of some sort, and they come in many different configurations.  Telecom lines are traditionally utilized to broadcast a sign when an alarm event (fire, break-in, etc.) occurs.  These systems are interfaced with an auto-dialer that will mechanically give notice to the fire or police departments in the event of burglary or fire.   Most monitored burglar alarm systems are equipped with hi-tech battery and/or mobile backup systems that kick in straight away should your power or phone connection fail.  This forestalls a would-be thief from cutting off the phone line to preclude the alarm system from notifying the monitoring service.

Some alarm systems are tied to video surveillance systems so that current video of an intrusion area can be instantly displayed on a remote monitor, not to mention recorded.  With new technology, alarm systems are not only available as hardwired devices, but also as wireless.  The introduction of wireless alarm technology means that new sensors can be added quickly and easily without the need to run wires back to a control panel.

One of the major downsides to alarm systems are false alarms.  When an alarm system is not properly installed, used or maintained, the number of calls for police and fire dispatches may increase.  In many municipalities the alarm owner may be fined or cited if the alarm system becomes a nuisance.  But this being said, in 1994 the International Association of Chiefs of Police passed a Board Resolution stating that professionally installed and monitored alarm systems are useful instruments to deter crime and provide peace of mind for residential and business owners.


