Title: 
This is the amazing true story of how one woman, with no previous business experience, earns $435,000+ per year online

Word Count:
270

Summary:
This is the amazing true story of how one woman, with no previous business experience, earns $435,000+ per year online 
... selling other people's stuff!
 

 
Have you seen all the hucksters' hype about 'How to earn HUGE money on the 'Net?' 

It's sickening! Most of them have never earned a dime online! They're trying to sell you some gimmick, or 'Internet Mall' that won't bring you 2 red cents. 
 
http://sevilyalci.webvista2.hop.clickbank.net


Keywords:
affiliate,earn money,make money,online business,home business


Article Body:
This is the amazing true story of how one woman, with no previous business experience, earns $435,000+ per year online 
... selling other people's stuff!
 

 
Have you seen all the hucksters' hype about 'How to earn HUGE money on the 'Net?' 

It's sickening! Most of them have never earned a dime online! They're trying to sell you some gimmick, or 'Internet Mall' that won't bring you 2 red cents. 

If you're tired of the B.S. and are ready to learn the truth about Internet and Affiliate marketing - stick around. 

This book could change your life! 
 
 
Letter from the Author, Rosalind Gardner

September 17, 2007

Dear Aspiring Netpreneur,

Honestly! I get angry every time I hear someone say that there's no money to be made by promoting affiliate programs.

What a pile of unadulterated cow dung! Anyone telling you that affiliates aren't making money, either hasn't tried it himself, or is so greedy that he doesn't want you to share in the wealth.

The truth is, you can make INCREDIBLE MONEY online by promoting ONLY affiliate programs. 

Everyday hundreds of thousands of affiliates make money promoting their affiliated merchants products online. Thousands of folks have been able to quit their jobs simply by promoting other people's products. 

 

These companies want YOU... to promote their products!
Here is just a tiny sampling of the BIG brand-name companies that use affiliate programs to promote their products online:



Barnes & Noble 
Dell 
Discover Card 
Dollar Rent-a-Car 
eBay 
Eddie Bauer 
Gateway 
Gap 
KMart 
New York Times 
NBC
 Old Navy 
Patagonia 
PayLess Shoes 
PetSmart 
SONY 
Sports Authority 
Staples 
TimeLife 
USA Today 
Verizon Wireless 
Weight Watchers  

http://sevilyalci.webvista2.hop.clickbank.net


