Title: 
Tips on Conducting a Successful Presentation

Word Count:
322

Summary:
Whether you're a student, a full-time employee or the head of a book club, there is one task that is hard to avoid: public speaking.


Keywords:
Tips on Conducting a Successful Presentation


Article Body:
Whether you're a student, a full-time employee or the head of a book club, there is one task that is hard to avoid: public speaking.

Having to give a speech or presentation in front of a group is something that's unavoidable in most people's lives. But it doesn't have to be a scary situation. With the right preparation, you can channel your public speaking stress into an effective, memorable presentation.

The following tips will help you further your performance when giving a presentation and keep stress under control.

* Prepare beforehand. Practicing your presentation in front of a mirror, video camera, small audience or with a tape recorder will help you feel more comfortable delivering it.

* Help yourself relax with a supplement. A sublingual spray, such as Stress and Tension, a product from the "Spray" line of all-natural remedies, may help.

Stress and Tension contains ingredients that temporarily relieve symptoms of nervous tension and anxiety, helping you to focus more on your presentation rather than the stress caused by public speaking. This spray meets all Food and Drug Administration guidelines for good manufacturing practices and was developed by doctors. For more information, visit www.thespray.com or call (866) 412-7827.

* Know your surroundings. Arrive at the place of the presentation early so you can familiarize yourself with the room. Getting there early also will give you time to test out any equipment, like a computer or projector, that you will be using.

* Keep it structured. When writing your presentation, focus on no more than three key elements. Discussing too many topics can give listeners an overload of information.

Also, to keep your presentation interesting, make sure it has a beginning, middle and end. Start your speech with an opening comment, question or with humor to grab the audience's attention. Next, give the audience the vital information. Then finish with a strong quote, question or piece of information that will be memorable to your listeners. - NU


