Title: 
Using Age Verification Software in Your Business

Word Count:
437

Summary:
There are all sorts of reasons you might need to know the age of a patron at your business, such as if he or she is trying to buy cigarettes or alcohol. Age verification software makes it easier for you to determine if a person is of age.


Keywords:
age verification, electronic age verification


Article Body:
There are many reasons you might need to know the age of people who are frequenting your business. Maybe you run a nightclub and only want people over the age of 21 to be admitted. Or you could own a shop that sells cigarettes, or a restaurant that serves alcohol. 

Whatever the reason you need to verify a person's age, you know that it is important to do so. As a conscientious business owner you don't want to sell to minors, and the fines and penalties can be heavy if you are caught. 

But checking the identification of every patron and doing the math to make sure they are the right age can be time consuming. That's where electronic age verification software comes in. 

Age verification software is built into a device that looks like a credit card scanner. The device reads the barcode or magnetic strip that is built into the patron's driver's license or state identification card. 

When you swipe their identification card, you will be told immediately if this person is the proper age to buy tobacco or alcohol or for whatever other reason you might need to know their age. 

This eliminates the need for someone to physically examine the identification card and makes it quick and easy for you to grant access to people who are of age. 

Electronic age verification equipment can often be obtained from the same company that provides your credit card transaction equipment. It is no more difficult to use one of these devices than it is to swipe a credit card, so you can start using age verification in your business with minimal staff training. 

A study from Brandeis University looked at the effectiveness of using electronic age verification hardware and found that customers were not uncomfortable with swiping their IDs. Staff who used the equipment said they were generally happy with it as well. 

Getting into the habit of using the machines seemed to be the biggest problem, but once you get used to having the machine available you will be more likely to use it since it is a simple method of verifying age. 

Adding electronic age verification is an easy way to ensure that you're not running afoul of the law by selling items to minors that they should not have access to. Getting one of these machines and using it faithfully should help you rest easy that you're not going to get in trouble for selling to minors. It's also a great way to get positive publicity in your community because you can prove you're checking people's identifications in the most high-tech way possible.


