Title: 
Virtual Bankruptcy Assistant Online Training

Word Count:
711

Summary:
Learn how to take your current virtual bankruptcy assistant business to the next level from Victoria Ring, the paralegal who developed the virtual bankruptcy assistant field.


Keywords:
training,education,elearning,online learning,marketing,business,smallbiz,virtual,virtual assistant,virtual bankruptcy assistant,bankruptcy,paralegal,legal,law,attorney,


Article Body:
Now you can receive 1-ON-1 PERSONALIZED TRAINING in the comfort of your home, at your computer, almost any time of the day or night.  Your training will be with Victoria Ring, the developer of the virtual bankruptcy assistant field and Bankruptcy Specialist.

Before the technology was developed, you had the expense of plane fare, lodging and other high-cost overhead expenses to attend seminars.  You also had the added headaches of scheduling time off and rearranging your own schedule to make time for the training seminar.  Then, after the seminar was over, you may have learned something, but you never achieved the benefits you would have with personal 1-on-1 training from the instructor.

But now, thanks to the advancement of technology, you can sit down at your computer (in your pajamas if you want to), login to an internet website, call a toll-free number and enjoy 3 full hours of intense 1-ON-1 PERSONALIZED TRAINING.  This type of training will accelerate your knowledge plus almost eliminate the learning curve that once existed when trying to learn a new skill.

FOR ONE LOW PRICE, YOU NOW RECEIVE . . .

3 hours of training in any of the following areas:

**  Chapter 7 Petition Input
**  Chapter 13 Petition Input
**  Chapter 13 Plan Development
**  Marketing Your Virtual Business to Attorneys
**  Designing a Web Site for Marketing
**  Client intake interview skills

HERE IS HOW THE CHAPTER 7 AND CHAPTER 13 TRAINING WORKS:

1.  You make an initial down payment of $150.00 which pays for 3 hours of training. If you require additional training, your credit card information will be obtained and the additional fee will be billed separately at the following rates:

3 additional hours of training = $100.00
6 additional hours of training = $200.00
9 additional hours of training = $250.00

2.  After your payment is processed, we will email, as well as call to set up an appointment time for your training.

3.  Next, you will be faxed a set of Client Intake Forms which will be used for your Chapter 7 or Chapter 13 training.

4.  At the appointment time, you will login to a website which will allow you to view Victoria Ring's computer desktop and she view yours.

5.  You will begin the input of the Client Intake Forms that were faxed to you and Victoria Ring will provide you with step-by-step training as you progress through the schedules.

At the end of this training session, you will have all the basic skills to prepare a Chapter 7 or Chapter 13 bankruptcy petition.  No paralegal course or law school offers this training, which means you will have better knowledge in this area than most attorneys and paralegals working every day in the field.

HERE IS HOW THE WEB SITE DESIGN TRAINING WORKS:

If you are being trained in the design of a web site, Victoria Ring will provide you with a list of the low-cost or free software you need to download and install before the training begins.  Then, Victoria will demonstrate how to use the software on her computer while you watch.  Next, she will view your computer and walk you through, step-by-step, in designing your own virtual bankruptcy assistant web page.

At the end of this training session, you will have all the basic skills to design a web page that provides downloadable Client Intake Forms to your attorneys. This way, you can immediately start marketing to attorneys on the internet and grow your business as soon as your training has ended.

HERE IS HOW THE MARKETING TRAINING WORKS:

Victoria Ring will show you a wide variety of tips and tricks that worked for her in building her business.  She will also introduce you to several websites that provide free or low-cost advertising methods.

At the end of this training, you should have all the skills you need to build your virtual bankruptcy assistant business.  You also should never need to purchase high-cost books and marketing programs because you will learn everything in this excellent training course.  It will be the best $150 you ever spent – guaranteed.

If you have any questions before investing in 713Training.Com's 1-on-1 Personal Training, or if you need technical support in logging into the web conference area for your training, please contact Dana Fornier at 614.323.8131 during normal business hours before your scheduled training date and time.

To schedule your 1-on-1 Personalized Training, visit:
http://www.713training.com/shop/cart.php?m=product_detail&p=84


