Title: 
Visiting Dillon in Summit County, Colorado

Word Count:
433

Summary:
Dillon in Summit County, Colorado offers yearlong activities and a breathtaking location.


Keywords:
Dillon real estate, Dillon Colorado real estate, Dillon CO real estate, real estate Dillon Colorado


Article Body:
Copyright 2006 Peter Hayes

Dillon is a small town located in Summit County, Colorado in the heart of one of the world’s most famous ski resorts.  It is located on the side of Lake Dillon in the heart of Summit County.  The town’s location is beautiful and offers visitors an abundance of winter and summer activities.  The town’s population is small, under 1,000, but this figure increases to around 4,000 during the peak winter months.

In the winter Summit County is a winter wonderland.  Dillon offers easy and quick access to all of Summit County’s main ski resorts including Breckenridge, Keystone, Copper Mountain and Arapahoe Basin. There are all types of winter activities available here including skiing and snowboarding, cross country, snowshoeing, snowmobiling, sleigh rides, and ice skating.  As a backdrop to these activities you have the breathtaking beauty of the snow-covered Summit County peaks.

In the summer months Dillon offers visitors many activities including hiking, biking, rafting, golf, camping, canoeing, horse riding and all types of water sports including sailing, boating, cruises, and fishing.  The sailing activity is centered around the Dillon marina.  The marina is home to the popular Tiki Bar which is a popular hangout during the summer months.

There is also the option of more tranquil pastimes such as shopping, visiting galleries, relaxing in the sun, or dining at the many nice restaurants in the area.  Dillon has a rich history dating back to the 1800s when it was formed as a trading post.  The Summit Historical Society Museum is located in the old Dillon school house and will help you understand the beginning of the town.  Many visitors are attracted by the lower priced accommodations during the summer months which makes a visit to the area during the summer a real bargain.

Dillon offers an abundance of resorts, hotels, condominiums and bed and breakfast accommodation situated on the shores of the lake.  Whether you are looking for a vacation on your own or with your family there are all types of options.  You may also be in the market for purchasing a vacation home.  If so there are lot of possibilities in the area.

Dillon in Summit County, Colorado offers all the attractions of a world famous winter destination.  It also has something to offer all year round.   The winter visitor is guaranteed the finest of winter sport facilities while the summer visitor can enjoy a range of summer activities enjoying accommodation and facilities at a bargain price.  Regardless of when you visit Dillon, in Summit County Colorado you are assured the utmost in fun and value.


