Title: 
Web Page Design is a Reflection of Your Business

Word Count:
547

Summary:
Often, small- and medium-sized business owners aren't aware of the impact that their websites have on customers and potential customers. Are you one of them?


Keywords:
web designer, web design, web site, website, design, designer, website designer,  professional web page designer, profes


Article Body:
Consider this scenario. You're considering patronizing a certain business, and decide to look it up on the Internet before making your final decision. Up pops their website and it looks like someone went berserk with a web design program. The fonts are either unreadable or the text is so large that it screams at you. The colors clash or are so bright that they hurt your eyes. The pictures are out of focus or so large that the page takes forever to load. Hyperlinks lead nowhere, and the site navigation leaves you perplexed. In a split second, you know that you'll never give this company your business. 

This may be an exaggeration, but we've all seen bad web site designs. They infect the Web like a bad head cold that won't let go. You can't help but wonder what the business owner was thinking. After all, why have a website if it reflects poorly on your company or actually drives customers away? 

Often, small- and medium-sized business owners aren't aware of the impact that their websites have on customers and potential customers. They may know that having a web site is important, but think that professional webpage design is cost prohibitive. So, they conclude that their child, neighbor, or spouse can put something together and that it will be "good enough." Or, ten years ago they may have actually paid a professional web page designer and having done any modifications for years. 

In today's business world, there's no getting around the fact that your web page design is a reflection of your business. Whether yours is an e-commerce site, a lead generation site, or simply a small informational website, you need to put your best (virtual) foot forward and project an image that puts your business in the best possible light. Keep in mind that, if you don't have a good website, your competition probably does and is siphoning customers away from you.

If you've hesitated hiring a business web page designer because of cost considerations, it's time to think again. Unless you need a highly customized, programming intensive site, a web designer isn't going to break the bank. In fact, there are web page design firms that specialize in helping small- to medium-sized businesses succeed in their online endeavors. 

Today, a website designer can economically provide you with hundreds of templates from which to choose. These templates come in a variety of styles that are appropriate for a wide range of businesses. A professional web page designer can easily customize templates, giving them images and graphics that will make your website unique. 

In addition, a web page design company can provide you with a suite of options that will help you develop your online business. These tools might include a shopping cart, an SSL certificate, free hosting, email accounts, domain registration, and even marketing strategies. 

If you don't already have a website, your business needs an online presence. If you haven't updated the design of your company website in two years or more, it's time to consult with a web page design company. And, if you happen to have one of the nightmarish sites that turn potential customers away, it's time to look forward, turn over a new leaf, and hire a professional web page designer.


