Title: 
WEBconference applications for management

Word Count:
276

Summary:
It has been observed that it is becoming increasingly difficult to conciliate the agendas of the people managing the company in order to schedule the statutory meetings in conjunction with the workshops of the ongoing projects.


Keywords:
web presentation, webcast, teleconference, webinar, internet video conference, audioconference,  webconference, web conference, emeeting, skype, software,training, sales, meeting, video conferencing, e-learning, customer loyalty


Article Body:
Problems
Moreover, the absence of a management representative at a meeting (albeit due to an important situation such as negotiating an important contract) is not uncommon. Consulting your colleagues helps you to take better decisions for the company. To conveniently hold meetings anytime and anywhere (also in small groups), make use of Tele-efficiency's superior service. 

Solution
The statutory meetings that are planned by the president are automatically scheduled in his Outlook calendar, after which he asks the participants to confirm their availability. During the meeting, he introduces the other presenter who gives a PowerPoint presentation and submits a document on the screen, which is also transmitted to his coworkers. If there is  
an absentee, the meeting is integrally recorded, both voice and images, and emailed to the absentee, along with the hyperlink and password so that it can be replayed. The voice over Internet software, Skype, along with the instant messaging presence indicator, allows the members of the management team to know, at a given moment, their coworkers' status, i.e., if they are with a "connected," "no show," "not available," or "do not disturb" signal.  
    
  
Results 
If some of the management personnel are frequently traveling, they can participate in the meetings via the Internet from their hotel room, airport, or an Internet café, or even from home. Moreover, even if they are absent, they can watch the recorded meeting and share their views with their colleagues. By knowing the availability of the management personnel, at a given time, the president can schedule a meeting; also, he can be signalled during the meeting about someone's changed status of availability, as well as of a new arrival.


