Title: 
Wedding 101: Should You Rent A Limousine?

Word Count:
548

Summary:
A wedding is a ceremony that celebrates the beginning of a marriage or civil union, and is considered one of the most important events in life, as well as a perfect opportunity to perform a traditional ceremony and celebrate with friends and family. Costs to creating the perfect wedding may vary, some may wish to stick to the traditional church-wedding types, and others may go for unique or otherwise adventurous stuff like getting married on roller coasters or balloons, bungee jumping right after tying the knot, or cruising around town on wedding limousines, replete with “just married” signs, balloons and confetti.


Keywords:
rental service limousine cars autos vehicles occasion events party


Article Body:
A wedding is a ceremony that celebrates the beginning of a marriage or civil union, and is considered one of the most important events in life, as well as a perfect opportunity to perform a traditional ceremony and celebrate with friends and family. Costs to creating the perfect wedding may vary, some may wish to stick to the traditional church-wedding types, and others may go for unique or otherwise adventurous stuff like getting married on roller coasters or balloons, bungee jumping right after tying the knot, or cruising around town on wedding limousines, replete with “just married” signs, balloons and confetti. 

Getting everything ready for your wedding could be a very stressful episode, but the secret to making it is a success is professional planning; there are lots of tips and articles on ensuring the wedding itself is a success, but there are others too that are dedicated to the wedding party celebrations.

For starters, the average cost of a wedding in the United States, as of 2007, is $28,000. This is twice the cost of getting married in 1990. The wedding industry currently nets an average of $161 billion dollars yearly, according to Rebecca Mead, author of "One Perfect Day. Most wouldn’t mind splurging on what they consider to be “once-in-a-lifetime” occasions however, so acquiring the service of a limousine firm should definitely add more elegance to a wedding, notwithstanding the extra costs.

Most couples would agree that arriving to your wedding ceremony in luxury and comfort is tops in the agenda. Arriving there in an appropriately-colored and stylish limousine should do the trick, as most limousines offered for hire are meticulously maintained with a complimentary bar and friendly chauffeurs. On the average, a wedding limousine service would usually cost around $120/hour, and some offer an extra hour promo. 

Limousine service can vary with it’s price level. The most simple and basic wedding limousine service will include the limousine, driver and beverages. When it comes to the driver, make sure that the rental company provides a uniformed driver for the wedding. The last thing is that one would want a chauffeur to be dressed in casual slacks and a T- shirts.

Checking on the limo’s appearance also matters. Couples should ensure that the service includes, if it does, important extras such as, “Just Married” signs, balloons, bowties, red royal wedding carpet, interior decoration, flowers, champagne stands, wedding march air horns, which the service provider may charge as extra customizations.

Arriving in a beautiful limousine surely adds sparkle to that final touch to a picture-perfect wedding. Choosing a limousine company that is professional and experienced is very crucial. Couples are definitely advised to reserve their choice limousines in advance. Unless one is familiar with the limousine company and their vehicles, take the time to check on the available options and physically inspect the vehicle. Confirm the dress code for the chauffeur, since you would prefer a fully trained professional chauffeur.

Limousines are generally rated as 6, 8, or 10 passenger-types, so be sure to ask for the year and make of the limousine. Also, consider the size of your party and the gowns when hiring your limousine. Most companies have a three hour minimum, and rental costs generally range from $45.00 to $65.00 per hour, and some suggest a gratuity of 20% for the chauffeur.


