Title: 
What\'s In Your Sex Toy Box!

Word Count:
825

Summary:
An article relating all the different kinds of sex toys that should be in ones personal sex toy box.


Keywords:
MarSex toy , dildo, Vibrator, adult toy, penis ring, dong, lube,rabbit vibrator, anal dildo


Article Body:
There is a vast range of sex toys today. Its available for both the sexes i.e. male & female with significant multiplicity in its type. 

<strong>The Purpose Of Sex Toys</strong>

Sex toys can help you get an erection or, if you are a female, arouse your genitals or just help in elevate your pleasure during the act.   They can also help you enjoy sex with different variations thus never letting you get bored of it. The best thing about them is they can help people having difficulty enjoying sex.

Its not only about the variety they provide to the act its about the zing they add to your relationships which you should look at. 

The usual expectation is that a sex toy provides direct stimulation of the
genitals in foreplay and/or during sexual intercourse or as a means to
obtain orgasm through only the stimulation provided by the sex toy. 

Sex toys - Kinds

<strong>Vibrating Sex Toys</strong>

The most common of the lot is the vibrating sex toys which provide arousal of the genitals through vibration. They can either be used to arouse the clitoris or the male genitalia. 

Most of them are in the shape of a fatter pencil and are battery operated. But some of them come with an adaptor attached to them with a wire. They have a small motor inside them which when rotates provides the vibration. It has no rocket science involved with it but talking about its use, it comes very handy. 
some of them have a controller which controls the power of the vibration. The strength of vibration depends on your personal taste and mood. There is no optimum strength which you should switch to. At various stage of your sexual experience, you may feel like changing the strength. It also depends on which piece of your body part you are arousing. 

The recent vibrators are more interesting to look at. They provide a range of control for you starting from the speed/strength control of the vibration to surges & power pulses. The Effectiveness of these vibrators is without doubt 



Butterfly stimulator's & vibrating penis rings are some of the other types of vibrators available in the market.

<strong>Other Powered Sex Toys</strong>

The ways to provide stimulation can be many. There are some kinds which change shapes or moves back and forth by use of an electric motor. Mostly it's the air pumps that motorize the back & forth movements. The various types of movements may be interesting to look at. Some of them are mechanical licking tongues, vibrators that 'penetrate' the vagina and mouth simulators to give a man a 'blow job'. 

Have you heard of the expensive sex toys such as the thrusting & vibrating dildos? They do exist but on larger an much expensive scale.

<strong>Combination Sex Toys</strong>

Whatever we have discussed above is also available in one sex toy in a combination.

The commonest of them all is the rabbit style which uses movement & thrusting motion to arouse the clitoris or the vagina. 

Adding textures to the surface of a sex toy for that extra pleasure is not uncommon at all. Some of them have spikes while others have ridges on the surface to elevate pleasure

<strong>Sensation Change Sex Toys</strong>

There again exists a completely different kind of sex toys which provide a different sensual experience while having sex rather than stimulation.



There are a range of sleeves which you can put on the penis for different feelings during intercourse.

Some of them are ring kind of thing that squeeze the bottom of the penis or constrict the scrotum to provide erection and increase sensations.
You can also extend your penis or make them thick using some kind of sex toys which may assist you in giving your female partner extra sensation during sex. 

The assortment of lubricants available in the market aiding sex is worth mentioning. Also there are PVC & Polyurethane bed sheets that are oil proof & water proof for greasy or messy sex.


<strong>Why Use A Sex Toy?</strong>

Are the fingers, penis mouth, tongue, clitoris, vagina etc. not sufficient to have a pleasurable sex? If yes, then why should one use sex toys?



Good question, but sex toys provide help you drive your imagination wild and most importantly give you variety in your sex life and that extra stimulation which is not possible in normal sex. And, we have still not talked about the therapeutic use like assistance in erection for people having difficulty in enjoying sex. 

<strong>Where To Start?</strong>

For ice breakers you can try the simple vibrators and go on further with combination sex toys. If you enjoy the experience then move on to the more sophisticated ones.With time you will know what suits you more than others. Oh yes! Don't forget…Sex is sex when you enjoy it, so go on satisfy yourself with that forbidden pleasure.


