Title: 
What Type of Computer Desk is Right for You?

Word Count:
533

Summary:
If you're in the market for a new computer desk, there are a few things you should know before you open your wallet.


Keywords:
computer desks, computer furniture, computer tables


Article Body:
If you're in the market for a new computer desk, there are a few things you should know before you open your wallet.  First, you need to decide what type of computer desk is right for you.  Here's an easy check-off list of factors you should consider:

First, there are three basic types of desks:  the Downview Desk in which the monitor is actually mounted below the desktop surface and can be seen through glare-resistant glass or plexiglass; the Split-Level Desk in which the surface is split into different height-adjustable surfaces allowing the monitor to be positioned higher than the writing surface; and the Adjustable Table type – the most common—in which there is only one desktop surface, the monitor is positioned on this surface and all work is done on the surface as well.  There are benefits to all three.  The Downview Desk has recently gained popularity because the monitor is somewhat 'hidden' and doesn't clutter the top of the desk, allowing for the most efficient use of space.  While still considered ergonomic, some users prefer tilting their heads up rather than down to see the screen.  Downview desks are welcomed in classrooms and computer labs because it allows students to keep their eyes on the front of the classroom without having to lean around a monitor and therefore look easily from the instructor to their own monitors. 

Downview Desks also give the appearance of a sleeker, cleaner environment.  The Split-Level Desk is revered because it's perfectly ergonomic and allows for the most adjustment for comfort.  All surfaces adjust to the user and these desks are ideal for people who are shorter or taller than the average user because they're entirely customizable.

The Adjustable Classroom Table is popular because with the fewest features, it's the most affordable and provides a basic, comfortable, height-adjustable desk that provides ergonomic support to the user without all the other bells and whistles.
Second, decide what size will comfortably fit in the space you have.  Computer desks come in many sizes from single-user 30-inch widths, to multi-user 72-inch widths and nearly everything in between.  Measure your space and then choose a desk slightly smaller (as in 2 – 3 inches smaller) so that the space doesn't appear too crowded.

Third, find a manufacturer that offers desk colors that appeal to the room you're working in.  If you like a desk but it only comes in white and your room is all natural wood, you won't find the overall look of the room very pleasing.  Since you don't want to have to paint a desk yourself, choose one that works with your existing color scheme.

Fourth, decide on a price and stick to it. Be sure to check into shipping, tax, and handling charges.  Companies often advertise a desk at a low $129 but when all is said and done, other charges can end up adding almost $100 to your purchase!  We found a company called Versa Tables that offers free shipping regardless of weight to any customer in the contiguous U.S.  Those are the kinds of deals you're looking for, so be sure to check out shipping rates or ask a customer representative for the rates before you commit to purchasing.


