Title: 
When will the Reverse Funnel System End?

Word Count:
363

Summary:
Infinite… timeless… the reverse funnel system is a system, like a corporation, it is not dependant on one person or one product.


Keywords:
Home Business, Marketing, Business, Work At Home, Internet


Article Body:
Infinite… timeless… the reverse funnel system is a system, like a corporation, it is not dependant on one person or one product.  Currently the reverse funnel system is linked to GRN, Global Resorts Network, but since it is a system it can be applied to any product and any company.

If GRN disappears the reverse funnel system will still be thriving and ready to link to another source of income that may work better than GRN does now, although GRN was chosen for a specific reason and has been fulfilling the dreams of all those involved in the reverse funnel system the reverse funnel system is in no way dependant on GRN.

In fact all the reverse funnel system is…is an automated sales process that closes people into your business for you automatically.  Ty Coughlin and the inner circle hired VERY expensive copy writers, and web conversion experts to design the system.  And after a few months of running it the results have spoke for themselves.  The Reverse Funnel System is producing 30-40% conversion rates.  THAT is amazing.

So if GRN was ever not producing for the reverse funnel system as it should be than the system could simply be transferred to another company that could provide more for those of us who have become a part the reverse funnel system.

That is why the reverse funnel system is so amazing.  It has everything to offer and very little to hurt you on.  The biggest aspect of the reverse funnel system is that you must be delivering traffic into the system consistently… It has such high conversion rates this is not a problem but if the traffic is not sent to through the system then there will be no conversions and you will not see money.

So have no fear for the future of the reverse funnel system… it is here to stay and here to grow.  Those who want to get involved early while the income potential can still reach six figures a month I expect you act fast.  Because soon enough there will be many people driving traffic to their own individual funnels. 

All the best and lets make some CASH!


