Title: 
Where Is That Hair Way Up There?

Word Count:
517

Summary:
A person’s hair is an important part of who they are. A person’s hairstyle says a lot about that person, and says a lot about their style, likes, and their preferences.


Keywords:
hair,hairstyle


Article Body:
A person’s hair is an important part of who they are. A person’s hairstyle says a lot about that person, and says a lot about their style, likes, and their preferences. There are many types of hair styles. There are styles for long hair, their styles for short hair, and there are styles for hair lengths in between. Where do you get your hairstyle? Do you get yours from Hollywood society? Do you get your hairstyle from magazines? Do you get your hairstyle from relatives or friends? Wherever you get your hairstyles from, rest assured that the hairstyle you choose is best suited for you and your personality.  

Often people will choose to dye their hair as a fashion statement or preference. There is no right and there is no wrong when you consider a hairstyle. There are many popular colors to choose from on the market today: blond, brown, black, white, purple, and even green our popular hair colors today. Of course, you can choose to have your own hair dye specially made for you that is a mixture of various other colors. When choosing a hair dye, your imagination is the only limit.  

Another popular hairstyle concerns the length of the hair. At one time, was popular for women to have long hair and for men to have short hair. However, times have changed. Many men have long hair; many women have short hair. The length of the hair is a personal choice and often changes over a period of time. Is it easier to make hair short than it is to make hair long. Therefore, care should be taken when going from long too short. 

Of course, it is important to decide who and where you will be getting that new hairstyle. Many times, people will have a certain stylist that they visit to get that hairstyle – be it new or just a refresher. Beauticians offer a professional opportunity to have perfection in your hairstyle. Finding a good beautician is not always easy. However, a good beautician should be revered and held on to firmly. 

Unfortunately, not all people have enough on top to visit a salon or beautician. These people often have thinning or balding hair. This is not usually a desirable condition to people unless they choose to do this as a fashion statement. Thinning and balding hair has had its day of "magical" tonics and cure-alls. Even today, there are many miraculous cures for those with thinning or balding hair. If you choose to go high-tech, you can opt to have surgery to move hair from one place to another. The choices today are staggering. 

When you want a new hair style or a completely new head of hair, there are promises abounding that promise the best, the perfect head of hair. A lot of the hair has to do with genetics. Sometimes, a person just has to face the facts: there just isn’t much hair up there. Bald is as beautiful as that mysterious, luxurious long hair. Sometimes, people have no idea how truly lucky they are.


