Title: 
Why Open an Online Casino Now?

Word Count:
557

Summary:
Because of the ban on online gambling, this is the time to set up an online casino. Read why!


Keywords:
gambling 


Article Body:
The USA has banned online gambling. Or has it? Reading the Post Authority Law, I have found that what they have banned is financial transactions between US financial organizations and online casinos. Why? They cannot ban online casinos because these are not under their jurisdiction. So, have online casinos complied? Some. The large ones have such as Party Gaming and 888, but an American player can still play. 

So what does that tell us?
That gambling is at an all time high in the US and across the world.  People like to play games for cash because they love the adrenalin rush they get when they bet money on the outcome of a game. A law, that refuses to acknowledge this is doomed to fail just like a law disallowing people from crossing the road when the signal light is red. 

What About the Online Casinos?
Some, like Golden Casino, use a different name as their financial entity and ,thus, effectively bypass the US law. It pretty much works like this: the online casino does not allow US players but they leave it up to the players to stop playing. In other words, they do accept them, but are legally not liable for them.

So Why Should You Open an Online Casino NOW?
The US is bubbling with online players anxious to find somewhere or some casino that will accept their cash and allow them to play there. You can take advantage of this gap and this urge and place your casino in that location. Mind you, this is not unique and many online casinos are trying to think of ways to serve the US crowd, but it still is a budding industry because the big players like Playtech and BetonSports have left. Why not get in there and take up that gap?

Lets discuss this in financial terms. People are looking for this product and are scouring the city to find it. Why not open an online casino and offer them what they want? The initial costs are high, but the return on your investment will more than justify spending such large sums on purchasing the software. Note that running an online casino is not that difficult once you have bought the relevant software. Then, you have to spend on marketing this product. Use the relevant internet sites, and voile, players will start dropping in at an alarming rate.

Another reason to buy or open an online casino is that the law will take a while to take effect. This means that people can still play at casinos without any fear of prosecution. So why not take a plunge?

How Can I Open An Online Casino?
Contact one of the many software companies dealing with gaming such as MicroGaming, OddsOn and many others and ask. Some of these will even allow you to use their services such as customer and technical services while you just sit back and watch the money grow in your account. Is that something or not?

Conclusion:
Opening or buying an online casino now is still if not more profitable than before. But do not take my word for it alone. Look up google or yahoo and research this for yourself. You will be surprised at the number of new casinos coming up. Join this rush for cash too or be left behind.


