Title: 
Why Dahle Paper Shredders Are World Class

Word Count:
492

Summary:
Businesses of all sizes are very concerned about identity theft and business espionage. Security is at the top of the list and shredding is now the law. When quality and precision shredders are a priority Dahle shredders come to mind.


Keywords:
paper shredder,paper shredding,home paper shredder,dahle paper shredder,dahle


Article Body:
Businesses of all sizes are very concerned about identity theft and business espionage. Security is at the top of the list and shredding is now the law. When quality and precision shredders are a priority Dahle shredders come to mind.

When considering the top quality shredders Dahle is a world class quality shredder. Dahle makes shredders for the desktop, home offices, and larger offices as well. Dahle also makes, industrial, work group, and high security shredders which have the approval of the Dept of Defense. Since Dahle makes a full range of shredders they probably make a shredder that would fit your needs. Let's take a closer look at Dahle shredders and see why they are so popular.

Dahle has a worldwide reputation for it's innovations in developing shredders with cutting cylinders with hardened steel. 
They use the highest quality materials in their products, and a rigorous testing program insures the only the best products leave their factory in Germany. 

The series of small office shredders are tough and efficient. The design shred capacity is up to 400 sheets a day. This series of shredders are designed with a wooden cabinet and a swing open door. Behind the door is a box removeable box that is lined with a disposable bag. A visual alert indicator tells you when to change the bag.

The series of office shredders are designed to service a busy office with multiple users. The design shred capacity is up to 2,000 sheets a day. As an example this series of shredders are perfect for medical offices responsible for destroying confidential health records. Features such as automatic shutoff, auto reverse, bag full, and automatic on and off make these machines convenient and easy to use.

Moving up to the next class of shredders Dahl offers high capacity shredders that are designed to service a large volume of sensitve confidential documents. The design shred capacity is up to 28,000 sheets a day. These shredders have a 16" throat and can shred up to 60 sheets at a time. Since the power and capcity increases from the smallest to larger models you have your option to choose the perfect model to fit your needs. As an example these units would work well in a large office mail room where quantity and speed shredding would be a requirment.

Since protection from identity theft and business espionage is a high priority for businesses and governments more rigid requirements are in place for security shredding. Dahle has the high securtiy class of shredders that meet that need. These shredders meet the requirements set by the Department of Defense for top secret documents.

The departmental shredders that Dahle makes are designed for high capacity, where multiple offices are sharing the shredding tasks. These machines are designed for shredding up to 60,000 sheets a day.

Dahle paper shredders are world class in quality and security. Their series of shredders from home to industial use are engineered to get the job done thoroughly.


