Title: 
Why are paid surveys so popular?

Word Count:
507

Summary:
The new concept of getting paid for giving your honest opinion seems to be too good to be true – well its not. Not only the person taking part benefits but the company benefits on a whole as it leads to better and improved products that sell.


Keywords:
The new concept of getting paid for giving your honest opinion seems to be too good to be true – well its not. Not only the person taking part benefits but the company benefits on a whole as it leads 


Article Body:
The new concept of getting paid for giving your honest opinion seems to be too good to be true – well its not. Not only the person taking part benefits but the company benefits on a whole as it leads to better and improved products that sell. Most people tend you use these surveys as extra cash source or a good paid hobby you can do in the comfort of your own home at your own pace. I wouldn't recommend doing them full time as there not stable enough and would be hard to get into the thousands bracket but the hundreds if definitely realistic for anyone.
They are so popular because of the fact that anyone can do them; the only restriction may be your country as some companies make the surveys country specific but if you look hard enough there are plenty out there which you can take part in. I would say the main feature that appeals to everyone is the fact of being able to work in your night wear at 3:00am in the morning (or which ever time suits you). It's the flexibility that will grab your attention as you work when you want and for how long you want which is everyone's dream job right? The thing is you need to allow yourself some free time as the fact of working and getting paid for as long as you want can be tempting to work non-stop to earn loads of extra cash, I know I would be. Too much work can have negative effects and will harm your body so it's vital that you rest, eat well and take time off from work to do other activities. Aside from that its ideal for stay at home mums or people that cannot go to work due to illness or disability as they don't need to attend interviews or make the effort to get out the house and be somewhere for a certain time. Simply get up when you want and you can fit these paid surveys into your current lifestyle. If it's only a few a day it will still bring in some extra money which is always a bonus. When its said you work as much as you want it doesn't mean you login to your account and pick surveys that you feel like doing, you will get a flood of emails to your inbox with surveys ready to be taken but don't feel like you have to do them all, simply pick a selection and do those. If you have more time do a few more but any other just delete them. There are so many people taking part on paid surveys the quota will more then likely be satisfactory for the client. You should not have to pay to take part in paid surveys so be careful with the companies that require a start up fee, make sure you start with a decent company and you will be well on your way to making that extra cash you've always wanted.


