Title: 
Woman's search for a husband goes online

Word Count:
422

Summary:
Search for a man earning more than $500,000 a year generating discussion, controversy


Keywords:
technology


Article Body:
Finding a rich husband may be a bad business deal, or so an anonymous 25 year old woman was advised recently. 

The woman, who posted an ad on the New York Craigslist.org was looking for advice on the best way to acquire a husband who made, at minimum, more than $500,000 a year.  This may seem like a large sum, but on Wall Street, where bankers can earn yearly bonuses of up to $10 million, an annual salary of more than a half of a million dollars, while not exactly common, is not unheard of, either. 

“I know how that sounds,,” said the woman in her ad, “but keep in mind that a million a year is middle class in New York City, so I don’t think I’m overreaching at all. I dated a business man who makes average around 200-250, but that’s where I seem to hit a roadblock. $2350,00 won’t get me into Central Park West.”  The woman went on to describe herself as both “spectacularly beautiful,” and “superficial.”

The ad was answered by a so called “mystery banker” who claimed to fit the qualifications, and offered the anonymous woman some advice, after describing her proposition as “plain and simple a crappy business deal.”

“Your looks will fade,” he said, in an online response to her posting. “And my money will continue into perpetuity. . . in fact, it is very likely that my income increases but it is an absolute certainty that you won’t be getting any more beautiful!”

“So in economic terms,” he continued, “you are a depreciating asset and I am an earning asset. Let me explain, you’re 25 now and will likely stay pretty hot for the next 5 years, but less so each year. Then the fade begins in earnest. By 35 stick a fork in you!”

A report that a banker from JPMorgan Chase was responsible for the ad posting responses has been dismissed by the bank as “an error.”  According to Brian Marchiony, spokesman for JPMorgan Chase, a banker’s email signature became accidentally attached to the ad and responses when he forwarded them on to his friends. 

A spokeswoman for Craigslist.org told the New York Times that the posting and responses, both of which have since been removed, “looked as if they were made sincerely.”

According to the InternetDatingGuide.com, 30% of all Americans have used an online matchmaking site or service in the past year.  10% of these people reported that posting ads on sites like Craigslist.org also figured into their online date seeking.


