Title: 
Work From Home – You Can Work In The Nude If You So Desire

Word Count:
287

Summary:
Hello all you wonderful people out there. Do you have to force yourselves to get up every morning? Do you gulp down a cup of coffee while one arm is trying to find its way into your shirt sleeve? Do you ever count the number of wasted hours you’re stuck in traffic jams? Well folks, that is definitely not my idea of fun! 

My idea of fun is to work from home. I decide when to get up, what assignments to accept, how many hours a day I want to put in, and when to walk from hom...


Keywords:
work from home, work from home business, work from home boss, earn extra income opportunity


Article Body:
Hello all you wonderful people out there. Do you have to force yourselves to get up every morning? Do you gulp down a cup of coffee while one arm is trying to find its way into your shirt sleeve? Do you ever count the number of wasted hours you’re stuck in traffic jams? Well folks, that is definitely not my idea of fun! 

My idea of fun is to work from home. I decide when to get up, what assignments to accept, how many hours a day I want to put in, and when to walk from home to office to home by simply crossing the threshold from one room to another.

Prior to relocating to Jaffa I ran a work from home business: typing, proofreading, editing, and translating. I could work in the middle of the night if I felt like it. I would simply put on a bathrobe and slippers and patter downstairs to my home office. I could also organize my work day around my home chores. As a single parent raising two teenage daughters this was a great arrangement. I won’t deny that sometimes my dual responsibilities clashed. Still, I was my very own work from home boss!

Having made a career change I now write website articles for all you wonderful people out there. I work out of the confines of my cozy Jaffa apartment. I can work in the nude if I so desire. It wouldn’t make any difference to anyone. I think I do my best work from this home job set up and I believe this to be a real earn extra income opportunity. However, time will be the judge of that. 

Meanwhile my friends, enjoy!


