Title: 
Your Template For A Winning Sales Letter

Word Count:
473

Summary:
Writing a winning Sales letter is one of the ways to sell a product/ebook/software on the Internet. Not everyone feels up to writing such a sales letter. So we either struggle to do so, or hire a copy-writer to do it, or buy copy-writing software. Winning letters are ones which follow a system.


Keywords:
copywriting, sales letters, advertising, marketing, writing


Article Body:
Writing a winning Sales letter is one of the ways to sell a product/ebook/software on the Internet. Not everyone feels up to writing such a sales letter. So we either struggle to do so, or hire a copy-writer to do it, or buy copy-writing software. Winning letters are ones which follow a system. The following template is one such system.
1. Writing the headline: The headline should answer the question: What is the biggest benefit of your product/ebook/software. Think of the biggest benefit. At first many will come to mind. Your task is to think of one that is the biggest. Put this benefit at the end of any one of the following questions:
* Would you like to ...?
* Who else would like to ...?
* How would you like to ...?
You can think of more such starters for your headline.
2. Write the opening line. This is an answer to your headline. Some thing which says: "If you would like to know more about ... then this is likely the most crucial information you ever read." Fill the blanks with the most important benefit of your product.
3. Mention the name of your product and give the visitor the information about what they are going to find in it.
4. Imagine the over all benefits of your product; write them down in sentence format. Suggest your visitor also imagine these benefits.
5. Now list out the specific benefits and / or the features in bullet form. These bullets should help your visitors get a taste of the number of specifics they can get from your product.
6. Now make your offer. Suggest the price you could have charged for such a quality product. Specify that you are actually charging much less so that many more people can have access to the results of your hard work and because you understand the need for such a product.
7. Time to offer bonuses. Offer at least one bonus if not more. With each bonus list the benefits that the visitor will get. Also mention the price of each bonus. At the end of the list of bonuses mention the total value of the bonuses.
8. Time for testimonials. Plug in testimonials of actual people who have used your product and have found it useful, with their names and where they are from.
9. Write your guarantee/refund policy. This will make them feel in control of the purchase. Set a refund period while you are at it. Usually the service provider that you use to collect payments and deliver your products will specify in their terms and conditions the refund period that they will accept.
10. Call for action. Paste your purchase button now. So that your visitor can make their purchase.
11. You are done. Edit this letter using Dreamweaver or any other WYSIWYG editor of your choice and set it up on your website.


