Sagittarius

Sagittarians (November 23 – December 21)  have a positive outlook on life, are full of energy, versatility, adventure and eagerness to experience the new and different. They enjoy traveling and exploration; they are ambitious and optimistic, even in the face of disappointment.. Their strongly idealistic natures can also suffer many disappointments without being affected. They are honorable, honest, trustworthy, truthful, generous and sincere, with a passion for justice. They are usually on the side of the underdog in society they will fight for any cause they believe to be just, and are prepared to be rebellious. They balance loyalty with independence.

Sagittarians are usually modest and are often religious, with a strong sense of morality, though they tend to overemphasize the ethical codes they follow and worship beliefs about God rather than God Himself. This means that, negatively, they regard rigid, unloving, intolerant adherence to ritual and conventional codes as more important than the truths they symbolize or embody. They sometimes pay lip service to religions and political parties in which they have ceased to believe because the outward forms satisfy them, yet they may not hesitate to switch allegiance in politics or change their system of belief if they see personal advantage to themselves in doing so.

Sagittarius is the Archer and many war heroes were born under this sign. There are also many artists and entertainers born under this sign, such as Beethoven, Toulouse-Lautrec and Georges Seurat.  Winston Churchill, baseball legend Ty Cobb and publishing tycoon William Randolph Hearst were all born under the sign of Sagittarius. 

In relationships, Sagittarians are reliable and will almost never betray their partners. They are generous and forgiving, although they are prone to temper and outbursts. Professionally, they make excellent teachers and philosophers. Before the invention of the automobile, they were said to be excellent with horses. This would make some sense, as the symbol for Sagittarius is a centaur, half man and half horse.
