Taurus

Think about characteristics of a Bull other than the well-known phrase of bull-headed. Taureans (April 21 to May 21) are steadfast, loyal, grounded. They are stable and balanced. They’re smart without being overly intellectual. They’re not likely to strike out for the unknown, but will prefer familiar territory. They’re patient, reliable and loving. 

In the workplace, Taureans are good craftspeople, good with their hands. You can trust a Taurus; they make good managers and foremen. They’re good in the fields of banking, architecture, farming, medicine or chemistry. These are fields in which you can be creative, but within a framework of stable practices and science. Taureans are good workers and not giving to goofing off. Because they’re not big risk-takers, they can be trusted with the company finances and are completely reliable and trustworthy.

In the zodiac Great Year, the Age of Taurus took place approximately 4300-2150 BCE which witnessed the rise of Mesopotamian and Egyptian civilizations. This was the era of the Bronze age in Greece, rise of Minoan and Mycenaean cultures. This was a period characterized by the growth of agriculture, and the building of pyramids and megaliths. Bull cults were prevalent in Assyria, Egypt, Crete.

Famous Taureans have excelled in all walks of life. They include Socrates, George Lucas, George Carlin, Martha Graham and Margot Fonteyn, Audrey Hepburn and Jerry Seinfeld. 

As a partner or lover, Taureans are faithful and home-loving, patient parents. Not given to sexual experimentation. Taureans are grounded in practicality. They’re stable and like harmony. They love pets and the outdoors, and like biking, hikes and enjoying nature in general.  

Every positive characteristic has another side to it, and in the Taurean, this reliability and steadfastness can manifest itself as jealousy and obstinacy. Fortunately, they’re also highly intelligent and can soon reason their way out of the occasional dark mood and depression. 

