When To Use Blood Pressure Medication

If you are concerned about your blood pressure there are different types of medication you can take to help control or lower your pressure. You might try some lifestyle changes first before opting for medicine. Remember that sometimes medicine is the only way you might be able to lower it. Different lifestyle changes do not always work on their own.

First you might consider your diet. Do you consider yourself a healthy eater? Do you think you have a pretty healthy diet? Your diet could be affecting your blood pressure. High amounts of salt and sodium intake can raise your blood pressure. Try to limit your salt intake and eat more fresh fruits and vegetables.

If you love salt, consider substituting it with a different seasoning. There are so many different kinds of seasonings available you can easily find something to your liking. 

Are you physically active on a regular basis? Physical inactivity can play a part in high blood pressure as well. If you can try to get at least thirty minutes a day of physical exercise you can help lower or control your blood pressure. 

If you cannot set aside a full thirty minutes do ten or five minute intervals. As long as you get thirty minutes total for the day you are helping your blood pressure. This could mean taking a walk, doing an exercise video, riding a bike, etc. Whatever physical activity you enjoy the most will benefit your health and blood pressure.

Do you use tobacco or drink high amounts of alcohol? This can dangerously increase your blood pressure. Try to limit your tobacco use or alcohol consumption. If you can, quit them altogether. This is not always easy for some but do not feel discouraged. 

There are many products to help you quit both habits and just focus on knowing you will feel healthier and you will be controlling your blood pressure too. If you have high blood pressure you are at risk for a stroke or heart and kidney disease. This alone should be motivation enough to get healthier.

While some of these lifestyle changes alone may not help you, it is always worth giving it a shot. If all else fails talk to your doctor about starting a blood pressure medication. Just remember to keep trying the lifestyle changes along with taking your medication. Doing both can significantly help your blood pressure.

There are many different types of blood pressure medications and sometimes two will work better than one alone. If you do not like taking medicine this can be rather hard to accept but know it will benefit your health in the end.

A few types of blood pressure medications are beta-blockers, diuretics, vasodilators, alpha-blockers, alpha-beta-blockers and nervous system inhibitors. These are only some of the many available blood pressure medications. 

Before taking any blood pressure medications or starting any new diet you want to consult your doctor. They might be able to help you choose something that will help your blood pressure without drastic changes or measures. Ask them any questions or concerns you have. This is your health you are discussing and you want to know everything. 

If he suggests a medication ask him what it does, what the side effects are and if it will interact with any other drugs you might be taking, prescription or non-prescription. You can never be too careful and avoiding a stroke or heart disease is very important if you can help it.
