Who Can Develop High Blood Pressure?

Are you battling high blood pressure? Do you feel like you are the only one? You shouldn't feel that way because millions of Americans have high blood pressure. Only a certain percentage of them actually know it.

When you see your doctor you have your blood pressure checked. Some people think this is irrelevant because they say they will never have high blood pressure. Probably one of the reasons so many people do not even know they have it. They think for whatever reason it won't happen to them.

While it can be frustrating to monitor your blood pressure, there are things you can do to help lower it or keep it under control. Exercise is a great way to lower and control your blood pressure.

Close to one in three American adults have high blood pressure. While high blood pressure is very common among Americans, African Americans tend to get it while they are young and more often than white Americans. 

Whatever your age or gender or ethnicity, you can easily prevent and control your high blood pressure. There are simple ways like exercising and even simple lifestyle changes to do this.

If you are over weight you are at a greater risk of high blood pressure. The higher your blood pressure is the higher your risk of stroke or heart disease is. Exercising can help you lose weight and also lower your blood pressure.

Eating healthy is also a great way to control blood pressure. Eating the right fruits and vegetables and foods altogether is proven very beneficial. Using less salt and sodium makes a huge difference and also drinking very minimal alcohol.

Tobacco also increases blood pressure, so if you smoke or use any kind of tobacco product, consider limiting yourself if not quitting altogether. You may find it easier to slowly wean yourself from it.

Stresses plays a major factor in blood pressure and let's admit it, everyone gets stressed at one time or another. If you find yourself dealing with a large amount of stress, you should try some relaxation techniques. Consider meditation, or whatever it is that relaxes you. Do this when needed and you will see a significant improvement in the way you feel.

Did you know the cause of ninety to ninety-five percent of high blood pressure is unknown? Luckily high blood pressure can be easily detected and controlled with multiple options.

Another interesting statistic shows that people with less educational and even income levels usually have higher blood pressure. Do you wonder why this? Maybe a lot of that is stress!

It doesn't really matter who can develop high blood pressure, it's controlling it that matters. If you are battling high blood pressure or just want to take necessary precautions to help prevent from getting it, see your doctor. Ask any and all questions and they can help you find a great effective way to lower or control your blood pressure.

Remember to exercise and try to eat healthier. These overall will work wonders and you can thank yourself in the end when your body does.
