Save Money on your Next ATV Purchase

If you have an ATV, you know how expensive the hobby can be. ATV's can be very expensive and the parts and costs of maintenance can also be high. If you have to do emergency repairs of even replace a badly damaged ATV you may find yourself strapped for cash. The initial ATV purchase is also a major expense, especially if you buy new. It is possible to save money, keep to a budget, and enjoy ATV riding. You should still be prepared to invest money in your hobby but if you do some research, you can find good prices on ATV's and ATV parts.

Most ATV retailers whether they are a local dealership or an online dealer, run sales periodically. You should do some independent research and decide which model and brand of ATV you want. Unless you get lucky, you may have to end up waiting a while for a sale but the price difference will be worth it. Always check to see what the regular price of the model you want to and compare dealerships both locally and online.

Once you know what the average non-sale price is of the ATV you want, all you have to do is wait for it to go on sale. Most ATV dealerships have sales twice a year or so, and as long as you are patient you can potentially save hundreds. You should avoid going to a dealer before you know what price to expect because it is easy to be talked into buying an ATV because a sales person says that they have the best price. Always do you own research to find out what the best price really is.

Most ATV owners spend money every year replacing or adding parts to their ATV's. This can get costly if you pay retail every time you replace something. Just like ATV's, ATV parts will go on sale periodically so the trick to saving when you buy parts is to wait until their on sale and know what the best price you can expect is through research. This may not seem practical as you never know when something will break and will not want to wait months to fix it.

The solution to this dilemma is to buy parts that you know you will eventually need when they are on sale, even if you do not need them at the time. You will save money in the long run if you have a replacement part you need that you bought at a discount. Supplies for regular ATV maintenance can also be costly over time so you should grab them when they are on sale and save yourself money. 

Many people, especially if they have a new ATV, have not considered buying used ATV parts. If you need to replace something on your ATV, most of the time a used part will work just a well as a new one and will save you money. Just because a part is used or refurbished does not necessarily mean that it is of inferior quality. Most of the time a used part will work just as well as a new one and you will pay a fraction of the price.


