Taking the Mystery Out of Buying a Used ATV

If you have considered purchasing an ATV you probably know that it can be an expensive endeavor. ATV's range in price and the hobby can become expensive fast. If you want the newest model with all the bells and whistles, expect to pay a high price. However, if you want to get into ATV riding for less, it is possible to buy a used ATV for a much lower price and still have just as much fun. You should not think that buying a used ATV will compromise safety or quality.

If you research the ATV before you buy it and know what to look for, you can find a perfectly safe and operable ATV for a fraction of the price of a new one. This is great for beginners who want to test the waters before they invest in a brand new machine, or for people who want to experience the fun of ATV riding but do not want to pay a premium. Some people like to tinker with their ATV's and customize them. Buying a used ATV is perfect for this as you can find many used parts to create a one of a kind ATV.

The downside to buying a used ATV is that you may not always know what you are getting. This is especially true if you but a used ATV online. You cannot inspect the ATV before you purchase it and have to rely solely on the description provided. You can find good deals online but you have to be sure to ask the right questions and get important information. If you want to buy the best used ATV you can, you should follow these tips.

The safest bet in used ATV's are models made within the last few years. It is possible to find an older model that is in great condition, but if you are new to ATV's or have not done extensive research it is best to stick to models that were made fairly recently. Recent models will have less miles and will have the least amount of wear overall compared to older models. They also require less maintenance than older models. 

Unless you know a lot about the inner workings of ATV's, it is best to buy a used ATV from a company or shop that employs mechanics and has experience selling and repairing ATV's. You can find great used ATV's form private sellers, but you have to be sure that you know what to look for to determine quality. If you do not know much about repairing ATV's, you are better off purchasing from someone who does.

Buying a used ATV from a company or shop will also usually provide you with some added peace of mind in the form of a limited warranty or return policy. If you are going to buy from a private seller, make sure they have a good rating if they are an inline seller or they have references if they are a local seller.

No matter where you buy your used ATV, make sure you do some research on prices and know what to expect to pay. You should also know what to look for and how to identify an ATV that has been well taken care of as opposed to one that has been neglected and will require work.
