Things to Consider When Buying a Youth ATV

There are many things to consider when buying an ATV for a child. You should first determine if the child is mature enough to ride alone and can follow safety precautions. If you think your child can handle the responsibility of an ATV, you must then pick the right one for them. The biggest and most obvious consideration when choosing an ATV for a child is size, although there are other important factors to consider as well.

The size of your child will determine the size of the ATV you purchase. You will want to get the largest ATV they can comfortably drive so that it will last them until they are an adult and they will not outgrow it. Most ATV manufacturers make smaller models for children so be sure to inquire when you visit the dealership.

Safety is probably parent's biggest concern when purchasing an ATV for their child. While riding an ATV can be a great activity for a child, you need to make sure your child follows safety precautions and the ATV you purchase has all the necessary safety features. Most locals require riders under 18 to take a safety course before purchasing an ATV and this is always a good idea. You will want to consider how stable and powerful the ATV model is that your are considering purchasing.

The engine size goes along with safety, as children cannot control an ATV as well as adults. The more powerful an ATV is, the greater the chance for trouble. If you are unsure what engine type will be the most suitable for your child, most dealerships will have someone who can explain all the different engine specs to you. If you are purchasing an ATV somewhere besides a dealership, there is plenty of information online that will help you determine a safe engine type for your child.

Let's face it, even the most mature child is still likely to put more wear and stress on their ATV than an adult because they do not have as advanced driving skills. You want to make sure that the ATV you purchase for your child is reliable and maintenance is not complicated. If you buy your ATV from a major company at a dealership, chances are you will get a warranty and the ATV will be reliable.

This is not to say that you cannot find a reliable ATV other places, but generally dealerships will have the best service and warranties after the sale. You should also take into account the cost of replacement parts for the ATV you buy.

The last thing you should consider when purchasing a youth ATV is cost. Just like any other major purchase, you should shop around for the best deal and make sure you stick to your budget. Depending on how long your child will likely use a youth ATV until they move up to an adult model, you may be better off buying a used ATV and saving for a bigger model when your child grows up. 
