Tips for the First Time ATV Buyer

If you are considering purchasing an ATV, you should be aware that they are a big investment. Aside form the initial cost that can run from a few hundred dollars for an older used model to $5,000 or more, you also have top maintain your ATV just like your car. They require oil, gas, and eventually you will have to replace broken parts.

Buying an ATV is not a decision to be taken lightly, and you must consider your needs to determine which ATV is right for you. If you are a beginner, you should start with an inexpensive simple model that will give you practice riding. After you are comfortable, you can upgrade to a more advanced model. You will also need safety gear such as a helmet, gloves, and goggles. Some accessories are not necessary for the casual rider such as winches, unless you plan on using your ATV for work purposes.

Before you buy your ATV, think about what you want out of your ATV experience. You may want to ride for fun, to experience the outdoors and be a part of the excitement. You may want to use your ATV to haul things or help with other work such as plowing snow. You may find that your ATV can be both fun and useful. The reason you are purchasing your ATV should be the deciding factor in which type you buy. If you want it for fun, a light model without all the accessories will be fine. If you want it for work purposes, you should look into getting the accessories you need such as a winch, plow, and hitch. You will also be better off going with a heavier model that is designed for work.

The type of engine you want in your ATV is also decided by your purpose. A 2-stroke engine takes a mix of oil and gas and is better fit for riding for fun. A 4-stroke engine is better suited as a work horse. You will also have to decide which type of transmission you want, an automatic or manual. ATV's with an automatic transmission are easier to drive just like automatic cars.

If you have experience driving a manual transmission, you may prefer the control that a manual transmission offers. You can also get a semi-automatic transmission, which is a cross between the two. You can get advice on which type is best for you from your ATV dealership or online.

You will also have to decide which type of starter you want. Some ATV's have an electric start, some have a kick start, and some have a pill start. While this is not the most important factor in choosing an ATV, it can make a difference. If you prefer ease of use, an electric push button start is best for you. With a kick start you have to push a lever with your foot located on the bottom of your ATV.

A pull start operates the same way as a lawnmower where you pull a cord to start you ATV. You should do plenty of research before deciding and be sure to get an ATV that fits your needs.
