Using an ATV Salvage Yard

If you are a backyard mechanic and have an ATV, chances are you have considered tinkering with it to improve performance or just to make it your own. There are many places you can find parts for your ATV, and finding them can become half the fun. If you do not want to pay retail price for a part, especially one that will not be seen, you should consider looking for an ATV salvage yard in your area.

Buying used parts can be quite economical as you can find may great parts at a faction of what they cost new. Most used parts are perfectly safe and will work just as well as their new counterparts. If you are concerned about using a used part on your ATV, you should consult other ATV owners, there are many ATV forums online whose users will be happy to give you advice.

If you do not know where an ATV salvage yard in your area is, the best place to start is your local junk yard or car salvage. They will probably know of any salvage yards that specialize in ATV parts or they may even have ATV parts themselves. If you live in an agricultural or hunting area, or have an ATV race track nearby, chances are you can find an ATV salvage yard nearby. You can also use the internet to search for ATV salvage yards in your area. You should stick to places close enough for you to go to so that you can inspect any parts before you buy them.

You can expect to pay less for a used part than for its new counterpart, so if you do not know what to expect price wise for a specific part look up the new price and expect to pay anywhere from 10% to 50% less, sometimes you may get an even better deal. You should always thoroughly inspect any used part you are considering buying as it may not be worth it, as you may have to spend more money just to get the part in working condition.

One of the best things about buying used parts is that you can always bargain and try to get n even better deal. You may also be able to get a discount if you buy more than one used part, something that rarely happens if you are buying new. If you are tinkering on your ATV for a hobby or are on a budget, used parts can be very economical.

If you are very handy, you can even buy a used ATV at a great price if it has mechanical problems and then fix it with parts from an ATV salvage yard. You can save a lot of money this way as long as you know what you are doing and do not mind doing the work.

An ATV salvage yard is a great place to find parts to fix your ATV or to find parts to improve its performance. Always remember to inspect used parts before you buy them and yes, it is ok to haggle to get the best price while in the ATV salvage yard. 
