Youth ATV's, Why Size Does Matter

If your child wants an ATV, you may be hesitant because of safety concerns. While many injuries occur every year, many of them are preventable if children take the proper safety precautions and ride the correct sized ATV. It may not seem like the size of the ATV would matter much, but when it comes to kids and ATV's, size does matter. Children should not be allowed to ride an adult sized ATV for many reasons. 

Large ATV's take a lot of strength to control and usually have more powerful engines that allow them to go much faster then youth ATV's. Children should have the opportunity to hone their driving skills on a smaller, slower ATV before they graduated to an adult sized ATV when they are older, stronger, and more experienced. ATV's can be a source of great fun and a worthwhile hobby for children.

They should always be supervised when riding and wear appropriate safety gear. Many places required minors to wear helmets by law and prohibit them from riding adult sized ATV's. Even if this is not a requirement in your area, it is still a good idea and will keep your child safe while pursuing their ATV hobby.

Children and pre-teens (ages 6-12) should ride an ATV with an engine size of 70cc or smaller. There are larger models for teenagers, and while age should be a factor in which ATV you choose for your child, other things such as maturity, size, and strength should also be taken into consideration. A smaller child who is 16 should still ride a smaller ATV, and while this may not be optimal for them, it is imperative for their safety. Your child should only drive an ATV that they can comfortable handle.

When buying an ATV for your child, you should make sure it is the correct fit for them. Your child should be able to reach the ground with their feet, without standing on their tiptoes. They should be able to comfortable reach the handle bars without having to overextend their arms. Their arms should be slightly bent as they have a firm grip on the handle bars. They should also be able to reach the ground with their feet and have their legs slightly bent. Getting your child an ATV they can comfortably control is important and will help to keep them safe. 

As well as age and size, your child's maturity level also plays an important part in what type of ATV you buy them. You will have to consider if your child can shift gears or would do better with an automatic transmission.

If you want to retain control over your child's ATV, whether you think their driving skills need some work or they will have problems following rules, you can consider getting an ATV with a remote switch to turn off the ATV of your child gets into trouble.

Buying an ATV for your child is not a decision to be taken lightly. You should make sure your child knows that an ATV is not a toy and can be dangerous. Make sure they ride an appropriate sized ATV and always wear protective gear.
