Title: 
About Non Profit Fundraising

Word Count:
444

Summary:
85% of Non Profit Fundraising every year is acquired from direct 
individual donations. Nevertheless, how does one raise funds? Apart from direct activities, online fundraising is very popular around the world these days.


Keywords:
Online Fundraising, Non Profit Fundraising, Internet Fundraising


Article Body:
Did you know that 85% of Non Profit Fundraising every year is acquired from direct individual donations? 

That 85% consists of large and small donations but it is the steady stream of small donations that keep most nonprofits afloat. 

One should plan and forward his or her steps careful if the organization is new and they are not sure about the process of Non Profit Fundraising.


Ideally, first step should be to cultivate donors in the local community and than move on to Internet Fundraising. 


How does one raise funds? 

One can raise your funds through grants, product sale and special events and by phonathons. Online fundraising is very popular around the world these days.

Primarily one has to find one or two donor who will make a large donation (known as major donors).  
 
Let us discuss some simple steps to get prospective donors interested and involved in the project.

1) Create a list of prospective donors who may get interested in organization’s activities.

2) Primarily one should concentrate on friend-raising activities rather than a 
fund-raising one, like organizing some special events (a spaghetti dinner, carnival, concert, or some other fun activity) with several door prizes.

3) Now create a mailing list of those persons who are somewhat interested or may get interested about the organization. One should include the following points in the mailing list-

    a) detailed address of office and residence 

    b) phone number  

    c) personal & detailed information 

4) Within 3 days mail a nice letter to every listed individual. In addition, tell them-

    a) how the organization is helping someone in the community.

    b) that it is only possible with the support (monetary and otherwise) from 
       good people like them.

    c) ask them for contribution and include a pre-addressed return envelope to make it easy for the donor.

5) Try to invite the prospect to come as a volunteer.

    a)  have a volunteer coordinator well prepared in advance to accept all calls, and to put them to good use.

    b)  the coordinator should introduce them to the staff, and make them feel to be a part of the organization. Once a volunteer feels to be a part of the 
organization, he or she (and friends) is more likely to contribute. 

6) Send letters and newsletters to those who did not volunteer. It may work to good effect if they are asked to speak to their civic groups, church groups about the organization. A good relationship always pays. . 

7) Thank anybody and everybody whenever and however possible on whatever occasion.

Finally, maintaining donors’ involvement over time is indispensable. Try to get them excited about what you are doing with their kind help.

Remember: Non Profit Fundraising is all about building relationships.


