Title: 
Elementary School Fundraisers

Word Count:
256

Summary:
Perhaps nothing matches the enthusiasm and zeal of elementary school children. This carries over to elementary school fundraising events where young students strive to complete every assigned fundraising chore with determination and dedication. Teachers and parents participate and guide the children to ensure their hard work is successful and raises a lot of money.


Keywords:
school fundraisers, elementary school fundraisers, high school athletics fundraisers, high school fundraisers


Article Body:
Perhaps nothing matches the enthusiasm and zeal of elementary school children. This carries over to elementary school fundraising events where young students strive to complete every assigned fundraising chore with determination and dedication. Teachers and parents participate and guide the children to ensure their hard work is successful and raises a lot of money. 

Candy is a favorite of children, and candy makes a great fundraiser for elementary schools. Gourmet, Hershey, Maredy Candy are a few companies that provide excellent fundraising programs. You can find out more about the companies and the programs on the Internet or by calling the company.

Selling perfumed candles is a traditional way for children to raise school funds and the returns are quite good. Companies offer attractive brochures for customers to browse through and place orders. The company, in turn, gives a percentage back to the school.  Avia Candles, Botika Candles, and Christ’s Light Candles are some of the companies who offer a variety of attractive candles for fundraising.

Book fairs and carnivals are excellent ways to raise funds for elementary schools. School carnivals could include game booths, talent shows and bake sales. Sporting events with parent/child participation have also proven to be successful fundraisers for elementary schools.

An important point to remember with any elementary school fundraiser is the children participating need close supervision throughout the event – safety comes first above everything else.

One thing to keep in mind is that if elementary students want to fundraise door to door, a parent or guardian should accompany them.


