Title: 
3 Critical Truths About P2P File Sharing Networks.

Word Count:
676

Summary:
Controversy continues to surround file sharing networks. Discover critical facts about p2p download software programs and the dangers involved including, RIAA lawsuit risks, viruses, worms, spyware, malware and Internet hacker attacks.


Keywords:
file sharing network,file sharing download,file sharing network,p2p file sharing,free file sharing download,music download,free music downloads,legal music download,legal music,p2p,mp3,mp3 download,sharing site,free music download site,file sharing site


Article Body:
If you're confused about file sharing networks,  and the hazards involved, you're not alone.

Many people looking for for free downloading networks online have unanswered questions about p2p sites and RIAA lawsuit risks.  So here are crucial facts and important information you need to know about p2p file sharing sites - before using them!

- File Sharing Download Truth #1:  File sharing networks are extremely controversial.

Although file sharing applications have been ruled legal in a court of law, controversy lies in the fact that file sharing software can be used illegally. How? Anytime a user of a p2p software program downloads or shares copy-righted material they are breaking the law. 

The RIAA (Recording Industry Association of America) is on an active campaign to track down and sue file sharers who are breaking copy right infringement laws. And in more recent developments, the RIAA has sent letters to p2p networks demanding them to "immediately cease-and-desist from enabling and inducing the infringement of RIAA member sound recordings." 

The RIAA is very serious about finding and suing people who are breaking copy-right infringement laws. It's strongly advised to take the lawsuit risks very seriously yourself BEFORE using a free file sharing download site. 

- File Sharing Download Truth #2:  The only way to get 100% legal music is with the "legitimately licensed" music sites.

It's true. Legitimately licensed sites are Internet-based services that provide downloads of music legally licensed from established record labels and the artists themselves. 

This combined partnership between the music industry and the legal music sites, (like Napster, iTunes & Emusic) guarantees you 100% legal music downloads.  In comparison, when using p2p file sharing software it's almost (if not completely) impossible to stay legal while using the file sharing program. Why? 

Legal file sharing is only possible by following and complying with ALL relevant copyright laws. This means that when using a file sharing application, in order to stay legal, you must never publicly share, reproduce or distribute copy-righted material - ever! 

Therefore, the only way to stay safe and avoid being targeted by the RIAA is by researching the copyright laws for each and every song BEFORE you download and/or publicly share the song online.   Besides the fact that this research would be extremely time-consuming, it's also virtually impossible to do successfully. 

- File Sharing Download Truth #3:  File sharing networks can threaten your online privacy and security.

Although many file sharing applications are free, they make money by adding "adware" into the p2p software program. 

Adware is software that works by large media companies offering shareware developers banner ads to put in their products. In return, the media companies provide the software developers a portion of the revenue generated from the banner sales. 

And when done properly, adware is considered win-win. You'll get the file sharing software download for free, and the software developer will still get income for their product. 

However, many file sharing networks also include potentially dangerous spying programs into their software programs as a way to make more money. "Spyware" is a generic term describing any software that secretly sneaks around in the back-round of your computer (usually without your permission or knowledge) gathering information and performing activities hidden to you. 

Spyware is a big risk to your online security and privacy, and can cause serious damage to your computer by exposing you to dangerous viruses, worms, malware and online hackers.  Don't get me wrong, making money online is not a bad thing. However, many file sharing download programs fail to disclose critical information and lawsuit risks about the use of their sharing software programs. 

To Sum Up:
 
It's extremely important that you get all the facts about file sharing networks, including the risks involved, before using a any p2p program.

By learning all you can about how p2p file sharing download networks work, you'll be able to make an informed decision about which music download solution is right for you. And remember, there are many quality legal music sites available for you to choose from that offer cheap music downloads.


