Title: 
Do You have what it Takes to Play the Guitar?

Word Count:
560

Summary:
An article about what it takes to learn to play guitar.

You learn to play the guitar by taking one step at a time - or one note at a time.  Without musical talent, you might have to concentrate just a little harder at the beginning, but soon you'll find it to be similar to learning any skill.


Keywords:
guitar, learn to play guitar, music, musical talent, Do I have talent for playing guitar?, how to play guitar, electric guitar, acoustic guitar, flat top guitar, Bob Pardue, Music Playground


Article Body:
What  does it take to learn to play guitar?

Playing the guitar is a great way to express yourself through music.  If you feel a strong urge to learn to play the guitar, here's a quick self-test to determine if you're ready to take this giant step.

Test Mind and Body

Before signing on for guitar lessons, test your mind and body. Your mind should be clear to learn.  Learning to play the guitar is like learning any other skill.  You must have some free time to dedicate solely to learning - even if it's only 15 minutes per day.  This should be a time of total concentration when you can block out the cares of work and life to work on your lessons and practice.

Physical Health and Playing the Guitar

Your body's physical health is also important.  Playing the guitar requires holding a guitar in an upright position, either resting on your legs or held upright by a shoulder strap.  Consider the strength of your back, shoulders, arms and legs.  A person who suffers from severe lower back pain may find it difficult to hold a guitar for any length of time.  If you know someone who owns a guitar, you can practice holding theirs to test your strengths and weaknesses.  

Also, consider the physical condition of your hands, fingers and wrists.  Some conditions that could hinder your playing ability include arthritis, carpal tunnel or frequent swelling of the wrists or fingers.

It's Still Possible

Even if you have a condition that makes it difficult to play a guitar, this doesn't mean you will never play.  You can research online or talk with a professional instructor to find out if there are ways to work around your disability or physical weakness.  For example, if you have back pain, you might find a lightweight guitar that's easy to hold.  Or, if you have swelling or pain in the hands, there may be exercises to help relieve the tension.  Don't give up until you've done the research.

The Relevance of Musical Talent

If you have natural musical talent, that's great.  However, if you don't feel that you are naturally talented, don't worry.  You only need the desire to learn and the ability to listen, read and practice.  You learn to play the guitar by taking one step at a time - or one note at a time.  Without musical talent, you might have to concentrate just a little harder at the beginning, but soon you'll find it to be similar to learning any skill.

Questions to Ask

After considering the above, answer these questions to determine your readiness to learn playing the guitar.

1)  Do you have a strong desire to play the guitar?
2)  Why do you want to learn to play the guitar?
3)  Do you want to learn to read music or play the guitar by ear?
4)  Is a guitar instructor available where you live?
5)  If an instructor is not available, are you willing to learn using an online guitar course?
6)  Once your guitar lessons begin, are you willing to practice at least fifteen to thirty minutes per day, five to six days a week?
7)  Do you have the money to invest in a guitar?

Your answers to these questions should help you determine if you're ready to learn how to play the guitar.  

You're only lessons away from playing great guitar music!


