Title: 
Ferry Corsten biography

Word Count:
418

Summary:
Article on the life, production work and many aliases of trance producer Ferry Corsten.


Keywords:
Ferry Corsten, Trance, Veracocha, Vimana, Starparty, System F, Moonman, Pulp Victom, Albion, Gouryella, Discodroids


Article Body:
Ferry Corsten was born on 4th December 1973 in Rotterdam City in The Netherlands.

After initially releasing records for the dutch hardcore gabba scene, Ferry became interested in house and trance and began to release uplifting tracks under various monikers. One of his earliest releases was a housey track called "The Show" - a collaboration with Peter Nijborn under the name Discodroids. Hiding on the b-side of this release was a track called "Interspace", an uplifting trancer that gives an idea of the direction Ferry's work was heading in. In fact, "Interspace" was re-released as a single in it's own right the following year.

Ferry released another slow-burner in 1997 - "Galaxia" under the name Moonman. Big chords, big breakdowns and big synth sounds all helped to make this a popular track for mix CD's at the time and helped to make his name as a producer. This track was another that was later re-released with some larger mixes in 2000.

In 1999 Ferry has his most prolific year to date, releasing trance smash after trance smash under numerous differnt names. In fact, in that year it was difficult to find a trance ompilation that didn't have at least 3 or 4 of his productions on it!

Tracks of particular note included "Out Of The Blue" by System F, "The World" by Pulp Victim and "I'm In Love" by Starparty.

He also had several fruitful collaborations that year, including productions with Tiesto under the name Gouryella ("Gouryella"), and Vincent De Moor under the name Veracocha (the huge "Carte Blanche").

Even with all these fantastic productions of his own, Ferry's largest track in 1999 was actually a remix. William Oribit had produced a version of Barber's Adagio For Strings (which was used in the film Platoon) and his record label asked Ferry to produce a remix of it. Ferry did so with some aplomb, producing an emotional trance monster with melancholy strings and uplifting synths weaving in and out of each other as the track progresses.

With such a prolific year it was not surprising that Ferry was named "Producer of the Year" at the Ericsson Muzik Award in London.

Ferry changed his style slightly when he finally began to release tracks under his real name - "Punk" is an electro-breaks track, although still containing his tradmark buids and drops.

Ferry is still producing tracks to this day, along with releasing mix series "Trance Nation" for the Ministry of Sound label and running his own Tsunami imprint.

Aliases: Gouryella, Veracocha, Vimana, Starparty, System F, Moonman, Albion, Pulp Victim, Discodroids


