Title: 
Finally a great site that will make you a professional at playing the guitar

Word Count:
473

Summary:
Anyone that wants to play the guitar but they don’t know where to start, then learnguitar is definitely a one stop shop to allow them learn the ins and outs of playing the guitar.


Keywords:
free guitar lessons, learn guitar, online guitar lessons, guitar lessons, how to play guitar


Article Body:
"Can you imagine that today you can learn guitar at home for any level or style? In fact this is very much possible today as people can quickly log on to the internet and get access to free, user friendly video guitar lessons from the comfort of their home. One site that needs a special mention is learnguitar. 

The site contains detailed lessons on guitar playing right from the basics to the most advanced techniques. Hence anyone who wants to start playing the guitar can refer to the site and have a personalized guitar lesson plan created just for them. One can start with the basic lessons of holding the guitar in the correct manner and also learn as to what the string names are, about chords and scales and even basic soloing techniques. 

The site promises you that with just two weeks of structured guitar lessons can give you the desired results. After just two weeks you could start playing for small parties and group gatherings, however it is continuous practicing that makes you perfect and hence the site recommends that one should devote some time to guitar playing to become the guitarist you always dreamed of.

As mentioned before, the site contains step by step tutorials which are arranged in a logical manner. Hence one can start from the first chapter and then move on to the next one after mastering it. Unlike other free guitar learning sites that have taken guitar lessons from other sites and placed them here and there, learnguitar stresses on a proper flow of all the chapters so that the student does not become confused. There are lessons for playing different guitars such as acoustic and electric guitar. The technique for playing both these styles of guitar is slightly different and learnguitar will help you master both the techniques.         

The site guarantees that just within two weeks of learning its lessons, one will be able to play confidently at any party to impress family members and friends. One can even start earning money by giving guitar lessons or joining a band that plays at a club. There are other advantages as well such as learning techniques from famous guitarists such as Jeremy Laursen, Adam Ross and Jarrod Taylor besides other artists. The site throws light on the secrets of these professional players so that you stand to learn only the best. Through intense learning exercises from the site one will gain a lot of confidence in playing the guitar and also will be able to take his interest at the next level.

One can even imitate one’s favorite artist styles by learning their techniques and secrets of playing the guitar. Learnguitar promises that once a person embarks on the journey of learning through the site, he or she will not go anywhere else for sure.       "


