Title: 
Five Beginner Tips for Starting A Music Box Collection

Word Count:
434

Summary:
Because of their unique history and other reasons, collecting music boxes is a hobby greatly enjoyed for music box and some antique collectors. Some collectors like collecting music boxes such as antique music boxes, inlaid music boxes, ballerina music boxes, and carousel music boxes. For those who are currently looking to begin collecting, here are five tips to assist in this process.


Keywords:
music box, collectible, ballerina music box, inlaid music box, carousel music box


Article Body:
Copyright 2006 Monique Hawkins

Music boxes, as we know them today have been around at least since the end of the 18th century. The finest artisans in Europe created them and brought music into family homes when there were really no other types of music entertainment for homes. Music boxes performed the popular music of their day; songs from the opera, traditional songs, and hymns. Because of their unique history and other reasons, collecting music boxes is a hobby greatly enjoyed for music box and some antique collectors. Some collectors like collecting music boxes such as antique music boxes, inlaid music boxes, ballerina music boxes, and carousel music boxes. For those who are currently looking to begin collecting, here are five tips to assist in this process.

#1: Decide on how much you are willing to spend. You could end up with lots of music boxes, but are poor in quality. Or, you might decide to collect more valuable, high quality music boxes. If this were the case, your collection would start off slowly. Take your time and do what is best for you.

#2: Take your individual taste into account. This will influence what types of music boxes you will collect. Some collectors might prefer only miniature pieces, or rare music boxes. Others music box collectors might desire to focus on disc boxes, Regina's, Stella's, or objects d' art.

#3: Consider starting a collection made up with a variety of music boxes. You might desire this so that you don't get bored with having the same type of box. Choose from cylinder music boxes, disc musical boxes, polyphons, or Stella music boxes. The lesson here is that having a hodge podge of music boxes is just fine!

#4: Have a plan as to how you would like to develop your collection. Next, take the necessary steps to see it come alive! Also, consider space. If you have limited space, you will have to be creative, especially if you like to collect large music boxes.

#5: When going to purchase a music box for your collection, always check for those things that demand immediate attention such as rust. If need be, restore it when you have the time and money. It is always a good rule of thumb to look carefully after all the music boxes you have in your collection.

Starting a music box collection can be a fun process. Whether you are collecting a antique music box, inlaid music box, carousel music box, ballerina music boxes, or other types of music boxes, follow these five tips and be on your way to starting an outstanding music box collection.


