Title: 
Free Music Downloads 3

Word Count:
384

Summary:
This article discusses free music downloads and the hazards of downloading the wrong materials. It talks about the shifts that are now occurring in the music industry and the fact that there is now a substantial amount of free music on the web that is available for free as a legal music download.


Keywords:
music


Article Body:
While downloading music is one of the most popular online activities, besides social networking and playing games, there is a lot of information that is not made available to the public at large.

There are a number of serious issues that should be understood when downloading music (which most people overlook) and there are also ways to obtain free music that are simply unknown by the majority of people online.

This is very important when considering the growing trend by the large music companies, of suing individuals who infringe on their copyrights. Court records show a large number of out of court settlements, with fines ranging from $3000 to $5000, and maximum awards in excess of $250,000.
 
As if the fines and legal issues where not enough of a problem now there is the added danger of downloading music imbedded with spyware and viruses. The need to be cautious in your quest for free downloadable music is evident.

Having access to free music download files means that you can enjoy as much music as you want in your own home whenever you want it. You will find that many musicians are now freely giving away their music as a way to promote themselves and their bands. The concept of free legal downloads means that you have permission from the author or creator to download their intellectual property.

Free music downloads have surged in popularity since the emergence of the Internet and even more so in the last few years. With the advent of iTunes, the mass population has become more accustomed to buying their music from the Internet in the form of single track downloads from membership websites. No longer is it necessary to purchase an entire album when you really only want a single track.

A huge shift occurred and people have moved toward digital media for the ease of use and speed of acquisition that it offers. As such, more and more people have begun to search the Internet for music rather than going to the local record shop.

You can find and use free and legal music downloads from a number of sources and in a number of ways. The key is to be aware of the dangers and also to know what you can use legally and what will get you into trouble.


