Title: 
Going Underground:  Free Music Downloads

Word Count:
334

Summary:
Many sites offer downloads of free music at no cost with no gimmicks or strings attached.  Many artists just getting started view the Internet as the best way to promote their music and setup sites or join existing ones to help spread their bands unique style or message.


Keywords:
free music downloads


Article Body:
Not many years ago nobody had heard about music downloads and free music was nothing but a dream.  When we wanted to play music we had to listen to radio, watch TV or go to the Music Store and buy our music which meant; long playing records (abbreviated as LP), extended playing records (abbr. EP),  single playing records (with a and b sites though) or CDs. Time has changed.  The popularity of online music downloads has soared in recent years thanks to devices such as the iPod and cell phones which can now play music everywhere you go.  Unfortunately as many avid music listeners know the costs of subscription music services can add up quick.  Thanks to underground music sites which offer free downloads of independent artists and bands there are alternatives to taking a bite out costs.

These sites offer downloads of free music at no cost with no gimmicks or strings attached.  Many artists just getting started view the Internet as the best way to promote their music and setup sites or join existing ones to help spread their bands unique style or message.  Even popular artists you may already know have jumped aboard and offered selections of their music for free in order to thank fans and promote upcoming new releases.

Many people are concerned about legal implications of music downloads because of recently news reports about illegal downloads.  However with underground sites the songs are perfectly legal and made available to all.  In fact the term "underground" refers to using alternative methods, such as the Internet, to distribute the music and has nothing to do at all with illegal downloading.

The best feature of all is that some of these underground artists will be tomorrow's biggest stars and you can enjoy their early music and help spread their songs to friends and others.  So fire up those iPods, crank up the media players and head to the underground for some of the best music available online at absolutely no charge.


