Title: 
Home recording studio

Word Count:
303

Summary:
If you like music and you can sing, I’m sure that you may have a dream of possessing a recording studio of your own so that you can record your singing and produce your CD. However, such dream, in general, costs you a lot. Besides the facilities like production studio construction… you are also required a bunch of expensive recording system.


Keywords:
voice changer software, music software, voice editting


Article Body:
If you like music and you can sing, I’m sure that you may have a dream of possessing a recording studio of your own so that you can record your singing and produce your CD. However, such dream, in general, costs you a lot. Besides the facilities like production studio construction… you are also required a bunch of expensive recording system.

But thing has changed with AV Music Morpher Gold. With this compact, easy-to-use software now you can really enjoy an in-home recording studio.

First step is recording, AV MM Gold can help you to record your voice in high quality. Click record button under the morpher tab and sing. Then, you can replay to check and redo the recording until feeling content.

The next step is editing your work. Now you can see the differences of AV MM Gold. You can add as many effects as you like to make your song funky simply by click on the wished ones. There are many options for you, single effects or special effects or group of effects as well. And if you don’t like the ready-made ones you can create something new. The funniest thing is voice morpher, you can change your voice pitch, voice timbre and the tempo of the song.

More than that you can cut a part of any music song and insert it in to your song. It will be very useful to make funny things and it will stimulate your creativeness a lot.

After the postproduction, it’s time you make your beloved CD with burner. But don’t forget to make your CD look funky by creating a cover with your favorite pics. 

Now you have in hand a complete CD, why don’t you make it a special gift for your beloved in this Valentine?


