Title: 
How To Control The Music Download Madness

Word Count:
464

Summary:
After following the trend of users coming on to the internet to download movies, many resources started to come out offering you the latests downloads. At the very beggining this was great for most users. 

After a while, people started to take advantage of this. They started adding pop ups, illegal spy software, among many other things to their sites. You downloaded an mp3 file and you got the file, but with it you had a shiny new browser window that told you to buy viagra...


Keywords:
download music, download music online, download mp3, mp3, free music, free mp3 downloads


Article Body:
After following the trend of users coming on to the internet to download movies, many resources started to come out offering you the latests downloads. At the very beggining this was great for most users. 

After a while, people started to take advantage of this. They started adding pop ups, illegal spy software, among many other things to their sites. You downloaded an mp3 file and you got the file, but with it you had a shiny new browser window that told you to buy viagra everytime you surfed the web. 

Fortunately, other resources came out. Legal Resources. Places were you can come inside and download music in a safe way, in a way you can trust. 

These are cost effective, and if you compare it to the damage that could be caused by downloading the files from an illegal source, then the legal sources will outweight their value by tenfold. 

When you're downloading for and Mp3 music file online, there are a few things you will want to look for: 

1) The quality of the Mp3. File quality can range anywhere from 20 kbps which is blurry quality to 320 kbps which is basically CD quality. You should aim for downloading music files that are above 128 kbps. Anything below that will have a trashy background that will not sound great when you burn it onto a CD. 

2) You internet speed must be in a good shape. Sometimes it's necessary to restart your computer to get it back to optimum speed before attempting to download any mp3 file. You'll want anything over 3 kb/s to get the song in under 10 minutes. 

3) Check you computer to make sure you have enough space on the drive you're downloading your file. There's nothing more annoying than getting to 75 percent of the download only to find out that you didn't have enough room in your C: Drive. Nowadays with our hard drive's spaces growing this is more unsual but it's best to make sure before you start. 

4) Make sure you don't make illegal copies of the music you're downloading. The best way to download music is to use them as samples for a music album. You download a music file, see if you like it, and if you do, you go ahead and buy the record. If you don't then sample on to the next band. This way we keep the music industry going and it's an all round win win situation. 

All and all, downloading music is a great experience and you can even learn about new bands that you'll want to go to the concert or buy the album later. Just make sure you do it from a legal source and keep your copies to yourself.


