Title: 
iPod Unlimited

Word Count:
411

Summary:
The iPod is one of the greatest inventions of the recent times.


Keywords:
download ipod music , download ipod movies, ipod movies


Article Body:
When the first iPod was launched, nobody had imagined that it would be such a hit. A brain child of Tony Fadell, it was first conceived to provide a better version of an MP3 player. After being turned down by RealNetworks and Phillips, Fadell found support for his project with Apple. Tony Fadell went to work for Apple as an independent contractor, leading a team of thirty people to develop the new MP3 player.

The result was the launch of iPod in October 2001. With the growing popularity, iPod evolved real fast as a device. In just nine years it has incarnated in more than 30 formats plus special editions and color variations.

A creation which was primarily invented for music, has now become a full fledged device supporting photos, videos, movies, games and calendars. It is no longer just a digital audio player, but an easy to use, portable device in which one can store any digital data file.

Along with the iPod, sites offering music downloads for iPods also emerged and grew. Soon, there were sites offering not just music, but also movies, videos and other downloads. The need for the downloading software obviously shot up and this was another great market to explore. Today, there are a number of sites offering iPod downloads and downloading softwares.

Now the main USP for these sites is speed and convenience without compromising on the quality. It is difficult to find a site which offers all these three plus the software.

iPod Download sites generally have a wide range of music, videos, TV shows and sports events. It works on the P2P technology and thus gives the user a wide range of files to select from. What's more? They also provide the software for downloading it to the iPod as well as burn it into a compact disc. Thus, you get the privilege carrying your favorites wherever you go and watching it anyway you like - on your computer, or your home theatre system, your iPod or burn a CD.

A lot of us prefer to get a first hand experience and not just blindly follow reviews, me being one of them. I suggest you check out a few sites for yourself when it comes to downloading speed and quality. Most sites offer DVD quality downloads which is sharp, clear and complete, the entire process takes just a couple of minutes.

The power of iPod is unlimited. Explore and enjoy it to the fullest.


