Title: 
Jam Band Writing Journals – Track Your Shows

Word Count:
328

Summary:
Following jam bands is a blast because of the music, places you see and cool people you meet. Jam band journals are great ways to keep track of your shows.


Keywords:
jam bands, grateful dead, string cheese incident, shows, writing journals, set lists, 


Article Body:
Following jam bands is a blast because of the music, places you see and cool people you meet. Jam band journals are great ways to keep track of your shows.

Jam Band Journals

Undoubtedly, the Grateful Dead was the greatest jam band in history, but others such as String Cheese Incident have carried on the tradition. Whatever your favorite band is, think back to the last show you saw. What sticks out in your mind? Now think about the first time you ever saw the band. Do you remember the set, people you met and so on? Probably not. The experiences you’ve forgotten are lost to time. If you had kept a jam band journal, this wouldn’t be the case.

There are famous instances of people keeping journals throughout time. Of course, Anne Frank’s Diary is the best example. In her diary, Anne kept a running commentary of the two years her family spent hiding from the Nazis. While your show experiences better be more lighthearted, keeping a journal will let you remember them as the years pass.

A good jam band journal combines a number of characteristics. First, it should be compact so you don’t have to take up unnecessary space for other things. Second, it should have a case to protect it from the elements. Third, the journal should contain blank areas to write email address, phone numbers and set lists. Fourth, the journal should contain cue spaces to remind you to keep notes on specific things. Cues should include:

1. Set list,

2. Location and directions,

3. Accommodations and camping information, if any, 

4. People you met, email addresses and phone numbers,

5. Grub and grog,

6. High points of the show, and

7. Any unique things that occurred.

As the shows add up, you’ll be able to look back through your journal to past shows, find information to locate people and generally laugh yourself silly about things that happened. Don’t lose your experiences to time.


