Title: 
Karaoke Music

Word Count:
557

Summary:
Karaoke bars are quite popular these days. People come here to hang out and have fun. The word “karaoke” is derived form a Japanese word and means “empty orchestra”. It started in Kansai, Japan, in 1984, and spread to worldwide popularity. Music of any popular song is taken but the voice of the singer is absent or reduced. So, anybody who is interested can sing along using a microphone, usually the lyrics are also displayed .Some restaurants also have adopted this concept and...


Keywords:
karaoke,music,entertainment


Article Body:
Karaoke bars are quite popular these days. People come here to hang out and have fun. The word “karaoke” is derived form a Japanese word and means “empty orchestra”. It started in Kansai, Japan, in 1984, and spread to worldwide popularity. Music of any popular song is taken but the voice of the singer is absent or reduced. So, anybody who is interested can sing along using a microphone, usually the lyrics are also displayed .Some restaurants also have adopted this concept and they either have their in house singer or sometimes even visitors can sing. 

Before karaoke music came in cassettes only but with technological advances they were replaced with CDs, VCDs and DVDs.KTV boxes were set up for people to entertain their friends or just to have fun. KTV means karaoke music video where the lyrics are displayed along with the audio track. It has become quite popular in US, Canada and other Western countries. People love it and it is a good source of entertainment. 

Karaoke music popularity: 

Karaoke music business has also picked up very fast and now one can find karaoke nights every day in almost every restaurant as it drives people to the place. Small karaoke box have been replaced by hi-fi sound equipments and to make the atmosphere catchier they even put lighting effects and have dance sessions. Now almost all kinds of music are available from rock to pop to hip hop and even religious hymns. The fun part is watching even those timid and shy ones, after consuming alcoholic beverages become bold and march towards the microphone and sing their hearts out ,sometimes even humiliating themselves. 

Karaoke Machines: 

Computer karaoke is also quite popular among the youngsters. Those who are shy to perform in front of people can now be a star and sing in their own room and also for those who want to improve their skills can also have practice sessions quietly in their room. You can pick karaoke softwares which can provide the means to hear music and also see lyrics on the screen. Quite a number of websites also offer this entertainment for their karaoke fans. All you need to do is download the files, load the song in your computer and you are set to begin. 

A simple karaoke box consists of an audio input, an audio output and pitch controller. Some bars also have low end machines where they try to suppress the voice of the original singer so that you can hear only your voice. These machines are cheap. But those high in built machines have a technology that can electronically change the pitch level according to the key the singer chooses for the song. 

Next time you step into a karaoke bar do not shy away thinking you will be the laughing stock. People come here to have fun and you will be surprised to see everyone cheering for you. Explore your singing talent! This is a terrific way to wind up your soul and just relax. After a hectic day if you are looking for a place to enjoy and meet new people, this is the place to be. Some karaoke bars also hold karaoke nights, where all wanna be singers show off their talents, if you are one of them, go ahead and show everyone what you have!!


