Title: 
Learn To Play Lead Guitar With 6 Secret Tips

Word Count:
669

Summary:
Learn the 6 secret tips you need to learn to play lead guitar and be the best lead guitarist you can be. This important information will set you apart from other guitarists from the beginning.


Keywords:
learn to play lead guitar, learn to play guitar, learn guitar music, learn guitar 


Article Body:
If you want to learn to play lead guitar then you already know it is a combination of theory, technique, and natural talent. Everyone wants to be the best lead guitarist they can be.  Everyone knows that you have to address the basics such as reading music and listening to music but most don't think about the really important things that will set you apart from other people who want to learn to play lead guitar.

There are six important tips that you will want to remember.

- Technique
- Position to Learn
- Hand Position
- Attitude
- Discipline
- Leadership Skills


Technique

Technique, of course, is one of the key elements you must address when you learn to play lead guitar. It is really important to get a good teacher to teach you the technique skills and to help you to perfect them.  Many famous, and not so famous, lead guitarists will tell you they never stop learning, never stop practicing and never stop perfecting their style.  Playing guitar is and expression of your talent, you need to practice and perfect your craft.

Position to Learn

Most people don't realize that when you first start to learn to play lead guitar it is helpful to practice sitting down.  This gives you much more control over your instrument and allows you to concentrate on the actual music you are practicing. This might be difficult for some but whether you decide to sit or to remain standing you must always remember to have both feet flat on the ground and to sit with your back straight.  This will help you to avoid back strain or injury.

Hand Position

When you learn to play lead guitar you will soon realize that one of the most important things to learn is how to position your hands. If you start from the beginning with the correct hand positions you will find it much easier later to move through the different chords with ease.  It also lets you react quickly if one of your fellow musicians has a problem and makes a mistake. At first it will seem very difficult especially if you have been using incorrect hand positions in the past.  Stick with it, practice hand positions regularly, it will pay off in the end when you sound professional.

Attitude

Attitude, and by this we don't mean having a bad attitude, is a very important thing to pay attention to.  Attitude affects your body language and this is important when you learn to play lead guitar. Attitude and body language go together to give you the confidence you will need to perform as a lead guitarist. Watch successful lead guitarists and see how they always look so much more confident than their back-up guitarists.  That's attitude!

Discipline 

When you first learn to play lead guitar it is easy to be disciplined.  Your initial enthusiasm makes it easy to be able to spend hours trying new music and techniques.  As you improve it is easy to settle in to a level that is good but maybe not excellent.  It takes discipline to maintain a level of practice that will constantly improve your skills.  Discipline is what separates an average lead guitarist from a brilliant one.  One good tip is to write out a program and set a schedule with small goals along the way to keep you motivated and on track.

Leadership skills

Leadership skills are important to have if you want to be a lead guitarist. You will be the one people look to for guidance, you will be responsible for all the musicians in the group.  You need to be able to pay attention to what everyone is playing and be able to cover mistakes that may happen during a song. This may take a while to get really good at but you should always be training yourself.  Try to listen while you are playing and you will improve.  This skill will grow if you start right from the beginning when you learn to play lead guitar.


