Title: 
MK2 Mobile Disco and Karaoke Services

Word Count:
635

Summary:
At MK2, we truly believe that our success lies in your satisfaction which is why we do all those special things that go into making your event the one that will be remembered forever. But that doesn’t mean MK2 is a costly affair; no matter what your budget is, we’ll definitely have something great to offer all our customers!


Keywords:
mobile disco karaoke entertainment service


Article Body:
When one thinks of hosting a happening event, music is undoubtedly the first thing that comes to mind. If this sounds like you, you must definitely check how MK2 can fill your events with riot of colours! Be it for your kid’s birthday, your wedding anniversary, a party or just another fun event, we’ve got all the music in the world to match the theme of your event! 

Our music and karaoke collection includes genuine music of all genres and generations – from pop to rock and traditional to modern! Wondering what dance numbers we have? Well, you will be pleased to know that we have all the popular dance charts from the granddad’s age till date! Add to it our professional karaoke machines and hi-tech audio equipment and players to produce high quality digital sounds that can set the mood of the party in no time.

May be you don’t want to leave anything to chance if so just let us know in advance what music charts you would like to be played and we shall try our best to locate your favorite ones. As a matter of fact MK2 always encourage clients to provide the details of the program so that we plan and arrange everything perfectly for every portion of your event.

Loud music will certainly set your spirits high when you want to get on the dance floor and groove with your friends but when it comes to dining by the pool, you need soft and soothing background music. Recognizing such subtle differences is one of many things that set us apart from the other mobile discos.

We realize that your guests are very special and you want them to feel just that which is why MK2 will be more than happy to play the requests from your guests, something that not many mobile discos will offer you. 

May be you are a looking for a specialized mobile disco service for the corporate event in your company. If that’s the case, MK2 also specializes in catering to the corporate clients. Try our service once and you surely would like to be the long list of our clients who keep coming to us time and time again. 

MK2 have hosted thousands of successful events, both domestic as well as corporate and we are always up for the challenge of catering to the unique requirements but our only request is that you book with us well in advance. We’d simply hate to disappoint you!

We’ve also done live TV shows and can boast of several achievements but one that we really take pride in talking about is our appearance on the popular series ‘footballers wives’! 

Our coverage area includes most areas in the South East of UK including Essex, Kent, Hertfordshire, London, Bedfordshire, Sussex, Suffolk, Norfolk and Middlesex. However, if you are not from the above areas, don’t be disappointed. Just drop us an email or give us a call to know more about our coverage area. WE DON’T MIND STEPPING OUT OF OUR LOCAL AREA FOR OUR VALUED CLIENTS!

MK2, being a part of the Musicians Union realizes its social responsibility and the liability insurance cover of £10million speaks for it. We only cater to the parties and events hosted in the licensed venues. Further, MK2 regularly conducts Portable Appliance Test (PAT) on our equipment to comply with the health and safety regulations.

At MK2, we truly believe that our success lies in your satisfaction which is why we do all those special things that go into making your event the one that will be remembered forever. But that doesn’t mean MK2 is a costly affair; no matter what your budget is, we’ll definitely have something great to offer all our customers!


