Title: 
MP3 Audio Format – Convenient yet powerful

Word Count:
393

Summary:
Mp3 audio format is quite powerful because it easily compresses size of music files and could be conveniently downloaded from the internet.


Keywords:
> free download mp3 song, free mp3 player song, download free mp3 music song, free karaoke mp3 song, free legal mp3 song, free mp3 music song,  free latest mp3 song,  free kid mp3 song


Article Body:
Mp3 player is the most recent and popular music format that has inevitably helped the consumer to listen the tunes of their choice. The previous audio formats like the tapes, cassettes, CD’s didn’t give much convenience to the consumers in comparison to the mp3 audio format. Therefore, with the help of mp3 player, you can easily create personalized or customized music tunes and carry it anywhere you go.

<b> How mp3 files work? </b>
Mp3 files movement is much amazing as compared to music cassettes, CD’s and other audio    formats. A CD stores music in the form of digital information. When a CD is created, music is sampled around 44,100 times per second. Separate samples are used both for left and right sound speakers of a music system. Thus, a CD stores huge amount of data i.e. 44,100 samples/second * 16 bits/sample * 2 channels = 1,411,200 bits per second. If we break it down, 1.4 million bits per second equals 176,000 bytes per second. An average song on a CD consumes about 32 million bytes of space and it takes much time while you download it.  In case of mp3 audio format, the size of music file is reduced whereby a 32 MB music file is compressed to 3 Mb. Therefore, it could also be downloaded fast from the internet to your hard disk. At the same time, it will take much less space.

<b> Why Mp3 has revolutionized the web? </b>
It has made easy for people to easily distribute their music files at very less or no cost. It provides easy and instant accessibility to music files on the internet. People have learned a lot to manipulate sound on the computer. You can now easily;

1. Download an mp3 song from the internet and play it.

2. Rip any song from a CD and play it or encode it in mp3 format.

3. Record any song yourself, convert it into mp3 format and distribute over the internet to the rest of the world.

4. You can convert MP3 files into CD files and create your own audio CD’s from mp3 files over the internet.

5. Store a number of Mp3 files on data CD’s.

6. Load mp3 songs into any mp3 player and carry it anywhere you go.


If you want to have more information please visit our recommended website <a href="http://www.freedownloadmp3song.info">freedownloadmp3song.info </a>


