Title: 
Music and mix

Word Count:
332

Summary:
Music has always backed the silent visual media and therefore till today radio is being patronized.


Keywords:
future of pop music, future of the music industry, future music release, future of the music business, music future, future music, back to the future sheet music


Article Body:
Music has always been a rhythmic companion of our lives. People are born with music, study, drive, eat, sleep and dream to music. People even spend more money on music as compared to books. 

Music is everywhere when a person talks to avoid silence and some leave a television or radio on in the background or even sing, hymn or whistle. Thus, music is important for the success in live training. We are able to easily make some connection when we view a picture and hear music at the same time. Powerful brain connections occur when music is combined with information. 
One who learns something with the music is able to learn and remember much faster. 

<b> It is sound that wins </b> 
The first silent movies used to last for a minute or two which were immediate and short lived sensations. Absolute silence of voice and music proved as a deadly combination. Thereafter, theatre owners hired musicians on payroll. They told the musicians to play something or anything and when they did, it worked. Music became effective for solving problems as told by the film critics. 

Later, radio found itself threatened by television because they feared that combined audio and video signals of TV will bring them out of the business. When there was a choice between a radio and television, they favored television but patronized radio. Sound or talkies destroyed silent movies and thus music won at last.

Again home video games started with visual signals but within short period of time video games with full fledged background sound evolved which again backed the soundless video games.

<b> Music mix </b> 
In live training, music is the most preferable weapon and therefore when music is properly inserted into training environment it can lift some cold, lifeless qualities of a typical training. Other uses of music provide cover for silent activities and small group discussions. 

For more information, visit our recommended website <a href="http://www.music-future.com"> music-future.com</a>


