Title: 
Music Lovers Rejoice

Word Count:
400

Summary:
The music lovers can enjoy digital music in iTunes, which is developed by Apple Computer. Actually, iTunes is a digital media player, which is used to play digital music and video files.


Keywords:
itunes


Article Body:
The music lovers can enjoy digital music in iTunes, which is developed by Apple Computer. Actually, iTunes is a digital media player, which is used to play digital music and video files. iTunes has an advantage to connect to the iTunes Music Store (ITMS). This music store helps the buyers or the music lovers to buy digital music and movie files which can be played in iTunes. It is easy to operate and it is compact. It has some interesting features like obtaining, organizing and playing music. It has easily download facility.

At first iTunes had a brushed interface made of metal. But now it has a new look with thinner interface. With the help of iTunes, the music lovers can add their favorite music albums and songs into the play lists or they can edit the file information also. The users can copy the music files into the digital audio player. They can download their favorite songs and transfer the songs to CD or DVD. In addition to this the users can play a visualizer to appear with some graphics effect, while the music is playing. The song can be encoded into number of audio formats.

For instance, iTunes songs can be encoded to MP3, WAV, MPEG-4, AAC and more. Some times they can be downloaded from computers or iPods. The user buys some of his/her favorite songs from iTunes music store. Actually they are copy protected with Apple’s fair play digital rights management system. Hence, the songs can be played only in the iTunes or IPODS. But, later with the great development in software iTunes music can be played anywhere or the music can be shared with the help of “Hymn” that decrypts purchased music. 

It was quite interesting to listen to the music on first release of iTunes. It was same as sound jam Mp. It has a CD burning and makeover of the interface facility. Slowly it developed with LCD display which displays the song name and the playback singer’s name, the power to collect the play list and add it in its folder, with the option to skip songs, multiple speaker facility. Above all, it is portable and compact. iTunes is a great boon to the music lovers. The music store is an add advantage, yet it can work well. Then iTunes can arrange the entire music list in a neat folder.


