Title: 
Music –The food of Soul

Word Count:
465

Summary:
Music is said to be the food of the soul. There is nothing more swaying and gratifying than good music. Soothing music heals the mind. Entertainment will not get completed without music and playing of your favorite music and songs changes your tension filled mind right away to a more relaxed and tranquil state of mind. If you compose a piece of really nice music you need to write it down so that you can remember and other people will also be able to play it too.


Keywords:
USB Audio interface, electric guitars, audio interface, digital music software, Midi interfaces, special bundles, signal processors, multitrack recorder, keyboard bundles, digital pianos, mixers, digital Audio Sound Card


Article Body:
Music is said to be the food of the soul. There is nothing more swaying and gratifying than good music. Soothing music heals the mind. Entertainment will not get completed without music and playing of your favorite music and songs changes your tension filled mind right away to a more relaxed and tranquil state of mind. If you compose a piece of really nice music you need to write it down so that you can remember and other people will also be able to play it too. Live music is favored at parties and events. Live music entertainment consists of classical music, Jazz, Swing, World music, period music of 50’s, 60’s, 70’s, 80’s and the 90’s and performed by artists who haven’t made it big and classical music consists of quintet, quartet, trio, duo and solo. 

Whether it is a birthday party, wedding reception, a private party or a corporate party, live music is a must if you are not hiring a DJ to mix songs for you. The choice of songs and music may be limited with a live music performance, but it is the limited selected songs and music, which makes the band endearing to people. DJs would charge 25% – 50% of what a live music performing band charges. However, the charm of live music is something that is enticing if one can afford it. Some live music performing bands capture and reproduce the tone of music that were not recorded properly by the ingenuous recording machines of the 50‘s and the 60’s. Performances of live music can be known on any instrument as a piano, guitar, keyboard, harpoon, flute, trumpet, saxophone and the jazz set. 

Music is intimately related to the subliminal mind because it blends our emotions. Perhaps you can recall listening to a jingle and finding the tune and the advertising slogan replaying in your mind over and over, even if you disliked the jingle. It just trapped into your mind. Hypnosis is another prevailing trait of music. One of the main reasons for using music for self-hypnosis is to help you maintain mental and emotional focus on your outcome. The music that helps to elicit within you emotions which are appropriate for your self-hypnosis outcome, will take care of the focus. Your intention can then ride of the wave of music, making focusing an effortless process.

<b>Benefits:</b>

Music has quite a lot of advantages despite serious reductions in subsidy for arts programs in public schools, there is a great need for studying music.  Band, orchestra, and choir all offer students a chance to work together in a social and intellectual group setting and excel at complex tasks. The deception for parents is to enroll their children in high quality programs and aid them in procuring high quality instruments.


