Title: 
Paris Hilton

Word Count:
449

Summary:
Paris Whitney Hilton or Paris Hilton was born on the 17th of February , 1981 to Kathy and Rick Hilton. The famous granddaughter of the renowned Conrad Hilton – founder Hilton Hotels,  she was born with a silver spoon . With a strong ambition to make an impact on her own she has been successful in all her ventures and has a successful career to boast of


Keywords:
Paris Hilton 


Article Body:
Paris Whitney Hilton or Paris Hilton was born on the 17th of February , 1981 to Kathy and Rick Hilton. The famous granddaughter of the renowned Conrad Hilton – founder Hilton Hotels,  she was born with a silver spoon . With a strong ambition to make an impact on her own she has been successful in all her ventures and has a successful career to boast of.  

With dreams that were very different from being heir to the Hilton group , Paris could not be held back by the traditional ideas of a career and after high school she went on to make a jumpstart with a modelling career. At the age of 19 being the face for many of the big brands , success was soon hers . 

A multi – faceted personality , Paris Hilton was not contented with modelling alone and splurged into the movie world. Paris Hilton has successfully dabbled her many careers from being a model , actress, singer  to a business woman. Her films include Wishman (1991), Sweetie pie (2000), House of Wax(2005), The Hottie and the Nottie ( 2006) to name a few. From small roles to being the main lead,  Paris Hilton has made her mark in the movie world. 

Turning to a career in music , Paris Hilton has recorded and released several singles.  
Her music titles (singles) include Turn it Up, Stars are Blind to name a few. The year 2006 saw the release of her self-titled album “Paris”.  She has to her credit a  perfume and jewellery line too and has proved her credentials as a businesswoman. 
 
A style statement , her extravagant and ostentatious lifestyle has continued to keep her in the news and a favourite with the papparazi. With many of her high profile relationships , Paris has been the talk of the town. 

The site provides an insight into Paris Hilton’s life- her biography, discography and filmography. The site also has some spectacular wallpapers of different sizes that are downloadable. The site also has links to the website www.go4celebrity.com  which is a treasure house of downloadable wallpapers of celebrities. A great place for fans to get some great pictures of Paris Hilton . 

Paris Hilton – the actress, singer, model, socialite has made a niche for herself and is known for living life on her terms absolutely the way she desires. The heiress to the million dollar fortune of the Hilton group , Paris has made the headlines several times what with her sex video scandal and media hyped relationships. 

A beauty Paris Hilton is known for the lifestyle . She continues to have a huge fan following and rule the hearts of many across the world. Visit for some beautiful pictures of Paris Hilton and to know all you wanted about your star.


