Title: 
Press Kit Strategies for Singers & Musicians

Word Count:
644

Summary:
The main goal in creating a press kit is to generate interest in an artist and the music they play.  A press kit includes background information, photos, samples of music, a listing of past and future gigs you have scheduled, and any other pertinent information.


Keywords:
band kit press, actors press kit, musician press kit, music demo, online portfolios


Article Body:
The main goal in creating a press kit is to generate interest in an artist and the music they play.  A press kit includes background information, photos, samples of music, a listing of past and future gigs you have scheduled, and any other pertinent information.  A press kit is used as a way of introducing and artist to newspapers, the media, promoters, and music industry leaders.  You can create a press kit that is mailed to the appropriate recipients and it is a good idea to have an electronic form of your press kit that can be emailed and posted on web sites.

Things to include in your press kit:

Offer a limited a mount of information about yourself, your band, and your style of music.  Don't give the reader more information than they want.  If your introduction is too lengthy, you will lose the interest of your intended audience.

Talk about your music, the way in which you perform your songs, your sound, and who your influences are.  You will want to give a good idea of what you may sound like in these descriptions.  Do not be afraid to interject a little humor into your descriptions.  You will get someone's attention during the very first minute they open your press kit.  If you do not captivate them immediately, they will lose interest.

Describe the things that make you special in comparison to everyone else.  What are your skills and experience level?  Why would a record promoter or executive gain by giving you a chance to record and market your music?  Record companies spend a great deal of money in promoting new artists.  You will want to make it clear why you would be a good investment.

Include press clippings and quotes as they become available.  A remark made about you by a reputable person will go a long way in making your press kit credible.  This will let the reader know that you have been recognized as a talent to be reckoned with and could possibly create extra momentum for you while you are trying to launch your career.  Whether you are in need of a singer, musician, or actor press kit, recognition from others is a great tool in promoting yourself.

You really only need one page of your press kit to be devoted to a biography and one page that includes quotes and press clippings.  This rule stands even in an online portfolio.  By keeping each topic on a simple page, you are much more likely to hold the interest of the person who receives your press kit.  Make sure the tone of your band press kit is in line with who you are as a person and the type of music you perform. 

A sample of your music in the form of a high quality CD or clips that can be heard in an electronic press kit are critical.  Make certain you label the CD with your name and contact information.  If someone loves your music but has misplaced the rest of your press kit, you will want this information to readily available to them.

Be careful not to overdo the self-promotion.  You should be positive and state your ambitions, but shameless self-promotion will make you look unprofessional and less than credible.  Also avoid including too much personal information.  No one cares (yet) about your first pet, your grades in elementary school, or your personal phobias.  Keep the focus on your music and your accomplishments.  You want to be sure you do not look desperate for work, even if you really are. 

Include a personal cover letter to whomever you send your press kit to, and try to avoid sending your musician press kit unsolicited.  It is always better to have a referral from a friend or associate of the person you wish to see your material.


