Title: 
Punk And Rock And Roll Revisited

Word Count:
634

Summary:
Overview

Music genre is a cycle. A fashion trend to some who go along with the times, the type of hype and promotions that go along with it are critical elements that contribute to making it one of the in things today. Along with the musical influences are the type of clothes and appearances that are tagged along with it. The type of music really depends on the performers who preach this type of music. Appearances are totally secondary and only become identified once live ...


Keywords:
punk, music, history, rock, ramones, roll,revisit


Article Body:
Overview

Music genre is a cycle. A fashion trend to some who go along with the times, the type of hype and promotions that go along with it are critical elements that contribute to making it one of the in things today. Along with the musical influences are the type of clothes and appearances that are tagged along with it. The type of music really depends on the performers who preach this type of music. Appearances are totally secondary and only become identified once live performances or the better-known medium of spreading the punk and rock and roll music known as Music Television Videos (MTV). Live performances as well are sought after, especially when such musical compositions become hits in various parts of the world. The bottom line for the acceptance of most people is how such musical productions are accepted by its target audience, since for sure, all music lovers have their own preference of music and style. 

A Musical Cycle for the Masses

Music is definitely something that most people lean towards to for relaxation and unwinding periods. These genres are not in season all throughout. There will be a musical era for each type of musical preference. The difference lies in the push given to the type of music in season. Capturing the nod of most people is something that is looked upon closely. However this is only applicable for a certain period of time. There will come a point where people would look for something different or would look for something different. Music preference also depends a lot on individual traits. Loyal followers to certain musical genres will always ensure a good following. For the parties who would usually go with what people are raving about is something that would entirely depend on which music or artist has been actively performing and building a following.

The Styles and Fashion Trends

Identity is what best describes the type of character portrayal that most musical artists bear in mind that would go along well with their musical masterpieces. Hairstyles, hip clothing, brass or chain linings and jewelry, awkward-looking make-ups and facial designs are only some of the characteristics that are immediately attached with punk rock artists and performers. Expressing themselves in the most comfortable manner possible is something that most people would really want to do. Ordinarily, people who would walk out on the street doing this for no reason at all would solicit criticism anywhere, but compare this to the trend setters when a hit song comes out shall merit a totally different insight. More so, such sight could even become a spark to get other people to follow suit and consider getting a similar suit of their own, though not entirely. The rest is totally interconnected from hereon until such spreads like a forest fire.

The Performances and Musical Offerings

There are a number of people who are easily identified with punk and rock music. Such artists as Santana and Jimi Hendrix are notable artists that will surely bring in a crowd whenever a new hit single is out in the market. Concerts as well will draw a sold out audience, especially in nations that are will get first hand experience on the hit songs of today by the artists that are making waves. The combination of tunes, loud in most cases, or delivered in such manners that are unique and different from that of other artists prove to be the benchmark for most solid performances. Upcoming artists of today are best typified as descendants who followed the footsteps of their punk fore fathers which date back as early as the 1970’s. Whatever the case maybe, no one would want to be caught flatfooted and lagging behind, especially when hit singles and fashion trends are there for their viewing pleasure.


