Title: 
Roger Waters New Washburn Signature Guitar

Word Count:
361

Summary:
Washburn Guitars is a division of U.S. Music Corp., a world leader in the production and distribution of fretted instruments, amplification and sound reinforcement. The 125-year-old company began as a high-quality stringed instrument manufacturer in Chicago and has since acquired Oscar Schmidt (makers of the AutoHarp and student instruments), Sound Tech (sound reinforcement and pro audio gear), Randall Amplifiers and it’s most recent acquisition, Vinci Strings. U.S. Music Cor...


Keywords:
washburn, washburn guitars


Article Body:
Washburn Guitars is a division of U.S. Music Corp., a world leader in the production and distribution of fretted instruments, amplification and sound reinforcement. The 125-year-old company began as a high-quality stringed instrument manufacturer in Chicago and has since acquired Oscar Schmidt (makers of the AutoHarp and student instruments), Sound Tech (sound reinforcement and pro audio gear), Randall Amplifiers and it’s most recent acquisition, Vinci Strings. U.S. Music Corp. is rated as one of the top 50 companies in the music industry worldwide and is currently located in Mundelein, Illinois.

Many great guitarists are playing washburn guitars. Pink Floyd co-founder Roger Waters has been playing the Washburn RR300 for two years and has been very amazed with the guitar over this time. When Washburn approached him about a Signature Limited Edition, he gladly agreed to work with Washburn on this special offering. 

The RW300 brings together a Seymour Duncan P90 style pickup and a Fishman preamp with a piezo bridge. These pickups, in combination with the chambered mahogany body and solid spruce top, reduce the chance of feedback and give the RW300 a tremendously accurate and vibrant acoustic tone. Roger was the creator and sonic architect of such undeniable classics as Dark Side Of The Moon (which spent nearly 15 years on the Billboard 200 album chart), The Wall (which has been certified 23x RIAA platinum), Animals, Wish You Were Here, and Final Cut. Following Final Cut, Roger Waters left Pink Floyd. 

His first full-length solo album, The Pros and Cons of Hitchhiking was released in April 1984 to great critical and popular success, generating his first solo tour. June 1987's Radio K.A.O.S. continued the path of solo success, bringing Roger back to the stage. His last full-length solo album, the moody and ironic Amused To Death, considered by many to be a comparable achievement to Dark Side Of The Moon or The Wall, was released in August 1992. 

Waters has been working on Ca Ira (pronounced sa-ira), an opera in English and French, a new rock album to be released in 2002 and Echoes the best of Pink Floyd, which was re-mastered by long time Pink Floyd producer James Guthrie.


