Title: 
Role of classical music in our day to day life

Word Count:
387

Summary:
Classical music plays a vital role in developing cells of the brain of the child and is also known to make one smarter in many fields of life.


Keywords:
future of pop music, future of the music industry, future music release, future of the music business, music future, future music, back to the future sheet music


Article Body:
There might be different views as regards music but one fact cannot be ignored that it has a great effect on our emotions. When a child takes birth, it starts reacting to the various sounds in its surroundings such as toys, human voice and others. At times, when you see someone shouting or screaming with joy, it simultaneously affects you and fills you with joy. 

Now, scientists have proved that music also effect the development of human brain too. When a baby is born, it has billion of brain cells, over times these cells grow stronger. It has been proved that children who grow up listening music have strong music connections. It affects the way of your thinking, for example, listening to classical music improves your spatial reasoning and if you learning by playing with an instrument, it has effect on certain thinking skills.

<b> Is it true that music makes one smarter? </b>
Not all the times because music controls some cells of the brain for a particular way of thinking. After listening to classical music, one can quickly perform some spatial tasks such as adults can quickly solve jigsaw puzzle. This is because the classical music pathways are similar to the pathways used in spatial reasoning. Listening to classical music, these pathways are “turned on” and are ready to be used. This is how you can solve puzzle quickly but lasts for a short time after listening to music. Playing an instrument also improves the spatial skills as research has proved that music training creates new pathways in the brain. 

<b> Use of classical music </b>
The structure of classical music is much complex as compared to rock, jazz or pop. Child who listens to classical music easily picks out the structure and recognizes any classical music he has heard before. Therefore, listening t o classical music has a different effect as compared to other forms of music. 
  
<b> How to nurture your child with music? </b>
You can easily help your child to build his love for music by playing music for your child, singing to your baby, start taking early music lessons, sing with your child or help your child to learn music education at the school. 

For more information visit our recommended website <a href="http://www.music-future.com"> music-future.com</a>


