Title: 
The most popular audio standard on the web – Mp3

Word Count:
330

Summary:
Mp3 downloads has created a wave over the web because of the ease of downloading and sharing of files for distribution among consumers.


Keywords:
free download mp3 song, free mp3 player song, download free mp3 music song, free karaoke mp3 song, free legal mp3 song, free mp3 music song,  free latest mp3 song,  free kid mp3 song


Article Body:
MP3 or MPEG -1 Audio Layer is an open standard to compress audio files about one twelfth of the disk space of the original audio track and providing the nearest sound quality to an original CD. This is the reason why it has become the standard scheme to compress music on the web or internet. Since the size of music files is reduced and availability of various free mp3 player software has made it easy to distribute music and other audio recordings online. 

<b>Advantages of MP3</b>

1. Many digital audio formats have been developed by companies such as Microsoft, Lucent, and Yamaha which have restrictions on their technology that could be used by outside developers. But as of now MP3 has all the momentum to distribute music. 

2.  As there are no security features with Mp3 files, millions of these files are easily posted and passed around the web each day. These files are so small that these files could be easily downloaded or attached to an email while sending to any of your friends. 

3. Another reason is our listening habits that force the people to use mp3. You can collect all your favorite songs, bands or styles as per your preference and store it into your computer hard disk.   Next you can put all the songs in the play list and send it to the CD burner for recording. Later you are free to listen it anywhere with the help of portable mp3 players. 

4. Also an upcoming area for mp3 is web casting or audio streaming. Unlike mp3 downloads, streamed mp3 files are not stored in the computer hard disk but are broadcasted like traditional radio and receiver (mp3 player for instance). 

5. These are the few reasons you would start dabbling in mp3 but there are many ethical and legal issues which you need to consider before you start making mp3 downloads.

For more information visit our recommended website <a href="http://www.freedownloadmp3song.info">freedownloadmp3song.info </a>


