Title: 
The Longing: A Review

Word Count:
384

Summary:
A review of the self-titled debut of The Longing, a Christian worship band.


Keywords:
the Longing, Christian worship music, review


Article Body:
The Longing: Sincere Worship

“If there was one thing I could tell you about The Longing it would be this: our single desire as a band is to be worshippers.” The band’s website welcome says it all.

After spending the morning with The Longing’s new self-titled album, I can tell you they have stayed true to their mission. Offered by the exciting new media company, Indelible, “The Longing” blows a fresh wind across the worship genre, one with the capability to inspire and refresh those in the trenches. 

Headed by gifted songwriter Jason Ingram, himself refreshed by a God-ordained season of listening, The Longing has an organic, engaging sound that quickly brings David Crowder to mind, but also contains a hint of Euro-worship, i.e. Tim Hughes, Matt Redman. Which is not to say their sound is at all derivative; it is not. Part of what makes this project unique is its powerful sincerity. Several of the songs all but drip with humility, adoration and surrender. Ingram and company aim for the target of God’s own heart with these reverential songs, and provided a path of entry for true worshippers to follow.  

Upbeat opener “Heal This Land” immediately announces Ingram’s willingness to take corporate responsibility, confessing our desperate need for forgiveness and rescue. Ingram rises above the tired clichés of Christian lyricism, bringing both intelligence and authenticity to these songs of petition. His vocals ache with earnestness on melodic “Salvation Songs,” and the piano-driven rocker “Unleashed” reveals more of the depths of desire plumbed by The Longing:
“As we lift up a thousand hallelujahs, Matchless One, unleash yourself on us.”

Guest Christy Nockles brings her usual passion to the ode of surrender that is “My Offering” and the worship-laden hymn, “My Jesus, I Love Thee.” “All of Me” flows with the same desperate humility. Rocker “Only Your Love” is truly heart-stirring with its naked surrender, and yes, “naked” is the only appropriate term for this level of deep submission. Quiet closer “Eyes on You” ends the project perfectly, as the band relinquishes its collective heart once more in worship. There have not been many bands in recent times who have demonstrated more sincerity than the aptly titled The Longing. 

For more information and other reviews:  http://christianmusic.suite101.com/


