Title: 
The Future of Audio CDs in a Digital World

Word Count:
530

Summary:
A discussion of standard compact discs versus the advent of mp3 sound files and digital downloads


Keywords:
audio cd duplication, music cd duplication


Article Body:
Are CDs still a sound investment?

There was once a time that the first milestone in a band&#8217;s career was pressing a CD. There was always something special about the perfectly shrink- wrapped plastic case, the look of promise contained within the albums cover, and the power of a barcode branded in black and white on the tray card. For most, having a professionally pressed disc was like a signal that they&#8217;ve arrived and are proudly showing the world their art. While many still gauge their musical success in the culmination of a packed CD, the allure of digital downloads has caused many to question the need for CD Duplication in the future.

Ease of Use

Digital downloads, most commonly offered in the popular mp3 format, have quickly become a favorite of many music fans due to their easy transferability and lower cost. Mp3s use a process called psychoacoustic masking to compress a standard audio file into a smaller file size with very little if any audible quality loss (mp3 vs CD quality test). This technology allowed artists to offer high-quality renderings of their music directly to fans through online stores like iTunes or directly from their website. Because the band no longer had to front the manufacturing cost of the audio CD duplication, they are usually able to offer their music at a low price than that of a standard compact disc.

The Physiological Factor

While, mp3 technology can be beneficial to both the artist and the consumer, there are some disadvantages to purchasing music in a digital format. Aside from the loss of certain frequencies, mp3s typically live on a computer or portable listening device, which can be susceptible to data loss and system failure. Because of copyright concerns, music lost in computer crashes cannot be recovered without paying for all your songs again.  For users that don&#8217;t back up their data, there is a substantial risk of losing your entire music collection and ultimately your investment.

Also, many music fans still like the feeling of holding a tangible product in their hands. For them reading a CD booklet, and the physiological experience of holding a piece of the artist&#8217;s work is an important experience. These same fans are probably also likely to purchase merchandise at an artist&#8217;s performance or show. Since mp3s are a downloadable format, artist&#8217;s who opt for mp3 only releases may loose out on a percentage of sales and impulse buyers who want to take home souvenirs of their concert.

Consumer Options

With no shortage of compelling arguments for both formats, the only thing that is certain si that technology is giving both musicians and fans a broader range of options. Because selling mp3s through digital distribution websites cost no additional money, bands can manufacture standard CDs for those who prefer owning discs, and output high-quality mp3s for fans satisfied with lower priced downloads. In order to reach all of your target audience, it makes the most sense to provide as many buyer options as possible to maximize your potential market and ultimately album sales. 

Website: http://www.audio-cd-duplication
Contact: sales@audio-cd-duplication.com


