Title: 
The best music of all time

Word Count:
390

Summary:
Do you like music? I am not going to wait for the answer, because I already know it. Everyone loves music. But there are all kinds of music. And this pose my second question. What makes a good song? Is it the melody or the lyric? Or maybe the mood, production, arrangement? The answer is somewhere in the middle...


Keywords:
best music, old music, songs, best songs, best music of all time, all time


Article Body:
I will start with a simple question. Do you like music? I am not going to wait for the answer, because I already know it. Everyone loves music. But there are all kinds of music. And this pose my second question. What makes a good song? Is it the melody or the lyric? Or maybe the mood, production, arrangement? The answer is somewhere in the middle. I started with these questions, because today's music seems to lack one of the important ingredient: the feeling. If I was to answer those question by today's standards, the main and sometimes only ingredient for a good song is monotony. Nobody is making music because they feel it. It's all about the money. 

I'm looking at mainstream rappers and all they seem to talk is money, riches and so on. Where is the love in that? And the sad fact about that is that they are role models for our kids. What are the moral values our children will learn from this violent music? 


I am not going to throw rocks at nobody - I love hip-hop music, but when I look at these new music stars, it's like I'm having a bad deja vu. The same girl/boy singing on the same synthetic melody, with the same simple rhythm and the same background dancers. Think about it! The actual music often seems to lack creativity and the songs sound very similar.  How can a synthetic melody inspire passion? It's just like trying to smell an artificial flower. It might look like the real thing, but it's just not. 

So, let me get back to the second question, and I'll tell you why I love old music. What makes a good song? I don't really know that, but I can tell you why a song is great. Because it reminds me so vividly of past relationships, holidays, parties, friendships, terrific and sad times alike? In signing off on this list, I feel as if I'm leaving for a trip having spent three minutes packing. If I I'm going to be stuck on an island for the rest of my life, my only choice will be a stereo and 100 best songs of all time to keep me company.

I don't need anything else. Only the best music of all time, for me, time and time again.


