Title: 
The Power Of Songs

Word Count:
440

Summary:
What do a car ride, a wedding ceremony and any great party have in common? Many things probably, but one thing they have in commong for sure is songs. Think about it. So many of our daily activities and our special events include special songs.

Think about the things you love to do during the day. Love to watch television? Pretty much any television show is filled with the songs of different musical artists. Do you prefer to go to the mall and shop? If so, take time to lis...


Keywords:
songs


Article Body:
What do a car ride, a wedding ceremony and any great party have in common? Many things probably, but one thing they have in commong for sure is songs. Think about it. So many of our daily activities and our special events include special songs.

Think about the things you love to do during the day. Love to watch television? Pretty much any television show is filled with the songs of different musical artists. Do you prefer to go to the mall and shop? If so, take time to listen in each store you enter because you will find that songs make up the background noise at every shopping mall. If you are anything like me you cannot stand being in the car for more than a few minutes without turning on the radio or putting a tape in your player. Why? Because we love to hear songs. The next time you see someone out for a run on your street look closely and you very well might see a small cd player or another musical device that is pumping songs of inspiration into their ears as they exercise.

Will you agree that songs hold a lot of power? Many songs have the ability to put someone in a good mood or a bad mood pretty quickly. If you have ever been feeling down and then suddenly found yourself singing happily to the tune of one of your favorite songs then you know the power that songs can have. Songs have the ability to help us feel mellow or to make us feel excited. They are able to give us the energy to keep going or to relax us closer to sleep at night.

Songs also help us to celebrate many special events. Can you imagine a high school prom, a dance party, or a wedding reception without songs? Of course not. Because whether or not we realize it, songs have a huge role in most every event we participate in. Many people remember the first song they danced to at their prom or at their wedding. For whatever reason, songs tie us to memories like few other things do.

Many people enjoy hearing songs in live settings. You can enjoy the beauty and power of songs by attending a local concert put on by a choir or orchestra. You can also experience the power of live songs by ordering tickets to see your favorite musical artist or band play live.

Few things make up such a large part of our daily lives like songs. Enjoy the pleasure of listening to or even singing one of your favorite songs today.


