Title: 
U2s Bono From Rock Star To Designer To Humanitarian

Word Count:
741

Summary:
U2s lead singer Bono isn’t content with being part of a top band.   Fashion and Music – well I’m sure they can mix!


Keywords:
bono, u2, designer, humanitarian, rock star, singer


Article Body:
U2s lead singer Bono isn’t content with being part of a top band.   Fashion and Music – well I’m sure they can mix!

Bono was born Paul David Hewson in 1960 in Dublin Ireland.  His stage name  is Bono.  Bono is the lead singer of US, he is also a songwriter.  He married Ali Stewart in August 1982 and they have 5 children.  Bono is also actively involved in as an activist and screenwriter.

Paul was a curious child who seemed to see the world from a different perspective from the rest of the world.  When Paul was 15 he suffered the loss of his mother who he was very close to.  In high school Paul found himself drawn to music and playing the guitar, spending a great deal of time involved with the school theater.  The name Bono was the brain child of his close friend Guggi who took it from a Hearing Aide store located in Dublin.  Bono Vox also means good voice in latin. 

In 1976 a flyer was posted at his high school by Larry Mullen who was looking to form a band.  Paul was jumped at the opportunity.  The band became U2 which is now known around the globe.

Ali Hewson [nee Alison Stewart] grew up in the suburbs of north Dublin.  She met Bono at high school.  He tried to chat her up but she ignored him.  Over the years he continued to pursue her.  Their relationship moved very slowly because Alison wasn’t interested in becoming one of the Bono girls.  After his mother died, Ali being the practical person she is, helped Bono with the essentials like food and clothing. Ali was 22 when they wed.  

Ali Hewson appears to be open and down to earth in all respects.  She appears honest and never puts on that she knows more about a topic than she does.  She smiles often and appears to be a happy human being.  She earned her degree in social science, politics, and sociology at the age of 33.  She also became involved with Greenpeace.

It was having children that put Ali Hewson on the path of thinking more about the environment.  She became concerned about what they would grow up to have, what would be left of the environment.  Ali got involved with Greenpeace campaigning against the Sellafield nuclear power plant.  

Over time, U2 also became actively involved in the protest against the Sellafield nuclear power plant.  She had not direct responsibility for U2 becoming involved but because Bono and Ali share the same concerns, it was a natural outcome.  Ali feels as a wealthy person she has a responsibility to do what she can to raise awareness on such issues.  

So isn’t it natural that Bono and Ali have now evolved to another level of involvement with social politics.  Bono and his wife Ali Hewson now have their fingers in the Fashion industry.  But wait – this isn’t just any old fashion venture.  This one has a new twist.  Their goal is to involve developing countries in the producing of their clothing line, improving the quality of life for these people and their economic welfare.

A new line of clothing has hit the market – Edun – anyone catch that Edun is Nude spelt backwards? The Eden line consists of a casual collection of jeans, T-shirts, chiffon dresses, and blazers.  The line is available at Saks Fifth Avenue.

Bono and his wife are attempting to become actively involved in social activism and the betterment of people in developing countries.  Their goal is for the Edun collection to be soooo hot that it will be able to provide employment for people in developing nations around the world, developing stable long term relationships with these countries.  

Great thought goes into selecting which country will produce which clothing.  Selection is based on the resources and talent of the developing countries.  They attempt to make “good” matches which are beneficial to Edun and the developing country.  They believe that the developing countries and their people will benefit financially and emotionally.  But the big picture also means that these developing countries can become part of the global economy.  

Bono and his wife might be on the right track with this concept with Edun, as the consumers are becoming much more interested in knowing where and by whom the clothes they purchase are made.  The consumer has become social conscious.  So this concept could be a win win for everyone!


