Title: 
3 Tips To Find The Coolest Charms Online

Word Count:
387

Summary:
Wow, Charms are popular items these days. There are thousands of online businesses that sell Italian charms to all sorts of people who are interested in collecting or wearing charms as a fashion statement. We’ve dug through a lot of the offers out there and we found that charms of all sorts can be bought for reasonable prices if you look hard enough. Here are the 3 tips to find the coolest charms online. 

1)Search for charms on multiple search engines. While this might see...


Keywords:
charms, italian charms, sterling silver charms, charm bracelets


Article Body:
Wow, Charms are popular items these days. There are thousands of online businesses that sell Italian charms to all sorts of people who are interested in collecting or wearing charms as a fashion statement. We’ve dug through a lot of the offers out there and we found that charms of all sorts can be bought for reasonable prices if you look hard enough. Here are the 3 tips to find the coolest charms online. 

1)Search for charms on multiple search engines. While this might seem a little obvious to most people, guess what? Different search engines produce markedly different results. For instance, everyone seems to love Google these days. Google is, indeed a remarkable search engine, but it’s not everything. A lot of new sites have a very tough getting a decent Google ranking no matter what they do. While it may seem weird to dub Microsoft an underdog, the MSN search results might return all sorts of charm related sites that you can’t find elsewhere. Search for “Italian Charms” on MSN and Yahoo, not just Google and you will find very different sites selling different types of charms than those on Google. 

2)Compare designers. All charms are not created equal! What seems too good to be true usually is. Charms come from all sorts of designers, from the premiere designers in the world to the lowest quality imaginable. In fact, we wouldn’t be surprised to see Tiffany’s advertising a selection of charms. To say Tiffany’s products are different than other retailers’ is an understatement. Furthermore, some charms are made in China. Overall, expect lower quality in chinese charm bracelets than others. Pursue a good deal, but remember not all charms are created equal. 

3)Find a local designer or distributor. Try searching for charms with a zipcode or city name. For instance “charms 90292” might bring a list of local charm retailers near you. You might want to inspect the charm before buying them and using the internet to find local retailers is a great way to do so. Don’t ignore the local merchants, a lot of them have websites too. Use the web for more than mail order shopping, there are a lot of people who use the internet to show off their wares that are only available in their stores.


