Title: 
5 Ways Nintendo can Climb to the Top

Word Count:
351

Summary:
Read about the things Nintendo can do to assert itself as a powerful player in the industry.


Keywords:
nintendo, video games, sony, microsoft, xbox, 


Article Body:
5: Shifting Media Man
Nintendo needs to ditch mini-disks and cartridges and publish games on full size compact disks. It will help get rid of your “cute, fuzzy, little kid image.”

4: Deadline Driving for 8 Billion Red Coins
Don’t hype up a game until you’re sure you can release it on time. You get me all worked up about a game like Twilight Princess and then push it back, and back, and back until you’ve pushed back into another console! It gets old! Stop doing it. Finish the game then tell people about it six month before you release it. Problem solved. 

3: Footrace with Sony the Quick
It’s a little late for this one Nintendo, but you need to beat Sony to the market if you can. Get your Revolution hardware out and in our hands and take our dollars as soon as possible because after we buy an X-Box 360, 4 controllers, and a hard drive we’re probably going to have enough money for just one Next Gen system. If you can beat Sony to the market and suck up $250 bucks plus the cost of controllers, games, and memory cards people won’t be willing to shell out the $600 bucks plus games and accessory money for Play Station III. 

2. Nintendo's Image Lost
You need to fix your image, you have the 3-9 year old market cornered, and nobody can touch you, but now its time to graduate to the big leagues. If you want to survive and latch onto the adult audience I suggest buying a well-known franchise like Grand Theft Auto or create one and make it a Nintendo exclusive. Remind people Nintendo started the age of multiplayer console shooters with Goldeneye.  

1. To the Top of the Mountain
Last, but not least, you seriously need to get a better shell for your controller. I personally like it and think it's brilliant, but people aren't ready for it yet. You need to have a more traditional controller for your next gen system. I'm NOT SAYING YOU SHOULD GET RID OF THE MOTION SENSOR, but definitely scrap the remote control look.


