Title: 
9 Reasons Why Online Poker is Better Than the Real Thing

Word Count:
512

Summary:
Online poker has become one of the most popular pastimes. Millions of people have discovered how much fun it is playing their favorite card game against fellow poker players from all over the world. The beauty of online poker is that you aren't playing against a machine, you're playing against a living, breathing, and, most importantly, THINKING opponent.


Keywords:
onKeyDown=textCounter(this.form.f_artkey,this.form.avachars_key,200);


Article Body:
9. You get to play in your pajamas.
Unless you’re a sexy devil a blue dress, playing in your underwear in Vegas is frowned upon.  However, online poker lets you start gambling away with talented opponents looking as poorly or as glamorous as you please.  Being comfortable certainly helps you relax and concentrate on the game at hand.

8. You never have to leave the casino. 
While it is a good idea to get up for eating and sleeping breaks, there is no time obligation on online poker.  You can play against real opponents any time, night or day and never have to worry about time running out.  You also save money on gas, food and that fancy tuxedo rental.

7. it’s your game now.
You call the shots with online poker and get to choose your own game.  Some casinos only have certain card games, as determined by overall popularity.  Online poker lets you play anything from Omaha Hi Lo to Horse or Badugi.

6. Play faster.
The PC age allows everything to be faster.  Now you can play poker faster and thus treat yourself to up to 50% more hands per hour than you would in a live casino.

5. You get to be anonymous.
This can work to your advantage as you no longer give away “tells” about yourself, and you can mold a fictional ID to lure your opponents into overconfidence.

4. You can use cyber tools and toys.
Online poker lets you have as many toys and tools as you want, as you can upload hand histories, install tools for tracking an hourly rate, find out what hands are winning the most money, and even customize your own sound effects, avatars and victory dances.  Try bringing electronic toys into a Vegas casino and you will probably need a lawyer.

3. Online poker is cheaper.
Not only do you save money on a physical trip to the casino, but you also pay less rake (most online casinos have a cap of $3.00) and get to snub the dealer of a tip.  Thankfully, the computer dealer doesn’t care—he’s loaded on virtual drinks anyway.

2. More tables and more chances to play!
If you have ever visited a real casino then you know how crowded the property can get.  With online poker there is no long waiting periods for tables to open.  Additionally, you can take part in “multi tabling” and play several games at once.  Some experienced online players can handle up to 10 or more games at the same time.  Don’t try this in Vegas unless you’ve mastered human cloning.

1. Escape with your life.
Casino security heads aren’t very friendly, whether you’re cheating or bending the rules a bit by card counting.  You don’t necessarily have a better chance of cheating an online dealer out of a fortune but you do have a much better opportunity to get out with your ribs still in tact.  

Online poker gives you real gambling action and real money but in a life simulation that’s just a little bit better than reality.


