Title: 
A Peek Through Heroes: When Drama Meets Science Fiction

Word Count:
532

Summary:
This article talks about the hit new series in television, Heroes. It relates the stories of the main characters in the story, and shares their unique abilities as well. Each episode is characterized by the stories of these special people and is continuously giving viewers pure entertainment in each story they relay.


Keywords:
fear, lifestyle, self destruction, relationship


Article Body:
One of the most top-rated television shows currently on air would be Heroes, a sci-fi series created by Tim Kring. It is an epic drama that shares the lives of seemingly ordinary people who later discovers that they possess extraordinary abilities. This TV series somewhat copies the style of American comic books in aesthetic as well as storytelling. The shows starts with a genetic professor from India, Dr. Mohinder Suresh and his father's theory that there are people with extraordinary abilities living among us humans. Starting with Claire Bennet, an indestructible cheerleader who needs to hide her abilities from her peers while working to maintain her relationship with her father, a man of mystery who has a keen interest in people like her. Niki Sanders, a Las Vegas single mother with superb strength and has a dangerous mirror image struggles to support and protect her young son Micah, a genius who can interact with electronic machinery through touch. Matt Parkman, a police detective from Los Angeles, attempts to put his ability to hear thoughts of others to good use. Meanwhile, in Japan, Hiro Nakamura's ability to travel through space-time continuum has empowered him to change the future as he travels on wild adventures with his best friend Ando Masahashi. Nathan Petrelli, with a congressional position, has the ability to fly. His dreams went down after failing to stop his younger brother Peter Petrelli, a nurse with the ability to absorb the powers of others, from exploding over New York. After this clash in New York, the fate of Sylar, a manipulative serial killer dedicated to violently collect the extraordinary powers of special people, is unknown. Meanwhile, in Dominican Republic, a young woman named Mava Herrera and her twin brother, haunted by her threatening ability, attempts to make the dangerous cross to the United States in search for answers. Monica Dawson, cousin of Micah, has mimicking abilities and would give up everything to help the people around her. 

Every episode shows how these people deal with their powers and how they are somewhat interconnected. Every person has their own lifestyle, making the series much more realistic. It shows different ways of living in different countries, only to find out that they have supernatural powers. These characters offer a wide range of relationships, and are inclined to self-destruction. Of course, they fear what other people might say, and fear not knowing exactly what they could do with their powers. The show offers a life drama that everyone could easily relate to, plus a twist of extraordinary powers. In season one of this series, they gave us an introduction of how these special people become   connected by their unique and special abilities. It gave us an overview of these characters and their unique abilities, and how others try to manipulate these powers in a bad way.

Season two is still on and is focused on introducing new sets of characters, also with unique abilities as well. Many people all over the world have been constantly raving about this series, proving its success and good ratings. With each episode, they consistently show us different stories of different people with only one goal: to save the world.


