Title: 
Acting Lesson To Be An Successful Actor

Word Count:
410

Summary:
Successful Actors
Advice to anyone who wants a career as an actor.

Be on time.
On a big film the money is going out the door at about 30 grand every 20 minutes. On a network TV show the rate is only a bit less. If you are ten minutes late for a job that pays five hundred bucks - you will be very disliked by the producer and everybody that works for him. People will scream at you. If you are late for an audition, the casting director will worry that you won't get to the j...


Keywords:
Acting Lesson, Acting Lessons


Article Body:
Successful Actors
Advice to anyone who wants a career as an actor.

Be on time.
On a big film the money is going out the door at about 30 grand every 20 minutes. On a network TV show the rate is only a bit less. If you are ten minutes late for a job that pays five hundred bucks - you will be very disliked by the producer and everybody that works for him. People will scream at you. If you are late for an audition, the casting director will worry that you won't get to the job on time. If you are late for a job, that casting director will also have people screaming at her. And further more there is no such thing as an eight-hour day in show business. If you cannot work a long day, you are unsuited for success in show business.

Be an early riser.
If you want to be in the movie or television business, you must be the kind of person who can get up at 5 in the morning. If you work in the theatre, your early rising will fall about 10 AM - because you work into the night. But if you plan on working in this industry you would do well to make early rising a lifelong habit. The early starts and long hours mean that you will be spending about half your life with co-workers. If you are a pain in the butt - you will be heartily disliked by other people who are also working 12 hour days. Word will get around and it will be harder to get work. Therefore be nice to people no matter what. You have to keep your 'creative juices' flowing during the entire 12 hours. If you don't love doing this kind of work, being on for 12 hours is impossible.

Well groomed and clean.
You are not the part. Even the guys who play bikers and bums wear deodorant and have clean teeth. Your breath must be pleasant. A co-worker who literally stinks will get a reputation and lose opportunities because of it.

No complains
Those actors on sets who do complain about the dressing rooms, the food, the director, the co-star, the costume people, the lack of work, the hours, the script and pretty much anything. They are labelled as complainers and are rarely appreciated or tolerated for very long.

Good value from you
When you habitually give 100% of your energy to the work - you will get more work.


