Title: 
Adult Industry Awards 2007

Word Count:
470

Summary:
Just back from the Adult Industry Awards 2007 so here's a report of what was hot and what was very hot!


Keywords:
rabbit vibrator, vibrator, adult toys


Article Body:
With this years awards being split into 2 main categories, and for that matter two arenas, adult productions (mainly DVD producers, actors and actresses) and sex toys. While the allure of the DVD awards was tempting I kept to my brief and spent a weekend searching out the new products and also keeping a keen eye on the movers and shakers in the industry.
Day one was expo day and resembled an upmarket car boots sale, albeit the products where shiny and new and the tables where adorned with vibrators, dildos, stap-ons and all manner of sex toys, some of which I had a hard time working out which way they went on and what exactly they did.
The big guns where out in force with Doc Jonson commanding a prime spot in the arena, the big push (if that's the right word) was on their new range of Pretty End butt plugs and a range of Pretty Jenna Jameson vibrators and dildos. The most interesting thing about the new ranges where the pale pastel colors selected with each coming in a total of six different colors and the most exciting of these was the G-spot "Brianna" range, and the guys and gals at Doc Johnson where kind enough to let me have one in appealing Baby Blue color. Review on this to follow no doubt, but hey it's been a busy week and well, I haven't had time to road test it yet - shame on me!
Moving on to the awards on day two of the event and there was a little surprise, but not in fairness a huge one, in the best female toy with the Rabbit Pearl vibrator coming in at number one with I'm told a huge majority vote.
One interesting male sex toy that seems to have made a resurgence and indeed picked up Best in Class for Male Sex Toy as voted by readers of Heat magazine was the Penisator, a strange device that slips over the penis and can be used alone or during intercourse. A simple concept with very popular sensations for both parties.
Best selling toy of 2006, no prizes for guessing this one and with worldwide sales in the millions the classic Rabbit Vibrator romped home with a comfortable victory in this class. Runner up went to the new range of Glow in the Dark beads from Nasstoys and third place went to a personal favourite, California Exotics "Shanes World Hottie".
With attendance of in excess of 50,000 people in one weekend the show has been a massive hit once again and it was nice to see old faces and nice to see lots of new faces too. So let's look forward to a year of new exciting products to tickle all our fancies and fatasies and look forward to Expo 2008 in Denmark.


