Title: 
Art Schools

Word Count:
345

Summary:
Art schools offer many type of study, such as painting, sculpture, graphic design, and illustration.  Here are some tips to help you get into an art school and the links below offer more information and resources.


Keywords:
art schools,  art school, art education


Article Body:
ART SCHOOLS

An Art school has a primary focus on the visual arts, such as graphic design, illustration, painting, photography, and sculpture.  They are specific to the type of education that you wish to obtain.  Art schools differ from larger institutions by degrees including such classes as science and math.  When the school is considered an accredited college, you can still obtain a bachelor of Fine Arts degree. There are certain criteria that you need to meet in order to be accepted into an art school.  What the admissions committees look for in an applicant is:

Grades: the committee wants to make sure that the future student will be successful and thrive under academic pressure. 

Students who have strong academic backgrounds are preferred.  Do not worry if you are not the strongest academic applicant. 

The Admissions counselors also take personal background and extracurricular activities into consideration. 

Improve your chances of being accepted at the art school of your choice, by improving your GPA, participating in after school activities, (if you are still in school), involvement in the community or neighborhood, and/or participation in civic or religious groups.  These will all give you an advantage when applying to the art school you wish to attend, as they will enhance your application making it more likely to be accepted.

It is always a challenge to be accepted into art school, but it is never impossible.  No matter what you reason is for applying to art school, whether it is to better your qualifications and improve your chances of getting a promotion or if you are just out of high school wanting to attend school. 

There will always be ways to improve your chances of getting into art school.  Therefore, take a look around talk to people that may be going to the school of your choice.  Never be afraid to ask questions.  You will find that people are willing to give you the information you need in order to optimize your application.  Do not be afraid to take all the advantages and advise you can get.


