Title: 
Art Gallery

Word Count:
365

Summary:
Visiting an art gallery is an educational and worthwhile venture.  Why not take the time and visit your local art gallery with a friend or take the whole family.


Keywords:
Art gallery, art centers, art, online art gallery


Article Body:
Art Galleries are generally known for art that highlights the natural beauty all around the world. Everyday there are people creating entirely new works of art, and placing them in art galleries all over the world. 

The type of art included in a gallery can vary. Art can encompass a wide variety of medium, such as, drawings, paintings, photography, and sculpture, to name a few. The purpose of the art gallery is to show off the work of local and national artists in a way that people will want to purchase them. Many of the artist’s works can also be bought as prints. This allows the artist to sell more, while making the price more affordable to people. 

Local Art Galleries 

Most major cities have wonderful art galleries. If you have never visited an art gallery, you should make a point to do so. You may think that an art gallery is not where you would want to spend the afternoon, but you may be surprised at how interesting an art gallery can be. Check your local phone book for an art gallery near you. 

Virtual Art Galleries 

If you have Internet access, then you can find an online art gallery, my choice as well. If you can view and possibly order from the comfort of your own home why not. Virtual tours of art galleries are a lot of fun. 

As with walk in art galleries, virtual art galleries are also worldwide. Listed below are a few galleries that you can visit online. 

o Art Vitam, Miami, Florida 
o Art of this Century, Paris, France 
o Art Space/Virginia Miller Galleries, Coral Gables, Florida 
o Artco Galleria de Arte, Lima, Peru 
o Casa d’Arte San Lorenzo, Pisa, Italy 
o Diana Lowenstein Fine Arts, Miami, Florida 
o Espace D'Art Yvonamor Palix, Paris, France 
o Galleria El Museo, Bogotá, Colombia 
o Galleria Habana, Mexico D.F., Mexico 
o Galleria de Arte Isabel Aninat, Santiago, Chile 

Take the time to experience wonderful works of art at your local art gallery or on the internet. Even if you are not an art enthusiast, the works of fine artists all over the world will impress you.


