Title: 
Audio Books – What’s Hot For 2006?

Word Count:
324

Summary:
2006 is already here and many ask me what we should expect of the emerging interesting market of Audio Books. Audio books have been here for over 20 years and they have become so popular in the last couple of years but yet I claim that the audio books revolution has just begun. 
Find out the hot trends in the audio books market for 2006:

1. Less audio books on CD and cassettes and more downloadable audio books – MP3 audio books and other formats of digital audio books wil...


Keywords:
digital audio books, audio books, free audio books, audio book rental, audio books on CD


Article Body:
2006 is already here and many ask me what we should expect of the emerging interesting market of Audio Books. Audio books have been here for over 20 years and they have become so popular in the last couple of years but yet I claim that the audio books revolution has just begun. 
Find out the hot trends in the audio books market for 2006:

1. Less audio books on CD and cassettes and more downloadable audio books – MP3 audio books and other formats of digital audio books will become cheaper and more reachable, While audio books on CD and books on tape are much less convenient and user friendly. The amount of podcast listeners who download audio books from the internet to listen on their mobile devices such as iPod will rise significantly.

2. Audio book rental services will become the most common method of listening to audio books – Similar to the DVD market, most audio book listeners will prefer renting audio books instead of buying them. This trend will be the strongest for downloadable audio books but also true for audio books on CD and books on tape.

3. Free audio books – More online audio book services will offer low cost and free audio books by free trials and special sales.

4. Audio books will invade Europe – While the audio book market in the United kingdom is developed and have reached a turnover of 124$ million in 2004, The market in Germany is constantly rising and have already reached a turnover of 120$ million in 2005. The audio book market in the whole continent is expected to rise in about 20% during 2006.

Sony has also recognized the emerging market of digital audio books and has recently announced of a new audio book mobile player. The new product will let the users store and listen to digital audio books and is predicted to gain the same popularity as the “iPod”.

Audio books will be a part of everyone’s life. Join the audio book revolution


