Title: 
Audio Books - 5 Unheard of Uses

Word Count:
564

Summary:
You probably know what audio books are, but do you know what they can do?  This article discusses the not so obvious uses for audio books and the seemless integration of them into an ordinary persons life.


Keywords:
audio books, audio, books, audiobook, audio book, audiobooks, book


Article Body:
Five Reasons to Listen to Audio Books You May Never Have Thought Of

The typical hardcover or paperback book is not going anywhere.   The format shows no signs of ever dying off, even after considering the many technological advances made in recent years.  It would, however, be foolish to deny the obvious and not so obvious benefits of listening to audio books. Here are some ways audio books could be put to use:
1.	Do you like reading poetry? Then experience it in the way it was meant to be experienced: with your ears! Back in the good old days, it was not uncommon for poets to recite their works before a swooning audience. The great Irish poet and playwright, W.B. Yeats, was said to have written poetry in such a manner that, when vocalized, it would have a certain effect on the ears of its hearers. If you like the writings of T.S. Eliot, there is actually available a recording, on compact disc, of Mr. Eliot himself reading his own poetry. It’s obviously a fascinating investment for fans of Eliot. It’s only one in a series called The Voice of the Poet.
2.	Fight road rage while listening to audio books—seriously. Statistics show that violent crime resulting from what is commonly known as “road rage” has increased tremendously over the past couple of years. If you happen to be one of those individuals with a bit of a mean-streak when behind the wheel, then don’t take to the boulevard without Waitley’s Optimal Stress Reduction in your passenger seat—or simply check out a few of the innumerable audio book titles available from an audio book rental club or in your local book store in the self-help section
3.	Revisit the “Golden Age of Radio”. It is now possible to find a vast array of classic radio dramas on compact disc. Fans of The Shadow radio program have known this, and are undoubtedly pleased. Also, if you happen to like The Twilight Zone television series, then try to get your hands on a copy of The Twilight Zone Radio Dramas—Lou Diamond Phillips and Adam West are among the talent contributing to these programs.
4.	Struggling in child-rearing? Audio books just might be part of the solution. Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix is a hit with the kids (just as every other Harry Potter book has been); and an obvious choice might be an audio book from the Lord of the Rings series—these classic Tolkien works are available in abridged and unabridged editions.

 5.   Learn another language… in your sleep. When you fall asleep your brain doesn’t just turn off.  On the contrary, research has shown that the sleeping brain does receive, process and perhaps even store information.  So why not use your good nights sleep effectively by listening to one of the many foreign language audio books.  And while this technique may not be the only means of mastering a second or third language, it will make things a little bit easier.

	If these uses don’t seem practical to you, they might put you in the mindset to think of your own ways to utilize audio books.  And although some may say that listening to audio books is no substitute for reading, the growing popularity of audio book rental services such as Jiggerbug.com may eradicate paper books completely or at least come close!


