Title: 
Barcelona Tour!

Word Count:
552

Summary:
When you click on the website link, a simple yet classy homepage of the website unfurls right before your eyes. Designed tastefully, the homepage ensnares your interest by presenting a vivid picturesque image of one of the most beautiful must-visit places in the world, Barcelona, located in Spain.


Keywords:
Tour, Barcelona, Historic Beauties


Article Body:
When you click on the website link, a simple yet classy homepage of the website unfurls right before your eyes. Designed tastefully, the homepage ensnares your interest by presenting a vivid picturesque image of one of the most beautiful must-visit places in the world, Barcelona, located in Spain.

This website is laden with everything you might want to know about Barcelona, which is the capital of Catalunya, a delightful and welcoming place of historical defeats and recent victories, situated at the Catalan region of Spain. 
 Ease and accessibility has got to be the website’s greatest asset, as the content is presented in a user-friendly format, and well-written and informative. 

The website is edifying and informative, and you will find yourself plunging into the minutiae and niceties of one of the most beautiful cities in the world, Barcelona. 
Apart from the historical beauties, the website provides information on the night life of the city. The website states that Barcelona has a very good nightlife because of the plethora of tourists who pay a visit practically every week! 
For something exciting yet different, <a href="www.barcelona-tour.net">Barcelona Tour</a>recommends the Las Ramblas and Barri Gotic part of the city, which will offer a medieval feel to the area. The website also recommends the Plaza Sant Agusti, a funky bar with an attached restaurant. If you’re craving for some clean and healthy adult fun, the popular bars and pubs are the Aurora, which is located in Centre Cuidad Vella. They have some of the best drinks such as Capirinhas, Mojitos and Pina Colodas, and a wide screen TV for entertainment. For the simpletons who’re looking to have a relaxing dinner at a posh place, the website recommends Abac, which serves Catalan food with international and cosmopolitan influences. 

They have seal slugs with ravioli stuffed with fennel. The Barceloneta is another swanky seafood restaurant, and they offer you the most delectable rice and fish dishes in the world. They have scrumptious salads and also pork and Catalan specialty dishes—a dream come true for the foodies who love experimenting with fancy cuisines. 
Delving back into the historic intricacies of the city, the website provides you ample information about the most famous architect in Spain, Antoni Gaudi, and his masterpieces. One of his great architecture masterpieces was the Casa Vicens. The home, constructed for an industrialist, was so beautifully designed that it is a part of the UNESCO World Heritage Site.

The website mentions some of the late architect’s excellent masterpieces, and a brief about each. For those who have a penchant for architecture, this place is just for you to visit. 

The website also gives you teensy tips as to how to get yourself an economical flight to Barcelona. The website offers informative news snippets about the most city in the world. And last, but not the least, when you click on ‘Barcelona Videos’, you’re sure to find yourself catapulting into a page filled with several exiting videos of the city. 
The website possesses a blend of information and oodles of fun thrown in for good measure. Concise, instructive, and yet informative, the website doesn’t reveal all of the secrets of Barcelona. For that, well, you just have to visit the most beautiful city in the world.


