Title: 
Before you buy Dining Room Table

Word Count:
550

Summary:
In choosing appropriate dining room furniture many things should be paid close attention to, like dining habits of those living in the house, comfort, budget, style, preferences etc. Sometimes it gets too daunting and in our hurry to buy, we end up making wrong decisions. This article will help you choose the right dining room furniture – tables to start with.


Keywords:
dining room tables, contemporary dining tables, modern dining tables


Article Body:
Dining is one of the most important things people do in their day, though they may not realize it. Why, because aside from quelling hunger pangs, dining is also meant to spend some quality time with the whole family.
 
This is why close attention should be paid to make dining room as comfortable as possible. Yes it does cost some serious money but with some adjustments, even forlorn rooms can be made as satisfying as mom's home cooking without denting the pocket by much.

Just how to do it? Let’s start with dining room tables, which is the focus of this article.

Choosing the right dining room table goes beyond simple aesthetics. Its location determines its style and materials, for example in kitchens, a hard-wearing solid wood top is crucial; large, formal dining rooms require a table with a strong presence; if your taste veers towards modern then contemporary and modern dining tables would work best.

These decisions will affect the look of the home and sense of space. So before actually going for shopping ponder over following points.

<b>Before Shopping for a Dining Room Table</b>

To fine tune your planning, here’s a list of things to consider prior to your purchase: 

1.	Budget – How much have you allocated?
2.	Family – What is the size of your family?
3.	Space – What is the size of your dining room? Cramped space makes getting in and out of chairs awkward.
4.	Lifestyle – Do you entertain often? Formally or informally?
5.	Usage – What other usage do you have for the table e.g. study, arts and craft?
6.	Special requirements – Do you need mobility or you would want to extend it to seat 12?

In addition to the above, take along the floor plan and measurements when you go shopping.

<b>Tips on Picking the Right Dining Room Table</b>

Following points would help you in selecting the right dining table: 

<b>Dining Table Shape</b> - When considering a dining room table, its shape is the most important consideration since it affects the space in your dining room. Find out the pros and cons of common shapes. For example, a circular, glass dining table may be very trendy looking and would give your dining area a modern appeal. But you would need to have a large, square-shaped area to give it enough room.

<b>Dining Table Size</b> – Take note of the size of the dining area and the size of the table to check whether the table would have enough breathing space around it.

<b>Dining Table Material</b> - Since the dining room table anchors the look of the space, its material affects the moods and style you’d like to bring to the room. Decide on what suits you best in terms of materials. Again, the uses you will put your dining table to will help you decide the most suitable material.

<b>Dining Table Style</b> – Make a statement and select the right style to add character and flair to your dining room. 

Remember that a good dining experience needs a relaxed atmosphere so don’t get hung up on designer looks. No table should be so precious that guests are afraid of leaving smudges. Destined to be oft-used, this piece of dining room furniture must be adaptable to the household’s needs.


