Title: 
Bridal Jewelry: Common Mistakes

Word Count:
414

Summary:
Jewelry is a momentous component to most weddings. In fact, many couples introduce the idea of getting married with an engagement ring and they seal the deal with a set of wedding bands. Bridal jewelry is an ancient practice that is said to have originated with the Romans. Today, many couples take extra care when choosing the appropriate wedding jewelry. Unfortunately, there are some mistakes that brides have made in the past as it relates to choosing the perfect jewelry for their wedding day. The following is a list of mistakes that brides should be careful to avoid when choosing bridal jewelry.


Keywords:
fine jewelry,wedding jewelry


Article Body:
The Engagement Ring

Shopping for the perfect engagement ring can be very exciting, yet thought provoking. For most couples, an engagement ring is intended to serve as a permanent fixture in their relationship. With this said, it is important for the couple not to select a diamond engagement ring that is too trendy. Selecting bridal jewelry that is too up-to-the-minute may cause the bride to grow out of her ring in a couple of years. The best engagement ring is one that is timeless.

Bridal Accessories

The average bride will choose a bridal jewelry set to wear with her wedding gown. However, it is important that the bride refrain from choosing bridal jewelry before she has selected her wedding dress. Hence, bridal accessories are supposed to enhance the dress--not the other way around. This important factor follows the age-old question--What comes first, the chicken or the egg?

Something Borrowed

Inheriting a family treasure from mother, grandmother, or even great-grandmother is a kind gesture--especially when it can be worn on the bride's wedding day. Although wearing a family heirloom for bridal jewelry is sentimental, it may not be a practical choice. As mentioned earlier, the purpose of accessories is to enhance the overall appearance of the wedding dress. If grandmother's antique pearls conflicts with the style of the wedding gown, it may be best not to wear the heirloom. In this case, it may be a good idea to agree to wear the borrowed jewelry to the engagement party, rehearsal dinner, or on the honeymoon.

Something Old

This could easily apply to something that you received from your mother, grandmother, etc.. but it can also be something that brings back pleasant early memories. How long did you know your future husband? Maybe your bridal jewelry is a reflection of the first present he gave you (visit to a fabulous beach). How about beach themed jewelry for you and your bridesmaids.

Something New

Even if you choose to make an heirloom as the center of your bridal jewelry, complement it with some of the elegance of modern Swarovski crystal accessories or the latest designs in pearls.

Bridal jewelry is a significant element in preparing for marriage. As a symbol of everlasting love and an enhancement for the bride's wedding attire, it's important to avoid common mistakes that many brides have made in the past. When it comes to selecting the perfect bridal jewelry, the bride should choose wisely!

Article written by Michelle Lindsey


