Title: 
Cast Away

Word Count:
1253

Summary:
I am sure that there will be wags who glibly compare with similar Cast Away “Gilligan Island” and “breadwinner”, but, in tone, approach and common achievement, it is atypical Robinson Crusoe tale bears a strong resemblance to one of director Robert Zemeckis earlier efforts , contacts.


Keywords:
download movie


Article Body:
I am sure that there will be wags who glibly compare with similar Cast Away “Gilligan Island” and “breadwinner”, but, in tone, approach and common achievement, it is atypical Robinson Crusoe tale bears a strong resemblance to one of director Robert Zemeckis earlier efforts , contacts. No, not Cast Away space or messages from another planet, but, in essence, it was no link. Both films ask the same crucial existential question that Shakespeare pondered for years: Taking everything into account, what does that mean for humans? How do we cope with the loss, hopelessness and isolation, and still find the courage to face the next day? Love and the dream of a dead father Jodie Foster sustained contact. For Tom Hanks’ Chuck Noland Cast away, it is a promise by his smile equally lacking - and least favorite - wife to be.

Last time Zemeckis and Hanks together, a legend was born - with the idiot savant Forrest Gump. A brilliantly conceived trip in the second half of the 20 th century, Forrest Gump was part folksy feel-good drama, as part of a well-concealed satire. In 1994 blockbuster offers much more than his opponents, and even some of his supporters acknowledge. Those expecting Zemeckis and Hanks for reconsideration of the same territory in Cast Away will be surprised - apart from film Oscar potential, there is little interaction. Cast Away will not be crowd-pleaser that Forrest Gump was, but he is a better, more rewarding experience. And, just when you think that over, he defies expectations and metamorphoses into something different and more convincing.

Year 1995. Chuck Noland is excessive Federal Express run zips, which from one country to another for troubleshooting problems and streamline operations. His mantra is to do everything necessary to get his nomination package on time. In his younger days, he was known for stealing a bicycle child do after his delivery truck broke down. Fresh from a visit to Russia, Chuck enjoying Christmas dinner with his girlfriend, Kelly (Helen Hunt), and his family, when the call comes in: it needs in Malaysia. After some time, he in the air, flying through stormy skies over the South Pacific. Suddenly the plane is off course, yet another explosion, and Chuck finds himself submerged in the womb of the crashed plane. In inflatable life raft makes it to the surface, and it bears on the deserted tropical island, where he learned that survival without the attributes of civilization, is much more complicated than it be made of in books, on television and in movies. There may not be any people on the island, but something is making noise in the jungle at night. And as it is for food and drinking water? Without adequate funds, simple tasks such as opening a coconut or fire became herculean effort.

Cast Away is divided into three distinct steps: installation, the main story, and afterwards. Despite the fact that at the heart of the film is 75 - minute-depth experience Chuck and marooned, this is the third act, which does not offer simple solutions for complex situations that the film raises to the level of inciting new adventures fully satisfying drama. This film Red Planet could, if it has the courage to challenge the audience, rather than saddle them with worn-out, regurgitated plot.

In the crash, which occurred during the first half solved differently from almost any air disaster I have ever seen in motion pictures. Zemeckis employs digital effects, but do not show disaster (he uses them in the first place and then to create a perfect storm in style waves). We see the events from inside the plane, against the backdrop of wind and darkness, and this entails a truly eerie and disturbing situation. Later, when Chuck in the water, a sense of danger is palpable - especially during one unforgettable moment when the plane of rotation of the screw bears down on his little life raft.

The scenes on the island before the phenomenon of intelligence (unlike similar events chronicled in the lame Six days, seven nights, which used similar circumstances). About Chuck We follow his step-by-step way of survival, where even the smallest things, such as drink From coconut milk or using a MacGyver-like ingenuity in the development tool, a significant achievement. Zemeckis’ approach to this part of the movie is flawless. He never decrease of Chuck - no “Back to Memphis” scenes, which would violate the mood, and there was no random music. For more than an hour, the only sounds heard are the island’s natural noises (and a bit of dialogue, as Chuck volleyball starts talking to the ball, which becomes his lone “companion”). Moreover, the script does not cook any isolated areas-swallow, melodramatic situations or artificial conflicts. In fact, those expecting the usual adventure film may be disappointed. Cast Away always interesting, but not necessarily in a traditional manner.

By the time the 30 - minute epilogue comes, we are already deeply committed Chuck nature - a fact that makes the final difficult to cope with the dilemma. Once again, Zemeckis and screenwriter William Broyles Jr. avoided melodramatic, and manipulate clich s, which could reduce Cast Away, to a lesser film. They remain true to the characters and situations to the end, which is a literal and figurative crossroads. There is a kind of catharsis, but it will not be final, to meet all the spectators.

For his level of work, the role of the guests, it is not surprising if I Hanks earned another Oscar nomination. The film success rests with him because he is on screen more than half of the current time. It is one thing for an actor to win, playing for the other, a different matter for him to excel in no one else around, and virtually no dialogue to speak. In addition, the physical changes that Hanks had to take part in the play that sharp - he was forced to lose weight and get in quickly and emergency numbers (so much so that the “weight loss coach” is credited at the end). The actor is ready to go through the rigors Hanks survived certainly deserve any notice, especially when it turns into a top-notches performance.

The only other significant player Helen Hunt, which has become widespread in motion pictures, which are now “Mad About You” is behind it. This is his fourth film in four months (the other three: Dr. T and the Women, Pay It forward, and the Women Want). This time, it supports more player, but, despite limited screen time, it manages to develop Kelley in the flesh and blood of a man who is crucial to the film emotional foundation. Hunt Of all the recent departures, it is easily its strongest work.

For as long as he works in Hollywood, Robert Zemeckis will be linked to Forrest Gump. How good movie that, as was, it was not his best work. In many ways, and Cast Away us stronger and more compelling features. For the year, which was not known for strong theater-will experience Cast Away at the top of the heap. It has all the characteristics of a great picture: well-developed characters, solid drama, adventure unconventional, and intelligent script. At almost two and a half hours, it is the perfect length - not too long and not too short. Whether or not Cast Away earns any Oscar nominations, then among my picks, as one of the best films of the year.
<a href="http://www.zml.com/movie/cast-away-40186.htm?did=596" title="Cast Away"><strong>Click here to download Cast Away movie&#8230;</strong></a>


