Title: 
Chinese Tea is one of the Most Popular Products of China

Word Count:
377

Summary:
After water, tea is the most popular beverage on earth. It is consumed in large quantities all over the world, but is likely most popular in Asia.


Keywords:
Green Tea, Chinese Tea, Black Tea, Tea Gift


Article Body:
After water, tea is the most popular beverage on earth. It is consumed in large quantities all over the world, but is likely most popular in Asia. Tea was even discovered in Asia, and most of the world’s tea is still grown in this part of the world, though India is a close second. In fact, drinking a cup of tea with every meal is good for one’s metabolism. Tea is also a natural beverage. The Chinese weight loss teas are produced based on the belief that the caffeine in tea increases body function to help burn more calories. The tea also contains polyphenols, which helps with the digestion of fat, thus making Chinese tea good helpful for losing weight. Most if not all types of Chinese tea are considered effective for weight loss. They all offer a low calorie alternative to commercial beverages. Nevertheless, the Pu-erh and Oolong teas have received the most attention regarding weight loss.

Chinese teas may help lower and maintain your cholesterol levels. A recent study looked at the possibility that the antioxidants in Chinese teas, specifically called epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG) could affect diet induced Hypercholesterolemia in rats. Hypercholesterolemia is high levels of LDL or bad cholesterol in the blood. This in of itself isn’t a disease but it can cause heart diseases, such as Atherosclerosis or hardening of the arteries. Only in recent years, the medical community jumped on the Chinese tea bandwagon. Now, researchers are conducting numerous studies on the viability of Chinese tea extracts in the treatment and prevention of many diseases and conditions. The most common types of Chinese teas are:
&#61656;	Green tea
&#61656;	Red tea
&#61656;	White tea
&#61656;	Black tea
&#61656;	Oolong tea
&#61656;	Pu-erh tea
&#61656;	Flower tea
&#61656;	Yellow tea
&#61656;	Pressed tea
&#61656;	Iron Buddha
&#61656;	Kudin tea

Bojenmi Chinese tea is one of the most popular products of China that has been used mainly for weight loss. In fact, it has been used for such purpose for the past twenty years. In Chinese the term "bojenmi” means "slim and beautiful”. The bojenmi Chinese tea formulation is basically provided in the form of a loose tea and easy to use tea bags. Several ingredients are used for this herb formulation, but the main ingredient is the tealeaf from Fujian Province.


