Title: 
Comic Book Art

Word Count:
335

Summary:
Have you considered a career in creating comic book art?  With a wide variety of comic books on the market today, the job opportunities in comic books are endless.  The link at the bottom of this page will get you started towards a career in comic book art arena.


Keywords:
comic book art, comic book art work, comic book,  comics


Article Body:
With the variety of comic books on the market today no wonder so many young people have decided to enter the comic book art market.  There are never ending opportunities in this field and you do not have to be a natural to make it happen. 

Artist's workshops

Comic Book artist workshops are designed for anyone that would like to get into the market for comic book art.  They will have the chance to learn the secret language of chronological story telling in comics. While having the opportunity to create characters and tell stories through pictures, they can grow in a direction that will teach them about the many forms of communication.  Learning to draw from imagination or from real life experiences, you can turn these experiences into comic book stories and learn to express those ideas in the very best ways.  

Online comic book art workshops

The best way to attend a workshop is online, as the workshop is completed in the comfort of your home and you will be able to find one that suits your needs. Workshops can be found by searching keywords, such as online comic workshops, workshops for artists, etc. 

Offline comic book art workshops

There are also many offline workshops, offered through local universities and art schools.  The best ways to locate these are to contact those places and ask when the next comic book art workshop is available. 

Teach yourself comic book art

There are also pdf courses you can download to teach yourself how to create comic books and art.  The six-lesson course is a great way to start if you do not have the funds to go take a comic book art class or workshop. This can be downloaded at http://gpn.unl.edu/guides/755.006.pdf. 

By starting to learn comic book art at an earlier age you will be a pro by the time you finish high school. Comic Book writers are always a growing market and your drawing skills can take you far.


