Title: 
Condominiums – Advantages of Ownership

Word Count:
360

Summary:
Condominiums tend to be a love it or hate it subject with property owners. Here are the advantages of owning a condominium.


Keywords:
condominiums, condos, first time buyers, real estate market


Article Body:
Condominiums tend to be a love it or hate it subject with property owners. Here are the advantages of owning a condominium. 

Condominium – Advantages

Condominiums provide a unique living opportunity in the United States, one that many people have jumped on in this hot real estate market. Although not for everyone, condominium ownership does have some distinct advantages over stand alone homes. 

1. Condominiums are cheaper than stand alone homes. Universally, you will find the lack of a yard makes condominiums a cheaper buying option when compared to the rest of the real estate market. This makes condominiums a good real estate option for first time buyers, as they are often able to get into one when they otherwise would not qualify for a loan for a tradition home. 

2. Condominiums are also excellent options after the kids are gone. Once kids are out of the home, you’ll find the space in your home is no longer necessary. Many parents will downsize to a condominium and use the cash windfall from a home to take early retirement. This trend is occurring with greater frequency as the baby boom generation begins to retire. 

3. Condominiums are also excellent options for people that travel a lot. If you have to travel for work, you know the problems that can arise from having a home sitting empty for weeks or months on end. Burglaries, graffiti and so on are natural results of leaving a home empty. With condominiums, it is much harder for someone to tell if a person is home or not. This makes condominiums very popular with pilots and certain sales people. 

4. A detached home requires a lot of maintenance to keep it in good shape. A condominium also requires maintenance, but the homeowners’ association is responsible for the upkeep. Generally, the constant attention provided through the homeowners’ association makes condos a better long term maintenance option. 

Condominiums are not for everyone, but they have definite advantages over detached homes in certain situations. While guidelines are a solid method of determining if a condo is a good option, you really need to consider your personal circumstances to determine the best choice for you.


