Title: 
Connecting the Dots of the Paranormal

Word Count:
569

Summary:
An introduction to thinking out of the box, for people who are already thinking out of the box regarding the paranormal, whereever their interest may be.


Keywords:
paranormal, cryptozoology, paranormal phenomena, ufos, ghosts, telepathy, telekenesis, metaphysical, metaphysics, hoax, prophecy, prophecies, little people


Article Body:
"When convention and science offer us no answers, might we not finally turn to the fantastic as a plausibility?" - David Duchovny as Fox Mulder (The X-Files, "Pilot")

I think one of the most misunderstood things about the paranormal is that it may be normal. Things we don't understand and perhaps simply don't possess the technology yet to be able to fully understand the phenomena out there. If we did, wouldn't those paranormal investigators be out of a job? Their area of study would just be "normal investigation", nothing "para" about it. Nevertheless, their work must be done as the modern and mainstream accepted sciences want no part of it for the time being. Whatever is happening across the world, regarding all types of paranormal events and phenomena, it's pretty clear something is going on. Unless the entire planet is in varying states of hallucination and hysteria, and let's hope we find out if that's true if it's indeed happening...

I present another look at the strange happenings in our world. Perhaps, only the fantastic can be proven by the fantastic. Our world's ecosystems are interconnected through the efforts of plants, animals, and the world around them to keep the circle of life moving. The paranormal maybe connected in the same way. Connected, both in it's own separate existence from us, and with us moving in concert with our known ecosystems and life cycles. So, in my approach to this large area of the paranormal, I try to think of ways to connect the dots of the paranormal in such a way that they don't contradict something else already existing, either in the world as we know it or maybe something that exists to us only in folklore.

To knock a few off the top, the existence of UFOs does not contradict whether the Loch Ness Monster exists or not. Both could co-exist at the same time. Likewise prophets and their prophecies don't contradict the existance of ghosts. The cryptozoology field itself has a natural basis for everything in it to be true, just undiscovered. In another direction the idea of enhanced consciousness and levels of spirituality naturally contradict nothing in the psychical world. Science is moving in leaps and bounds in certain aspects of this area and it may one day be proven, but for now, telekenesis, telepathy and other mind powers remain in the paranormal category. No "mind power" contradicts any of the above either, it too can exist at the same time. To change directions again, Scottish legends of Little People could fall in a number of categories. It could simply be cryptozoology being a race of pygmies in different areas of the Earth.

It all must be approached with a healthy bit of skepicism of course. There are hoaxed tales and hoaxed evidence to all of the above subjects I listed. The thing to remember is that we've got tens of thousands of years of folklore, stories, legends and our modern sights to draw on for information. I believe all the pieces are there to solve some of the puzzle. We just don't know what the big picture is supposed to look like. The vast majority of this field makes the average person take a leap of faith too far for them most of the time, but if enough people don't do it, how are we ever to going to the bottom of our planet's mysteries?


