Title: 
Don't Stand in Line; Buy Your Lottery Tickets Online

Word Count:
375

Summary:
Have you ever been tempted to play for those life-changing lotto jackpots, but didn't want to stand in line? The Web could be your ticket.


Keywords:
Don't Stand in Line; Buy Your Lottery Tickets Online


Article Body:
Have you ever been tempted to play for those life-changing lotto jackpots, but didn't want to stand in line? The Web could be your ticket.

Lotteries first became popular in the 1970s as an easy way to raise money for state projects and education. Today, 41 states have them in one form or another. But as the jackpots grow, the lines for tickets get longer.

The Internet is emerging as an alternative way for millions to play the odds. One popular site is worldlottery.com, where people from all over the world can try their luck at Mega Millions, Powerball, all U.S. Pick 3 and Pick 4 games and much more.

The site was designed to be easy to use; the interface is simple and there are no large graphics or software downloads to bog down your browser. To get started, sign up by completing a short online registration form and deposit money into your account. Then, simply choose the game you want to play and money will be deducted from your account. 

Shortly after official results are posted, the games are scored and prizes are automatically posted to players' accounts. The site makes it easy to keep track of which games you played and if you won a prize. If you were lucky enough to win a Mega Millions or Powerball jackpot, World Lottery would hold on to your ticket until you provide further instructions.

With World Lottery, die-hard lottery players won't get frustrated when their daily numbers are drawn in another state. You can match your daily number to as many lotteries as you like throughout the U.S. Not only does this increase your chances to win, but World Lottery pays $600 on the three-digit game - $100 more than the state lotteries pay.

Of course, the lottery experience would not be complete without instant scratch games. World Lottery offers a variety of instant games, like Sweet Success, Hot Cash, Vacation in Paradise and Instant Keno. Those who participate in office football pools will enjoy World Lottery's Football Pick games.

The principals at World Lottery have been in the lottery business for more than 30 years and pride themselves on customer service. People who register on the site get five free lottery tickets to "try before they buy."


