Title: 
Download Full Movies

Word Count:
320

Summary:
"DivX is a digital video compression format based on the MPEG-4 technology. DivX files can be downloaded over high-speed lines in a relatively short time without sacrificing the quality of the digital video. Often used on the Internet to exchange video files."


Keywords:
movies, download movies, download full movies, movies online, watch movies online


Article Body:
Divx Movies

Everyone in the Online Movie world is talking about DivX Movies, you may have heard of this term before, but what does it really mean?

Well, If we would ask a techie:

"DivX is a digital video compression format based on the MPEG-4 technology. DivX files can be downloaded over high-speed lines in a relatively short time without sacrificing the quality of the digital video. Often used on the Internet to exchange video files."

But for the rest of the world, what does this mean (in english please)? And even more important, how does this benefit us when we download divx movies?

Here's how it works… You have a 2 hour Movie that you want to download. You have a regular DVD file which is about 4.7 GB, if you wanted to download it that would take as long as 3 days to download!

Fortunately, a Codec was developed by a company called DivXNetworks. What DivX does is that it takes that old DVD dinosaur of a file and it compresses it into something 7 to 10 times smaller, and it maintains the high quality of the visuals and the audio on the DivX Movies.

What this means for us is that instead of a download taking 3 days or 72 hours, this process is reduced around 3 to 6 hours depending on your conection speed.

If you want to Burn the file onto a Cd and watch it on your DVD, first make sure your DVD-player supports DivX/XviD playback, then all you need to do is Burn it onto a CD or two, depending on the size of the movie, and you got yourself a Ready to Rumble movie. Just make sure you keep the copies to yourself and not distribute them illegally or sell them and you're all set.

Another thing you'll want to keep in mind is keeping popcorn in your house and wiring your tv with as much speakers as humanly possible :-).


