Title: 
Dry Ice Blasting For Wisconsin

Word Count:
557

Summary:
Glacier Blast Inc. offers industrial cleaning by dry ice blasting to the state of Wisconsin.


Keywords:
dry ice blasting,industrial cleaning,wisconsin


Article Body:
Glacier Blast Inc. offers industrial cleaning by dry ice blasting to the state of Wisconsin.

What is dry ice blasting?  

Dry ice blasting is the use of solid CO2 (carbon dioxide) pellets accelerated by compressed air to clean or strip industrial  equipment, machinery, tanks, facilities etc. of unwanted contaminates. Dry ice pellets impact the surface and expand instantly into a gaseous state hundreds of times greater than their original solid volume, creating tiny explosions on the surface being cleaned. The tiny explosions, velocity and impact of the dry ice pellets (kinetic energy) and thermal shock (dry ice is -109 F) are the forces that remove the unwanted contaminates. 

What are the disadvantages of conventional industrial cleaning methods? 

Cleaning chemicals and solutions pose environmental hazards to employees and the environment.  When used they leave behind a secondary waste stream, rags, absorbent pads, used solution and/or chemicals etc., which in many cases increases the volume of hazardous waste that is subject to costly disposal fees and transportation costs. If the chemicals and/or solutions are not properly cleaned up they can cause unwanted corrosion and rot, increasing damage and long term maintenance costs.

High pressure water blasting leaves behind  a secondary waste stream which in many cases increases the volume of hazardous waste that is subject to costly disposal fees and transportation costs.  Water gets left in electrical components, equipment and machinery.  If the water is not properly removed it will cause unwanted corrosion and rot, increasing damage and long term maintenance costs.

Soda blasting leaves behind a secondary waste stream which in many cases increases the volume of hazardous waste that is subject to costly disposal fees and transportation costs. It leaves water and soda behind, if not properly removed will cause unwanted corrosion and rot, increasing damage and long term maintenance costs.

Sand blasting leaves behind a secondary waste stream which in many cases increases the volume of hazardous waste that is subject to costly disposal fees and transportation costs.  It leaves behind an abrasive blast media which if not cleaned up properly continues to cause damage in electrical components, gears, bearings etc.  It continues to fall from horizontal surfaces, cracks and beams years after the job is done, increasing cleanup, damage and long term maintenance costs.

What are the advantages of industrial cleaning by dry ice blasting?

Dry ice blasting is the ultimate industrial cleaning process, it leaves no secondary waste stream, no abrasive blast media, no water, no corrosive cleaning solutions or chemicals to get into critical areas.  Dry ice blasting has no negative long term effect on maintenance.  Dry ice blasting minimizes disposal fees and transportation costs. 

Dry ice blasting is safe and environmentally friendly.  Dry ice passes from a solid state to a gaseous state, it has no liquid state.  Dry ice is pure CO2 in its solid state, it is in a gaseous state in the air around us.  When we inhale our bodies use the oxygen and we exhale CO2. Green plants take CO2 from the air and give off oxygen.

Dry ice blasting is non-toxic, non-conductive, non-corrosive and there is no employee exposure to hazardous cleaning chemicals or solutions.  Dry ice blasting sterilizes as it cleans, dry ice is -109 F, the extreme temperature kills germs and bacteria.  Dry ice blasting meets the guidelines of the USDA, EPA, and the FDA.


