Title: 
Entertain in Red Carpet Style. Tips For Glamorous Entertaining With Ease

Word Count:
435

Summary:
Entertaining at home, and planning a glamorous dinner party is easier than you might think.


Keywords:
Entertain in Red Carpet Style. Tips For Glamorous Entertaining With Ease


Article Body:
Entertaining at home, while fun for many, can sometimes be overwhelming when trying to appeal to everyone's style and taste. However, planning a glamorous dinner party is easier than you might think. Lifestyle expert and author Karen Robinovitz gives the following tips to help you create a flawless evening for both host and guests alike. 

Have a Theme

From choosing the menu to planning décor and selecting a dress code, giving your party a theme ensures a common thread and comfort level for your guests. It gives them something to get excited about prior to the event and stimulates conversation during the party. Also, choosing a unique and creative dress code or simply asking guests to wear their black-tie best ensures that a glamorous evening will ensue. 

Keep it Simple

There is no need to have an elaborate sit-down dinner to achieve elegance at your event. Instead, serve your meal buffet style. A buffet is an excellent way to showcase creatively plated dishes that are not only visually appealing but also make for easy serving. Try using interesting serving pieces as a way to add character to the presentation. 

Indulgence Is Everything

The anticipation is high as everyone wonders what will be served for dessert. For the most important part of the evening, cookies are a classic treat and can be presented alone or as a complement to other desserts. Pepperidge Farm offers a variety of delicious and indulgent cookies-from Milano to Pirouette to Chessmen, there's a cookie for everyone. For added elegance, serve Mini Milano and Mini Chessmen and call them "petit fours," or arrange cookies on a decorative platter for a beautiful presentation. 

Create the Perfect Ambience 

Delicious food is truly only one component of a successful party. A good hostess knows that gatherings should be multisensory. Background music and ambient lighting are critical when trying to create an inviting setting in which guests can relax. Musical selections dictate the tone of the event while dim lights and candles provide warmth and sophistication to any room. For added glamor, try displaying candles in unique ways, such as arranging pillars of varying heights or floating votives in water. 

The most important thing to remember during your dinner party is to enjoy yourself! Your guests undoubtedly care more about your company than whether every detail goes according to plan. Even if your new recipe isn't the success you'd hoped for, smile and relish in the memories you're making with friends and loved ones. 

Cookies are a classic treat, whether they are presented alone or with other desserts. Arrange them on a distinctive serving piece.


