Title: 
Flower Arranging As A Hobby

Word Count:
310

Summary:
Flower arranging has become increasingly popular as a hobby for people of all ages and backgrounds.

Have you ever put flowers in a vase and they just don't sit right?

By learning a few basic principles you will be able to create attractive floral designs for your own home.

Flowers add the finishing touch to any setting.

Imagine the pleasure you will get by being able to make a lovely flower arrangement for your entrance hall or a floral centrepiece for the dining ...


Keywords:
flower arranging, floral design, flowers. floristry ,florist


Article Body:
Flower arranging has become increasingly popular as a hobby for people of all ages and backgrounds.

Have you ever put flowers in a vase and they just don't sit right?

By learning a few basic principles you will be able to create attractive floral designs for your own home.

Flowers add the finishing touch to any setting.

Imagine the pleasure you will get by being able to make a lovely flower arrangement for your entrance hall or a floral centrepiece for the dining room table.

Flower arrangements make the perfect gift for so many different occasions, such as birthdays, anniversaries, get well wishes, or to simply say "I care".

Unlike many other hobbies, you don't need a lot of expensive equipment.

You can often use flowers and foliage from your own garden or you can buy some inexpensive flowers.

It's not the flowers you use but how you position them that makes the difference.

There are a few basic rules in flower arranging such as balance, harmony, colour co- ordination and suitabilty for where the arrangement will finally be placed.

Once you learn the basic rules of flower arranging you can quickly make eye catching floral designs.

You can also create floral designs using silk flowers.

There are some very natural looking silk flowers available and you will be able to make lasting floral designs.

Imagine the thrill of being able to say "I made it myself".

The benefits of learning flower arranging are many -

Flower arranging is creative and fun

Relaxing. It's a great stress reducer

Flower arranging is very interesting.

There are many different styles of floral designs and varieties of flowers and foliage available.

You will have a sense of achievement by learning a new skill.

By creating your own floral desigs you will also save money.

Discover the exciting world of flower arranging.

Fay Chamoun © Copyright1996


