Title: 
For The Beginner Dancer

Word Count:
394

Summary:
As a newcomer to dancing you undoubtedly have an uneasy feeling about how you should conduct yourself at a dance class. You possibly wonder if you are going to experience difficulty learning. Well first, please be assured you have no reason for concern. dancing is easy and you will not have serious difficulty learning. Everyone in the class is a beginner, starting on the same base, and you will all learn together. The following comments may make it easier for you to understan...


Keywords:
dancing, dancing lessons, dance guide, dancers


Article Body:
As a newcomer to dancing you undoubtedly have an uneasy feeling about how you should conduct yourself at a dance class. You possibly wonder if you are going to experience difficulty learning. Well first, please be assured you have no reason for concern. dancing is easy and you will not have serious difficulty learning. Everyone in the class is a beginner, starting on the same base, and you will all learn together. The following comments may make it easier for you to understand a few basics concerning the dance activity. 

1) DANCING IS FUN! Your instructor will be doing his best to help you realize this from the very first night. 

2) dancing is a casual activity. You need no formal introduction to those you have not met. There are no strangers among dancers. Just step right up to anyone and introduce yourself. In dancing we are all on a first name basis. It's friendlier that way. Wear your "NAME TAG." 

3) Later you may wish to dress "themed"; but for the classes, just dress comfortably. 

4) dancing is a close contact sport. Please use good judgement in your choice of jewelry, belt buckles, etc. Sharp or rough edges may scratch or catch on someone's clothing. 

5) On a very delicate subject - extra physical exercise or possibly the slight nervous tension of learning may cause perspiration. Use of deodorant is advisable, to avoid the embarrassment of body odors which may be offensive to others. 

6) On a personal note - the use of alcoholic beverages, just prior to or during a dance, is not permissible. 

7) Gents - Remember! You have both strength and weight advantage over the ladies and you should always, even in your enthusiasm, be conscious that the ladies do not like to be handled roughly. Let them enjoy dancing too! 

8) IMPORTANT. Listen carefully to instructions and be sincere in your efforts to follow instructions. GOOD LISTENERS LEARN EASIER! 

9) If, during the class, you do not understand an instruction, do not hesitate to ask for an additional explanation from the caller. 

10) There is no reason to feel shy or embarrassed - just listen and follow instructions. Sooner than you think, you will be dancing to the calls. 

11) dancing is relaxing. Take it easy! You do not have to work hard at it, you have plenty of time. ENJOY YOURSELF! 

12) Please be on time for every class and HAVE FUN!


