Title: 
Forward thinking with Reverse Osmosis

Word Count:
387

Summary:
An informative article on the reverse osmosis water treatment process.


Keywords:
water, osmosis, purifiers, softeners, coolers, filters


Article Body:
Reverse Osmosis is a system of filtration that is highly effective at removing even the smallest particles from a liquid.  It is also known as Hyperfiltration.  The Reverse Osmosis process can remove particles as small as a dissolved individual ion.  The most popular use for this process is in the purification of water for human consumption.

Reverse Osmosis uses a semi-permeable membrane that allows the water to pass through it, while ensuring that contaminants do not.  Reverse Osmosis systems have come a long way in recent years, and many people have installed them in their homes to ensure that their family is drinking clean, pure, healthy water.  

Many families are rightly concerned about the quality of water they are consuming.  As evidenced by various stories in the press, people cannot always be sure that their tap water is clean and free from contaminants.  One of the best ways to ensure that your family has clean drinking water is to take matters into your own hands and invest in a Reverse Osmosis system.  There is no other commercial system available that is as effective as Reverse Osmosis.

While a Reverse Osmosis system does effectively clean water, it does not disinfect it.  The membrane that is used for filtration can and will remove biological contaminants, but it should not be relied upon solely to treat contaminated water for human consumption.  If you are concerned about biological contaminants, you could always add an ultraviolet light to your water system.  Intense ultraviolet light systems will destroy biological contaminants before they reach your RO system, therefore ensuring only the best possible drinking water.

Reverse Osmosis systems effectively remove dozens of contaminants from water, including chlorine, benzene, chloroform, barium, and countless others.  These systems essentially strip water down to its most basic form.  We installed one in our home a few years ago.  A manufacturing plant on the edge of town contaminated the local water supply and, although we were not affected, it served as a much needed wake-up call.  Within days, we had a Reverse Osmosis water treatment system installed.  We added the UV light system a month later, when we learned some more about it.  Clean water is essential for health and survival.  Contaminated water can kill you.  Do you really have a choice in the matter?  Think smart.  Plan ahead.


