Title: 
Free Entertainment Is Easy To Find

Word Count:
453

Summary:
There are many forms of entertainment available when you want to spend a night on the town. Dinner and a movie is always a popular choice. Live theatre is fun and exciting, as you don’t know what is going to happen. Karaoke and piano bars are becoming more popular as well, as you can laugh and relax to some good music (or not so good singing!) in a casual atmosphere. However, all these forms of entertainment can be rather pricey! Movie tickets are getting higher and higher, a...


Keywords:
entertainment,business


Article Body:
There are many forms of entertainment available when you want to spend a night on the town. Dinner and a movie is always a popular choice. Live theatre is fun and exciting, as you don’t know what is going to happen. Karaoke and piano bars are becoming more popular as well, as you can laugh and relax to some good music (or not so good singing!) in a casual atmosphere. However, all these forms of entertainment can be rather pricey! Movie tickets are getting higher and higher, and nicer restaurants charge a lot for their quality and service. Live entertainment like plays and musicals can be extremely expensive, and plans may need to be made well in advance or you won’t get in! And bars…well, face it…you will be dealing with others’ loud conversations, second hand smoke, and high liquor
prices.

If all you’re looking for is a relaxing evening to ease your stress, why not look for some free entertainment for you and your family. Not only will you have fun, but you will save money in the process!

Below are some common choices in free entertainment:

1. Movies, music, books and programs at your local public library! Libraries are wonderful places to entertain adults and children alike. Many public libraries offer free storytimes for your children. Not only will they have free entertainment, but they will learn important skills and see that reading is fun! For the adults, most public libraries now offer a wide selection of DVDs, videos, music CDs, books on tape and CDs, and, of course, lots and lots of books! The nice thing about the movies you find at the library are they don’t cost you anything (unless you return them late)! Adult programming is becoming more popular in most larger library systems, as well. Classes on arts and crafts, computers, world events and locations and book discussions are a great form of entertainment.

2. Local parks are a nice way to spend an afternoon or evening. Take a picnic lunch or dinner and relax in the fresh air. Most parks have lovely playgrounds for your kids to explore and enjoy. There are even some local parks that have outdoor games adults and children can play together.

3. Annual or Semi-Annual Art Shows make for an exciting outing. You will get to see the best of local artists, while also enjoying the fresh air and festive atmosphere. The kids will love the art shows because many have clowns wandering around making balloon animals and doing face painting.

Although this is a relatively short list, you can inevitable find great entertainment for free in your area. All you have to do is look for it.


