Title: 
Fun Stuff in Life

Word Count:
387

Summary:
"The key to time management: Focus less on the time in your life, and more on the life in your time." -Alan Cohen-


Keywords:
fun Stuff


Article Body:
"The key to time management: Focus less on the time in your life, and more on the life in your time." -Alan Cohen-

So here we are, facing another day, with endless amounts of to do's and errands and shopping and events and the list goes on and on. Our first thing we say to ourselves and others is, I wish I had more time.

Then there is that old saying, that if you want something done give it to the busiest person, because they will get it done. Have you ever thought about that statement and/or analyzed it; I started to do that and what I found out and/or noticed is that when I am the busiest I can tend to be more productive. So I looked at that and found when I am busy, I organize my time better and make a list and then categorize the things I need to and put them in an efficient order to get them done.  I figure out my errands and put them in order so that I am not driving all over the place and then back again, I go in a straight shot or complete circle. I also organize them so it is all done together and I am not in and out, and then out and in. This is making me all very dizzy, anyway, you get the idea.

The other thing I want to encourage you to do is put joy and fun into your time and time management, the more fun you put into it, it won't feel like it is just stuff you have to do, but fun stuff you get to do. Yes, it is all about attitude and how you perceive it, make it so much fun that when all your errands are done, you wish there would be more, and you will find that with doing them with joy, you have energy and time left over.

Write this affirmation down and put it on your bathroom mirror, rear view mirror (don't cover it up, :), near your kitchen window or someplace in the kitchen, your computer screen at work and at home, and draw a big smile on it to remind yourself to smile and have joy.

You have all the time in the world, just enjoy it!


