Title: 
Get Hold Of A Hot Games Trend - Sudoku

Word Count:
310

Summary:
Sudoku is one of the hottest trends in games and entertainment. The interest in this Japanese number crossword puzzle is absolutely at a fever pitch. The rules are simple - fill in the squares so that all numbers are represented only once per row. Simple rules, difficult to follow. What makes Sudoku almost addicting is the consistent challenge of finding the right match. The trial and error matched with a pre-planned strategy based on the clues you're provided make success po...


Keywords:
Soduku, Soduko, Su doku, or Sodoko, Japanese number game, number crossword puzzle


Article Body:
Sudoku is one of the hottest trends in games and entertainment. The interest in this Japanese number crossword puzzle is absolutely at a fever pitch. The rules are simple - fill in the squares so that all numbers are represented only once per row. Simple rules, difficult to follow. What makes Sudoku almost addicting is the consistent challenge of finding the right match. The trial and error matched with a pre-planned strategy based on the clues you're provided make success possible for everyone. And of course it helps that there are different game levels available. So you can start with, or always go back to, the easiest level in order to gain an understanding of how the game works and what strategies work best for you. And unlike crossword puzzles, which are popular in their own right, Sudoku does not require an infinite knowledge of words or a long-term commitment to figure a puzzle out. And the frustration level stays low because one can always go back to the most basic level and focus on speed rather than mere completion. In a 5-30 minute time period, one can play a game or a few, be challenged intellectually, get the satisfaction out of completing a puzzle, and walk away refreshed to go use their brain in another matter. And with the online resources and local clubs and competitions, the Sudoku experience is only becoming more popular. School children use it in their classroom to practice addition, number patterns, and logical thinking - while many in assisted living programs have incorporated Sudoku into their regular bingo rotation.

The best thing about Sudoku is it provides an equal playing ground for everyone. Four year old kids, elderly adults, PhDs in math, and those who don't speak English can all play the same game, with varied difficulty levels, and get the same level of satisfaction from it.


