Title: 
HOLOGRAPHIC MOA'S FOR MEDICAL DEVICE, MEDICAL EDUCATION,  AND PHARMACEUTICAL MARKETING - 3d Medical Animation

Word Count:
261

Summary:
Tres3d is pushing the boundaries of traditional medical animation MOA's (method of action videos) by creating holographic/3d animations to be viewed on holographic film and water vapor without the need of special glasses. By using film with holographic properties and creating custom 3d medical animations Tres3d is able to create a holographic illusion. This process enables the audience to view 3d medical animations with the illusion of depth.  Taking it one step further, Tres3d offers these displays with interactivity which works by using a body recognition camera in conjunction with software applications.


Keywords:
Interactive holographic 3d medical animation studio www.tres3d.com medical-animation-studio.com MOA method of action video medical device animation 3d


Article Body:
INTERACTIVE HOLOGRAPHIC MEDICAL MOA'S

Tres3d is pushing the boundaries of traditional medical animation MOA's (method of action videos) by creating holographic/3d animations to be viewed on holographic film and water vapor without the need of special glasses. By using film with holographic properties and creating custom 3d medical animations Tres3d is able to create a holographic illusion. This process enables the audience to view 3d medical animations with the illusion of depth.  Taking it one step further, Tres3d offers these displays with interactivity which works by using a body recognition camera in conjunction with software applications.

“Holographic projection and 3d imaging is nothing new to most of us. We all remember the first few
3d movies that required those silly paper glasses, picture top executives walking a trade show wearing them. I guess, that's why the technology never truly caught on.”  Noted David Gonzalez, President of Tres3d Medical Animation Studio.

Holographic illusions actually goes back to the 1860's when John Henry Pepper and English engineer
Henry Dircks created the “Pepper Ghost effect”. This technique was used in theater productions
requiring large pieces of glass and a stage to be built around it to create the illusion. Today many of the
top holographic companies create this illusion in a similar fashion. This new and improved version
works out fine with the exception of huge costs and space involved.

Tres3d takes today's technology combined with custom 3d animation creates interactive Holographic/3d animations to be viewed with no glasses.

To learn more visit: http://www.Medical-Animation-Studio.com


