Title: 
How to Grab Those Current Broadway Shows and Tickets

Word Count:
531

Summary:
What of you are not in New York or are not planning to visit new York, and can’t get to the current Broadway shows? Don’t despair. First of all, these shows run for years.


Keywords:
current broadway shows, latest broadway shows, current broadway theater


Article Body:
Do not think about what the critics say or write. Ignore for one moment, the costs of watching them. The whole point here is to catch any of the current Broadway shows any which way you can. There are an entire multitude of world reknown plays and musicals such as Neil Simons version of John Waters HAIRSPRAY, or classics like PHANTOM OF THE OPERA; LITTLE WOMEN; WHOS AFRAID OF VIRGINIA WOOLF?; SHOW BOAT; LES MISERABLES.  Take in the more playful MAMMA MIA. Re-visit your passions in your favorite operas by attending the LA BOHEME re-make, RENT.  But make sure you get to see those current Broadway shows, by hook or by crook!

What of you are not in New York or are not planning to visit new York, and cant get to the current Broadway shows?  Dont despair.  First of all, these shows run for years (the better and best ones, anyway).  Second of all, the best are so successful and their so generous and respectful of the theatre arts world that the current Broadway shows get taken on the roadto Boston, Philly, San Francisco, and further.

What if you cannot afford current Broadway shows, whether they stay in the Big Apple or travel to Siberia?  Ah, theres still no excuse:  there are a number of ways you, too, can be saved.  Or, er, you can save money and still be blessed with the most alluring, engaging, and cathartic of the arts:

For students make sure to contact the theater box office, and ask for their student discount ticket prices.  Most of these current Broadway shows theatres, opera houses, and symphonic or any other concert halls would typically have student price and even student group price available.

For those senior citizen, you have the priviledge of getting discounts for the most number of events, similar to that for buses and restaurants, etc. Make sure when you go ahead and order the tickets, that you ask about these senior disount prices.

If you cantry for a same-day ticket.  A ticket that is not called for at the reservation window by a certain time (often within a few minutes of the curtain call) is up for grabsat a greatly discounted price.  Show up the day of the performance for whichever of the current Broadway shows you want to attend.  Go to the reserved tickets window and ask if there are any no-shows.  Also, tell the teller you will check back (at his/her designated time), or ask when you can return to check for no-shows.

If you dont mindstanding and watching the show is hella cheap.  Here in San Francisco, if you take an SRO ticket (Standing-room only ticket), you pay one dollar and agree to stand in the very last aisle in the very back of the theatreat the very top of the nosebleed seats.  But, for a dollar, you can bring your homemade brownies and your binoculars to the current Broadway shows, shift your feet on occasion, even lean, in some instancesand see THE LIGHT IN THE PIAZZA, MONTY PYTONS SPAMALOT, GOOD VIBRATIONS, ON GOLDIN POND, or any one of dozens of award-winning, heart-rendering, most brilliant and rewarding current Broadway shows.


