Title: 
How Your Oil Paintings Can Flower

Word Count:
451

Summary:
When you are producing flower landscape oil paintings, keep in mind the short canvas blend life of oil paints. If you are producing an oil painting of a flower landscape and you need to make a change that isn't immediately effective, the best thing to do is wipe it off with your paint rag and start over. This will work for the first 24 hours after your painting, as oil paintings take this long to dry. In fact, it's important not to make too thick a first coat or you'll never ...


Keywords:
oil painting, flowering, paint, pictures, frames, colour


Article Body:
When you are producing flower landscape oil paintings, keep in mind the short canvas blend life of oil paints. If you are producing an oil painting of a flower landscape and you need to make a change that isn't immediately effective, the best thing to do is wipe it off with your paint rag and start over. This will work for the first 24 hours after your painting, as oil paintings take this long to dry. In fact, it's important not to make too thick a first coat or you'll never get your oil paints to dry.

One important piece of oil painting advice is to clean your paint brushes each time you change colors. You do this by first wiping as much paint off the brush with a rag as you possibly can and then inserting the brush into the paint thinner. Not only will this get more oil paints off your brush, but will extend the life of your thinner as well. Swish your paint brush around in the container of paint thinner, then dry it with your clean paint rag.

When the first layer of your flower landscape oil painting creation is finished, wait 48 hours before you start on your second paint application or you're going to end up smearing the work you already did. In the meantime don't leave your oil painting somewhere hot or humid. Make sure that its location will protect it from getting accidently scraped, smooshed, smeared, or touched at all.

Should you have a lot of paint left on the palette and you want to use it when you start your flower landscape oil paintings again, scrape the paint together with your knife. Next put a small amount of paint thinner on a cleam paint rage and use it to clean the rest of your paint palette. Plastic wrap is great for covering the paint that is leftover. Make sure you wrap it tightly though.

It's important as well, that until you start again with your flower landscape oil paintings, that you replace the lid on the container of paint thinner and set it aside, no matter how cloudy it looks. The paint thinner will settle and the pigment that is part of the paint will drop to the bottom of the container.

Clean thinner will settle at the top. The next time you go back to your flower landscape oil paintings you'll only need to pour that top layer of clean paint thinner into a new and clean thinner container, and wipe the pigment off the bottom. You then pour the good paint thinner back into its original thinner container and you're ready to start your flower landscape oil painting project once again.


