Title: 
How Can Blind People Read Books? (hint: Audio Books)

Word Count:
334

Summary:
Why a blind child ought to miss the Harry Potter books? Why can’t he enjoy like millions of children all over the world the Harry Potter magic? Well, he can enjoy it. Indeed, he can not read the books or watch the movies but he can listen to the audio books, which is also a great experience.


Keywords:
audio books, harry potter audio books


Article Body:
Why a blind child ought to miss the Harry Potter books? Why can’t he enjoy like millions of children all over the world the Harry Potter magic? Well, he can enjoy it. Indeed, he can not read the books or watch the movies but he can listen to the audio books, which is also a great experience.

Audio books may be useful for many populations – Elder people could go on “reading” audio books when they are not capable of reading books any more, busy career people can listen to business journals and magazines via audio books, children can listen to audio books of a higher level than they are able to read etc.

However, it seems that one of the populations that may gain the most out of audio books is not using them yet.

There are approximately 10 million blind and visually impaired people in the United States alone. Audio books can enhance their life personally and professionally.

First, audio books can help blind people enjoy the experience of reading books. Years ago, people predicted that the end of the paper books is near due to new technologies. However, the popularity of books keeps increasing. They provide a special experience no other gadget can compete with. Audio books can supply a similar experience for the blind population.

Secondly, audio books can take blind people’s education one step forward. Learning foreign languages, poetry, literature, English grammar etc. could be optimized using audio books. Did you know that there are approximately 93,600 visually impaired or blind students in the United States?

Thirdly, blind people can develop habits and hobbies using audio books. One could find audio books about every subject from fishing to knitting guides.

And finally, unfortunately blind people are often treated as outsiders and develop inferiority emotions. There are a lot of self creation, self confidence and awareness audio book guides which can help them.

Whether you belong to the blind and visually impaired people or not, we strongly advise you to join the audio book experience now. Have fun.


