Title: 
How To Get Hold Of Cheap Tickets For Broadway Shows

Word Count:
466

Summary:
Discount Codes for Broadway Shows

Broadway shows run a balancing act of making as much money as they can and keep their show running. They do not have a great deal of flexibility in their regular ticket pricing models, so they resort to distributing discount codes for selected performances where they expect unsold seats. They would rather make $5000 with a full theatre than make $6000 with half of the seats empty. This is because when the show has problems getting an audie...


Keywords:
Broadway Shows, Broadway Tickets


Article Body:
Discount Codes for Broadway Shows

Broadway shows run a balancing act of making as much money as they can and keep their show running. They do not have a great deal of flexibility in their regular ticket pricing models, so they resort to distributing discount codes for selected performances where they expect unsold seats. They would rather make $5000 with a full theatre than make $6000 with half of the seats empty. This is because when the show has problems getting an audience it reduces its lifespan on Broadway, even if the dollar receipts are strong. Empty theatres also de-motivate the performers and the backstage people. The discount codes are generally for the non-peak shows or when the show has been on Broadway for a while. The discounts can vary from 25% to 90%.

New York TV Show Tickets 

New York TV Show Tickets Inc. is a New York based discount broker that negotiates special discounts for the general public for services in New York City, including Broadway shows, TV Shows, Parking, restaurants, and movie shoots in New York. For a small fee, they sell online guides filled with this discount information. The Discount Broadway Ticket Guide can be found on nytix.com

Restrictions and Broadway discounts

Broadway theaters reserve the right to place restrictions on the use of discount codes when purchasing tickets. In some cases they decide to exercise this right. We usually see most restrictions on discounts around the Xmas / New Year holidays and various official holidays. Occasionally a Broadway show may exclude Saturday night, but these are usually only the top shows and the exclusion is most often short-lived. When you call the ticket sales number, they can give you the very latest discount code restrictions (If any) applicable to that Broadway show.

How to avoid paying the Ticketmaster or Telecharge fees 

You can avoid the fees by taking the codes from Ticket Guide directly to the box office and buying your tickets there.

The problem is, how do you know if any tickets are available for the show you want and will the codes be honored for the show you want before going there?

A few people call Ticketmaster or Tele-Charge first to find out those details but they do not actually buy tickets from them. This is one way to be certain that there are no restrictions on the discount code for the date you want to use it. But, between the hours you make the call and actually are going there, there is always the possibility that the tickets could have been sold out.

How to receive your Broadway tickets

Precisely the same way you would get a regular priced ticket: You can pick it up at the box office or have it mailed to you. It is a standard ticket - just discounted!


