Title: 
How To Buy Art Online

Word Count:
393

Summary:
Helping you make the right decisions when buying fine art online


Keywords:
art, buy art, artwork, paintings, sculptures, oil painting, art gallery, buy art online, buy artwork, 


Article Body:
Just a few years ago it seemed people thought the idea of purchasing “clothing” through the internet was absurd. How would you know if it fits? What if it doesn’t fit? What if my credit card number gets stolen? Those were just a few of the many questions I personally had five or so years ago. Hopefully this article will help enlighten some of your inquiries. 

The internet has significantly changed the art market. Significantly, meaning people now have choices at their fingertips. The sometimes intimidating and cold art galleries, is now an option. With many art websites offering money back guarantees, secure shopping and customer support, people do not have to feel as though purchasing anything off the site is Russian roulette. 

Here are some hints and tips I feel might be useful:

Search and Search Some More: Without the hassles of walking/driving from one gallery to another and limiting gallery hours you have more time at your disposal to do your research. You will have the ability to view hundreds of artworks within the average time someone will be able to see a dozen by actually going to a gallery. For me that means a greater chance to find a new painting I will fall in love with.

Take your Time: Yes buying off the internet is far from perfect so follow your heart and take your time. Send the image to your friends, research the artist and take advantage of the many gallery website features available at your disposal,  such as “view-to-scale, background colors, zoom, etc”. Ask questions if you want by emailing the website and also you can compare shop. Remember if you like one artwork and its too expensive for your taste or pocketbook there is surely another painting that is similar and can fit your budget.

Protect Yourself: Read up on the website. Find out how long its been in business. See if the website provides secure shopping and secured online purchases. Read about what the customers and any articles have to say about the website and its artists. Check if the artwork will come with an authentication that you feel comfortable with and find out if they have a return policy that you find reasonable. When you have done your homework, buy the artwork and enjoy your new artwork purchased through the future of art shopping with confidence.


