Title: 
How to care for your Tattoo: Free Advice.

Word Count:
369

Summary:
The First Day: Leave bandage on for at least four hours, overnight if you received the tattoo late before your sleeptime. Make sure you can wash your tattoo when you remove the bandage. Handwash it, no cloths or sponges, using warm water & soap


Keywords:
tattoo


Article Body:
The First Day: 

Leave bandage on for at least four hours, overnight if you received the tattoo late before your sleeptime. Make sure you can wash your tattoo when you remove the bandage. Handwash it, no cloths or sponges, using warm water & soap. Use water to soak off any of the bandage that sticks. Do not Rebandage. Wash tattoo at least twice a day while it is healing. Let tattoo dry out for one day, you may wash it to keep it clean during this time, After, start applying skin/hand conditioning lotion or lightly massage A&D ointment into tattoo. 

Some people have been known to develop an allergy to Bacitracin, Triple antibiotic and other ointments may contain it. We do not recommend it. Nor do we recommend plain Vaseline. Lotions are safest in warm weather. Keeping it moist will speed the healing process, but your tattoo needs to breathe. Heavy application of petroleum based ointments can suffocate the tattoo and cause a rash. You can wet your tattoo, but don't soak in the tub or shower for a long time while it is healing. 

If you work under very dirty conditions or have to wear tight clothes, you can tape dry papertowel over your tattoo. Try to wear loose clothing around your tattoo. It is normal for your tattoo to flake off tiny pieces of colored skin while it is healing, but you don't want to force it. So...Do not ever rub or scratch or pick your tattoo! you can smack it if it itches too much. 

Wash your tattoo more often if you work near grease, chemicals, dirt, or if you got your tattoo in or near a high-bacteria area such as the armpit, buttocks, or genitals. Do not expose tattoo to chlorine, salt,alcohol or sun for 10 days. Careful with lotions containing excessive alcohol. 

Only expose tattoo to long periods of sun after it is fully healed and then with a strong sunscreen applied, so as to protect it from the fading effects of radiation. Tattoos normally take 7-10 days to heal. 

Special: Get our free e-zine "All Tattoos and design" for more free advice and monthly free tattoo designs. 
Visit www.tattoo123.blogspot.com


