Title: 
Hulkamania is still alive!

Word Count:
317

Summary:
Hulk Hogan is one of the most popular and most recognizable professional wrestlers in the world. He has at various times gone by different ring names including: Hollyood Hogan, Hollywood Hulk Hogan, Mr. America, The Super Destroyer, Terry “The Hulk,” Boulder, Sterling Golden, and Hulk Machine.


Keywords:
Hulk Hogan, Hulk Hogan Theme song, Hulk Hogan Ringtones, Hollyood Hogan, Hollywood Hulk Hogan


Article Body:
Hulk Hogan is one of the most popular and most recognizable professional wrestlers in the world. He has at various times gone by different ring names including: Hollyood Hogan, Hollywood Hulk Hogan, Mr. America, The Super Destroyer, Terry “The Hulk,” Boulder, Sterling Golden, and Hulk Machine. Along with being one the most successful professional wrestlers of all time, he is also an occasional actor and reality television star with his own show, Hogan Knows Best, airing on VH1.

Hogan broke into the industry by training under legendary wrestler Hiro Matsuda for two years before beginning his career in the National Wrestling Alliance. He quickly moved up the ranks, having an early shot at the NWA World Heavyweight Championship in 1979. Later that year, he would make his debut in the World Wrestling Federation, quickly gaining popularity in that organization as well. He would be let go a couple years later for appearing in the movie Rocky III movie against Vincent J. McMahon’s wishes. McMahon Sr., unlike his predecessor son, Vincent K. McMahon believed that wrestlers should not become actors.

Hulk Hogan then would move on to the American Wrestling Association and also wrestled with New Japan Pro Wrestling. He would not make is return to the World Wrestling Federation until Vincent K. McMahon bought the company from his father and decided to bring back the Hogan as the main draw. After his return, he would quickly gain popularity, even winning the WWF Championship less than three weeks later. He and the WWF would dominate the 1980’s until leaving the wrestling world to focus on his acting career. Hogan would however be lured back to the ring in 1994 by Ted Turner’s World Championship Wrestling until 2000. Hulk Hogan returned to the WWF in 2002 and has since been involved on and off in various capacities. 

Fans can get <a href=http://www.hulkhoganringtones.com>Hulk Hogan Ringtones</a> here.


