Title: 
Importance of mobile phones!

Word Count:
746

Summary:
With the advent of new technology the way of communication is also changed. In very early days of history, pigeons were used as means of communication. Later, written messages are sent through letters by post.


Keywords:
onKeyDown=textCounter(this.form.f_artkey,this.form.avachars_key,200);


Article Body:
With the advent of new technology the way of communication is also changed. In very early days of history, pigeons were used as means of communication. Later, written messages are sent through letters by post. As the time passed, telephone came into existence and today is the era of wireless communication which gives rise to mobile phones. Mobiles are the latest invention and common way to communicate now-a-days. 

Mobile phones are long range, portable and wireless electronic device of communication. A few years back, when mobile phones were not so common, the device was expensive and communication costs pretty good to the user. But in last a few years as the use of mobiles increased, their cost is decreased considerably and this factor helped a lot to make them available for common men. Mobile phones are now inexpensive, easy to use, and comfortable and equipped with almost every latest feature we desire.

Mobiles are now every one’s first choice gadget, either an elderly person or a younger one. It is like a status symbol now. Every persons hand is equipped with latest mobile models and everyone has its own reason to have this magic gadget in his hands. Every day new models of mobiles come replacing the older ones to lure the users. The interested users especially the young generation is very fond of the latest features provided in new handsets. People like the new ring tones, hello tunes and wallpapers. With this, mp3 and video recording facilities, MMS and Internet facilities are attracting the users to mobile world. Mobile users can’t even imagine their world without their handset. The importance of mobiles can be imagined by the reaction of people if they are asked to leave their handset separate from them for a day. Their life got a comma if they are keeping apart of their mobiles. 

In Japan, mobile phone companies provide immediate notification of earthquakes and other natural disasters to their customers free of charge. In the event of an emergency, disaster response crews can locate trapped or injured people using the signals from their mobile phones or the small detonator of flare in the battery of every cell phone; an interactive menu accessible through the phone's Internet browser notifies the company if the user is safe or in distress.

There is no doubt that the mobile phones have made the life more easy and comfortable. Everyone is in touch with their family members, friends and other known. If we want to talk with anyone, there is no need to write a letter and have to wait for days to send the message to receiver, just we have to pick the phone and press a number and start talking. Mobile phones are comfortable way of communication over a long distance. Life becomes so easy and fast by holding the mobile phones. 

Mobile phones proved to be a big help in emergencies. Mobile phones are also known as lifesavers as helping people in emergencies. If you get stuck in the middle of the road and find no one for help, you can just use a mobile phone and call for help. Along with the obvious convenience and quick access to help in emergencies big and small, mobile phones can be both economical and essential for travelers trying to stay connected.

Like every coin have two sides, mobiles phones providing a lot of advantages also shows off few disadvantages. Mobile-phone use while driving is common. It is generally agreed that using a hand-held mobile phone while driving is a distraction that brings risk of road traffic accidents. So we need to use hands free sets to avoid such hazards.

A little attention is received recently towards the potential impact of the kind of electromagnetic fields generated by cellular phones on the human brain. Accumulating evidence indicate that microwave radiation from mobile phones may cause serious diseases and disturbances in the physiology. This includes an increased cancer risk and genetic damage, disturbed brain function and other effects. Mobile phone radiation and health concerns have been raised, especially following the enormous increase in the use of wireless mobile telephony throughout the world. Hence, the head set should be kept at reasonable distance from our head and prolonged use of mobile phone should be avoided.

REPRINT RIGHTS statement: This article is free for republishing by visitors provided the Author Bio box is retained as usual so that all links are Active/Linkable with no syntax changes.


