Title: 
IN SUCCESS LANGUAGE, FAILURE MEANS YOU ARE ALMOST THERE!

Word Count:
652

Summary:
Each failure is a stepping stone to Success, which in turn will become a very long and lovely stone walkway into the castle of your DREAMS!"  You must truly internalize the need to fail in life.


Keywords:
Dreams, Goals, Failure, Success


Article Body:
IN SUCCESS LANGUAGE, FAILURE MEANS YOU ARE ALMOST THERE!

I have to admit the title of my section this week is OUTSTANDING!  We all know as we are progressing towards our personal goals, dreams and aspirations that we will fail repeatedly, and then all of a sudden we achieve our ultimate outcome and attain our WHY in LIFE!  As I state on my story page (http://www.johndilemme.com/jd_story.htm), "Each failure is a stepping stone to Success, which in turn will become a very long and lovely stone walkway into the castle of your DREAMS!"  You must truly internalize the need to fail in life. 

Most people fail more between the ages of 16-25 and then they don’t fail ever again in life, which means they never SUCCEED!  You see, at the age 25 the majority of people lose their steam and decide to live a life instead of designing a lifestyle for themselves and their families.  I am very proud to say that I have failed numerous times in my life.  Just ask my parents, they will tell you ..."but John you went to college just get a JOB!"  As entrepreneurs, we all know that we never have jobs because whatever we do has our life-print on it, which represents our potential.  The following is a list of people that we all know who failed before they succeeded.  I cannot emphasize enough that you need to continue to try over and over until you succeed and realize that, as I've said before, "Each failure is a stepping stone to Success, which in turn will become a very long and lovely stone walkway into the castle of your DREAMS!" 

FAILURES…BUT NOT QUITE
--After Fred Astaire's first screen test, a 1933 memo from the MGM testing director said, "Can't act.  Slightly bald.  Can dance a little."  Astaire kept that memo over the fireplace in his Beverly Hills home.

--A relatively unsuccessful marketer of restaurant equipment, he didn't sell his first hamburger until age 52.  At a time when many people prepare for retirement, Ray Kroc built McDonald's from a handful of hamburger stands into the world's largest food chain.

--When his older brother was killed during WWII, he first withdrew into a shell.  Then he began to listen to the radio to ease his pain.  Soon he was dreaming about hosting his own radio show.  That led Dick Clark to start American Bandstand.

--Walt Disney was fired by a newspaper for lacking ideas.  He also went bankrupt several times before he built Disneyland.

The question that I have for you now is, "Do you realize how you must be proud of your failures because they really are successes?"  Many of my workshop attendees have heard me say "...experience is what you receive when you do not achieve what you desire."  I suggest to print this out and put it on your desk where you can read this article every day and remind yourself about Fred Astaire, Ray Kroc, Dick Clark, and Walt Disney and say to yourself, "What is MY story going to be?"  You need to fail in order to ultimately succeed in LIFE!  After all, "IN SUCCESS LANGUAGE, FAILURE MEANS YOU ARE "ALMOST THERE!"

Find your WHY and Fly!

John Di Lemme
www.FindYourWhy.com

John Di Lemme, a Former Clinically Diagnosed Stutterer, now the 
World’s Leading Motivational Expert *shocks millions globally* 
by exposing the truth they’ve been searching for in order to 
achieve monumental life success through his Award Winning Live 
Seminars, Power-Packed Training Programs, Live Tele-Classes, 
Motivational Club and Weekly E-zine. Take action now and join 
tho.usands of others that have used John's proven methods to 
live their life to the Maximum!  Visit http://www.FindYourWhy.com 
and discover how you can finally create monumental success 
in your life today and achieve all your goals, dreams and desires.


