Title: 
Inuit Eskimo Soapstone Carvings as Corporate and Cultural Gifts

Word Count:
409

Summary:
The use of Inuit Eskimo soapstone carvings in corporate and cultural gifts as a tool to build business relationships.


Keywords:



Article Body:
One of the unique ways about Canadian organizations is their choice of corporate or cultural gifts.  In many cases for both companies doing corporate business and political organizations conducting cultural affairs internationally is the use of Inuit Eskimo soapstone carvings from the Canadian Arctic as gifts.  This is especially true for gifts to foreign individuals, organizations or heads of state.  In the world of commerce, Canadian corporations doing international business abroad have brought over Inuit soapstone carvings for their current or prospective foreign business partners.  Asian and European companies have accepted Inuit soapstone carvings as corporate gifts with much delight since Inuit art is as exotic to them as Ferraris are to North Americans.  Indeed, when doing business in Japan or in fast growing China, Canadian Inuit art will be a very useful tool for building long term business relationships.  This is also true for making inroads in the developing European markets as well.

Inuit Eskimo soapstone carvings from the Canadian Arctic have been used as cultural gifts for many years.  Foreign royalty, presidents and other diplomats have been given Inuit Eskimo soapstone carvings as a token of Canadian culture.  The recipient list has included quite a few American presidents as well.  It is said that Prince Charles of the United Kingdom has been a huge fan of Inuit art ever since he received a soapstone carving as a gift many years ago.  His interest has resulted in more awareness of Canadian Inuit art in the United Kingdom.  Canadian academic and educational groups have gone abroad with Inuit Eskimo soapstone carvings for their foreign counterparts too.

Within Canada, Inuit Eskimo soapstone carvings have been popular retirement gift items in recent years.  Sometimes they have been awarded as prizes for high achievers like top sales people within companies.  An Inuit Eskimo soapstone carving is definitely a nice alternative to the standard plaque or trophy award.  If such artwork is very much appreciated by recipients in Canadian companies, just imagine how much more Inuit art would be appreciated in companies based outside Canada such as in the United States or Asia.  A Canadian Inuit Eskimo soapstone carving will be regarded as an extra special prize.

The use of Inuit Eskimo soapstone carvings in corporate and cultural gift giving today is a result of just how far Inuit art has come.  It is evidence that this type of indigenous native art has made it to the fine art status that it deserves.


