Title: 
iPod Games - Announcing 24 HR Entertainment

Word Count:
410

Summary:
The bad news is that you’re a geek.  The good news, however, is that you acknowledge it, accept it and even embrace a little bit.  In other related, potentially good news(stories), I am also a geek; so we can probably hang out.


Keywords:
iPod Games


Article Body:
The bad news is that you’re a geek.  The good news, however, is that you acknowledge it, accept it and even embrace a little bit.  In other related, potentially good news(stories), I am also a geek; so we can probably hang out.  But, what else does that mean?  It means a couple of things.  First off, if you ever have a Maxim in your hands, your reading the technology section, fore sure. Second off, you will be turning right to the “games review” section as soon as you’re finished with the tech stuff.  And finally, it means that you combine both of these passions by playing games on your ipod.  Embrace it.

What are you playing though?  Classics for sure.  And a classic game section wouldn’t be complete without “brick.”  This well known game, with the forgettable name, is the one where you slide a paddle at the bottom of the screen to bounce a ball towards the top to knock out all the bricks, hence the name.

Up next is “parachute,” where you finally get to kill something human, probably you can transfer any anger that you have towards all the people that used to beat you up in school…giving them their just deserves, in the form of a 20 caliber bullet through the head.  

The classic ipod games motif keeps on rolling here, except this time the game doesn’t try to hide what it thinks of your social skills, but rather puts everything out in the open with the title, “solitaire.”  You know how to play, so I won’t waste your time and add further salt in this wound.  Honestly, how many times have you won in your life?  Lots, I bet.

Then the ipod games start to mix things up a little bit.  Lastly you can try your ear at “Music Quiz,” which weighs in as the only ipod game name that is more lamentable than “brick.”  But, the point isn’t to critique the name, its to make sure you’re not just listening to the radio hits, by selecting a song from your library and giving you 5 options to name the tune…hey, that’d be a decent name!

The point is you don’t have to just wait until you get home to your PS2 for the ultimate in hand-eye electronic death battles…do it right now, while you’re waiting for your blind date to how up.


