Title: 
Join the Club

Word Count:
589

Summary:
This article informs the reader about the club known as Solstice and what it offers.


Keywords:
luxury, clubs, leisure, vacation home, real estate


Article Body:
Solstice is among the premier luxury destination clubs worldwide with its impressive collection of five-star-plus accommodations at the most desirable vacation destinations in the U.S., Europe and the Caribbean. The properties of Solstice are fully furnished, large enough to house numerous guests, and have an average value of 6 million dollars or more. 

The three membership plans offered, Sky, Platinum, and Signature, are based upon how much flexibility a member wants in planning a vacation. Advanced reservations are made eight and five months prior to the desired timeframe, while spontaneous reservations are placed 75 days preceding the vacation date. 

Solstice has two spacious mountain retreats in Aspen, Colo., in Silver Skies and Shimmering Trees, and a third location in Telluride. Silver Skies, which is located in Aspen's West End, features four bedrooms and baths, high ceilings, a media room, and a large kitchen. This newly constructed contemporary offerings breathtaking views of Aspen's mountains. 

Shimmering Trees has over 4,000 square feet of living space, four bedrooms, two stone fireplaces, and a gourmet kitchen. The quarters of Telluride are secluded in the Aldosora Ranch and just minutes from the ski slopes. This is a 5,800 square-foot mansion with a stone exterior and 2,800 additional square feet of outdoor terraces, including an outdoor fireplace. The amenities are unbelievable. 

Solstice is building a beautiful estate in the Wine Country of Napa Valley, Calif., for members. It is expected to be ready by 2008. Meanwhile, a beautiful substitute estate is available that sets on 70 acre Calistoga vineyard with a tennis court, a large swimming pool, spacious outdoor entertaining areas, and a picturesque view of vineyards and mountains. 

The deluxe destinations club has European residences in Florence, Paris and London. The Villa Dolce is located on Piazza Della Signoria. It is just steps from the Palazzo Vecchio and the Uffizi Gallery. Michelangelo designed the exterior of the residence. It has three bedrooms and baths and frescoes from the 17th century. There is 3,000 square feet of living space, and, despite being built in the 16th century, numerous modern amenities. The Beau Rivage is a 17th century two-level apartment located on Paris' Ile-Saint Louise. 

The flat been renovated yet retains its definitive Old World elegance. Some of the world's best shopping venues, the finest restaurants, and world-renowned art galleries are within walking distance. The Terrace Suite, which is in London's West End, is a large apartment with lavish decorum and 24-hour room service. 

The French Caribbean is represented well by the L'Etoile du Berger estate in the hills of Columbier overlooking Flammands Beach. The subterranean view of the pool from a dining room window is as incredible as the sweeping oceanfront view from the master suite. The 6,500-square-foot Casa Estrellas, which is located just minutes from Cabo San Lucas, has five master suites, an infinity-edge pool, a gourmet kitchen, eight skylights and a Jacuzzi and a wading pool. 

Solstice I, which is the companys 90-foot yacht that is available to members, cruises the New England coastline during the summer, the Bahamas in the spring and fall, and the Caribbean for the winter. There is a three-man crew and a bevy of water sports toys, including a speedboat, a wave runner and a 12-foot RIB. 

The club's open-book policy and premium services have spurred its unprecedented growth and ranking in the industry. It maintains a membership-to-residences ratio of six to one to ensure members' satisfaction comes first. The Robb Report named Solstice among its Best of the Best for two consecutive years. This is a club whose membership definitely has advantages and privileges.


