Title: 
Lens Rental

Word Count:
512

Summary:
Body - I know composition, but the pictures are always terrible. Even the old film stuff that my parents used in my younger days came out much better. You would think that in the 21st century, with all the electronics and gizmos, I would be able to take a good, sharp picture.


Keywords:
lens rental, camera lens rental, camera rental, nikon lens rental, canon lens rental, lens rentals, rent camera, lens rent, rent lenses, camera lens rentals 


Article Body:
"Body - I know composition, but the pictures are always terrible. Even the old film stuff that my parents used in my younger days came out much better. You would think that in the 21st century, with all the electronics and gizmos, I would be able to take a good, sharp picture. The answer is, I can. There are plenty of digital SLR (Single Lens Reflex) cameras out there from Canon & Nikon and others. The image quality of photographs produced from these beautiful beasts is almost like those of Ansel Adams'. 

Now you are probably asking yourself:  you know, I have been to a photo store, and I saw that photography isn't cheap.  Any good dSLR setup will cost a few months worth of my mortgage!  How can I afford such items? The answer is simple. You probably do not have a whole video store worth of movies at home. Instead you go to Blockbuster, or get movies from Netflix where you pay only a small amount for a video rental and get to sample all the fancy new releases without spending $20 at the store for a movie you will watch once. The same model works for photo equipment.  The two magic words are ""lens rentals.""  Or, possibly two magic phrases:  ""camera lens rental"" (Nikon lens rental and Canon lens rental if you want to get specific) and ""camera rental.""  If you need that super expensive super telephoto lens for a once in a lifetime trip to on a safari, there are plenty of lens rental opportunities out there. For a marginal cost, there are services that will rent camera gear to you through the mail. Simply pick out the lens rental (be it a Nikon lens rental or Canon lens rental) that you need, place the order online like you would at Amazon, and you will receive it by FedEx within a few days. Most lens rental places will even take reservations if your needs are not immediate. When you are done with the camera lens rental, simply place the items into the box, and ship it back with a pre-paid label, like you would with any online retailer return. 

The best part of lens rental online is the selection. You do not need to buy up the entire Canon or Nikon arsenal. Let someone spend the hundreds of thousands of dollars for

you. Camera lens rental outfits have the entire professional grade line-ups of Canon and Nikon lenses.  You can ever rent cameras, tripods and other accessories.  They also

carry lots of less expensive items if you want to try before you buy. After all, who wants to shell out $800 on a lens without even holding one in your hands, only to find out that you don't like the placement of the zoom ring a couple of weeks down the road? Or maybe you discover that spending $2000 on a lens did not produce the increase in image quality you were expecting. The online lens rental rates are very reasonable and are only a small fraction of the cost of new equipment. "


