Title: 
Make Sachets With Potpourri And Essential Oils

Word Count:
314

Summary:
Do you have potpourri and essential oils coming out your ears? If so, you may want to consider using them to make simple sachets as gifts. Sachets are great for tucking into bureau drawers to make your clothing smell wonderful and also can be used in closets. 

To make a sachet, you will need muslin, ribbon, and some potpourri. Cut a four inch by eight inch piece of muslin. Fold it in half with the right sides together so that you make a four inch by four inch piece. Sew th...


Keywords:
aromatherapy, crafts, potpouri


Article Body:
Do you have potpourri and essential oils coming out your ears? If so, you may want to consider using them to make simple sachets as gifts. Sachets are great for tucking into bureau drawers to make your clothing smell wonderful and also can be used in closets. 

To make a sachet, you will need muslin, ribbon, and some potpourri. Cut a four inch by eight inch piece of muslin. Fold it in half with the right sides together so that you make a four inch by four inch piece. Sew the two side edges and turn the muslin sack right side out. 

Next, fill the sack two thirds of the way with your potpourri. Add a few drops of your favorite essential oils. Then, gather the top edges of your sack and tie them off with the ribbon. If you will be giving the sachets to people who will be hanging them in closets, make a hanging loop in the ribbon. Otherwise, make a pretty bow. Add decorative elements such as fabric flowers, buttons, or bits of lace to dress up your sachets. 

If you want to make the sachets a bit fancier, you can use decorative cotton fabrics or even lace to make your sacks instead of using simple muslin. 

For a fun variation on the sachet, make scented kitchen hot pads as gifts. You can use store bought hot pads or make your own. If you use store bought hot pads, open a few inches on one seam and add a few drops of essential oil or herbs and spices like cinnamon or nutmeg. Then, sew the seam back up. When a hot plate of food or a cup of tea sits on the hot pad, the warmth will release the scent. 

Whether you make sachets or hot pads as gifts, you will be able to give useful presents that smell fabulous.


