Title: 
Metal Candle Holders For The Antique Collector

Word Count:
513

Summary:
Metal candle holders offer antique collectors and decorators unique pieces of art for the home while being functional as well. Hand crafted metal candle holders are popular among artisan collectors for the varied material they are made of. For decorators, metal candle holders make a perfect tool for decorating any room of the house. Metal candle holders are also great decorations for the holidays to dress up the table or fireplace mantel.

The art of making candle holders s...


Keywords:
holders,candles,candle holders,home decor,home,house,lounge,bedroom


Article Body:
Metal candle holders offer antique collectors and decorators unique pieces of art for the home while being functional as well. Hand crafted metal candle holders are popular among artisan collectors for the varied material they are made of. For decorators, metal candle holders make a perfect tool for decorating any room of the house. Metal candle holders are also great decorations for the holidays to dress up the table or fireplace mantel.

The art of making candle holders started out as a necessity when candles provided the only source of light in homes. These early examples of metal candle holders remain prized possessions for those who collect candle holders and antiques. During the Colonial period metal candle holders were used for lighting the home and for telling time. One story tells of a spiral shaped metal candle holder that was used when a young girl would have her boyfriend visit the family home. The candle holder held a long tapered candle and would be lit when the boy arrived at the house. When the candle burned down to a certain length, the girl’s suitor was expected to leave. Old examples of metal candle holders were usually made of forged iron or heavy tin. Many of these collectible pieces still exist today and are relatively inexpensive to collect.

Although metal candle holders were once a necessity, they now serve more as beautiful pieces of art in décor in homes all around the world. Metal candle holders, whether made with a simple tin can or forged iron are also practical because they are much more durable and less prone to breakage. Most wrought iron metal candle holders can be purchased relatively inexpensively. Metal candle handles can also be found adorned with ornate decorations such as beaded chains, crystals and other gems. 

Candle holders made out of metal are crafted from a wide variety of metal materials including bronze, iron, brass, sterling silver, aluminum, silver, steel and wrought iron. The sizes of metal candle holders vary as well, according to their intended use. Some candle holders are large and hold many candles that can light up an entire room. Others are smaller types designed to hold one tapered candle. Less popular, but still very desirable among decorators are forged iron candelabras.

Metal candle holders made of iron are very popular as decorative pieces today. These candle holders are often made by hand or are of forged or hammered iron. These handcrafted items offer quality, durability, uniqueness, and value. Artisans who make these metal candle holders out of iron make these pieces one at a time using the centuries old process of heating the metal in fire and hammering it into the desired shape or configuration. 

Metal candle holders can be found all over the world. New pieces are easily located at almost any store that carries decorative items for the home. Both large and small metal candle holders are made in all shapes and sizes. Look for handmade metal candle holders at arts and crafts fairs where artisans sell their unique pieces of art.


