Title: 
Modern Uses For Ceramics

Word Count:
520

Summary:
We commonly think of ceramics as art objects and decorations. But ceramics really are diverse pieces of multi-purpose material that are made from burning formed pieces of pottery. This shaped clay started out many years ago being hand-formed and was eventually made with a wheel to iron out any fingerprints or major imperfections. 

Handmade ceramic is still made as an art form today, even though it is no longer the industry standard for making objects. As a beginner you wou...


Keywords:
ceramic,science,dentist,tools


Article Body:
We commonly think of ceramics as art objects and decorations. But ceramics really are diverse pieces of multi-purpose material that are made from burning formed pieces of pottery. This shaped clay started out many years ago being hand-formed and was eventually made with a wheel to iron out any fingerprints or major imperfections. 

Handmade ceramic is still made as an art form today, even though it is no longer the industry standard for making objects. As a beginner you would learn to mold, glaze and trim the clay to form objects. Uniquely painted, polished and decorated ceramic is always sought after. Developing your own style will come from practice and experimentation.

Most ceramic materials, however, are now made with precision using machines that do not rely at all on the human touch. But it doesn’t mean that this molded clay doesn’t touch our lives. Modern developments have made it possible for companies to create new and diverse products from the clay that can change how we do things in the future.

Well-Known Uses for Ceramics

Most people are aware of the presence of ceramics in their homes. It can commonly be found in their art sculptures, dishes, platters and other kitchen wear, kitchen tiles and bathroom structures. It is functional and often beautiful.

Lesser-Known Uses for Ceramics

What most people aren’t aware of is how diverse ceramic materials really are. They can be used for almost anything. Ceramics are currently used for computers, tools, dental replacements, engine parts and tiles on space shuttles. Ceramics play an important role in our everyday lives, even the parts we can’t see and don’t give much thought to.

Future Uses for Ceramics

Scientists are just beginning to tap into the many uses for ceramic. The biggest area we expect to see growth in is how it will help in our life functions. It will be able to sense our needs and deliver medicine as needed. It will be able to remove impurities from our drinking water. It will be used to replace bones such as hips, knees and shoulders. It will be able to replace diseased heart valves. The health benefits from using ceramic in the medical field are remarkable.

A common use for ceramic today is in the dental field. Ceramic can be used to make fillings, crowns, veneers, implants and brackets used for holding braces in place. As an increasingly vain society, ceramic will be used more often not only for our dental needs, but to improve the look of our teeth in general.

Because of the remarkable electric, mechanic, thermal, optical and magnetic abilities, ceramic materials have numerous uses. The possibilities of how we use ceramic are literally endless. From the medical field to computer technology, ceramic material has and will have a profound effect on how we do things. It can really change the way we live, how long we live and how well we live. It will make our day-to-day life easier, increase our technology and help us to live long, healthy lives even when our natural body parts can no longer support us.


