Title: 
Myspace Backgrounds!

Word Count:
487

Summary:
When you type the website name on your address bar, a funky page filled with attractive cartoons unfurls before you. Designed tastefully with a mélange of vibrant hues fitted to perfection in an inky black background, the website certainly snares ones’ attention the moment you click on it.


Keywords:
Myspace Layouts, Myspace Backgrounds


Article Body:
When you type the website name on your address bar, a funky page filled with attractive cartoons unfurls before you. Designed tastefully with a mélange of vibrant hues fitted to perfection in an inky black background, the website certainly snares ones’ attention the moment you click on it.
<a href="www.killacodes.com">KillaCodes</a>  is certainly a website that will snatch the attention of the teenage population. With it’s funky animations and pictures and caricatures strewn all over the page, it’s a winner among all. This website offers you over a whopping 19740 vibrant Myspace backgrounds for you!
 Aside from being unusual and catchy, these Myspace backgrounds are available in every variety, to suit your tastes and moods. The website also offers you a whole gallery of animation clip backgrounds, and an assortment of texts and quotes backgrounds. There are backgrounds for your space available in every category imaginable—right from romance to glittery cartoons and artsy backgrounds, which will add a tad of uniqueness and creativity to your space. 
When you click on the animation category, the page that opens contains an assortment of cute little animation clips, that will certain add a touch of funkiness to your space. The animation clips are mostly of cartoon caricatures and are attractive and pleasing to look at. When you click on the glitters category, a page containing an array of glitter-dappled cartoons dances before your eyes—charming and girly, it’s certainly a winner among all!
The romance category is a page full of mushy backgrounds, certain to expose your sensitive side and make your loved ones blush. 
The image category is a page full of blinkies and attractive male celebrities, showing off their well-toned physiques, and gorgeous female celebrities adorning costumes that accentuate their slender curves. For the die-hard role-model worshippers, these Myspace backgrounds are certainly a must! 
Aside from these, there are also several macho pics of funky sports cars, racing cars and sleek automobiles, certain to snag the attention of the gadget gurus. 
There is also a miscellaneous category containing every picture not found in any other category. Right from animals to cell-phones and umbrellas and shoes, you name it, they’ve got it. They’ve got every picture and clip and Myspace background you need to adorn your space and attract visitors.
These Myspace backgrounds exude an aura of enigma and they are certain to remain your favorite for a very long time. 
Getting a Myspace background for your space is well worth everything you do to acquire it. They’ve got everything you need for your space to be the winner among all. Guaranteed to dapple your space with fun, spice and a ton of excitement, they’re sure to make your space a frequent visiting spot to revel in. The Myspace backgrounds available in <a href="www.killacodes.com">KillaCodes</a> will fulfill your expectations, and then some more.


