Title: 
Next week on TV (5/15–5/21)

Word Count:
417

Summary:
The NBA and NHL seasons are moving perilously close to the end, but it remains unclear who will emerge as champion. Detroit seems like a huge favorite in the NBA, but pretty much anything can happen in the NHL.


Keywords:
MLB, NBA, LPGA, Boxing, PGA


Article Body:
The NBA and NHL seasons are moving perilously close to the end, but it remains unclear who will emerge as champion. Detroit seems like a huge favorite in the NBA, but pretty much anything can happen in the NHL. 

*All times Eastern.

Monday, May 15
Soccer, Chivas USA at New England (midnight, FSN)
If you’re up at midnight on a Monday, you’ll have a hard time finding anything better than this Major League Soccer battle. MLS may not quite captivate the country, but games are always close and if you want to bet on the game, it will stay interesting. 

Tuesday, May 16
Giants at Astros (8:05 p.m., local/satellite)
The hype should have died down about Barry Bonds since he will have passed Babe Ruth, but this is still an interesting matchup between potential playoff teams. Houston’s fortunes may depend on Roger Clemens, but “The Rocket” won’t be in this series, so Bonds should have plenty to hit.

Wednesday, May 17
NBA Conference Semis (TNT) 
In the NBA the conference semifinals are sometimes the best series and that may well be true again this year. Though Detroit looks unstoppable, things out west are wide open and pretty much any matchup should go seven games.

Thursday, May 18
LPGA, Sybase Classic (1 p.m., USA)
Things have gotten a lot more interesting on the LPGA tour with the emergence of a number of young players to challenge Annika Sorenstam for tour domination. The players have also gotten a lot better looking and more than a few are dressing to impress sponsors and attract a male audience.

Friday, May 19
Boxing, Yusaf Mack versus Alejandro Berrio (9 p.m., ESPN2)
The undefeated Mack takes on Berrio in this super middleweight bout. Mack actually holds something called the UBA light heavyweight intercontinental title, but that meaningless championship won’t be on the line here.

Saturday, May 20
Boxing, Marc Antonio Barera versus Rocky Juarez (10:30 p.m., HBO)
Barera, who has fought an incredible 65 times, defends his super featherweight title against Juarez, who has an impressive 25-1 record. HBO will also show the under card of Jorge Barios versus Janos Nagy in a super welterweight bout.

Sunday, May 21
PGA, The Colonial (3 p.m., CBS)
Kenny Perry won this event last year by a ridiculous seven shots. He also took the title in 2003, setting a course record both times. He has to be one of the favorites to take it all again since he seems to have the number of the course in Fort Worth, Texas.


