Title: 
Paint: Gotta Love It

Word Count:
420

Summary:
I love paint. There are so many kinds of paint and there are so many fun and important uses of paint. Our lives and most especially our homes would be very different without it.

Can you imagine a world, or even just your bedroom, without any paint on the walls? Imagine that all our walls were plain cement or wood. No colors and nothing to make them unique or standout from the rest. Having paint for walls and to decorate has made life easier and more beautiful. People are a...


Keywords:
paint


Article Body:
I love paint. There are so many kinds of paint and there are so many fun and important uses of paint. Our lives and most especially our homes would be very different without it.

Can you imagine a world, or even just your bedroom, without any paint on the walls? Imagine that all our walls were plain cement or wood. No colors and nothing to make them unique or standout from the rest. Having paint for walls and to decorate has made life easier and more beautiful. People are able to be creative and to use paint to make their homes reflect their personalities. Look around your house and see if there is a room or two that might benefit from a fresh coat of paint. You will be surprised at how different your living area can become when you simply add a little new paint.

Or think of all of the beautiful artwork that you see in homes, offices, galleries, and churches. The world would be a lot plainer without the paintings of talented artists, and we all know it takes paint to make a great painting. Have you ever wanted to try your hand at learning to paint? Now is the time. Go to your local craft store and pick out a small canvas and a few paints and go to town. Recreate an image you have seen before or imagine your own scene and paint it. Allow trying to paint to be a relaxing and fun way to spend time.

Have you ever noticed a refrigerator filled with the artwork of children? Parents love to display the creativity of their kids. Often these masterpieces took shape with paint. Allowing your children to play around with paint can be a great way to instill in your kids the value of creativity and of enjoying learning how to do something new. So grab some kid friendly paint and see what your kids come up with. Invite their friends over and making learning to paint a fun group activity. Incorporate artistic activities at birthday parties or other social events you hold for your children. They can have fun and learn at the same time.

Paint is great whether you are picking out a new color to update a room in need of remodeling or you are attempting to keep the kids entertained for a few afternoon hours. People of all ages will love to decorate and redecorate the finest homes and the oldest refrigerators using nothing but a little paint.


