Title: 
Party Planning 101

Word Count:
314

Summary:
Planning a successful party can be a complex project. There are many factors to consider to minimize embarrassing mishaps or possible conflicts. The more import the party you are planning the more attention you should pay to the planning. A 50th wedding anniversary party is usually going to require more complex planning than a small backyard barbeque party.

The first and most important aspect of party planning is to determine the reason for the party. The reason for the pa...


Keywords:
party, party planning, party favors, party favor ideas


Article Body:
Planning a successful party can be a complex project. There are many factors to consider to minimize embarrassing mishaps or possible conflicts. The more import the party you are planning the more attention you should pay to the planning. A 50th wedding anniversary party is usually going to require more complex planning than a small backyard barbeque party.

The first and most important aspect of party planning is to determine the reason for the party. The reason for the party usually determines the size, the budget, who is invited, and how many people you want to accommodate.

Setting your budget is crucial. The size of your budget can determine how many people you invite, the kind of food you serve, etc. You can do some very creative things with limited budgets; so modest budgets should not deter you. The most important thing is not to spend a dollar until you have your budget.

If money is an issue you may want to partner with someone to pay for the party. For example, if you are planning a birthday party you may have your party with a friend whose birthday is close to yours. Celebrating two peoples’ birthday may be even more exciting. When you are faced with a problem try to think of it more as an opportunity instead of a problem.

How many people you invite has not only to do with your budget, but your location. If you plan the party to be held in your house, you should know how many people you can accommodate. You can invite about ten percent more than you can accommodate since some people may have to cancel in the last minute. When you invite guest to your party, try to avoid inviting people who can’t stand each other. You want people to have fun, and you should do everything you can to avoid fights.


