Title: 
Popular Art Galleries Of London

Word Count:
456

Summary:
In this article, I write about some of the different art galleries which people can visit when they are in London. I would very much recommend that you make time during your trip to have a look around some of the places mentioned, as they are sure to add to your experience of visiting the capital city of England.


Keywords:
art, galleries, London, jewels, Britain, paintings, collection, Royal, Buckingham, Palace, Thames


Article Body:
In this article, I write about some of the different art galleries which people can visit when they are in London. I would very much recommend that you make time during your trip to have a look around some of the places mentioned, as they are sure to add to your experience of visiting the capital city of England.

London is fast becoming a very popular weekend break destination with its long history and many attractions. As well as all of the most popular tourist attractions, such as Big Ben and The Tower Of London, there are number of quality art galleries which people can and should also visit.

The art galleries which I would recommend people to visit in London:

Queen's Gallery, Buckingham Palace

This gallery shows various pieces from the Royal Collection including famous works by Leonardo and Vermeer. 

Their have been many additions to the amount of items on display after a recent extension. I personally like viewing the jewels that are on show, which are very impressive. The whole place is steeped in history and some of the pieces of furniture on display are not only worth huge sums of money, they are also extremely old and superbly maintained.

The National Gallery 

There are a number of superb and famous paintings at the National Gallery including:

The Ambassadors

A Woman Bathing In A Stream

Virgin And Child With St Anne And John The Baptist

Rokeby Venus

The many paintings in this gallery date from 1260-1900.

National Portrait Gallery

This gallery opened in 1856 and houses many paintings and also some very famous portraits such as:

Margaret Thatcher

Germaine Greer

Shakespeare

Horatio Nelson

The Serpentine Gallery

This happens to be my favourite gallery as it tends to show more contemporary artists. It is located near Kensington Gardens and is a must in my opinion.

Tate Britain

Many people believe that this gallery has the best collection of British art in the world.

This gallery offers a free guided tour and there are films every day of the week.

Some of the paintings on show at the Tate Britain are:

Sancta Lilias

Flatford Mill

Norham Castle, Sunrise

Elohim Creating Adam

Pink And Green Sleepers

The Tate Modern

This is a fairly new gallery which is located on the South bank of the Thames.

It shows modern art from early 1900 to the present day.

As you can see there are a number of galleries which people can choose from. The ones I have mentioned above are among my favourites, however there are many more which people can also visit including:

Kenwood House

The Dulwich Picture Gallery

The Royal Academy

I hope you enjoy your time in London and find these art galleries as interesting as I do.


