Title: 
Popular Types Of Embroider Designs

Word Count:
495

Summary:
There are several types of embroidery designs available on the internet and the market. Selection should depend on factors such as personal tastes, style, availability of materials for a particular design etc. 

Popular Types of Embroider Designs:

1. Clothing Embroidery Designs: These are the most popular and widely available embroidery designs. They can be purchased from local embroidery shops and the internet. The digitized versions can be directly downloaded from webs...


Keywords:
embroidery, hobby, hobbies


Article Body:
There are several types of embroidery designs available on the internet and the market. Selection should depend on factors such as personal tastes, style, availability of materials for a particular design etc. 

Popular Types of Embroider Designs:

1. Clothing Embroidery Designs: These are the most popular and widely available embroidery designs. They can be purchased from local embroidery shops and the internet. The digitized versions can be directly downloaded from websites and sewn on to garments using computerized embroidery machines. Clothing Embroidery designs include - Trouser embroidery, Men’s wear embroidery, Children clothing embroidery, Fashion wear embroidery, Dinner suit embroidery, Ladies garments embroidery etc.

2. Household Embroidery Designs: Though these designs are for house-hold garments, they are usually created by professionals because of size, and intricate designs and colors demanded by household items such as carpets, bed-sheets, mats etc.

3. Logo Embroidery Designs: Logos are embroidered on to garments such as T-shirts, Sweatshirts, and Jackets etc. These designs are also mostly created by professionals, and many of the designs can be ordered online and custom-made on demand. The texts, outlines, size and artwork are paid a lot of attention when designing embroidery logos.

4. General Products Embroidery Designs: Garments such as baseball caps, shoes, gloves, and other apparels can be embroidered with specific designs and patterns. These embroidery designs, custom-made or pre-designed, can also be ordered from the internet.

Making your Own Design – Things to remember:

Before setting up your machine for an embroidering project, there are several things you need to keep in mind. The first step you should take is to stitch out your design first on another piece of fabric to determine the look, size and how it’d actually turn out on that particular type of fabric. Secondly, select the color combination for the threads and make sure there’s enough thread on the bobbin. Third, choose a hoop that can firmly hold the fabric; and lastly, double-check everything to make sure that your tools are in order before creating the actual embroidery design.

1. Smaller designs are always easier for embroidery. For example, 3 - 4.5" wide for left-chest emblem is quite enough for shirts.

2. The primary location of the embroidered design doesn’t always have to be in the middle. For example, placing the design on the left sleeve of a Short Sleeve shirt can be quite appropriate too.

3. Try to avoid mistakes, but if you do make any, try to fix it by tearing it out, covering it up or editing it.

4. Black bobbin thread or the same color thread should be used as the top when embroidering texts on dark fabric.

5. Change the needle frequently and use a new one every time you start a new embroidery project.

6. Outlines of objects and text should be of minimum size, especially for logos. Smaller objects don’t need to be outlined because it will hardly show in the finished product. 

7. For smaller digitized text designs, choose fonts that are simple and easy-to-read fonts such as Arial or Verdana.


