Title: 
Send An E-Card For Any Occasion

Word Count:
568

Summary:
The Internet has proved to be the most favored mode of communication for people all around the world. Not only does the Internet let people communicate with people through email or VOIP (Voice over Internet Protocol) services but it is also the most widely accessed medium to find information about diverse topics. Now the Internet has become an important tool in sending personalized greeting cards to near and dear ones, no matter which part of the world they live in.

People...


Keywords:
e-card, free online e-card, online greeting card,ecard,free online ecard


Article Body:
The Internet has proved to be the most favored mode of communication for people all around the world. Not only does the Internet let people communicate with people through email or VOIP (Voice over Internet Protocol) services but it is also the most widely accessed medium to find information about diverse topics. Now the Internet has become an important tool in sending personalized greeting cards to near and dear ones, no matter which part of the world they live in.

People are now favoring the Internet in sending greeting cards to people for various occasions like birthdays and anniversaries, or for sending congratulations cards or just an “I Miss you” card. Websites have thousands of cards categorized in an organized manner for you to send. Would you like to wish your son who is studying abroad a very happy birthday? Or are you afraid of proposing to your girlfriend personally and would like to propose to her by sending her an ecard? Would you like to give your wife a surprise by sending her an anniversary card to her email account? What about congratulating your friend who has won top honors in a university? No problem at all. It can be done with a click of your mouse.

As mentioned before, there are hundreds of cards to choose from and from many different categories. The best thing about these sites is that you can send any number of ecards absolutely free of cost. You can select an ecard you like and then personalize it according to your wishes. You can change the card’s default text and also apply another background. Many of the cards can be customized to play music in the background. They are flash-enabled with animation so that you can play again and again. Need to send the same card to wish Merry Christmas and Happy New Year to multiple recipients? No problem at all. Just enter the email addresses and names of the recipients in the multiple entry boxes and your card will be personalized accordingly and sent to all the recipients.

Sending greeting cards through the Internet has its pros and cons. Sending ecards prove to be the speediest option in card sending as it reaches the recipients' mail boxes within minutes. Also, it proves to be the cheapest option as there are no postal charges to be incurred. Moreover, sending cards through the Internet saves on paper and hence leads to less cutting of trees. The only con that I can think of is that sending a personal handwritten card sure generates more emotion than an ecard. The handwork and the time spent in making a personal card and then sending it by post is something that can touch a heart and bring tears to one’s eyes. Sending an ecard may lack that personal touch.

In the end, just a few points worth a mention in case you wish to send an ecard. Do not include any personal information in the card as it takes just a second for your information to become public to everyone. Make sure that the website that allows you to send or view the greeting card also gives you the option to delete the card when you want to delete it. By keeping such simple things in mind, you can prevent unauthorized people from gaining access to your private information and wreak havoc in your life.


