Title: 
Something about Designer jewelry

Word Count:
463

Summary:
Designer jewelry is real expensive to buy. Each gemstone has a different story to speak.


Keywords:
designer jewelry, jewelry


Article Body:
Jewelry is a mandatory accessory for every woman. It plays a major role in increasing the beauty of woman. Jewelry can be referred to as any piece of ornament worn on any body part of a lady to accentuate its feminine looks. Over centuries women have worn jewelry pieces that match fashion of times. Fashion and trend are ever changing. The jewelry designed keeping the fashion and trends in mind is known as designer jewelry. Pearls, diamonds, platinum, gold and silver are always in trend. They are just designed in varied styles that suit the desires of fashion conscious people. Designer jewelry is real expensive to buy. Each gemstone has a different story to speak. Designers translate the story into piece of jewelry to derive satisfaction and appreciation of people. Each piece of designer jewelry is hand crafted using gold, silver, platinum and gemstones. Designer jewelry is very versatile. Many pieces combine the specialty of designing chokers with the possibility of being worn in numerous ways. 

Designer jewelry is a great accessory for a formal or casual dress and is a perfect way to showcase your personality. It represents the creativity of so many people that dedicate themselves to the art of jewelry design. It is usually made of base metals with thin coating of gold, silver or other materials that give it a nice finish. Decoration over the jewelry is made of glass, plastic, stones, ivory and other materials that could be used creatively. Earlier the costumes where designed to match jewelry. However, now designer jewelry is made to match the attire. If there is a floral patterned dress that is to be worn at some occasion the lady would probably select jewelry that is very colorful or even flowery in design. Designer jewelry is also created in other materials like sea shells, wood, plastic and others. These are cut into different shapes and styles that could be worn in routine life. The most elegant of designs that could be worn at variety of occasions are made by some of the most famous designers.

Jewelry designing is one of the hottest career options for youngsters these days. There are numerous universities and institutes offering courses in designer jewelry. These people often have established jewelry and fashion designers as visiting lecturers. They offer some very valuable tips that if considered carefully can help establish career in creating designer jewelry. Jewelry designers can work with established brands or can open their own stores of designer jewelry for catering to people. However, the biggest chances of success are when some experience is gained under an established brand and later a move is made into the independent market. 
<br><a href="http://www.submitsuite.com/products/article-submitter.htm">This article was published using Article Submitter</a>


