Title: 
Talented in Arts?

Word Count:
611

Summary:
When it really seems that you are useless and have no calling in this world, think carefully. Maybe you have some hidden talent or ability to do something special. The presence of talent can change a lot, so get a closer look at yourself and find out, how is it possible to develop it.


Keywords:
argumentative essay topic, essay writing


Article Body:
The word “art” unites a lot of different definitions and branches. We usually associate arts with something of extreme beauty that brings pleasure. Arts help us solve one of the philosophical questions “What is beautiful?” With the help of arts we can see the beauty that was not yet shown to us. Arts started developing from the simple sketches made on the stone by our predators. Now we can see how many branches arts have. 
We distinguish verbal arts, such as poetry, prose, theatre, movie production though it can also be put to the category of drawn arts or pictures, another branch is sculpture which is closely united with architecture. Then we call music a true art and enjoy various styles and compositions. Dancing is an art and a sport, for it helps a person to keep fit and brings joy to the audience.

We’ve enumerated a number of arts that exist, but the list is certainly not full. Martial arts are called arts not without a purpose. Examining the works of the talented and gifted we see that art is everything that is exceptionally beautiful. The definition of the kind of arts can be a good argumentative essay topic; there’s a lot to consider. During your work you may determine if you are talented in arts. It is quite clear that a person is born with certain possibilities in different spheres. Your family, your teachers are to discover that talent when you are yet unable to do it for yourself. One is also to distinguish the difference between being talented and being gifted, though it may seem slight. A person that is gifted knows about his/her abilities or just feels them and is ready to dedicate all his/her life to the calling. Their creations are masterpieces that impress the society by its beauty and originality. A talented person even may not know about his/her ability to do something in a special way which is positively different from the rest. But there is a perspective to develop the talent and use it to profit yourself and leave a trace in history and give pleasure to the others that are not lucky enough to be like you.

Once you, or your teacher, or you family have discovered that you have talent, or maybe it was even your discovery; it is a horrible sin and ungratefulness to the nature to ignore the fact. You are to develop it. There are a lot of ways to do it.  For example, your tutors kept on telling you that essay writing is your strong point, so you should not ignore their advice and constantly make progress in this direction. You can develop for yourself and use necessary materials and ways to move up to the next level and try to reach perfection. It is all about the will and stamina. If you are not able to control yourself you may turn for help to various tutors or sections that may help you develop in a team, sharing the experience. Your constant practice is very important. It will not come to you automatically; you’ll have to practice to reach the aim you’ve put yourself. The help of you dearest and nearest may come in handy, if there is no one to support you, it may either become a great motivator to prove your capability or destroy your inner confidence and make you calm down with the idea. If you are firmly determined to do whatever you have necessary skills to do, you have to go through a long road but the award will be of a king-size: fame and recognition.


