Title: 
The Modern And Traditional Anniversary Gift List

Word Count:
313

Summary:
People have celebrated wedding anniversaries since antiquity, each culture having its own set of practices covering what presents have been exchanged. Over the years certain gifts have been set aside for specific years, creating a traditional anniversary gift list. The traditional anniversary gift list was created at a point in time when people had less starting out in wedded bliss, so the list is a somewhat practical one. This traditional anniversary gift list was actually c...


Keywords:
anniversary gift


Article Body:
People have celebrated wedding anniversaries since antiquity, each culture having its own set of practices covering what presents have been exchanged. Over the years certain gifts have been set aside for specific years, creating a traditional anniversary gift list. The traditional anniversary gift list was created at a point in time when people had less starting out in wedded bliss, so the list is a somewhat practical one. This traditional anniversary gift list was actually comprised of items which would be of real benefit to the new couple.

As the years have gone by, a newer anniversary gift list of a more modern nature has arisen to appeal to the more affluent modern couple. With the newer trend of later marriages, there is less need for starter items for newlyweds, as each usually has a lived alone and acquired items on their own which will be added to the combined household. This is completely opposite the traditional way of staying home until a suitable candidate was received for marriage.

This newer anniversary gift list also allows for practical gifts within the first few years of marriage, but it also has diamonds showing up three times as opposed to the traditional anniversary gift list with its one occurrence of diamonds. There are instances though, where both anniversary gift lists name the same gift.

Anniversary gift lists are nice a nice reference to get ideas for your anniversary, but a gift that is given out of love and that comes out of the understanding of your spouse will outdo a listed gift on any day. So with that thought in mind, here’s the traditional versus modern anniversary gift list. May all your anniversaries be happy and full of love.

1st year
Traditional List: paper
Modern List: clock

2nd year
Traditional List: cotton
Modern List: china

3rd year
Traditional List: leather
Modern List: crystal, glass


