Title: 
The Mile High Club of Luxury Aircraft Charters

Word Count:
1042

Summary:
This article tells the reader about the different luxury aircraft available to the consumer market.


Keywords:
aircraft, luxury, travel, jet, charter, private jet


Article Body:
More and more people are chartering private aircrafts for business and personal trips instead of using commercial airlines. Better time management, security, and more personalized services are perhaps the main reasons. The smaller luxury jets also have access to substantially more airports than the larger commercial planes. With competition for private-jet chartering on the rise, it will be interesting to see what these firms will offer next to gain a competitive edge with prospective customers.

The luxury aircraft-charter firms presented here offer concierge services, catered meals by gourmet chefs, fine wines, limousines, and car rentals. Many also offer special club-membership programs with added incentives to frequent travelers. Many have tie-ins with other businesses, whereas their customers receive special treatment from other companies. As more companies are entering the industry, it is a buyers market.

As we find more companies offering this type of service worthy of reporting to our valued readers, the list of sources will expand accordingly. We are hopeful that you find the Mile High Club of Luxury Aircraft Charters a helpful resource.

Gold Jets management staff has over 200 years of experience in the aviation industry. This company knows every detail involved in aircraft management and private-jet chartering. Lears, Citations, Falcons, Challengers, Hawkers, and Gulfstreams are just some of the aircrafts managed by Gold Jets. It has one of the largest fleets of privately jets worldwide. The firm works intimately with its clients to ensure and guarantee utmost efficiency.  

One of the main reasons V1 Private Jets began was to address the frustrations experienced by its founders when using private-chartering services. Basically, they listed out their frustrations with the industry and then made every effort to resolve those issues, providing solutions that would distinguish V1 Private Jets from competitors. This is the genesis of the V1 Jetcard program. Since membership is not required to use V1 Private Jets, it is the perfect opportunity to test drive the Jetcard before deciding. 

Type the phrase Membership has its privileges or advantages into a search engine, and you will see a well-worn cliche with over 20 pages of sources using this frayed and tattered verse. It could be used again to describe the benefits the Jetworks Z Card program offers its members, but not today. The Z Card program gives members a double-luxury offering that coveys advantages threefold. As the name of the company suggests, private jet chartering is its specialty. 

Blue Star Jets is capable of handling all charter air needs whether it is an executive jet, a private flight or a fleet of private flights with multiple destinations, various departure sites, different size aircrafts, and gourmet catering is included too. A private concierge assists clients with all their travel plans. Charter services for helicopters also are available. BSJ can be a company's outsource option to arrange charter flights, or it can manage, maintain and service airplanes owned by a company, turning a cost of doing business into an ancillary stream of profits. 

These days many people seeking to have either fractional or full ownership of an aircraft have to wait up to three years to land a deal. Demand for private aircrafts has never been stronger than it is today. MicroJet Positions can accelerate the process tenfold with its worldwide database of available aircrafts for sale. The high-flying matchmaker specializes in aligning buyers and sellers to generate its innovative Express Check Out services.

Although LR Services is a high flier in aircraft charter and management services, it is its down-to-earth dedication and devotion to all air-travel matters that has earned it such lofty status. Even after 30 years of doing business, LR's diligent service to its customers stems from the top and trickles down, as the firm's ownership still personally oversees that every detail is handled meticulously. Desired destinations are never a problem, as chartered services are capable of touching down in up to 40 percent more airports than those used by commercial carriers. 

Whether it is chartering a flight for a single VIP in a turboprop Cheyenne II or up to 16 significant staffers in a Gulfstream IV, LR is capable of accommodating all clients needs with aircrafts ranging from turboprops to small, medium or large jets. LRs fleet of large jets include the Gulfstream IIB, the Citation X and the Challenger 600, 601 and 604. 

Imagine having a whim, picking up the phone and jetting off on a private airplane to Aspen ski resort-where every detail from your doorstep to your final destination is meticulously handled for you. Envision an airline at your disposal whose sole purpose is to ensure you are appropriately pampered as it whisks you to and fro. Visualize yourself on a spontaneous getaway to vast winter wonderlands filled with adventurous snow-capped mountains. Now you are beginning to see what Aspen Executive Air can do for you.

Marquis Jet ranks as one of the premier providers of private-jet chartering due to its unique partnership with NetJets. Discriminate travelers who choose the Marquis Jet Card program have 24-7 access to flights and can select from over 500 available aircrafts. Annually NetJets coordinates over 275,000 flights, including European services. Their pilots average at least 9,000 hours of flight experience, and all flights include two FAA certified pilots captains who attend recurrent training sessions twice annually. Additionally, while other jet memberships average aircrafts are over 16 years old, the average age of Marquis airships is just four years.

Numerous credit-card companies offer various special incentives to prompt card carriers to use their cards more often, as if the ever-increasing cost of living and lagging wages aren't enough to do so anyway. There is a wide variety of cash-back and redemption program offers as long as the imagination of the industries' collective imagination. However, if something more than bobble-heads, trinkets or clanking pocket change is sought, Bombardier Skyjet's cards may be right on target!

A company's name offers insight as to how it conducts its business affairs. A firm regarded as a sentient establishment possesses the ability to perceive or feel things. Taking on such implicative nomenclature challenges an organization mightily to deliver at the highest level. And Sentient Jet would have it no other way. With private flights available on Citations, Learjets, Beechjets or larger aircrafts such as Challengers, Falcon 900s or Gulfstream IV-SPs, Sentient Jet can accommodate any size charter.


