Title: 
The Two Faces of Muscle Relaxants

Word Count:
666

Summary:
This article discusses the health conditions concerning the muscles of the body ##such as cramps and spasms and what cause these to happen. It also discusses the #treatment usually associated with this condition which is muscle-relaxants. Finally, ##it provides a comparison between two types of muscle-relaxants where one is made #from chemicals while the other is purely herbal.


Keywords:
Herbal Muscle Relaxant


Article Body:
One of the weirdest, most surprising, and very excruciating incidents that a person can experience during sleep is muscle cramps or spasm usually in the leg area. It is so sudden that one can be alarmed from its unexpected occurrence and rendered helpless while painfully waiting for the cramp or spasm to subside. Right after that fleeting experience, the remaining sensation of the leg cramp remains for several days before it completely goes away. Usually, muscle cramps are observed from athletes who are engrossed in their games but suddenly stumbles and falls to the ground holding the body part that was afflicted by the spasm. It is to be expected from them because over-exertion during activities really cause muscle cramps or spasms to occur. The ones that are experienced at night are often called “night cramps” and though the causes of it still remain quiet vague, it is said that the usual contracted state of the leg muscles when lying down may predispose that part of the body to develop further into spasms. Other suggested reasons for night cramps to occur include side-effects of medications, dehydration, and vascular diseases in the leg areas. 

Though some night cramps are fleeting and hardly happen again to some people, a few number of individuals have reported experiencing frequent night cramps which become very troubling not only due to its pain but more of the disturbance it causes during sleep. According to some medical professionals, some people are really prone to having cramps and not even just at night. Usually, leg stretching or entire body stretching may be the solution for these situation but in some more serious cases muscle-relaxers are already used as treatment.

Muscle-relaxers are prescription medications that are used to alleviate the pain and discomfort caused by muscle cramps or spasms. Some individuals who have serious muscle problems that have resulted from over-use or over-exertion really need to take muscle-relaxers to at least decrease the difficulty they experience because of their health condition. However, like most medications, muscle-relaxers also require certain precautionary measures before their intake. Moreover, certain side effects are also reported to result from muscle-relaxer use. Because of the slight danger or threat posed by these factors, new medications were developed such as herbal muscle-relaxers. Unlike their more famous counterparts, these muscle-relaxers are said to be purely made from natural components, thus, side effects are highly unlikely. It is said to have the same effectiveness as the ones that are made from chemical substances, however, with the less risk of causing harm. On the other hand, some medical professionals claim that these herbal muscle-relaxers are merely like supplements that, though has a certain level of scientific support, cannot totally profess therapeutic claims. Herbal muscle-relaxants are also said to lack in prior testing which is usually required from most drugs to prove their effectiveness based on scientific evidences. Finally, these herbal counterparts are said to have an indefinite dosage measurement to treat muscle injuries. Like vitamins, a person cannot overdose from these medications, however, their effectiveness are also compromised by their lack of a defined substance dosage.

The final decision actually lies in the hands of the consumers, whether they will choose to make use of the usual muscle-relaxants with its precautionary measures needed and risks of side effects, however, with a guaranteed effectiveness; or they will go with a herbal muscle-relaxant that makes use of all natural components, assures of higher safety, however, with compromised effectiveness. Upon deciding, it is better to seek advice from those who know better, this means those that are professionals in the field of medicine and healthcare. Various concerns should be relayed to them relative to the use of medications so that they can also have a better analysis of the situation. The only one act which should not be done at all is to self-medicate when muscle cramps or spasms are experienced. When this is done, further complications and harm may possibly arise instead of desired treatment and cure.


