Title: 
Trade Show Graphics - The Inside Scoop

Word Count:
561

Summary:
Display graphics are graphic images used for illustration or "display" purposes. Display Graphics are usually printed on paper, vinyl or fabric using a "large format" printing device. Normally display graphics are over-sized graphics printed on paper or some other material, and then mounted or hung on a graphic display unit of some sort in a conspicuous place.

One-off display graphics are used in vinyl banners, trade show displays, or as backdrops for a convention, press c...


Keywords:
graphic design, display graphics


Article Body:
Display graphics are graphic images used for illustration or "display" purposes. Display Graphics are usually printed on paper, vinyl or fabric using a "large format" printing device. Normally display graphics are over-sized graphics printed on paper or some other material, and then mounted or hung on a graphic display unit of some sort in a conspicuous place.

One-off display graphics are used in vinyl banners, trade show displays, or as backdrops for a convention, press conference, or special event such as an athletic event or tournament.

Multiple units of display graphic items are often required when a company has numerous sales outlets or franchises. In that case the producer of display graphics will produce a number of units such as posters, mounted displays, banner stands or vinyl banners so the company can mount a consistent promotional campaign.

**Indoor vs. Outdoor Applications

One of the most important distinction is between display graphics used for indoor displays and display graphics used for outdoor display purposes.

Indoor products are usually set up in trade shows, retail stores, malls, and conferences. Outdoor items are things such as vinyl banners, signage, adhesive vinyl used for vehicles or window graphics, large outdoor posters (usually printed on vinyl or fabric), and streetscape banners.

Outdoor items are exposed to the elements and require special inks in order to be UV resistant and waterproof. The usual procedure is to use special solvent inks that do not fade nearly as quickly in bright sunlight, and are also water resistant. Some suppliers attempt to "cheat" by laminating items printed with water-based inks, but this is not a satisfactory solution.

It is often desirable to use solvent based printing for some indoor items as well. For instance, banners that you expect to use a number of times will have to be rolled and unrolled, and water-based inks are much more likely to scratch and break down with this kind of handling. Or if you want to hang a banner across the front of your display table at a trade show it is likely to be bumped and have coffee spilled on it. The more durable you make it, the better.

**Artwork Considerations

Most experienced suppliers of display graphics will know exactly what kind of images and illustrations you should or should not use in your designs. Digital printing devices can print from photographs and illustrations, so you can include logos, maps, text or anything normally printable from a program like Quarkxpress, Illustrator, or Coreldraw.

One major consideration is the resolution of your original images. Offset printing (brochures and magazines) requires a resolution of up to 300 ppi (pixels per inch), but display graphics can be printed with resolutions as low as 50 ppi (pixels per inch). Keep this in mind when shooting your original photos. Make them as large as possible and you should not have any problem blowing them up for a banner, popup display or roadside sign.

Find a display graphics supplier who can advise you in simple, straightforward terms. If you have a bit of experience dealing with images and layouts, you will find that creating display graphics is relatively easy. One important thing when designing your display item is to keep your design simple, and focus on one or two main elements. Many suppliers, such as Canada Display Graphics will even make minor adjustments to your files for no extra charge.


