Title: 
Types of Painting Books

Word Count:
327

Summary:
Painting Books consists of some beautiful and decorative paintings. If you are an artist it will definitely help your cause.


Keywords:
types of painting books,painting books,face painting book,painting book,tole painting book,oil painting book


Article Body:
We all like being creative. Our busy schedule hardly gives us any time to spent time with our self’s. Constant focus on work makes our life dull. One of the best ways to make your life colorful is by doing some painting in your spare time. A Painting Book consists of some beautiful and decorative paintings. If you are an artist it will definitely help your cause.

Face Painting Book

Face Painting Book will provide you all the tips and techniques that professional face painter artist use. The painting book provides you with all the fabulous face painting designs, simple and easy techniques and useful stepwise guidelines. The painting books consists books like creative painting books, facial art books, wild animal face books, scary face books, FX face books, etc. These books contain different tutorials on painting animal's faces, scary faces, etc. 

Tole Painting Book

Tole painting is an art of decorative painting of metallic objects like tins, coffeepots, and other similar household items. This folk art began in the 18th century in New England. The paintings are a wonderful artwork done on the surfaces of many metal objects. Today one can find number of online stores that provide such painting books. These painting books consist of many decorative and elegant paintings. The painting book also contains many beautiful displays of art for art lovers. 

Oil Painting Book

Oil painting books can serve as a complete guide that will help you understand the whole process involved in oil painting. The book will make you learn most of the dark secrets of oil painting. You will learn how to start your painting, proper preparation, proper timings of pauses and breaks, when to let dry, why so much time is taken, and many such important things. Additionally, oil painting book also provides knowledge about money wasters, what brush should be used, etc. It also provides useful tips on your palettes, tube oil paints, medium effects, panels, canvas, etc.


