Title: 
Types Of Magic Tricks

Word Count:
408

Summary:
Magic is one form of entertainment enjoyed by many people from all walks of life. It is something that will never cease to amaze people both young and old. 

If one wishes to become a good magician, it would be a great help to know the various types of magic tricks before performing any.

Magic tricks are done in a wide variety of ways and fall into different types;

1. The first one is called close up magic. It's the type that requires the least skill and many can do i...


Keywords:
magic, trick, oath, magicians, sleights, show


Article Body:
Magic is one form of entertainment enjoyed by many people from all walks of life. It is something that will never cease to amaze people both young and old. 

If one wishes to become a good magician, it would be a great help to know the various types of magic tricks before performing any.

Magic tricks are done in a wide variety of ways and fall into different types;

1. The first one is called close up magic. It's the type that requires the least skill and many can do it with just a little practice. It usually involves the use of simple things such as a deck of cards, some small balls or a coin. It entails making people believe in one thing but doing something else. This kind of trick proves that the hand is faster than the eye.

2. The next type is called platform magic. This is done in a much larger scale than the first. Some tricks of this type that are well-known include cutting a person that is inside a box in half or making a person who's lying down levitate in the air after the table below has been removed.

3. The third type, which is very tricky, is called stage magic. Such performances are done quite rarely but when performed, they can become one great magic extravaganza. Such type includes making the statue of liberty disappear or walking through the Great Wall of China.

Innumerable magic tricks and trick lessons make it possible for a lot of people to learn how to become one good magician. This can be accomplished by buying a magic set or reading a book. Many of these people started while at home, watching how other people do it.

Other people who have some experience have talked with others and learned a trick or two. One can start with a small audience then have a larger one later on. To those who want to do more extreme magic, one should invest more into the trade, learn from others then make a mark to be truly called a magician.

One trick of the trade is to remember that no magician, either a beginner or an expert, should ever reveal the secrets of doing a trick to his or her spectator. Also, no magician has ever become successful overnight. Practice and reinvention can help a lot in getting near that coveted status of a magician -- the famous and most loved one.


