Title: 
Video Games...are Good For You?

Word Count:
430

Summary:
While it may be disliked by parents, girlfriends and wives around the world, the video game industry is a permanent part of our world. From its humble beginnings in the 80s, the video game industry has exploded into a ten-billion dollar subculture.

Hopefully, you can use some of this information to help convince the non-gamers in your life that you’re not just wasting your time. It probably won’t change their attitude a great deal, but it should help. However, if you’re ne...


Keywords:



Article Body:
While it may be disliked by parents, girlfriends and wives around the world, the video game industry is a permanent part of our world. From its humble beginnings in the 80s, the video game industry has exploded into a ten-billion dollar subculture.

Hopefully, you can use some of this information to help convince the non-gamers in your life that you’re not just wasting your time. It probably won’t change their attitude a great deal, but it should help. However, if you’re neglecting your homework, your relationship or your hygiene due to video games…well…this all won’t matter much.

Stress Relief
Video games are an excellent way to relieve stress. For the average non-gamer, in fact, spending 15 or 20 minutes a day playing an easy to learn, though difficult to conquer, game like Tetris or Minesweeper will do wonders for stress relief. However, the more complex and involved games may actually be more effective than their simpler brethren.

Some people read a book or watch a movie as a way to get their mind off of their problems. Basically, they allow people to be transported to a fictional world for awhile. In that area, video games are actually the most effective form of release, because they provide a deeper and more encompassing transportation.

Improved Logic
Logical thinking is, sadly, a skill that seems to be mostly ignored in public education these days. It’s truly sad because finely tuned logical abilities are critically important in our world. Nearly all video games train your mind in thinking logically.

Quicker Decision Making
This tends to go hand-in-hand with the previous example. Logical skills are a good thing, but they lose their luster if used slowly. Quick thinking skills are a good thing, but can be disastrous without proper logic. Putting the two together, however, can have an immensely beneficial impact on your life. Most games give you a time limit on reaching a decision, either in the form of a formal timer or in the form of somebody rushing at you with a shotgun or sword.

These three arguments are actually enough to make me believe that everyone should play video games. Everyone knows that stress relief is becoming increasingly important as our world becomes increasingly stressful. Quick decision making and logical reasoning are huge assets in life. So, the next time somebody starts ragging on you about ‘wasting your time” playing video games, you can fill them in just a little bit on the fact that you’re actually giving your brain one heck of a work out!


