Title: 
Watch FREE HDTV with an Outdoor Antenna

Word Count:
666

Summary:
Are you looking to buy a HDTV? Take a look at our guide to find information about HDTV at http://www.hdtv-info-center.com


Keywords:
HDTV, Free HDTV, HD, TV, HDTV Program, HD Television


Article Body:
With an outdoor antenna you can watch HDTV for free of cost. All you need is a high definition television or an HDTV-ready television. If you have a HDTV-ready TV then you might need high-def tuners such as Humax HRA100. These are high def tuners that will enable you to watch HDTV for free. This tuner can receive broadcasts that are high-def. 

You need an antenna that can be installed outdoor which is connected to your HDTV or the high-def tuner. If you are close to the tower that broadcasts high-def signals then you can use indoor antennas also. The HDTV signals are considered as line-of-sight signals and hence you get a better reception of the HDTV signals if your antenna is in line with the tower that broadcasts the HDTV signal. For this purpose it is better to install your antenna in the roof of your house. 

Some of the tools and the accessories that you need to install the HDTV antenna in your roof and then to connect it to the HDTV or the high-def tuners are, Mounting hardware, wrench, drill, screwdriver, grounding wire (the length should be sufficient to run from the antenna to the ground), grounding strap, coax grounding block, and a shielded 72 ohm coaxial cable (all weather). The length of the coaxial cable will depend on the distance from the antenna and the place where you have your HDTV or the high-def tuner. A short cable to connect to the TV and the dwelling where you bring the cable from the antenna is needed. With these tools and accessories you can connect your HDTV to the antenna on the roof top of your house. 

If you are planning to buy an HDTV antenna there are many models available in the market. You have the choice of choosing the right model according to the budget you have. If you need any assistance to choose the right antenna there are websites for that purpose. A simple search in a search engine would give you lots of tips on that topic. These websites have an easy to use interface that enables you to key in your address and then they give you the choice of the HDTV antenna that might suit your location. They decide on the choice by considering the tower that broadcasts HDTV signals to your location. The distance of the tower plays a role in the choice of the antenna. It is better to choose one that is certified by Consumer Electronics Association (CEA). The most popular are the ones that have multi-element in them. With multiple elements the ghost images are reduced drastically. 

While installing your HDTV antenna on the roof top it is better to have an assembly that can be moved easily. You should also be able to rotate the antenna to adjust the direction of the elements so that they are in line with the broadcasting tower. If you have two or more broadcasting towers within a short angle of the placement of your antenna, then you can use devices like ¡®antenna rotator¡¯ to select the best tower from which you receive the HDTV signal. After you place the antenna make sure that you are connecting the antenna and the HDTV with the coaxial cable. Make sure that there are no metallic objects near the antenna. Metallic objects interfere with the way the antenna functions. 

After you have installed your antenna tune in to some station and then adjust the angle of the antenna so that you receive a strong HDTV signal. Once you get the right quality of signal tighten the screws of your antenna and secure the antenna. Don't forget to ground the antenna to protect your HDTV from the electrical surges that may appear from time to time. 

To know more about HDTV features and specifications, please visit <a href="http://www.hdtv-info-center.com">HDTV Information Center</a>


For affordable <a href="http://www.marblehost.com">web hosting</a> we highly recommend Marble Host.


