Title: 
What type of magician can I hire?

Word Count:
480

Summary:
There are various types of magic and magicians. Most magicians now specialise in a few areas of magic although some perform only one type.

Here is a general guide of what types of magician are available for a predominately adult audience although a good magician will take you back to being a child.


Keywords:



Article Body:
Are you thinking of hiring a magician? Have you hired one before?
Do you know what type you want?

There are various types of magic and magicians. Most magicians now specialise in a few areas of magic although some perform only one type.

Here is a general guide of what types of magician are available for a predominately adult audience although a good magician will take you back to being a child. 

Close-up magic/ strolling / mix and mingle/ table magic can often be seen at cocktail parties, corporate events, banquets, weddings and generally any party event where the magician mingles and inter acts with the guests performing tricks. This form of magic is ideal for a reception and then when guests are seated at their tables and enjoying the meal.

Cabaret magic is a great way for a large or small audience to see some bigger or more involved magic tricks. Cabaret magic is suitable for most events but is most popular as after dinner entertainment. Sometimes the close up magician will double up and also perform the cabaret. A lot of magicians include comedy in their cabaret.

More recently mind readers have once again become very popular. Whilst some will include comedy, generally a mind reader is a little more serious and does things like reveal the name of a child hood friend or divine a selected word from a book chosen by a spectator.

If you are looking for larger, flashy magic then it is ideal to hire an illusionist. An illusionist needs a lot more room than a normal magician and work’s better from a stage.

Cabaret magic acts last any where between 10 minutes to an hour and normally perform for audiences of 20 to 600 however their are two rules that should be noted. The magician should be able to be seen and heard by everyone. Bear this in mind if booking after dinner entertainment in a hotel conference room. If you have lots of non English speaking guests you may prefer to have a silent magic act either manipulation or illusion however a comedy magician always plays well for an English speaking audience.

Corporations and companies are hiring magicians more and more to perform at Trade Shows and exhibitions. Magic is a great form of interactive entertainment where a message can also be presented in an interesting manner. The magician draws people to the exhibition space where the benefits and features of the product or service can be showcased. The magician can also present and provide suitable magic give aways that are branded for the company exhibiting.

It is always worth checking the credentials of the magician you are hiring. What is their track record? Who have been their previous clients? How long have they been performing? Most professional magicians also carry liability insurance.

For further details and information contact Nick Reade
http://www.nickreade.com


