Title: 
What Questions Should I Ask During an Interview?

Word Count:
491

Summary:
This article gives some suggestions on questions that should be asked during an interview and a few questions that should not be asked.


Keywords:
Resumes, Cover Letter, Interview


Article Body:
What are good questions to ask during an interview is a good question in itself, and one that always comes up when a conscientious person is preparing for a big job interview.  The fact that a person even wonders that sets them apart from the crowd of applicants and means that he or she is a proactive individual, intent on making a good impression and proper presentation of skills and experience.

The best question to ask, according to many human resource management professionals, is “what can I do to benefit the company?”  This question shows a good, positive attitude and will lead the HR manager to think of you as a go getter and team player and the type of individual the company needs.

The worst question to ask would be anything that makes you, as an applicant, appear to be selfish or self centered.  A bad interview question would be a question related to vacation, pay or raises too early in the interview.  It is best to first establish that there could be a good ongoing professional relationship between you as an employee and the company as an employer before getting into the details.  Of course vacation, raises and starting pay are important to you, and the answers will come in good time, but it is best to show the interviewer that you will be a team player who thinks of the good of the company and the team.  

When interviewing remember that the HR manager or other decision maker you are interviewing with has been through the process dozens of times, if not hundreds.  The decision maker may be a little bored, and is looking for a way to liven up the conversation and get some information on your personality.  In that case a good question to ask the decision maker would be anything that relieves their boredom and allows them to talk.  It is an accepted fact of making friends and influencing people that people love to talk, love the sound of their own voice, and love to hear their own name.   The sweetest sound anyone can ever hear is the sound of his or her own name, so be sure to call the interviewer by name.   That is just basic human nature. With that in mind, pay attention to the office surroundings.  Does the decision maker have a hobby, like golf or fishing?  Does the decision maker have sports trophies on display or a family photograph?  If so, ask anything related to what is important to the decision maker.  Disguised as small talk, this is a strategic question that will bond you with the decision maker interviewer.  If you allow the interviewer to talk about something he or she cares about, they will have positive feeling about you and about the interview.  Give it a try, it could be the best question that you’ve ever asked a potential employer, and may lead to a great job.


