Title: 
When Magic was not enough

Word Count:
518

Summary:
This article features the prevalence of anxiety to the life of Prue, Piper, Phoebe and Paige's – the Charmed life and how their help for one another become their best anxiety relief.


Keywords:
Generalized Anxiety disorder, anxiety attacks, anxiety relief


Article Body:
The Power of three will set you free.
  
	And you thought they can magically brush all their cares away? Three witches destined for magic greatness, the Charmed ones as they are popularly known, drew great TV following with their supernatural-effects among the dedicated TV viewers.  Prudence “Prue” Halliwell (Shannen Doherty), the eldest sister who had the power of telekinesis; Piper Halliwell, the witch who has the power to freeze molecules; and Phoebe Halliwell, the youngest and rebellious sister who has the power of premonition – these three blood-bound witches became the most powerful witches of all time.  Enduring for eight long seasons, these three magically captured the hearts of televiewers with the whisk of the hands and catchy incantations. 

	However, even with their apparent control over their powers, these cool and modern-day witches have constantly faced, lost to, but, eventually managed to get over with daily wiccan stresses. In one episode, Piper cried a river because the Elders, supreme protectors of good, had to take her husband away from her. Even as she experienced what seemed like an anxiety disorder, she vowed with all her witchly powers that she will one day get her husband back.      

	Leo (Brian Krause), Piper's husband also had his share of panic, or anxiety attacks.  He discovered that his son Chris, was killed by their trusted friend Gideon – who was also an Elder. He wreaked havoc as he hurled thunder from his arms and shot it across the room. These manifestations of anxiety attacks was due to his overwhelming grief over his son's early demise.     

	Another turning point of the Charmed Life series was when their eldest sister Prue died because time was manipulated by the Source (highest demon). The remaining witches grew skeptical about their destiny and found themselves on the verge of breaking point. Good thing is, the power of three was reconstituted with the advent of their half-sister Paige. Paige Matthews, was the daughter of Paricia Halliwell, the Charmed Trio's mother. However, Piper, the closest to Prue, gave Paige a hard time because she did not let go of Prue's memory. With her grief and anxiety attacks, she became a creature called  “Fury”, a curse that almost made her destroy her own sister. In the end, she did managed to bring her emotions across to the right place – Prue's grave.                  	

	Even though blessed with wiccan powers, Piper, Phoebe, and Paige, constantly struggled with different emotions that no spell can totally dispel. But the good things is, as always perceived in the TV series – their most trusted power over mind boggling trivialities and blood thirsty enemies are not their wiccan gifts. Their answer is their sisterly bond --- which also became their best anxiety relief.  Sisterhood, not their inherent powers, was their best anxiety relief and power against all that the underworld can hurl at them.	In the end, after years of wiccan supremacy, the Charmed Ones managed to keep their family  legacy, which was written in their book, The Book of Shadows.  

	So, let's take it from the Charmed Ones – family ties, not any magic, is the best cure for any anxiety.


