Title: 
Why Do People Buy Paintings?

Word Count:
655

Summary:
This article is about painting, and the sort of impact it has on society. We also go into why painting and art doesn't have to be perfect to be considered a piece of art, take a look if you want to learn a little about art.


Keywords:
beach oil paintings, village paintings, great paintings


Article Body:
The big question is, why do people buy paintings? Is it just to feel like they've bought something, to fill up the wall so it's not covered in white, or because they were love and appreciate art, especially a work of art.

Now, for a lot of people, a painting is simply a filler, to cover up that white stuff on the wall, so that when someone comes in the house they don't complain about being blinded by all the white, or so they don't say your house is too "plain", you know how it is.

Other times, people just buy to feel good about themselves. They're cruising around a world market place and see a photo, they have a little bit of extra money to spend, and next thing you know, there goes money down the drain.

But, what about those art galleries where paintings sell for thousands of dollars, why would anyone pay so much? Painting is a form of art, some people are born with that gift, to paint.

Some people see a painting as a painting, others see it as a masterpiece, and to those people, paying good money for a work of art is completely acceptable. On top of that, artists often spend their life struggling to sell their artwork.

They do it for the passion, the love of art, not for the money. But it is a great plus when you score big on a piece of art that you created all by yourself, that no one in this world can exactly replicate.

Everyone has their own style, whether it is far out, or very similar to others, no one artist is exactly the same. That means, that there is no bad artist. Your letters might not be readable, but thats okay, because its a form of art. Thats the beauty of it.

You don't have to be perfect when it comes to art. For example, beach oil paintings are never perfect. Oils travel in places that aren't desired, but thats what makes it even more of an art, not the exact play-by-play booklet on how to draw a beach.

Same with village paintings, you see a lot of village paintings that the little houses roofs aren't even attached right, but thats okay, because it's art.

These paintings are two great of examples of why you don't have to be perfect, simply due to the fact that even if your roof's aren't attached, or a beachgoer's leg drifted off into the sand by a curious oil spill.

Great paintings are born from mistakes, imperfections. A painting in a room can make all the difference as to how you feel in the room, if its a dark room, with a dark painting, it might make you feel depressed, or not as happy.

On the otherhand, a bright and colorful painting, whether is be beach oil paintings or village paintings, those can give good vibes, ones that put you in a better mood because you can see the light.

The little things, the small details are the things that make all the difference when it comes to paintings. Its not about the perfect lines and the exact shading, its about the creativity and originality put into it.

Along with that, the effort. You can tell a painting that is effortless, and one that took effort. But even more so, heart. Heart is something that shines through paintings. You can see someones passion for what they do with the little details, and you can see a lack of passion.

Art is so deep, that it is sometimes impossible to grasp. We may not understand it forever, or we may realize a few years down the road what something meant, or sometimes it might come to us instantly. Art that has passion carries a message, whether it is known or not, the message is there, it is for us to uncover that message.


