Title: 
Why Put On Dancewear And Dance Costumes?

Word Count:
442

Summary:
If you are a dancer, can you dance well without your dancewear on? A dancer who is used to wearing dancewear, even in practices, would feel uncomfortable without her costume on. But different people have different tastes in dance costumes. 

Wearing exciting dancewear will give life to your performance. On stage, you want to grab the attention of the audience with your perfect dancewear. If you are wearing the best dancewear during a performance the audience will be able to...


Keywords:



Article Body:
If you are a dancer, can you dance well without your dancewear on? A dancer who is used to wearing dancewear, even in practices, would feel uncomfortable without her costume on. But different people have different tastes in dance costumes. 

Wearing exciting dancewear will give life to your performance. On stage, you want to grab the attention of the audience with your perfect dancewear. If you are wearing the best dancewear during a performance the audience will be able to distinguish you from all the other dancers. Of course, the dancewear isn’t all there is—your dancing skills matter, too. 

Tights and leotards are perfect for ballet dancers. They emphasize the figure of the dancer. This adds impact to the graceful moves of the dancer. Ballet dancers prefer wearing tights because they feel nice to the skin and body. It allows them to move flexibly and freely without compromise. Although tights are tight, they don’t squeeze the body to discomfort because of the material they are made from. Most dancers love wearing dancewear because it gives them a good look and feel. Wearing a perfect costume gives them confidence with their performance. It does not only make them look good, but the performance is enhanced, as well. The catchier your costumes are, the more lively the performance. 

Dancewear also reflects the personality of the dancer. All people have different tastes in clothes. Some may like dark colors and others light colors. Some dancers like to complement their clothes with their shoes and accessories. They love picking clothes that go perfectly with their style. Some dancers like to show off some skin while in a performance and they choose more seductive clothes, such as short tight skirts that accentuate their figures. Many other dancers prefer to show less skin and they wear dancewear that covers them well.

Your dancewear should depend on the type of dance performed. If you are in a dancing class, you are required to wear dancewear or a dance costume because it brings uniformity to the class. There might be different types of dance groups and particular styles of dancewear can be used to separate the various groups. Although it is not necessary to wear dancewear during rehearsals, many dancers do in order to get used to wearing it. Wearing a costume for the first time might not be comfortable but the more you wear it the more comfortable it becomes.

Another advantage of wearing dancewear during rehearsals is that you will be more comfortable performing on stage. 

So what are you waiting for? Grab your dancewear, put on those dancing shoes and get into the groove.


