Title: 
Why children need Entertainment?

Word Count:
312

Summary:
Entertainment is important in a child’s life. Without some sort of entertainment children will get dull and frustrated.


Keywords:
entertainment,entertainment and recreation,recreation,wildlife sanctuaries,


Article Body:
Come summer holidays and you can hear yells of children everywhere. Every child likes to play and why not that’s how we are all born. 

Entertainment is important in a child’s life. Without some sort of entertainment children will get dull and frustrated. Entertainment plays an important role in the upbringing process of a child. It helps a child develops his skills and help him learn new things. Entertainment and recreation also gives parents a chance to have a rest from their children while they are busy with their entertainment activities. There is no specific form of entertainment which is helpful for a child’s growth. A child is entertained in different ways mainly

•	Television: Television plays a very important in developing general knowledge in a child. One of the best educative programs for kids is discovery kid’s channel. Such types of educative programs helps a child nurture his knowledge and learn new things. There are also different quiz programs that can develop a child’s thinking for a better tomorrow. Its very important that parents induce their children to informative programs from the beginning. Some of the bet examples of informative programs are geographic channels, history channels, animal life channel, and discovery channel. Such channels help children to imagine and look at the world as a better place. 
•	Sports Activities: Sports activities are best form of physical entertainment for children. Children like to play and there is no denying that they should develop physically. Children should be encouraged to take part in different activities like summer clubs, indoor games, and outdoor games. 
•	Wild Life and recreation: Parents should encourage their children by taking them to wild life sanctuaries. Wild life sanctuaries are important source of information for children. One of the advantages of recreation activities associated with wildlife for children is fishing, bird watching, hunting and horse riding.


