Title: 
You've Gotta Love Cat Art

Word Count:
437

Summary:
As an artist, I have grown to appreciate all kinds of art. It took me studying art in college to really learn the fact that all people have different ideas of what art is and of what beauty is. I learned that I can value something as beautiful and that the next person might see it as strange or even lacking beauty. This is okay. And that is the true beauty of art. I have always loved cat art, for example, and it took a long time for the people around me to learn to appreciate...


Keywords:
cat art


Article Body:
As an artist, I have grown to appreciate all kinds of art. It took me studying art in college to really learn the fact that all people have different ideas of what art is and of what beauty is. I learned that I can value something as beautiful and that the next person might see it as strange or even lacking beauty. This is okay. And that is the true beauty of art. I have always loved cat art, for example, and it took a long time for the people around me to learn to appreciate my taste for cat art.

I have been a lover of all things to do with cats since I was a little girl. My family had a constant flow of at least three or four cats at any given time throughout my growing up years. I began first with just loving cats, but my love of cats quickly grew to loving cat art. I guess because I am also an artist at heart, I found the combination of cats and art to fit me well. So I began searching for cat art and creating my own cat art before I entered junior high school.

Cat art is great because it is such a visual way of representing and enjoying cats. I would enroll in a painting class and find myself choosing cat art anytime I had the choice. I would take an illustration class and find myself illustrating a story using entirely cat art. I couldn't get enough of cat art, nor was I ever satisfied with my ability to draw the perfect cat. I even signed up for private lessons one summer and had my instructor focus fully on cat art with me.

So if you love cats as much as I do, then consider expanding your love for cats into a love for cat art. If you are an artist, then begin playing around with creating your own cat art. Use all different kinds of mediums. If you own a cat, begin your exploration of cat art by taking photographs of your cat. Don't worry about a certain skill level at the beginning, just start with the skill you have and move forward.

If you aren't the hands on art type, then begin to search for great pieces of cat art to add to your home or office. Look for paintings, illustrations, photographs or any kind of cat art that appeals to you. Be proud that you love cats so much and be proud to show your affection through great pieces of cat art displayed for all to see.


