Common Food Allergies

Do you suspect that you may be suffering from a food allergy?  Or, do you know someone who does have a food allergy?  If you do, you may be looking for more information.  Below some of the common food allergies are listed, as well as information on those allergies.

Milk is a common food that many individuals have allergic reactions too.  Unfortunately, milk is a product that is found in many foods, especially bakery items.  The good news, however, is that milk is relatively easy to replace.  There are a number of substitutes that can be used as an alternative when baking.

As for the items that should be checked, it is important to speak with someone who works in the deli.  Did you know that many delis use the same cutting machines for both cheese and meat?  It is also important to speak with the cooks at a restaurant.  Many restaurants use butter to grease up a grill or to add flavor to some meats, like steaks.  Also, be on the lookout for casein on food labels.  Casein is a derivative of milk and it can cause some allergy sufferers to have a reaction.

Eggs are another common item that many people have allergic reactions to.  The good news is that those who have an egg allergy can use a number of different substitutes, especially for baking.  Did you know that yeast, oil, baking powder, and gelatin can sometimes be used?  You can find exact recipes online or in books, namely cookbooks, that are designed for those with food allergies.

As for the items that should be checked, those who suffer from an egg allergy should use caution with egg substitutes.  Egg substitutes aren’t always designed for those with egg allergies.  Be sure to check to make sure that egg whites are not used.  Also, did you know that eggs are sometimes used to create the foam topping for coffee drinks.  Pasta is another common and unexpected source of eggs.

Another common food allergy that many suffer from is that of a peanut allergy.  Unfortunately, peanut allergies are known to cause the most severe reactions.  If you suffer from or if your child suffers from a peanut allergy, it is important to proceed with caution.  All labels should be read.

As for the items that should be checked, everything should be checked.  It is not uncommon for certain foods to come in different varieties, like where peanuts are included.  These different varieties, where peanuts are included, may all be made on the same machines.  That is why all labels should be read.  It is extra important to be cautious of candy and bakery items.

Fish allergies are also somewhat common.  Fish allergies come in a number of different formats.  Some individuals only have allergic reactions to certain fishes.  It is recommended that you speak with a healthcare professional to see if special tests can be performed.  If not, it may be best to stay on the safe side and avoid all fish products.

As for which products should be avoided, it is a good idea to check all labels.  With that being said, it is important to proceed with caution when eating out.  You never know what foods are made on the same grills or cooking areas.  Also, did you know that some salad dressing and relishes are made with fish products?

Wheat allergies are another common allergy that many suffer from.  The good news is that there are a number of alternatives that can be used in baking.  These alternatives include rice flour and corn flour, just to name a few.

As for what should be checked with a wheat allergy, everything should be checked. When reading food labels, you will find that many state that wheat may be present.  If that is the case, it is best to avoid.  Did you also know that some ice creams are made with wheat?  Most are not, but it is still a wise idea to check all food labels.

PPPPP

Word Count 669
