Food Allergies:  How to Manage and Treat Your Symptoms

Do you suspect that you have a food allergy?  If you do, you may be looking for ways to seek relief or at least tips on how you can manage your symptoms.  If this is information that you are looking for, you will want to continue reading on.

The first step is determining what you are allergic to.  If you can, visit a healthcare provider.  They may do tests or advise you on how to do these tests at home.  These tests usually involve eating certain foods to see how you react to them.  If you breakout in hives or have a full allergic reaction, you will now know what food or foods you are allergic to.  If you try your own tests at home, make sure that you do not do so alone.  You will want to have someone with you who can seek medical attention if you have a severe allergic reaction.

Once a diagnosis has been made, as to what food or foods you are allergic to, it will be much easier for you to move forward.  For example, you will find it easier to treat and manage your symptoms.  Speaking of which, some of the steps that you will want to take to do so are outlined below.

You will want to eliminate the food or foods that you are allergic to from your diet.  This is extremely important as food allergies tend to be more severe than others.  For example, those who suffer from peanut allergies can die if medication isn’t administered immediately or if medical attention isn’t quickly sought.  Unlike pet allergies, where you can simply just limit your exposure to pets, you don’t want to take any chances with a food allergy.  That is why the food or foods that you are allergic to should be eliminated from your diet.

As important as it is to hear that the food or foods that you are allergic to should be eliminated from your diet, it can be difficult for many to hear.  Although a large number of food allergies have been present since childhood, there are some adults who develop them later on.  This can be difficult for you if you are one of those individuals, but it is still important that you make the change.  If you must transition, instead of completely cut from your diet, it is advised that you do so with the guidance of your doctor.  Also, always make sure that you have your medication on hand or that those around you know what to do if you have an allergic reaction.

It is also important to know that there is hope.  For example, if you suffer from a pet milk allergy or a wheat allergy, there are a number of alternatives, also commonly referred to as substitutes, that you can use.  In fact, most foods have at least one substitute that you can use.  For wheat, you can use corn flour or rice flour.  You will likely get use to the taste in no time at all, if you even notice a difference.  You can easily find more information on food substitutes online.  You may even want to buy cookbooks or manuals that are designed for those who suffer from allergies.

As a reminder, it is also important that you read all food labels, whether or not you have officially been diagnosed as having a food allergy.  In all honesty, you never really know what is in some of the foods that you eat.  Reading all food labels is important for all food allergies, but it is especially important with wheat allergies and peanut allergies.  These are two common ingredients found in many foods.  Even when they aren’t present, you may still see a warning that reads “may contain wheat,” or “may contain nuts.”  Also, be sure to ask whenever you visit an establishment where your food is prepared for you.  These places include delis, bakeries, and restaurants.

PPPPP

Word Count 659
