Tips for Managing Pet Allergies

Do you suspect that you have a pet allergy?  If you do, you may be looking for ways to seek relief or you may be looking for tips on how you can manage having a pet allergy.  If you are, you will want to continue reading on, as a few helpful tips are outlined below.

Although there are a number of steps that you can take to treat or manage allergies that are due to pets, it is first important to make sure that you do have a pet allergy.  Visit a healthcare provider or do your own experiments at home or when you are around animals. Do your symptoms get better when you are not near a pet?  If so, you may have a pet allergy.  Determining whether or not you do have pet allergies can help you save a lot of time and stress, should you actually not have an allergy.

If you do have a pet allergy or if you truly suspect that you do, it is advised that you schedule a visit with your healthcare provider.  A doctor may recommend over-the-counter allergy relief medications for you.  They may also prescribe a medication, depending on your symptoms.  Although over-the-counter medicines and prescription medicines are all great ways to seek relief from allergies, it is also important to know that there are a number of natural steps that you can and should take.

One of the best ways to deal with a pet allergy is to remove the pet or pets from your home.  If you aren’t a pet owner, but if you have allergy symptoms when visiting friends or family, reconsider your choice to do so.  Of course, you can limit the amount of time you are there or reduce your visits, but you may want to consider doing something else instead.  Shopping, eating lunch, or having a cup of coffee are all great alternatives.

If you are a pet owner who cannot bear to part with your pets, like if you consider them to be a member of your family, keep your pet or pets out of your bedroom.  The bedroom is the place where many individuals spend most of their time.  The last thing that you want to be doing is suffering from allergies when trying to get a good nights sleep.  If you are a visitor, as opposed to the pet owner, ask to move outside, if the weather is nice.  You can also ask to move to a room where the pets aren’t allowed.  

Vacuuming as much as possible is another great way to relieve the symptoms of pet allergies.  If you own a cat or a dog, invest in a good, quality vacuum cleaner, namely one that uses HEPA technology.  There are also vacuum cleaners that are designed for pet owners.  They may be a good idea if you are suffering from pet allergies.  Many come with attachments that allow you to easily get pet air off of bedding and furniture.

As previously stated, it is important to remember that you can suffer from pet allergies even if you aren’t a pet owner.  If you know of someone who is a pet owner, like a close friend or family member, be sure to talk to them about your pet allergy.  Of course, they will not get rid of their pets just for you, but they may take proactive steps to make their home a safer place for you.  These steps may involve keeping their pets in another room or vacuuming before you come over.

As previously stated, if you do suffer from pet allergies or if you suspect that you may, it is a wise idea to schedule a visit with your doctor.  He or she can prescribe medication to you or offer other helpful tips.  With that being said, if you are uninsured, please try some of the easy and affordable steps highlighted above.

PPPPP

Word Count 653
