Kelley School of Business

The Kelley School of Business is a school that prides itself for it renowned business education and highly recruited graduates who make a great impact in the business world today. There are endless possibilities when you enroll in the Kelley School of Business because of the variety of courses they offer. The measure of the quality of the education they provide can be seen in its accomplished number of alumni. And this school is still continually improving to meet the ever changing needs in its environment. 

The history of Kelley School of Business goes back to 1920 when the Indiana University of Commerce and Finance was established. Today, it has evolved to encompass the highly renowned Kelley School of Business where students learn how to manage organizations, start their own businesses, conceptualize new ideas, develop new products, and shape the business environment. 

Being one of the most popular business schools throughout the world, the Kelley School of Business also retains some of the best teachers who are recognized for their teaching and leadership abilities. In fact, some professors in this school are very successful in their fields and they are passing on their knowledge to Kelley students. An Indiana University graduate, E.W. Kelley stated that “No matter how successful you become, keep working harder and smarter to achieve more.” Many Kelley students also believe in this opinion, which is the reason why they are becoming successful businessmen, leaders, and innovators. 

The school certainly provides a lot of opportunities for its students to have a meaningful experience in the academic learning environment. They have various leadership programs for both graduate and undergraduate students so that the students will know how to deal with real-life situations in the business world after they graduate. It is also to be expected that Kelley graduates will know how to deal with foreign business associates because of their exposure to people from different culture in the school. Take note that the Kelly School of Business also focuses their attention on international relations and international business studies. 

And with over 86,000 alumni to back up the school, it is really no wonder that the Kelley School of Business is one of the most highly regarded schools today. You should also note that most Kelley alumni help each other outside the school because of their shared background at Kelley. The graduates feel more comfortable with each other and they know the capabilities that each Kelley graduate possesses. 

There are two campuses that students can choose from if they want to receive this kind of education. They can either enroll in the Indianapolis campus of the Bloomington campus to get their undergraduate, masters, or doctorate degree. For students who want to take advantage of the Kelley education online, the school also has an online program, the Kelley Direct. The Kelley School is the only school within the top 20 to offer online courses that is learned exclusively through the internet. They are certainly adaptive to changes to meet the needs of students who cannot attend physically at school. 

Students can ask for nothing more from the Kelley School of Business, everything is already provided. As is their mission statement, this school aims to transform of lives of different individuals, organizations, and the society in general through its education and its students. 
