Looking for a Business School?

Here are Tips on Finding the Best and Ditching Whats Not...

Whether you are a parent scouting for the best schools in town to educate your business professional wannabe, or a student on the lookout for the first rate business schools, it is important that the right choice be made.  And to be able to make the right choice, you should be able to tell which business schools offer the best training curriculum and facilities.  

A good school can be measured by the alumni it has produced, the programs it can offer, and, best of all, by the ranking that it gets from several survey bodies across the globe.  If you only want the best, rankings can help you make the decision.  There are rankings for the schools that are selective in their enrollment process, there are those who are ranked high because they constantly procure awards from business institutions, and there are those who are recognized for their contribution in the business community.

Who does the rankings for these business schools, anyway?  Practically everyone and anyone.  There are surveys that are being conducted (mostly annually) and the best schools are rated by several people.  Now, just how important are rankings anyway?  Are these enough to prove that the top schools that you are scouting are reputable or that they provide quality set of courses?

Keep in mind that most of these schools already have proven track records in providing the best quality of business education and producing choice graduates.  The only difference that rankings or accreditations make is reputation.  Once a university gets a certain label on its name, then you are assured that their faculty, resources, facilities, and curriculum have all passed a definite criteria on quality. 

If you are still confused on which school to choose, then it’s time to assess your goals on your career.  These career objectives should coincide with the values that certain schools offer (not to mention that they have the specific program that would suit your needs).  Once you narrow down your career choices, then the number of schools on your list would automatically be limited.

To further trim down the number of schools on the list, it’s time to consider the location and your budget.  Full-time MBAs, of course, cost more and take longer to finish.  There are business schools that offer executive and part-time programs on this. Remember that you are not looking for a low-budget program.  Instead, keep in mind that you are looking for a school that provides a good return on your investment.  

If your list remains long, then it’s time to consider the schools’ service department on career.  Do they really produce good results?  With more hits to any particular school, then it would mean that their graduates and MBA holders are hired more than the competitors.  Receiving any form of scholarship would also greatly influence any potential candidate’s choice of school.

Most of the top business schools (especially those that are constantly ranked to be one of the best) have world class services, that is why it is best to prepare well before embarking on their entrance examinations and grueling interviews.  Only the best of the best are accepted on the top business schools (especially the Ivy League)—the la crème de la crème; so expect the best and prepare for the worst! 
