Title: 
3 Reasons To Invest In Dubai Investment Property

Word Count:
387

Summary:
Dubai one of the states in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) seeks today to move away from its traditional oil dependence to a more balanced one based on tourism and services. As a result, its economy has grown with more and more tourism resorts coming up to meet this aim. This article will list three reasons why you should invest in the Dubai today.

Firstly, Dubai as mentioned earlier is becoming a services hub and in particular a financial services hub, there is going to be...


Keywords:
property investment, property investing, investment property


Article Body:
Dubai one of the states in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) seeks today to move away from its traditional oil dependence to a more balanced one based on tourism and services. As a result, its economy has grown with more and more tourism resorts coming up to meet this aim. This article will list three reasons why you should invest in the Dubai today.

Firstly, Dubai as mentioned earlier is becoming a services hub and in particular a financial services hub, there is going to be an increase in the number of foreign professionals who are flocking there to work and with a high pay and tax free status over there, the average rental yields of properties there is above the average. Currently the single room studio apartments are doing the best in terms of rental since the expatriates that work in Dubai tend to be single individuals so this would be a great real estate investment tip to note if you intend to invest in Dubai.

Secondly, the cost of Dubai property relative to international standards is still very low and as a result the chance of a large capital appreciation increase is very high. Coupled with the bullish take on rentals as mentioned above, the prices of your real estate investment in Dubai will be set to soar in the next few months.

The reasoning cited by some real estate professionals is that when US and UK sourced money starts flowing into such properties, the value of the real estate will reach international standards and you would make a handsome profit from the capital appreciation.

Thirdly, there is currently a Disneyland attraction being built there and this would result in an increase in tourist visitors to Dubai. If your property is located near Disneyland, there is a chance that you will be able to rent out your property to people going there on holiday. As for problems with rental collections, most real estate companies double up as property mangers and developers so they will be able to handle most of the payment collections on your behalf.

In conclusion, Dubai represents one of the emerging markets where your investment dollar may make a lot more. Spending some time considering whether you want to investment in Dubai property may be worthwhile when considering the potential benefits involved.


