Title: 
6 Ways In Which You Can Easily Increase Your Profits

Word Count:
1027

Summary:
Imagine what you could learn from over 500 articles based around internet marketing, business and finance, home business, legal matter, blogging, copywriting, email marketing, PPC, RSS, search engines, website promotion and more and what could this do for your business?


Keywords:
articles,websites,software,internetmarketing,adsense,affiliates,promote,promotion,traffic,income,marketing,opt-in,business ideas,strategic internet marketing,business,business plan,business advice,business plan,business advice


Article Body:
Imagine what you could learn from over 500 articles based around internet marketing, business and finance, home business, legal matter, blogging, copywriting, email marketing, PPC, RSS, search engines, website promotion and more and what could this do for your business?

1. How to Turn an Idea into $100,000

Do you ever wonder why some people seem to get all the lucky breaks in business while others struggle to barely get by? They seem to be in the right place at the right time. 

Fact is, maybe they’re not at the right place at the right time; maybe they just know how to make things “happen.” 

As a business advisor I often see people begin and end a business before they have given it a chance to grow. For some reason, they seem to think that all they have to do is have a product or service to sell and the rest magically takes care of itself. 

Nothing could be further from the truth. For any business to succeed there are steps that must be taken. 


2. The Steps from Product Idea to Product Success

Michelangelo once said that his statue of David was embedded in the block of marble and he merely chipped away the edges to reveal it. Is your product idea inside your mind just waiting to come alive? Or, is your product already formed and you need only to smooth out the edges? 

Using my Market-Step process your idea will come to life as we progress in the following steps from idea to launch: 
1. Self-Evaluation 
2. Concept Evaluation 
3. Prototype Evaluation 
4. Product and Market Planning 
5. Product Development and Marketing Tactics 
6. Product Launch, Marketing and Selling 
Please use this roadmap as a navigational tool to guide and monitor your progress.

3. Is This the PR You Thought You Were Getting?

You know, where you do something positive about the behaviors of those outside audiences that MOST affect your organization? And where you do so by persuading those important external folks to your way of thinking, then move them to take actions that help your department, division or subsidiary succeed? 

Yes, that’s right, it’s where you use the fundamental premise of public relations to produce external stakeholder behavior change – the kind that leads directly to achieving your managerial objectives. 

What it boils down to is 
(1) your public relations effort must involve more than special events, brochures and news releases if you really want to get your money’s worth, and 
(2), the right PR really CAN alter individual perception and lead to changed behaviors that help you succeed! 

4. How to Easily Increase Your Profits

Do you remember the last time you went into a shop and the person ‘serving’ raced over to you, greeted you with a lovely smile, heaps of enthusiasm and said, “Welcome to our store, what can I help you with today?” And then listened attentively to what you had to say? 

Doesn’t happen very often does it? In fact, while I was writing this, I couldn’t recall when I had experienced it. I’m sure I must have yet it would have been so long ago, I can’t remember. 

Let me tell you what happened this week… 
I belong to a well-known trade exchange which I have found very useful for my business. I wanted to purchase a suitcase from a particular store which usually takes trade dollars. 

From time-time the store will limit the use of trade dollars if they have reached their maximum for the month. Anyhow I quickly discovered this wasn’t going to be my lucky day. 

5. A Simple Formula for Success

Leaders in the business world need public relations big time, and they show it every day. 

How? By staying in touch with their most important external audiences and by carefully monitoring their perceptions about the company, audience member feelings about hot topics at issue, and the behaviors that inevitably follow. 

Could there be an angle here for your business? 

What I mean is, once you interact with, then learn what that key target audience of yours believes about you and your organization, a corrective public relations goal – a specific behavior change -- can be established. 

Which then requires that you identify a strategy. There are just three choices here, create opinion where none exists, change existing opinion, or reinforce it.

6. Attracting Clients With Ease

Whether you are already running your own business, or still thinking about starting your own business, I suspect that deep down you know you have gifts and talents that can really make a difference to others. 

In an ideal world, you'd spend the majority of time doing the work you love to do, with a steady stream of clients knocking at your door as and when you want them. The reality, however, can be somewhat different, and the whole process of finding new business can be a time consuming challenge full of uncertainty. 

Some would be entrepreneurs are so intimidated by the idea of finding clients that they never put their dreams into action. Others start promising businesses, yet give up disillusioned by the frustrating lack of clients. Some die-hards persist, but at great emotional and financial cost as the uncertainty about attracting and maintaining clients takes its toll. 


Just imagine! You can use these articles to build, promote, advertise, write articles, newsletters, build autoresponder messages and much, much more for your business. These articles are loaded with good keywords for search engine rankings and they are yours for the taking as long as you leave the resource boxes in tact. If you want to read the rest of the articles above and to read more about internet marketing, than this is the place to do it!

Steve Pike, is a internet infopreneur and author who is interested in the internet marketing world. At the age of 49, he has become interested in writing, selling online, and managing online businesses:


This is a "Shareware" Article
(what's that?  read on...)

This article is shareware.  Give this article away for free on your site, or include it as part of any paid package as long as the entire article is left intact including this notice.  Copyright © 2006 Steve Pike.


