Title: 
Basic Principles Of An Investing Club

Word Count:
464

Summary:
Investment clubs are created by individuals who not only want to pool their funds together to make a joint investment but would also like to gain knowledge on the various types of viable investment opportunities that are available in the market. Each member of the club contributes periodically an agreed amount of money to purchase growth stocks by means of a dollar cost averaging approach. 

The dividends as well as the capital gains are usually reinvested to gain more inte...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Investment clubs are created by individuals who not only want to pool their funds together to make a joint investment but would also like to gain knowledge on the various types of viable investment opportunities that are available in the market. Each member of the club contributes periodically an agreed amount of money to purchase growth stocks by means of a dollar cost averaging approach. 

The dividends as well as the capital gains are usually reinvested to gain more interest. The security purchases are voted upon by the club members. This is also one way of decreasing personal risk of club members. There are also investment clubs that allows non-club investors to participate in larger investments of the club provided of course that the non-member investors receive a much lower share of commissions.

Likewise, it is also the role of investment clubs to assist their club members in becoming more knowledgeable in all aspects of investments. A well-known trade group for investments clubs is the National Association of Investors Corporation (NAIC) which is a non-profit organization that provides guidance as well as imparting investment knowledge as part of its membership. 

A good choice of investment clubs are those that have been around for many decades already and have a track record of having a continuous increasing interest in the stock market. By joining investment clubs, small investors are given the opportunity to increase their buying power, share their collective knowledge and socialize while earning from their investment. Another good benefit derived from investment clubs is the fact that investors are not expected to invest a great deal of money but still will be able to receive a greater amount of interest that is usually possible if you have similarly invested a big lump money. 

A typical investment club usually meets once a month and members are given individual responsibility of researching investments and then sharing their ideas with the other members of the club. Likewise, these meeting also served as an occasion for members to contribute to their monetary fund, which is intended for purchasing stocks, mutual funds as well as other types of feasible investments. 

One of the main goals and objectives of an investment club is the opportunity to learn. Most investment clubs spent a great deal of effort and time in research since they believe that a well-researched investment plan has a much greater chance of success. This is also the reason why risk is minimized when joining an investment club. 

Starting an investment club is not really that difficult and does not require any special knowledge. In fact, a group of friends or even co-workers can decide to set up an investment club. This is usually a good place to start as you will know the people you dealing with.


