Title: 
Best CD Rates

Word Count:
304

Summary:
Certificate of deposits with longer maturity periods pay higher rates than those with shorter maturities. It could be said that the best CD rates have the longest maturities. Some investors believe that a certificate of deposit is the best and safest investment. Others invest in a certificate of deposit to supplement their retirement income. Regardless of the reason, all types of investors want to earn the highest CD rates i.e., best CD rates.


Keywords:
Best CD Rates, CD Rate Calculators, CD Rate Comparisons, Certificate Of Deposit Maturation


Article Body:
Certificate of deposits with longer maturity periods pay higher rates than those with shorter maturities. It could be said that the best CD rates have the longest maturities. Some investors believe that a certificate of deposit is the best and safest investment. Others invest in a certificate of deposit to supplement their retirement income. Regardless of the reason, all types of investors want to earn the highest CD rates i.e., best CD rates. 

In order to achieve best CD rates, investors need to shop around either online, through newspapers, banners on local institutions, or with the help of brokerage firms to find out which banks and credit unions offer best CD rates all the time. Before purchasing CDs that offer best rates, customers need to consider two factors, the length of the maturity period and the current interest rate environment.  Investors who lock up their money in long term CDs will earn a better rate of interest than those who buy short term CDs. This is due to the fact that when customers purchase CDs with longer maturity periods, they commit their funds in the investment for the entire maturity period before they can withdraw. The investor foregoes alternative courses of investment. For all these risks that investors experience, banks pay best CD rates on such units. Similarly bulk buying also fetches investors best rate because banks may insist on meeting minimum requirement for offering best rates. 

It is not advisable for the investor to stay with the same bank for more than one year. By sticking with the same bank, investors lose the chance of getting the highest and best CD rates offered by other banks and credit unions. Generally, the interest rates offered by credit unions, which are non-profit organizations, are the best when compared to those offered by commercial banks.


