Title: 
Can You Get Rich Investing? Yes, But Think Differently!

Word Count:
448

Summary:
Remember back in the 1990s when a lot of people either retired early or became wealthy? It was relatively simple. With stock prices going up, up, up, I knew a lot of people who simply invested part of their paychecks. They ended up with several hundred thousand dollars in profits from their constantly rising stocks.

I knew others who had already amassed several hundred thousand by the time the stock boom came along. They were millionaires by the time the 1990s ended.

Ah...


Keywords:
investing,stocks,forex,business,mlm


Article Body:
Remember back in the 1990s when a lot of people either retired early or became wealthy? It was relatively simple. With stock prices going up, up, up, I knew a lot of people who simply invested part of their paychecks. They ended up with several hundred thousand dollars in profits from their constantly rising stocks.

I knew others who had already amassed several hundred thousand by the time the stock boom came along. They were millionaires by the time the 1990s ended.

Ah yes, those were the days. Today most people will tell you it's a lot harder. Stocks don't seem to do much any more. You have to invest in risky emerging countries to see much return. And that chance can evaporate overnight taking your money with it.

When the stock market won't bring you any return, most people turn to real estate. But housing prices have peaked in most cities, meaning you can't just buy a house and sit on it for several years to earn a fat nest egg.

So does that mean we have to give up on ever getting ahead and just learn to be satisfied living the "average" life our jobs can provide?

Not necessarily. These days you have to think differently to get ahead. For example, you've noticed how manufacturing and jobs are heading out of North America to foreign countries. That's bad news for many workers, but it's GREAT news for some segments of the Foreign Exchange Market.

You see, when we buy products from China, or Japan ships products to England, all kinds of currency has to change hands and be converted. There is BIG money in that process.

FOREX, the foreign exchange market, handles 2 TRILLION in transactions EVERY DAY. That's far more money than what Wall Street handles. Just about anybody can jump in and pull out quite a profit for themselves by participating in the FOREX process.

Does all this sound a bit new to you? Most North Americans have heard very little about FOREX. They've got BILLIONS of dollars sitting in savings accounts and low yield investments that could make them a LOT more money in the Foreign Exchange Industry.

If you're thinking helping all those millions get their money transferred to FOREX is a HUGE opportunity ripe for the picking, you're RIGHT!

I hope my article has opened your eyes to some of the terrific opportunities that are being created now. Rather than looking back to the good old days of the booming American stock market and waiting for those times to return, refocus your attention on what is really happening right now. Your fortune lies in seeing more clearly the awesome opportunities at hand.


