Title: 
Costa Rica Real Estate Baby Boom

Word Count:
342

Summary:
As the real estate market in the US takes a nose dive, alternative investments like Costa Rica real estate could keep you afloat and in the sun!


Keywords:
invest in costa rica real estate, costa rica real estate investment


Article Body:
As the real estate market in the US takes a nose dive, alternative investments like Costa Rica real estate could keep you afloat and in the sun! In times like this it’s good to have an alternative to futures, options, and hedge funds. The real estate market in Costa Rica is said to be one of the most stable in the world. It has been quietly booming for a few years and is expected to continue on its path. 

What makes Costa Rica real estate such a promising investment?  

About 15 years ago, you could buy a piece of land 50 meters from a beach of powder white sand and aqua blue water for $10,000 and it would be worth $500,000 today. There are still investment opportunities like this available in undeveloped costal areas, and up and coming trendy tourist destination. Although there are fewer than in the past, steals like this can still be found. 

But more importantly, foreigners continue to move to Costa Rica, bringing their savings with them. Many are retiring or buying a second home, some are retiring young and some are coming to do business. There are several reasons for the influx. Property is cheaper than in the US, as is the cost of living, and a familiar standard of living can be maintained with the added benefit of beautiful beaches.

Furthermore, in 2010 the baby-boom generation will start to turn 65 and retire. Baby-boomers will retreat from their failing retirement plans and insufficient Medicare system and move to independent retirement in the sun. Costa Rica will become the new Florida, and you can already see the retirement developments going up and banking services for transferring Medicare checks.

Real estate has always been a great investment in terms of providing cash flow, assets and tax breaks. With the US market in the dumps, Costa Rica offers the opportunity to invest in a new growth market, in a country with a stable economy, and a friendly foreign policy. Costa Rica real estate is an excellent alternative investment offering high returns with low risk.


