Title: 
Dancing With A Gorilla for Better Trades

Word Count:
994

Summary:
The market, like a lighthouse, will send signals and it is incumbent on us to listen and to blend with the market. In a collision, the lighthouse (market) always wins.


Keywords:
better trades, bettertrades


Article Body:
This is reported to be an actual radio conversation of a US naval ship with Canadian authorities off the coast of Newfoundland in October 1995. Radio conversation released by the chief of naval operations, 10-10-95.

(Please Note: This story is an example of why it is important to listen and blend with the market. It is not meant as a political statement of any kind.)

CANADIANS: Please divert your course 15 degrees to the south to avoid a collision.

AMERICANS: Negative, Recommend you divert your course 15 degrees to the north to avoid a collision.

CANADIANS: Negative Sir. You will have to divert your course 15 degrees to the south to avoid a collision.

AMERICANS: This is the captain of a US Navy ship. I say again, divert YOUR course.

CANADIANS: No Sir, I say again, please you divert YOUR course.

AMERICANS: This is the Aircraft Carrier US LINCOLN, the second largest ship in the United States Atlantic Fleet. We are accompanied by three Destroyers, three Cruisers and numerous support vessels. I DEMAND that you change your course 15 degrees north. I say again, that's one-five degrees north, or counter-measures will be undertaken to ensure the safety of this ship.

CANADIANS: Uh, Captain, This is a lighthouse. Your call.

The market, like a lighthouse, will send signals and it is incumbent on us to listen and to blend with the market. In a collision, the lighthouse (market) always wins.

Markets Maxims

One of my maxims says… "The stock will never listen to you, but, it will speak to you if you learn to listen". Another one says, " If you dance with a gorilla, don't try to lead". Folks, you must learn to listen (read charts and interpret news) and you must bend and blend with the market to avoid being crushed by it. This is not natural to our independent and proud natures. While we may be on the verge of a market upswing, every market upswing for 3 years has been met by a lower lows. Each upswing was seized upon by hopeful enthusiasm and dashed with the next roll over.

This has been a wonderful market for traders who trade both ways. It has been frustrating and devastating to one directional traders hoping for the return of a bull market. Trading is more than jumping in and holding on. It is dynamic and fluid and bidirectional. You must be trained in dynamic and tactical trading to flow with the market. You can and you must learn to do this. The following thought may help put this into perspective. It is paraphrased, as I cannot recall the author.

"The learners will inherit the earth while the learned will find themselves perfectly prepared and suited for a reality that no longer exists".

Workshop Update

Boy what a week, we have just finished two great days of filming new materials for you in Phoenix and a "Two Days of Tradin'" boot camp in Denver. I was exhausted after the events but very pleased with the results. Both events were a success and the students loved the classes.

"The 1st day was a new course called Power Spreads. It will open you eyes very wide to understanding the power of using spreads to minimize risk and neutralize volatility. We also learned a great deal about option pricing and how to read volatility to select the most appropriate strategies. We used the X-Factor options graphing tool to historically trade QLGC and IBM and we saw price manipulation and how the options you may think is a good choice can be a real disappointment and why. I and sure you will enjoy the class when it is ready for purchase.

The second day we taped the new Market 'Mind' Fields. The class response was powerful. Some said it was like a mirror being held up to show them things they did not want to see but desperately needed to deal with. Almost all of us have land mines planted ion our minds. Market 'Mind' Fields will enlighten you to the reasons why trading is such a difficult challenge for folks and how to gain the mental disciple needed to survive and then thrive in the markets.

Friday and Saturday I was in Denver with a great bunch (mostly locals and mostly women) of students for my "Two Days of Tradin'" boot camp. What a fun time. I worked them pretty hard and they loved it. There were several who were very new and a little nervous but as the first day wore on they got into the swing of Bracket Trading™ and did very well. We traded several stocks on Friday just learning to go long and short at the right times. Back trading is a fantastic way to learn and train your train skills.

Saturday we added options to the mix by using the X Factor Options Graph to back trade several companies. We tracked several option strategies over run ups and sell offs to see which positions performed the best. Not all bullish strategies performed the same over the run ups and downs. It was very instructive to see the effect that different expiration months had on profitability. The students all realized that option trading is a lot more complicated than most people think. Picking the right strike, right month and whether to buy or sell premium can be critical. It is very possible to have two separate bullish option strategies at the same time and the one makes money while the other one loses.

New classes are being added to the calendar for March through May so check out which times and locations may fit your plans. You need to be in the trading simulator workshops. Two Days of Tradin', will hone your trading skills like nothing else can.

Please join our Web shops and please consider coming to a Two Day Trading camp with me. I will work you ... but you will come out a better trader.

Ryan with Better Trades


