Title: 
Forex, an alternative investment vehicle

Word Count:
470

Summary:
Forex (Foreign Currency Exchange Market) has been used by international banks and large investment companies for years to make millions of dollars. However, with easy access to the Internet, it is now possible for anyone to take advantage of this powerful tool and make money the same way large institutions do, even with minimal startup funds at hand.


Keywords:
forex,forex trading,currency trading,online trading,online investement


Article Body:
Forex (Foreign Currency Exchange Market) has been used by international banks and large investment companies for years to make millions of dollars. However, with easy access to the Internet, it is now possible for anyone to take advantage of this powerful tool and make money the same way large institutions do, even with minimal startup funds at hand.

Even experienced investors seem mystified by Forex and have very little understanding of it. Forex is not much different from the Stock Market, often the same or similar techniques can be used to trade currency as is used to trade stocks and commodities. What make Forex so mysterious is the lack of available information and opportunities of training.

I have listed 10 good reasons why I prefer Forex to the Stock Market or any other investment option and why any individual, or small investor, should look at getting involved with Forex:

1. A 24 hour market. You don't have to worry about running out of time because the Forex is open 24 hours a day, nearly all week.

2. Huge liquidity. Have you ever got stuck trying to get rid of some stocks or options? With Forex, there are always buyers, thousands of them!

3. No commission on your trading. This is specially important for individuals with small amount of money to invest. When using other investment vehicles the cost of the investment is often prohibitive no matter how attractive the investment itself is. Brokerage and other government fees can easily eat up your profit even before you completed a transaction. With Forex, there are no brokerage, government etc fees involved.

4. Low transaction costs. Typically less than 0.1%!

5. No middleman. The investor is dealing directly with the Market.

6. Instantaneous transactions. Forex is fully computerised and transaction can be completed in as little 2 seconds. The investor does not have to wait for trade confirmation to arrive by email, worst yet, by post. All 'paper-work' is in electronic format, easily viewed, search, analysed.

7. Huge leverage yet low margin. Both increase your profit. In most cases leverage of 10:1 to 100:1 is the rule not the exception.

8. Minimal startup requirements. Again very important for individual or small investors. With Forex it is possible to start trading with as little as $300.00 dollars!

9. Easy access to the Market and your accounts, online, 24/7. Since Forex is completely computerised, anyone with Internet access can trade online and easily access their account and trading history. Most trading platforms allow the user to export this information to other third party software for storage, graphing, analysis etc.

10. No insider trading. Because of the way Forex is 'de-centralised', it is almost impossible for anyone to fraud the system.

I could go on for ever about Forex, it is an amazing tool for investors and also a very exciting opportunity for individuals. I hope you'll catch the fever, too.

Wishing you success,
Ference


