Title: 
FOREX  Investing Compared to Other Investment Opportunities

Word Count:
539

Summary:
This article examines alternative investment strategies vs. Forex Trading


Keywords:
Forex,fx,trading,investing,home,techniques,method,mentor


Article Body:
With over $1.5 trillion changing hands daily, it might be advantageous for you to investigate the extremely lucrative business opportunity involving currency trading.

Once the domain of major banks and corporations, this field is now an open playground for the ordinary individual.

The following information gives you a comparison of different investment opportunities in comparison to Forex trading  Forex could be the perfect opportunity for you if you are willing to have an open mind and investigate.

 Equities are dependant on variable factors regarding when to buy and when to sell.  With Forex, the opportunity to buy or sell is always present.

Futures require a person to pay exchange fees as well as commission charges.  Forex requires no commission charges or fees.  Futures also is limited to specific trading hours, whereas Forex is not limited and is available 24/7.  Also, with Futures, once a person buys they are basically locked in for a specific amount of time.  Forex Offers flexibility to change position within seconds at the onset of any variable which could effect the particular economic security.  When a late breaking news or factor is announced, bam trade is made within seconds.

Real Estate can be devastating to the novice and often requires larger amounts of investments.  It is also volatile with the factors which can affect the buying and selling.  Ask any real estate investor; they all can tell you the horror stories.  The emotional strain of a lingering negative tenant is enough to make any investor throw up their hands and run for the hills.  An investor may often have money tied up in an investment for several years depending on the situation involved.  Although real estate has been up in value for the past few years, many now believe the market has bottomed out and value is growing at a snail’s pace. Many investors often have to wait on approval from banks in regards to financing or releasing money for financing; therefore, an investor may have his money wrapped up long-term. Forex is extremely flexible.

CD’s and Savings Accounts offer security but with little return on the investment dollar.  With Forex, a sharp trader can often multiply his investment many times over.

Annuities  are mostly safe for the long-term, but if an investor needs to pull his money out for the short term, he may have to pay surrender charges which can range as high as 6-8% if withdrawn within the first 6 to 8 years.  In his article entitled, “Are Annuities a Worthwhile Investment, Don Taylor, Ph.D., CFA (bankrate.com) states that “most investors would be better off considering annuities as a last resort rather than a first choice when it comes to creating an investment portfolio.

There is a learning curve with Forex; however, the investment in time may pay multiple benefits in terms of investment.  There are many avenues to achieve wealth, but few as flexible and lucrative as Forex.  With a 24/7 timetable, a person can be in business starting with just a few hundred dollars, the right training and a computer.  This flexibility allows a person to work from the comfort of their own home and be in control.        
 
-------------
For more information regarding Forex Trading, please visit my site http://www.fxtradingmethod.com


