Title: 
Gear up your tax planning with mutual funds. Smart tax saving tips and recommendations - 2008

Word Count:
632

Summary:
Investment  through Equity linked Saving Schemes not just provide you benefits of tax exemptions but also provide you the high returns of mutual funds. Tax plans like ELSS need to be understood by investors in order to benefit from them while filling their annual tax returns.


Keywords:
tax plan,taxes,tax planning,Equity linked saving schemes,elss schemes,elss mutual funds,tax saving funds,equity mutual funds,mutual fund schemes,tax saving funds,mutual fund investment,mutual fund companies,Indian investors,2007-2008,investments,savings,exemptions,filling returns


Article Body:
Tax planning has changed radically over a period of time. Since its time for filling income tax returns for 2007-2008 as the end date (31st march’ 08) is approaching. As a tax payer you need to understand the best way through which you can make use of the exemptions provided by the government. Earlier people had limited choice of tax saving instruments to be used for the purpose of tax planning. But now with the ELSS (Equity Linked Saving Schemes) launched by most of the mutual fund companies, the whole approach towards tax saving has changed. With mutual funds tax planning had become more important part of over all investment planning. With equity linked saving schemes the tax exemptions can be used in a manner such that you not just disciple your investments but also create good corpus through equity investment. 
Tax planning for resident Indians 
We recommend tax saving funds, also referred to as Equity-Linked Saving Schemes (ELSS). One such reason is that their benefits are too much to ignore as they hold almost all the benefits of an equity mutual fund.
For one, they do not have any restrictions. If you choose to, you can invest the entire Rs 1 lakh available under Section 80C in these ELSS funds. 
They give you the benefit of higher returns. You can get 8 per cent with your PPF and NSC. But if you can get a 40-50 per cent return, coupled with a tax benefit, what’s wrong with it? 

How do you invest in an ELSS scheme? It is as simple as investing in any other mutual fund schemes. You just need to fill the form of particular ELSS scheme in which you want to invest. Submit it through any transaction point with the required document i.e. usually PAN card and KYC form. That’s it your work is done. You can know more through <mutualfundadvisorindia.in> website. In this you can get the understanding of selecting any scheme and filling the form.
The benefit 3 Years lock in period for ELSS schemes.
Secondly, if you hate blocking your money for years on end, then this one surely made for you. The lock-in period for ELSS funds is just three years. When you sell after three years, you pay no capital gains tax. So, you get the tax benefit when investing and you pay no tax on your profits.
The best way to invest in a mutual fund is investing systematically through out the year using SIP. So you commit to putting away a fixed amount every month in mutual funds. This is an automatic savings habit that will hold you in the long run and help you not only to save but also invest regularly and continuously in the capital market through equity linked saving schemes (ELSS).
You need to be consistent in your investments to do well. The wonders which a disciplined investment can do cannot be replicated by even the best of investment strategies.
Want to know about the top mutual funds for Tax Saving?
Most of the Mutual fund companies have come out with tax saving funds. They are Equity Linked Saving Schemes (ELSS). The funds collected under this tax saving schemes are invested in equity instrument, thus providing better returns. Many of these ELSS funds generate as much returns as a diversified equity fund. With the awareness been increasing among the investor class, the equity linked saving schemes are gaining popularity among the investor class. To know more you can visit Godmind and get the collection of recommended tax saving funds	which is been provided by Godmind advisors. Also you can ask the Mutual fund Advisors on which ELSS (Equity linked saving scheme) fund to invest in.
Take step towards informed mutual fund investment by investing with care and due diligence.


