Title: 
Getting Started into Forex Trading

Word Count:
516

Summary:
Forex, also known simply as the "FX," is the commonly accepted abbreviation for the over-the-counter foreign exchange market. The forex market is the largest financial market on earth. Forex exists on a 24-hour-a-day global network that spans corporate, banking, and individual interests. There is no central trading floor. Currency is traded around the world and around the clock, with fluctuations responding to speculation on the latest news as it happens.


Keywords:
forex, trading, money, exchange, currency, investment, fund, global, beginner, foreign, market, stock, success, dollar


Article Body:
Forex, also known simply as the "FX," is the commonly accepted abbreviation for the over-the-counter foreign exchange market. The forex market is the largest financial market on earth. Forex exists on a 24-hour-a-day global network that spans corporate, banking, and individual interests. There is no central trading floor. Currency is traded around the world and around the clock, with fluctuations responding to speculation on the latest news as it happens. The currency volume on forex is huge, with a daily turnover of in excess of $200 trillion. Most of the world's forex trading is done via the internet.

The forex was traditionally a playground for the monolithic international banks and substantial corporations. Times have changed, however, and it's now possible for the small investor to enter the speculative waters of currency trading. Forex trading has become a bit of a craze of late, especially since it is something available to anyone who owns a computer. And anyone who is willing to put in some training time can profit from forex trading. The forex market finds traders from all around the globe monitoring currency fluctuations, not unlike the way a day trader may monitor a stock's fluctuation on the Dow Jones.

The lion's share of forex trades involve the major currencies: the Australian Dollar, British Pound, Canadian Dollar, Euro, Japanese Yen, Swiss Franc, and US Dollar. In forex trading, a trader will pair two types of currency. Currencies are bought and sold simultaneously, for example the US Dollar and the British Pound. As it requires more of one currency to purchase another, that currency loses value. Not unlike stock trading, forex traders try to accumulate currency when it weakens in hopes of selling it when it goes up in value. Forex trading is not unlike the buy low, sell high approach found in stock trading.

The way a trader on the forex market exchange goes about acquiring currency is by giving a bid/ask quote, saying he is willing to buy, for example 1.6 marks per dollar and sell them at 1.625 per dollar. One must be a market trader to have access to this process. So most people who are forex trading on line buy the currency through a bank, where they'll pay a commission, then have to figure the commission paid to the bank into the calculation of their spread, or profit margin, when they sell it.

Forex trading is not an easy path to riches. And some people have lost considerable money in miscalculating the market. With its increased popularity, on some days the forex market exchange can see more than one trillion dollars exchanged. Packages for teaching a new forex trader how to invest in the market can range in price.

Last but not least, trading successfully is no easy task. It is a process and could take years to achieve the desired results. There are a few things though every trader should take in consideration that could accelerate the process: having a trading system, using money management, education, being aware of psychological issues, discipline to follow your trading system and your trading plan, and others.


