Title: 
Gold - How to make a profit by going against the herd

Word Count:
349

Summary:
Gold has been used as an investment vehicle for thousands of years. Why? It has no intrinsic value, only the value that fear attachees to it. Fear of inflation, fear of war and curency change. Who would want to repeat the experience of millions of German citizens with their investments in worthless Reichmarks in 1945? Buy gold, but only at the right time.


Keywords:
gold, gold bullion, gold coins, gold investment


Article Body:
Humans have been fascinated by gold for thousands of years, by the way it never tarnishes and by its unique color.

Sadly, gold is useless in engineering terms, except for plating electrical contacts, to ensure they never tarnish and lose their conductivity. You will find gold plated contacts on good quality hi-fi components.
The metal is too soft, with too low a tensile strength to be used for much besides necklaces and rings.

As an investment though, gold is a different story altogether. 

Gold prices fall and rise, according largely to the degree of fear that people have about the future. When war is imminent, gold prices soar, as more people buy gold. 

They are buying gold for several reasons. The gold will be there regardless of what happens to the currency and because war tends to lead to high inflation, paper money becomes worth less and less. People outside the war zone buy gold because they see the price going up and have they think it will keep going up and they will be able to sell at the top of the market and realize their profits. also buy gold because 

When economic conditions are good, inflation low and employment rate high gold prices fall. Gold prices fall because it has no intrinsic value, only the value attached to it by people’s fear. In calmer times, it is possible to invest in shares and gain from the rising share prices that usually accompany economic growth.

Conclusion: – Go against the trend - buy gold when everyone is saying to invest in the stock market. Sell gold when things are looking grim and there are many buyers out there.


Until recently, many countries made it illegal for individuals to hold gold bars or bullion. Individuals could buy gold coins and other items however. The South African Krugerrand was minted to exploit this opportunity and to earn much needed foreign exchange for that country during the years of economic sanctions. Nowadays you can buy gold, silver and platinum coins in many denominations, including Canadian and US dollars, sterling crowns and sovereigns.


