Title: 
Gold: A Solid Investment

Word Count:
417

Summary:
Since gold cannot be made or printed at the whim of greedy politicos, it can't be devalued as quickly as the paper money that is printed whenever need arises.


Keywords:
Gold: A Solid Investment


Article Body:
Make no mistake, the currency crisis is coming.

Rather than sitting back and letting it happen, protect yourself and profit from an economic upset that could basically render your dollars about as worthless as the paper they're printed on.

We saw a preview of this kind of debacle quite recently. In early 2006 a currency plunge triggered an avalanche of sell orders in emerging markets from Brazil to Indonesia. The Icelandic krona plunged nearly 10 percent in only two days, dragging down Icelandic stocks and bonds with it and subsequently spread to Brazil, Mexico, Poland and Turkey.

A precursor to this was the Asian Currency Crash of 1997, which sent stocks south like ducks in winter. Banks, insurance companies, real estate and bonds also fled the scene. The only viable option left was gold.

In the event of another such decline in currency values, gold will be worth at least 10 times its current value.

How is this possible?

Simple: Since gold cannot be made or printed at the whim of greedy politicos, it can't be devalued as quickly as the paper money that is printed whenever need arises.

When a currency is backed by gold, $1 in paper money has to be backed by approximately one dollar's worth of gold. Once a currency is no longer backed by gold, governments can print as much as needed. Naturally, most world governments have gone off the gold standard and that is why paper money has no intrinsic value.

As a result, most major institutions only speculate short term between those currencies and associated local values, such as stocks or bonds, and then they convert their profit into gold.

This is where we at Forex Super King excel. We specialize in global trading and diversification.

Our money is made in both currency trading, where we average 1,000 pips (price interest points) per month, and U.S. small stocks that recently acquired dual listings with the European exchange.

As a result, our clients can experience a short-term windfall from 50 percent to 400 percent by tapping into the heavy buying power of European investors with holding time from a day to a month. We then convert half of our profit every month into gold.

We'll show you how to get set up so that you can hold your funds in several currencies, even if you only have $500 to start.

We can also show you how to not only diversify internationally but how to trade the international markets as well as currency markets to realize substantial profit, short term.


