Title: 
High Yield Investing Is Like A Game Of Poker

Word Count:
408

Summary:
We often get newbies emailing us asking whether or not investing in HYIP's is worth the time and the risk. This is a great question and the short answer is "it all depends". 

First of all, the main question you must ask yourself before investing in any HYIP is: "Do you plan on investing money that you will definitely need in the future?" In other words, is your life going to be made worse off if you lose the money that you plan to invest? Unlike secure Stocks, Bonds, and o...


Keywords:
hyip, investing, autosurf, investment


Article Body:
We often get newbies emailing us asking whether or not investing in HYIP's is worth the time and the risk. This is a great question and the short answer is "it all depends". 

First of all, the main question you must ask yourself before investing in any HYIP is: "Do you plan on investing money that you will definitely need in the future?" In other words, is your life going to be made worse off if you lose the money that you plan to invest? Unlike secure Stocks, Bonds, and other financial investments, HYIP's differ in that they are more like a game of poker than a true investment. As an HYIP investor you must be able to tell if the Program admin is bluffing or telling the truth. Are there signs of a bluff, such as; massive advertising campaigns, cheap hosting of the site, warnings from other investors, or extremely high payout claims? If so then you can avoid that particular program. The problem is that not everyone is a poker (HYIP) expert. It's often hard to distinguish between a bluffer or an honest admin. 

Also just like poker, you shouldn't go in expecting to play one hand and leave a winner. You must bring enough money to the table to play a while and use your skills to outsmart your opponent. People often email us asking where they should invest their $5. We usually respond telling them to put it in the bank instead. In our opinion you should not be investing in HYIP's with under $50. Why do we say this? Well usually the less money you have to invest, the more of a return you want to earn. With only $5, investing in a program that pays 5% per week (even though it's probably more stable) would not be appelaing since you would only earn 25 cents per week. Instead, most people with low amounts of money tend to go for the big quick payers, ie. programs that offer 10% per day or more. Usually these programs are scams right from the start. If however, you have $1000 to invest you can easily put it in several low paying secure programs (perhaps 5 programs each paying between 4-10% per week). This way you are earning a noticable amount while also being safe and secure.

The best advice we can give you is to learn a strategy. Just like in Poker, a smart player can outsmart his/her opponents and walk away a winner.


