Title: 
How can I sell a structured settlement payment?

Word Count:
343

Summary:
The first step to selling a structured settlement payment is to have an idea of the amount to be sold and finding a suitable buyer. The internet is the best resource for obtaining quotes and information on buyers.


Keywords:
Sell a structured settlement, finance


Article Body:
The first step to selling a structured settlement payment is to have an idea of the amount to be sold and finding a suitable buyer. The internet is the best resource for obtaining quotes and information on buyers. The information that buyers require to conduct a sale includes the state of seller’s residence and the insurance company. If a seller wishes to proceed, he is to submit copies of the settlement agreement and annuity policy.


One can also avail the services of structured settlement brokers who are in a position to lead a person to favorable deals. However, sellers should beware that the brokers are not into an exclusive contract with an underwriter. 
 

Annuitants can access immediate cash by selling off either a part or the whole of their structured settlement to settlement companies. However, there is a cost involved with the process as companies that companies that pay cash upfront deduct to account for tax and their own profit. In fact, selling a structured settlement should be avoided as the actual amount received is far less than the amount that one would have actually obtained in the normal course of events. 


Usually, the seller does not incur any out-of-pocket costs while selling a structured settlement payment. The funding company pays for the legal expenses and any upfront costs incurred. The process of selling a structured settlement payment can take up to two months to complete. In order to ensure a smooth sale, one should conduct the sale in consultation with a tax advisor and a legal professional who has the experience of selling structured payments. 


Sellers should try and understand the underwriting process followed by a buying firm; this will help them to obtain clarity on the amount that they will receive from the sale of their structured payments. Upon finding the sale to be in favor of the seller and his dependants, a court will issue an order to the insurance company to send payments to the buyer in future. The transaction is non-taxable for the buyer and the seller.


