Title: 
How To Start Investing With Just $100

Word Count:
398

Summary:
Have you ever wondered how much money you would need to start investing?

If you’ve ever thought that you did not have enough money to begin with investing, I’ve got some good news for you. My name is Sam Chim and I am the owner of Invest-Tips.com, the investment information site. Even though I’ve been investing for several years now, I still remember a time where I did not have a lot of money to start with. 

Today, I’m going to show you a method which I used to begin my...


Keywords:
high yield investments, autosurf, investing


Article Body:
Have you ever wondered how much money you would need to start investing?

If you’ve ever thought that you did not have enough money to begin with investing, I’ve got some good news for you. My name is Sam Chim and I am the owner of Invest-Tips.com, the investment information site. Even though I’ve been investing for several years now, I still remember a time where I did not have a lot of money to start with. 

Today, I’m going to show you a method which I used to begin my investing “career” with a small amount of capital. That small amount is just $100 or approximately £70 for those in the UK. 

To achieve the highest returns available for our $100 we need to look for investments. We need to find a way in which can make this $100 work for us so that we can grow it to a much larger amount. We also need to have a method of evaluating and assessing risk to our capital. 

I’ve found that the best way to start investing with small amounts of capital is not with real estate or stocks, it is with HYIPs (High Yield Investments Programs). These are online investments that anyone can participate and you are able to choose who to invest with and the amount you want to invest. Typically, these High Yield Investments offer between 20% - 40% interest per month. This means your $100 could turn into $140 in one month. Then after that it could grow to thousands if you kept re-investing. 

However, one of the things that many “guru’s” WILL NOT tell you is – “it’s not as easy as it seems”. High Yield Investments require some level of research and money management. You will need to source some reliable investments (there are a lot of scams around) and also be able to manage your capital effectively to maximise your earnings and reduce risk (i.e. Are you going to diversify your investments or not?). 

There is a lot to learn about this type of investment. Hopefully, after reading this, you will dig deeper and be able to start investing successfully with just $100. The opportunity to make money with HYIPs is wide open to anyone who wishes to take it. Are you going to rely on working for someone else for income or Are You Ready To Make Income On Your Own?


