Title: 
HYIP’s versus Autosurfs: Which Is Better For You?

Word Count:
499

Summary:
Article Preview:
A high yield investment program is essentially an investment in which you have the choice of how much you can invest in the program, hoping for a high yield. Any amount can be invested in a HYIP, and in fact small amounts works rather well for HYIP’s, but there is an advantage (and disadvantage) to using large investments. 

An autosurf is better known as a “traffic exchange”; a person buys advertising that is placed in rotation with other advertisements. Each advertisement u...


Keywords:
hyip,hyips,hyip monitor,invest,investment,online,money,e-gold,ponzi,scam,autosurf,gpt,get,paid


Article Body:
A high yield investment program is essentially an investment in which you have the choice of how much you can invest in the program, hoping for a high yield. Any amount can be invested in a HYIP, and in fact small amounts works rather well for HYIP’s, but there is an advantage (and disadvantage) to using large investments. 

An autosurf is better known as a “traffic exchange”; a person buys advertising that is placed in rotation with other advertisements. Each advertisement usually lasts less than 30 seconds before it is replaced with another ad. The viewer has the option to click on the ad for more time to look at it. By viewing ads, a person can accrue an income, and some people actually accrue hundreds daily, especially as accounts usually have some kind of compound interest attached to them. To upgrade the account level, money must be invested into the account (making autosurfs an investment opportunity). 

Both plans can yield a substantial return depending on time and money invested. HYIP’s offer potentially higher yields, but also have higher risks involved. On the other hand, autosurfs offer lower yields and require much more work. Depending on what kind of money you are looking for, and what kind of investment plan better fits your model, either one can work well for you. 

HYIP’s are excellent if you just want to invest, and the risk isn’t an issue for you. After all, they do offer substantial yields for the money invested, and it’s mostly just a matter of looking at various HYIP’s to find the one that you’re satisfied with. But, the risk involved can turn people off, especially if the investor doesn’t like risk, or can’t afford to risk any funds. An autosurf has no risk, and offers a compound rate on any moneys generated by the person, but requires actual work in order to accrue the money. Still, the lesser risk can be seen as an advantage.

Both plans carry a small side risk: They can lead those involved into ponzi schemes. In essence, some HYIP’s and autosurfs require new investors to pay off old investors, rather than using funds generated by the investments to pay off all investors. By doing so, they are using a ponzi scheme, which is illegal. The danger of HYIP’s is well-known, and autosurfs carry with them the added problem of not being registered as investment companies. Always investigate any business you plan on investing any time or money into, especially if it’s online.

If you enter into either with your eyes open, then they can represent good investments. Just consider what you end goal is, and how much time and/or money you can put into it, as well as what kind of risk factor you want. By deciding that, you make the decision as to which is better for you. Just remember to check out all the variables, and plan accordingly.


