Title: 
HYIP Investment Diversification

Word Count:
269

Summary:
High Yield Investment programs usually involve in a variety of high risk and volatile field of investment such as Forex trading, Stock exchange, Sports betting, metal trading etc. There are also HYIPs that do not invest at all, scammers. From these facts, you can easily realize that there is always a risk associated with investment in HYIPs.


Keywords:
hyip monitor, hyip, hyip investment, hyip rating, hyip forum,hyip ranking, hyip source, hyip program, hyip services,hyip scams, best hyip program, hyip listing, hyip rate, hyip news,hyip scam, hyip monitor ranking,hyip list, new hyip, hyip investing,hyip lister, hyip monitoring


Article Body:
What is Diversification as applied to HYIPs?
Diversification is a technique that reduces the risk by spreading your portfolio over many programs to avoid excessive risk imposed by HYIPs. In simple English this means “ do not put all your eggs in one basket”.

There are certain issues you should consider on how to diversify you portfolio over different programs. Let’s see these issues one by one:

Determining how many Programs You should have:
Obviously diversifying over 10 programs is better than investing into 2 programs. It is even better to have 20 programs instead of 10. But, it is hard to find 20 solid programs. There fore , The bottom line for diversification , as far as HYIPs is concerned is that , you have to diversify you portfolio over researched programs as maximum as possible. But, I want to clarify one thing; Diversification does not mean spreading your portfolio over scam programs. Always make a diligent research before you diversify you portfolio.

To put it briefly, diversify your portfolio to at least 5 to 10 well researched programs.

Mixing between Old and New Programs:
You may have favorite programs performing well for long time, programs which you have more confidence, well researched and what you think are reliable. But there is a concern in HYIPs arena; there is always a calculated risk even with the most solid program. It is hard or impossible to exactly determine the age of a particular HYIP. For this reason, it is always recommended to mix your favorite HYIPs with new programs. 

For More HYIP Articles Please Visit:  <a href="http://www.hyipinsurer.com">Hyip Monitor - Hyip Investment Ranking & Rating Service</a>


