Title: 
HYIP Owner Does Not Want You To Read This Easy Tactics

Word Count:
599

Summary:
HYIPs bring me $8289.68 in this month. How did I get this money without work?


Keywords:
hyip, investment, investing, report


Article Body:
HYIP Owner Does Not Want You To Read This Easy Tactics

HYIPs bring me $8289.68 in this month. How did I get this money without work? Answer is simple: I followed my golden rules of HYIP investing. I have compiled a short list of some of the things you can do before investing into a program to make sure you get the most for your money:

#1 - Look at the main HYIP monitoring sites such as theHYIPs.net. Main aspect that you should check it is status of program. If program has status PROBLEM most likely this HYIP will be closed in next 2 days. Look at votes and comments. If it looks like a program has been cheating the ratings by voting for themselves, or it looks like they may have hired a paid voter, then stay away. Check the voters IP, maybe the cheaters were not careful and didn't use a proxy

#2 - Search all HYIP forums for the name of the HYIP. Maybe, somebody created topic about program which you want. . Look for people's opinions. Often those who have been investing in HYIPs for some time are the ones with the best insite. If you see that somebody are spamming it is sign of short HYIP.  Most importantly, look for complaints of people who have not been paid.

#3 - Do a search on google. Copy small parts (1-2 sentences) of the text from both the homepage and the page with information on how they make their returns. Paste it into the google search bar with quotes around it, and see if anything comes up. A good amount of the time, google will return results that are an exact match, usually a professional traders website. Also, do the same thing with any images of people that are shown to look as though they are the admin of the program. Simply get the name of the file that the image is uploaded as by viewing the properties of it. Then paste this into the google image search. You will be amazed that a lot of the time you will see that the image is a direct copy from another site. This proves that the admin is lying.

#4 Ask the Admin for as much personal information as possible. Also, check out all the information he/she provides. If he/she gives a phone number, then give them a call. If an address is given, then check it out for authenticity by looking at online phonebooks, and other databases. The more information that is available, the less likely it is that the admin will take the chance of scamming hundreds of people out of their investments. It makes sense to email the admin and ask some questions such as: where are you located, how long have you been around, and how do you make your returns. Then compare this information with found one. The common answers you will receive are United States, 2 Years, and Forex trading. Usually if these are the answers the admin is lying to you. About 75% of all new HYIPs claim that they have been paying members offline for over a year. 99.9999% of the time this is a lie. If an investing firm is able to deal with members offline for 2 years, there usually is no need to go online with their business.

All in all, if you follow these steps you will likely be saving yourself a descent amount of money in the long run. They improve your chances of walking away with profits. This tips are not complete list. Full one of golden HYIP rules collected on http://thehyips.net/lessons/.


