Title: 
Investing In Real Estate: The ABCs Of Property Investment

Word Count:
452

Summary:
Investing in real estate is a highly lucrative venture that has helped scads of people to rake in loads of money. Though the profession may seem delectably easy, it’s certainly not for everyone. Real estate business also fosters several unscrupulous swindlers who make their living by duping newbie investors. Therefore, fresh entrants into the field of real estate must learn how to discern a genuine opportunity from a fake one.

Investing in real estate involves an awful lot...


Keywords:
Investing in Real Estate, real estate investing, real estate investment


Article Body:
Investing in real estate is a highly lucrative venture that has helped scads of people to rake in loads of money. Though the profession may seem delectably easy, it’s certainly not for everyone. Real estate business also fosters several unscrupulous swindlers who make their living by duping newbie investors. Therefore, fresh entrants into the field of real estate must learn how to discern a genuine opportunity from a fake one.

Investing in real estate involves an awful lot of work, especially at the outset. So, it’s only for the serious few who are prepared to face the challenge and the uncertainty of the market. Wannabe investors must have access to the following when they embark into real estate investing:

• Investors must have a significant working capital. It’s true that there are several finance firms that can lend you money for property investment, but you sure won’t wish to be in too much debt to start with.

• You must have a good grasp of the real estate market and the legal procedures pertinent to the trade. In addition, possessing knowledge about the region in which you wish to purchase property is equally crucial.

• Smart asset management and superlative negotiation skills are pivotal for investing in real estate. You would have to convince the homeowner to sell the property.

• Access to a work force that can quickly spruce up a fixer-upper or another property that might have suffered some damage. Be it any trade or discipline, a quick turnaround is a plus.

• A professional property inspector is always helpful when a distressed property needs to be inspected so as to ensure that it’s a viable deal.

As a newbie, you are most likely to follow the old-fashioned technique of buy-and-hold. In such a scenario, you would serve as the landlord for the property. The property would normally experience appreciation over time, and you may sell it after it has risen to a certain preferable value. During the time you hold the property, you may rent it to a tenant, thereby generating another monthly source of positive cash flow.

Having gained experience investing in real estate by following the above technique, you can move over to more lucrative deals, such as fixer-uppers and foreclosures. Finding these can be tough, and hence you would invariably require the services of a professional bird-dog (one who finds lucrative property deals for investors).

On the whole, investing in real estate can lead to ample gains. But it is imperative that you have the above outlined real estate tools in your arsenal.

Copyright © 2006 Joel Teo. All rights reserved. (You may publish this article in its entirety with the following author's information with live links only.)


