Title: 
Investing In Equestrian?

Word Count:
302

Summary:
The majority of us regular Joes wish we had more money, but it seems the only way to make more money, is to actually have money in the first place, i.e. to invest.

This is not strictly true. There are many ways of investing small amounts of money, some of them you would not necessarily class as “investing” but investing by definition means - laying out money or capital in an enterprise with the expectation of profit.

Now take betting on a horse for example, I’m sure you...


Keywords:
investing,investments,finance


Article Body:
The majority of us regular Joes wish we had more money, but it seems the only way to make more money, is to actually have money in the first place, i.e. to invest.

This is not strictly true. There are many ways of investing small amounts of money, some of them you would not necessarily class as “investing” but investing by definition means - laying out money or capital in an enterprise with the expectation of profit.

Now take betting on a horse for example, I’m sure your significant other isn’t going to buy into it when you tell them that you are investing, but by definition, you are. Every investment has an element of risk to it, betting on a horse of course, has a little more!

The other kinds of investing “Alternative Investments” are usually the area of collectors and hobbyists, but these can also generate a decent return on your money. This includes everything from art, antique furniture and wine to vintage cars, stamps and toys.

When it comes to wine, there is a convincing argument that as an investment, it produces returns comparable to equities and the cost of fine wines will keep on rising.

There are many other avenues to pursue when you are not wealthy enough already to invest your money into property and real estate. Taking a look in your attic to see what delights you may find could be a start.

The internet holds lots of information in regards to ideas for investing, there are bonds to consider, stocks and shares, gold or silver, even currency! Investing need not be for the privileged people, even us, the average Joes can start investing somewhere along the spectrum. Remember you have to start somewhere, and take your first little steps, but always think BIG.


