Title: 
Investing in Spanish Property – is it still an attractive proposition?

Word Count:
388

Summary:
Spanish property has, for many years, been viewed as excellent in terms of investment potential. But in recent times, there is a train of thought that prices are stagnating at best or even falling slightly in some areas. There may be some truth in this, but golf property however, remains a fantastic investment for both all year round rental potential and capital growth.


Keywords:
Golf, Golf real estate overseas, Golf in Spain, Golf overseas, Golf property in Spain, Golf Real Estate, Golf real estate in Spain, real estate spain real estate in Spain, investment property in Spain


Article Body:
For many years now, investors and those looking to live the dream, have nominated buying property in Spain as a favoured profit-making destination. But, in more recent times, the general consensus is that prices are stagnating 
at best or even falling slightly in some areas.

So is buying a property in Spain still an attractive proposition?

From our experience, it still can be; but it is now more difficult to generate a good return. Whilst some lower end, especially re-sale, Spanish property is becoming increasingly difficult to sell OR rent, larger more luxurious specification property continues to be in high demand.

None more so than Spanish Golf course property. Demand for detached golf property, alongside the palm lined fairways of water filled courses, remains exceptionally strong and we cannot see this changing for the foreseeable 
future. Indeed, this appears to be the focal point for many Spanish developers as many exciting, high quality Golf Resorts continue to emerge from often barren, yet usually stunning locations.

Morning tea to first green in minutes

The attraction of buying Golf Property in the Costa Blanca region of Spain comes from the exceptional quality and location of the developments. The ability to almost guarantee your own ‘green belt’, even drive your own golf buggy to the course, is a big draw for those looking to acquire golf property as either an investment or for personal use.

Although they are still abundant, the predilection for buying on ‘council estates in the Sun’ is on the decline and the average purchaser of Spanish investment property has now set their sights much higher. And this can only be good for the future of property investment in Spain. 

Most developers have very much upped their game and it’s not just the quality of golf property we now see coming to market that has increased dramatically. Golf courses are now designed as high-class resorts, complete with health clubs, spas, restaurants and commercial centres; with the emphasis on quality rather than quantity.

The results are staggering for both investor and second homebuyer alike, but only if you get in quick – an eighteen-hole golf course only has so many superb properties on its perimeter. That’s not to say the surrounding, 
second line homes are not fantastic, rather the best plots on these developments really are Hot Property.


