Title: 
Investors Look at Philippine Apart-Hotel or Condotel Property Investments

Word Count:
553

Summary:
Real Property Investors are looking away from concentrated property areas like Paris and London's West End to other markets all over the world, and Philippine Apart-Hotel or Condotel or Buy to Let rental properties fit the bill a new report states.


Keywords:
apartments, hotels, condotels, investments, property investment, real estate investment, condotel investment


Article Body:
PLC International Marketing Networks has revealed that some institutional investors are trying to diversify their property portfolios through areas like Southeast Asia, China and beyond - with the Philippines heading the list, then Thailand, Japan, China, and Singapore property investments featuring in some portfolios.

In the UK, "Investors are moving to new areas to find value" said Beth Collingz, Global Marketing Director of PLC International Marketing Networks based in Metro Manila and Cebu in the Philippines. "More and more of clients for Condotel Investments are coming from the UK. There has been a distinct market shift from US based clients over the past few months and we see that trend continuing over the winter months of 2006 and on into 2007 has Sterling continues its increase in value over the US Dollar.

“A lot of this interest is being driven by the relatively cheap market prices in the Philippines compared to Europe, specially UK Housing prices, and the easy payment options available for our Condotel Developments, but there are other factors, too.

Offshore Property Investors, Foreign baby boomers as well as overseas Filipinos, are looking for ways to maximize their return on investments as they approach retirement, and so are purchasing second homes, particularly Condotel Investments where they can use the Condo for vacations and rent it out through our In-House Condotel Management when they are not using the unit thereby gaining rental incomes that on today’s purchase prices, give a projected ROI on their investments of some 12-16% depending upon the mode of payment for the unit”

Metro Manila remains a popular choice with international buyers and institutional investors. Collingz says clients tell her that it makes more sense to buy in a year-round vacation destinations and business centers. Lancaster - The Atrium Condotel developments by Pacific Concord Properties located in Shaw Boulevard, Metro Manila - fits the bill with all it offers to International buyers.

Accessibility is also a factor. “Flights from London to Manila, for example, average just 16 hours, add to that the many airline specials and it’s easy to see why this area is becoming an international community.” Unlike other offshore rental properties, where the rental market is largely seasonal, in the Philippines there is a strong market for rental properties year round. This gives buyers greater flexibility in choosing when to use and when to rent their property. The strong rental/second home market also has resulted in a proliferation of professional property managers and rental agents, making property ownership and rental easy. Pacific Concord Properties Inc with it’s flagship Lancaster Condotel Developments fit’s the bill.

Lancaster Manila Atrium Tower A, Shaw Boulevard, Metro Manila, Philippines is a "Full Service" Condominium Hotel ["Condotel"] offering Studio, One, Two and Three Bedroom Suites for sale. To be completed and ready for turnover from December 2010, the Lancaster Suites Manila Atrium Tower II will provide unit owners with premier residential condo units with the option of enrolling their units in the Lancaster Condotel Rental Pool and earn Rental Incomes as Owner Non-Residents when not using their units through Condotel Management and reciprocal arrangement with Lancaster Cebu Resort Residences. This makes Lancaster Suites Manila, one of the Hottest Investment Opportunities in the Philippines said Collingz.

For further information about Philippine condo hotels please do not hesitate to contact us:

Beth Collingz
PLC International Marketing Networks


