Title: 
Lance Armstrong Partners With American Century

Word Count:
282

Summary:
American Century Investments is collaborating with seven-time Tour de France winner Lance Armstrong to motivate investors to take a more active role in planning a secure financial future.


Keywords:
Lance Armstrong Partners With American Century


Article Body:
American Century Investments is collaborating with seven-time Tour de France winner Lance Armstrong to motivate investors to take a more active role in planning a secure financial future. 

Via a multifaceted campaign featuring Armstrong and the slogan "Put Your Lance Face On," American Century is encouraging investors to take action and approach their financial decisions with the same focus, drive and determination that helped Armstrong triumph over the challenges in his life.

"Lance has used his focus, discipline and incredible determination to achieve great success in sports and to overcome personal challenges, and we think these same attributes make successful investors," said William M. Lyons, American Century president and chief executive officer. "We also believe there are great similarities in the compelling personal stories of our founder, Jim Stowers, Jr. and Lance. Both are cancer survivors who are using their success and fame to improve the lives of others."

To assist investors in the attainment of their long-term goals, American Century - in cooperation with the Lance Armstrong Foundation - is introducing the LIVESTRONG Portfolios. Carrying the moniker that evokes the Lance Armstrong Foundation's mission of empowering people affected by cancer, this series of mutual funds simplifies investing while supporting the foundation. American Century is making an annual payment to the Lance Armstrong Foundation based on investments in the LIVESTRONG Portfolios. Investors in these portfolios bear no portion of this expense. 

"I'm very excited about this new relationship with American Century Investments," Armstrong said. "This is a wonderful match given my interest in improving lives through better health and fitness and American Century's commitment to financial well-being. Working with American Century, I hope to motivate and inspire investors to make every financial decision count."


