Title: 
Mactan Serviced Apartments - Travelers to Cebu, Philippines

Word Count:
458

Summary:
Lancaster Cebu Resort Residences [LCRR] in Mactan, Cebu, a boutique Brand Name Condotel Investment of Pacific Concord Properties Inc, is now ready to accept guests in the Condo Hotel. Under the management of Lancaster Hotels, Land and Properties, Inc. [LHLPI], rental operations of LCRR were soft launched March 2007.


Keywords:
apartments, condo, hotels, condotels, investments, property investment, real estate investment, condotel investment


Article Body:
Beth Collingz, International Marketing Director of PLC Global an internet based sales and marketing company and lead marketing partners with Pacific Concord Properties, Inc., for the Lancaster Brand of Condotels in the Philippines, recently announced the company has acquired, by purchase, additional units in its Lancaster Cebu Condotel adding another 75M pesos to its project inventory and expansion program. This brings the number of properties held in the development to 75 suites with another 120 units to be added before year end for Condo Hotel rental operations.

Property is all about LOCATION said Collingz. Mactan, Cebu, provides one with both the laid back pace of provincial living, as well as prerequisites of the urban dweller. Schools, hospitals, restaurants, shopping malls, and leisure are all found on the island itself.Lancaster Cebu Resort Residences, located a mere 3 minutes from Mactan-Cebu International Airport, provides you with easy access to all the essentials of urban living. This ideal location will complement the Condotel operation since Lancaster Cebu will function as a condominium hotel – a preferred accommodation choice of businessmen and holiday travelers alike. Clients can either purchase Condotel Suites for investment purposes or lease the units on weekly, monthly or yearly basis. We currently have Fully Furnished Executive Studio Suite and Two-Bedroom Suites available at Lancaster Cebu Resort Residences at Pre-Increase Prices that will be “Ready For Occupancy from December 2007”… at the current price said Collingz.

For the soft launch, LHLPI has prepared special promotional room rates aimed at budget travelers. Guests can check-in to any of the executive studio suites for as low as $35 a night or to any of the two-bedroom loft rooms at $65 a night plus 13% government Tax whilst longer term discounted rates for monthly and yearly lease rentals are also available said Collingz. 

Lancaster Cebu also offers Studio Suites for sale. Collingz said Fully Furnished Studio Suites are pirced at -Pph-2,753,924.06] and may be purchased with initial Reservation Fee -Pph-100,000.00 Balance Payable without interest over 24 consecutive equal monthly payments of -Pph-110,580.17 [Tax Inclusive whilst the Executive 2 Bedroom Suite, Fully Furnished Suite is priced at Philippine Pesos: -Pph-5,467,004.14. Whilst some renovation works are still ongoing within the complex, unit rentals are now available to guests at 'Special Promo Rates'.

Cebu City is the acknowledged gateway and Queen City of the South. Cebu is the most important trading and commercial hub outside of Metro Manila. Mactan Cebu International Airport assures the arrival of a steady stream of international flights from Amsterdam, Frankfurt, Singapore, Hong Kong, Tokyo, Kota Kinabalu, Seoul and Qatar. There are also chartered flights from Incheon, Taipei, Kansai, Nagoya and Kiaoshung that arrive on a weekly basis. Cebu is identified by Asiaweek and Conde Nast Traveller as one of Asia’s Best Cities. 

Beth Collingz
PLC International Marketing Networks


