Title: 
OCRA Opens Its First Office In South America

Word Count:
290

Summary:
OCRA Opens Its First Office In South America


Keywords:
ocra, overseas investments, brazil investment, offshore companies


Article Body:
OCRA Worldwide has opened an office in Sao Paulo, Brazil. 
The full name and address of this office is: 
OCRA Brasil Consultoria e Analise de Investimentos, Ltda 
Av, das Nacoes Unidas, 12.551, 
19 andar Cj 1903, 
Sao Paulo CEP 04578-903 SP 
Brazil 
Phone - 00 55 11 3043 7370 
Fax - 00 55 11 3043 7371 
E-mail - ocra@ocrabrasil.com.br 

Contact - Mr. Jorge dos Santos Marques Paulino. Jorge is a graduate of Sao Paolo University and INSEAD. He has many years of experience as a manager/director in the marketing and commercial departments of major businesses in Brazil. His detailed knowledge of Brazilian commercial and administrative procedures and practices will be extremely useful to clients seeking to invest in Brazil. 

This office will provide services in the following two principal forms: 
1. Services for foreign investors who wish to invest in Brazil. 
2. Services for Brazilians investors/entrepreneurs who wish to invest overseas or to trade internationally. 
1. Investing in Brazil is a complex process, especially for those from common law jurisdictions. Accordingly we can guide our clients through the maze of local regulation and legislation. 

In particular the services that we can provide are: 
- Everything connected with the establishment of a company in Brazil, including legal administrative and fiscal obligations, 
- Provision of assistance to set up an office (find a location, contracts, etc. 
- Intermediation with banks, and with commercial, industrial and professional associations. 
- Assistance in all matters in relation to immigration rules. 
- Acting as Fiscal representative 
- Accounting services 
- Provision of virtual office services 

2. When advising Brazilian clients on overseas investments and trade, OCRA Brasil will utilise the knowledge and experience within the OCRA Worldwide organisation and will supply to the Brazilian investor all the services that can be obtained from other offices of OCRA Worldwide with the added benefit of integration with the client’s Brazilian organisation.


