Title: 
Offshore Banking: New Strategies for a New Century

Word Count:
377

Summary:
The primary objective of any type of offshore banking strategy is to provide the investor with asset protection and financial privacy. Over the years, offshore banking has had many names and has been referred to as an "underground economy" privy only to unsavory types seeking to exploit loop holes in worldwide banking systems.


Keywords:
offshore banking, offshore banks, offshore accounts, offshore trusts, offshore investments


Article Body:
The primary objective of any type of offshore banking strategy is to provide the investor with asset protection and financial privacy. Over the years, offshore banking has had many names and has been referred to as an "underground economy" privy only to unsavory types seeking to exploit loop holes in worldwide banking systems. In reality, offshore investing is your first step to securing your financial well being. No longer reserved for the super rich, you can establish overseas accounts with as little as $1000 dollars U.S. 
With this availability of offshore banking to almost anyone, there are as many reasons one would participate in this type of asset allocation. One of the major opportunities that have presented itself in the early part of the century is foreign real estate ownership as an offshore banking strategy. With the flow of cheap dollars and an overheated real estate market in the United States, many have sought the relatively easy on the pocket prices and stable political climates of countries such as Spain, Poland, and Hungary. 
Another offshore banking strategy that has always been popular is tax minimization. Can you think of anyone who thinks they pay too little taxes?  As one might imagine, this is the primary reason investors seek offshore opportunities but come to find some real value in looking abroad. 
While offshore banking still remains a confusing term for many as it is usually associated with rich people hiding their money in foreign countries, offshore banking is legal and is perhaps the most effective way to protect one’s assets. 
Offshore banking is an increasingly attractive alternative to the sometimes heavily regulated financial markets of one’s home country and has become reality for many ordinary people.  Due to its growing popularity, offshore banking is one of the most rapidly growing industries and can be obtained in the Caribbean, Latin America, Asia-Pacific Region and Europe. 
Global Access - Offshore banking is structured to provide global access and transference of funds to any location you choose but take some time a do your due diligence as the wrong decision can be costly. You can learn more about offshore accounts by visiting offshorebankingreview.com, and request a copy of the 10 things you should know before you open an offshore account.


