Title: 
Online Investing

Word Count:
409

Summary:
If you are looking for a great way to make money from the comfort of your own home and you do not have a lot of money to start with, I would like to suggest to you an investment you probably have never heard of before.


Keywords:
forex


Article Body:
If you are looking for a great way to make money from the comfort of your own home and you do not have a lot of money to start with, I would like to suggest to you an investment you probably have never heard of before.  It is the largest and oldest financial market in the world, yet it is relatively unfamiliar to most people.  Until just a few short years ago, it was primarily the domain of huge financial institutions and multinational corporations.  Thanks to the internet, it is now possible for the average investor to get involved.

So what is this market opportunity i am suggesting?  It is called Forex, and stands for foreign currency exchange.  It is a market in which one country's currency is traded against another.  But it is a purely speculative market.  No physical exchange of currencies ever take place.  It is totally different from common markets like stocks and futures and does not take place on a regulated exchange.  

In the U.S., Forex is traded around the clock between Sunday evening and Friday evening. This makes it a perfect part time business as you can pick your own hours to trade.  It has a daily trading volume of over one and a half trillion dollars, thirty times larger than the volume of all the U.S. equity markets combined.  This tends to make it a highly liquid market and thus a desirable market to trade.

There are many advantages to trading currencies over traditional investments like stocks, bonds and commodities.

It has an up to 200 to 1 leverage for margin trading.  Standard $100,000 unit currency lots can be traded with as little as one percent margin.  Mini lots can be traded with as little as one half percent margin. 

Price movements are highly predictable.  They tend to follow trends, so it is fairly easy for technical traders to spot new trends and breakouts, thus leading to many opportunities for entering and exiting trades.

Start up costs are low.  You can open up a mini account with as little as 300 dollars.  There are no commission fees. Most brokerages will allow you to start up a demo account where you can practice making live trades with fake money.  This allows you to become proficient with trading procedures without the risk of losing your hard earned dollars.

You owe it to yourself to at least check out this opportunity and see if it is for you.


