Title: 
Online Stock Trading – What You Should Know

Word Count:
500

Summary:
Online stock trading is the simplest and easiest method of buying and selling shares, and it can be done entirely from the comfort of your own home or office. Find out more on the intricacies of online stock trading in the following article.


Keywords:
online stock trading, online trading, stock trading


Article Body:
<a href="http://www.rockwelltrading.com/stocktradingcoach/stc_about.html"><b>Online stock trading</b></a> is the simplest and easiest method of buying and selling shares, and it can be done entirely from the comfort of your own home or office.  One of the main reasons that online stock trading has become so popular is because investors are not required to pay hefty commission fees to brokers, which would take away from their net return.  Most brokers offer a so-called “flat fee,” which means that you pay a very low cost (around $10) for buying and selling any stock, regardless of the amount of shares you are trading. 

Online stock trading is enabling millions of Americans to make money in the stock market – even with minimal investments.  Big companies like Charles Schwab, e-Trade, TD Waterhouse, and Ameritrade all cater to these kinds of traders with low commissions and easy-to-use trading platforms.  As a result, <a href="http://www.rockwelltrading.com"><b>online trading</b></a> is becoming a very popular alternative to more traditional methods of stock investing.  Luckily for everyone interested in the industry, online stock trading is a pretty simple thing to get into.

However, before you dive in headfirst, you need to understand that stock trading is a business – it’s done to make money – and it’s definitely not a get rich quick scheme.  If managed properly, stock trading is a legitimate means of attaining financial freedom.  Always remember that day trading and investing in stocks involves high risks, and losing a lot of money IS a possibility.  In other words, stock trading is not for the inexperienced, or the naïve – it should not be entered into lightly.

As with any type business venture, you need to define your stock trading goals before you actually begin to trade.  So, you need to do some solid planning.  A good trading plan covers topics like:

-	How many trades will you take per month/day/week?
-	How much risk should be taken per trade?
-	Which system or set of indicators will you use to find the right stocks to trade?

It is very important that you take stock trading seriously.  It is a business, so educate yourself, prepare your funds, plan carefully, and then execute your plan.  This will set you far apart from the gamblers out there who want to get rich quick.  There’s a saying about stock traders that says it all: “a stock trader who wishes to make his million in one day will be hung in one week.”  If you put just a little forethought into your trading plan, you can avoid these mistakes.

Successful stock trading, like so many other things in life, requires you to have skill, discipline, and a good plan.  It is not for everyone.  However, if you are serious about getting into online stock trading and you’re willing to give all your effort to be successful, then welcome!  I wish you all the best in your trading!


