Title: 
Predictable, Certain, and Secure - Tax Lien Certificates Produce Guaranteed Profits of 16%, 18%, even 24% and More

Word Count:
545

Summary:
Investors from all walks of life get guaranteed returns of 16%, 18%, up to 24% and more on their investment dollars.  Tax Certificates offer a safe and secure alternative that minimizes risk by protecting the capital, and provides a higher than normal rate of return.  These simple, easy to duplicate strategies provide the key to solid financial growth.


Keywords:
government tax certificates, tax lien, tax deed, tax liens, tax deeds, tax lien investing, pennies on the dollar


Article Body:
How would you like to find out about an investment vehicle that is not affected by the topsy-turvy nature of the stock market?  How would you like to know about a method of investing that locks in your rate of return, regardless of what happens with the so called real estate bubble?

If you’ve ever put money into the stock market, you know that it can be a frightening roller coaster ride!  The market goes up and the market goes down.  Often without any rhyme or reason!  

Even the expert predictions prove to be wrong time after time!  You can lay awake night after night wondering if you will ever see your hard earned investment dollars again.

If you are like most people you are probably asking, “When can I have a little predictability?”

Well, that is exactly what you’ll find in the little known world of government issued Tax Lien and Tax Deed Certificates!

What is a Tax Lien Certificate?  

A Tax Lien Certificate is a lien on a piece of property for taxes owed.

These Certificates have proven to be Predictable, Certain, and Secure!

Here’s why...

PREDICTABLE...because the rates of return are fixed by law!  The rates differ by state and local statutes.  For example Arizona pays up to 16%, Florida is 18%, and in Texas you get 25%.  In states like Michigan you can earn up to 50%.  The best part is that your rates of return are locked in and guaranteed.

No matter what happens to the stock market, the economy...your rate of return remains the same.  So you know from the beginning what your minimum profit will be!  (And in some instances you can earn massive windfall profits up to 500%.)

CERTAIN...because you are actually investing with the government!  The government makes the rules, the government sets the interest rate you’ll receive, and the government enforces the process!  (You will either receive your initial investment back...along with the substantial interest rate as your profit.  Or you will end up owning the property itself...all according to government regulations.)

SECURE...because your investment is attached to the real estate the taxes are owed on!  Your investment is secured by a Government Certificate, which is attached to the real property.  The property cannot be sold with clear title until your Certificate is paid off in full.  (In other words the Tax Certificate is a priority lien on the property...so nothing can happen with that property until you get paid.)  

In fact, a Government Tax Certificate is normally superior to a mortgage lien!  So if your investment and profit are not paid within the specified time period, the mortgage company might step in and pay you off in order to protect their interest.  If they don’t, you own the property for pennies on the dollar.

Any way you cut it, Government Tax Certificates offer a solid investment choice that is Predictable, Certain, and Secure!

Now, some state use a Tax Deed process.  And we’ll cover that next time!

The key to success is to arm yourself with the right information and understanding of the rules in your particular locale.

For there is power in knowledge, provided you have the right knowledge...and provided you act upon it!


