Title: 
The First Step You Have to Take to Get Rich In the Stock Market!

Word Count:
466

Summary:
Don't let Wall Street control you mind!


Keywords:
Stock market, stock investing


Article Body:
I am widely recognized as a leading expert in the stock market and especially at teaching you how to become your neighbor’s millionaire next door.  I didn’t start out as knowledgeable and skilled as I am now.  I started out knowing nearly nothing.  I was so inexperienced in my early twenties that I could only stand by when a full service stock broker stole $85,000 from my eighty year old grandmother. I watched the nationwide stock brokerage protect the interests of the full service broker and my grandmother lost everything.  

The pain of this was so intense that it drove me to complete my Ph.D. in finance — less than a hundred of us graduate in this degree worldwide annually because it is so mathematically difficult.  My frustration and anger at the big rich forces behind Wall Street drove me to become a modern day master of money.  This is what you have to do — wake up!!!  Wake up to the fact that you can make it as a stock investor.  Wake up to the fact that you control your destiny and that you can stop handing all of the control over to the Wall Street machine that could absolutely care less about your financial future.  This is the first step — take full responsibility for you earnings, savings and investment.  


I learned years ago from a friend of mine, Dr. Van Tharp, Ph.D., that if I didn’t take full responsibility for my investing that I would never progress — I would simply break the fragile feedback loop that allows all of us to learn from our mistakes.  Any time you blame anyone for a financial mistake you destroy the opportunity to learn and thrive from the situation.  The simple decision you must make is to deeply, totally, firmly, and finally, say to your self, “I am the master of my universe — I am in control — Wall Street has no power over my mind” is the key critical change you must make in your thinking.  

Some people will think that you are arrogant but just blow them off and laugh all the way to the bank.  Stop listening to people — are these nosy little bug a bugs in your life that so quickly nay say your investment dreams paying your bills or giving you money to move ahead — no so blow them off!  They just want to give you bad advice so that you fall into their same financial loser traps.  In terms of investing become an island unto yourself and very carefully cultivate relationships with people who really do know what they are doing in investing. This is exactly what I did.  I started seeking out people who really understand the markets.  I found them over time and I asked them lots of questions.


