Title: 
What If You Only Have $100 Left But Still Somehow Manage To Generate Over $100,000 This Year

Word Count:
614

Summary:
Yes that's right armed with nothing but still generated over $100,000 in the end of this year. Is this rocket science? No it is not. Everybody even 12 years old boy can do it, all you need is proven formula that will show you what to do and when to do.

By following 3 formulas below having $100,000 income per year is no more dream. However first off I must warn you what I'll show you below is not get-rich-quick scheme. During my last 2 years online I'd searched to every pos...


Keywords:
online business, internet marketing


Article Body:
Yes that's right armed with nothing but still generated over $100,000 in the end of this year. Is this rocket science? No it is not. Everybody even 12 years old boy can do it, all you need is proven formula that will show you what to do and when to do.

By following 3 formulas below having $100,000 income per year is no more dream. However first off I must warn you what I'll show you below is not get-rich-quick scheme. During my last 2 years online I'd searched to every possible place in order to formula that could bring me $100,000 in a night, unfortunately there's no such a thing.

So you need to give a time in order to make this formula work, your perseverance will pay off when the time has come.

Formula #1 - find your passion

Except you're very cold blooded person you need to do business not just solely from profits but also from doing something you love also. Because like or not there'll always be some problems during your business but if you doing something you love you'll face it as a fun hobby.

Don't worry about competition, there're always some competitions in every field in life. Beside that's what marketing all about how to make a killing out of your competition.

Your passion can be anything no matter how ridiculous they are, just write all of your passion.

Formula#2 - how to find profitable merchant that eager to give you more money than you boss

If you have no product to sell and only have $100 left you need to gain advantage of other people's product. It can be as simple as joining affiliate program. Affiliate program is the act of promoting other people's product and get paid whenever someone buy through your link.

You can do some research about which merchant in your field that offering affiliate program. All of them free to join and will cost you nothing. If you find affiliate program that require you to pay, don't even take a glance at it, it's simply common sense why you need to pay just for giving somebody money?

You can do research through search engine with go to affiliate directory. For example www.affiliateguide.com

Formula#3 - set up your online presence

Now you need to select merchant you want to represent as an affiliate. Don't take more than 10 programs to represent. Take more than 10 programs will get you overwhelmed, and will confuse your visitors which eventually doing nothing.

And it is best if the 10 products is complement product with each others.

Now after choose the products there's a few ways to start promote your product. You can create website and put product review that lead to specific product you represent or you can set up google adwords campaign and bid directly to merchant's website or you can put solo ads in ezine that cater your industry telling them about your affiliate's product with your link embedded in.

If you decide to use google adwords you need to be careful about the sums of money you spend. You need to be sure that the sums of money you spend less that the sums of money you get. And so the same if you decide to use solo ads.

I've seen few people make lot money with this, they have hundreds of ads on google. They pay copywriter to create the ads, set it up in 15 minutes and just sit back collect the money. Some of them have made up to $30,000 per month.

However I must warn you what works for someone is not guarantee will work to other. So you need to find out yourself, if the method is suit for you or not.


