Title: 
Who Else Wants To Make Money Online Without Work?

Word Count:
557

Summary:
Why are you in Internet? Most likely, you want to earn money with easy way. It is almost reality with HYIPs, if you know how they work, of course. I know it and have more than $4000-5000 a month without work. How I do it?


Keywords:
finance, money, fraud, investment 


Article Body:
Why are you in Internet? Most likely, you want to earn money with easy way. It is almost reality with HYIPs, if you know how they work, of course. I know it and have more than $4000-5000 a month without work. How I do it?

In this article I will explain some steps how I find good HYIPs for investing. Before you begin your investment career with certain HYIP, you should do a Due Diligence (DD) check on the program. Listed below is a guide:

Step One

You should use whois sites to find out more about the program. For instance, you can use whois.ws or whois.net. Compare the whois information you have found from the above with the information provided by the program owner on his website. If you find any major discrepancies, you should be extra cautious about the program. The program owner may be trying to hide something from you.

Step Two

Before joining any HYIP, make sure you are comfortable with the program. Study HYIPs. Sign up on HYIP forums. Also do not forget to check theHYIPs.net and status of  your favorite program on this hyip monitor. Forums usually are the best source of reliable information directly from other investors, like you. Pay more attention to posts made by more experienced members - they know what they are talking about. Never spam forums - do not post any referral links in your posts unless the forum rules allow that. You will only be banned for spamming. Read HYIP articles and reviews. Pay more attention to HYIP articles, they are written by senior investors and reflect their experience. Search in google for " scam" - look for negative posts, because people usually post if they get scammed.

Step Three

Take note of the Internet Service Provider (ISP) for the program and to which organization its IP Address belongs to. Record their contact information (such as email address) so that in the event of default by the program, you can file a complaint to the ISP against them for internet fraud. If proven to be true, the ISP will most likely cease providing its services to the program. This prevents the program from cheating any more money from innocent members.

Step Four

Should you be the victim of a scam, submit details of the website found from Step One with your electronic payment confirmation number and send a complaint email to the following authorities to alert them of the internet fraud:

1. Internet Fraud Coordinator: ifcc.tp@fbi.gov
2. International Web Police: Director@Web-Police.org
3. ISP Provider (Refer to Step One. Look for the email contact for website abuse of the ISP Provider or the organization that the program IP Address belongs to and file a complaint).
4. Local authority (refer to the web registrant station address, search on the Internet to locate its country authority; such as the state police or any other relevant authorities)
5. E-gold Service (C.C. the email to the program owner)

Use smart investing strategy. Best strategy is to split your investments as much as possible. Invest most of your money in Real HYIPs with low interest and high credibility.

You can obtain more information about fraud reporting at theHYIPs.net . I believe in your success, now it is your time to belive in yourself and stop losing money on scams. Learn and Earn!


