Title: 
With Property Investment You can Retire Young And Live Off Your Profits.

Word Count:
616

Summary:
In the fast-paced, exemplary world today, money matters more than most other things. This is the era of LPG (Liberalization, Privatization, and Globalization.)  People are interested in exponential growth of money rather than slow growth. So, instead of saving all your income and using it for your post-retirement life, you can invest your income in a judicious manner to multiply it and earn much more from it. Investment properties are a hot option for that kind of a plan. Investment property is a property that is not occupied by the owner, usually purchased specifically to generate profit through rental income or capital gains. There are lots of convincing reasons for you to realize the benefits of investment properties.


Keywords:
Property investment, Property investments, property, investment, investments, properties


Article Body:
In the fast-paced, exemplary world today, money matters more than most other things. This is the era of LPG (Liberalization, Privatization, and Globalization.)  People are interested in exponential growth of money rather than slow growth. So, instead of saving all your income and using it for your post-retirement life, you can invest your income in a judicious manner to multiply it and earn much more from it. Investment properties are a hot option for that kind of a plan. Investment property is a property that is not occupied by the owner, usually purchased specifically to generate profit through rental income or capital gains. There are lots of convincing reasons for you to realize the benefits of investment properties.


Property investment is where you make a small investment into a property, typically one still being built, which is known as an off plan property and then go on to rent it out to get good dividends, and then once raised in price, you can sell it to gain a profit or to purchase more property. 


No investment today offers the stability and simplicity along with the excellent returns offered by investing in property. The stock market can offer high returns, but it is a very volatile and unsteady place. This is especially true for non-professionals and there are so many external factors that can effect your financial investment. Not to mention the fact that the major stock markets have generally been underperforming and property investment stands head and shoulders above other forms of investments.  There are a lot of options when it comes to investing in property, as you can choose the option of investing in Commercial property such as industrial/offices, hotels, apartments, retail shops and the list goes on. It can be a residential property; you can buy it and sell it at a higher rate for capital gain or rent it for regular dividends.

 
Property is now the wise investor’s weapon of choice. No other investment allows you to purchase with other people's money (Equity partners) and then pay this back with other people's money (the rental income from tenants). If you own a property, you can release equity against that property. Although there is no law that states that your property will increase in value year on year, it is accepted that a well maintained property in a reasonable area will appreciate in value. 


Here are some points which are sure to make you flabbergasted about the profits of property investment.

50% of individuals mentioned on The Times Rich List made their money through investing in Property.
A property worth just €4000 30 years ago would be today worth around €225,000
Equities or Stocks can be volatile, as with the .com crash, whereas a property is historically stable.
It is well documented that on average the value of a property doubles every 7 years.


Property investments provide equity growth and they maintain good cash flow and not to mention, the capital appreciation is higher than any other type of investment. According to figures from FPD Savills Research, the total net return including capital appreciation on a prime central London property was 18.6% last year. In the UK, the total net return was 16.3% and in Spain it was even a stronger performance during last year. 


The benefit of investing in a property is that you can remove the emotion from the purchase and look at the property as an investment vehicle. This opens a lot of options for you. You can utilize your re-assignable contract option and sell at a substantial profit prior to completion, carrying no redemption penalty or you can take the "buy to let" situation and generate a good reliable rental income, including substantial capital appreciation.


