Title: 
8u7 Free Arcade Games

Word Count:
403

Summary:
There are lots of free online games site to choose from but there are only a few that could really give you the satisfaction like this site could give. It offers lots of new flash games that are free. Playing free flash games is very common to kids and adults alike maybe because of it is very easy to play and very enjoyable. Games like Al Franken Skit, Airwolf and Dealer are just three of the top games being played on the site.

All the games listed on the site are categori...


Keywords:
free, flash, arcade, game, free games,free online games,free flash games,arcade games,play flash gam


Article Body:
There are lots of free online games site to choose from but there are only a few that could really give you the satisfaction like this site could give. It offers lots of new flash games that are free. Playing free flash games is very common to kids and adults alike maybe because of it is very easy to play and very enjoyable. Games like Al Franken Skit, Airwolf and Dealer are just three of the top games being played on the site.

All the games listed on the site are categorized according to how they are played or what’s the object of the game is! For example the Wrath shoot game is listed under the Action category where most games that are listed here involve saving victims or stopping terrorist from creating chaos. Other games that are listed under the Actions category is Monster, Spider, Bomber Bob and there are 671 other action game to choose from! If you are into puzzles and quizzes then the Puzzle category is perfect for you. Games like Grid Logic and Cartoon Quiz is listed there. This category enlists a total of 406 fun games! If you prefer playing Solitaire or any other card games there is a whole list for that also. Another category includes all Casino games like Blackjack or Poker. The classic arcade games like Mario that we enjoy playing when we are little are also available here. They made a few changes to make the game more interesting but the rules are still the same. And there are other games that need no rules in order for you to play it. There are lots of other fun games available on this site that would surely fit your taste. Or you could try the top played games by other members; the site also provides a list for it. The best thing about it is it’s for free. And you don’t have to be an expert in order to enjoy playing the game even a toddler could play flash games.

This site could give you all the best free online games and more! So join now and try playing all the games. This would be a great way to relax or have a break from your boring work! Have fun choosing from thousands of exciting and new games. For sure you’ll find a game that you’ll be hooked to for days!


