Title: 
About My Chemical Romance

Word Count:
504

Summary:
No, my chemical romance isn't about chemical compounds and how they relate to hormones, endorphins or anything else. My chemical romance is a music band that's also known as My Chem or MCR. My Chemical Romance is an American rock band that's been around since 2001; at least as far as the music charts are concerned. As a matter of fact, My Chemical Romance hails from New Jersey. It's not so easy to categorize exactly what type of music they play, although 'alternative rock' wo...


Keywords:
my chemical romance, MCR, Band, rock band, My Chem


Article Body:
No, my chemical romance isn't about chemical compounds and how they relate to hormones, endorphins or anything else. My chemical romance is a music band that's also known as My Chem or MCR. My Chemical Romance is an American rock band that's been around since 2001; at least as far as the music charts are concerned. As a matter of fact, My Chemical Romance hails from New Jersey. It's not so easy to categorize exactly what type of music they play, although 'alternative rock' would be a good place to start. 

My Chemical Romance band members include Gerard and Mikey Way, Frank Iero, Ray Toro and Bob Bryar. Mickey is the one who had the honors naming the group, and he says he got the name from a book called 'Ecstasy: Three Tales of Chemical Romance'. Wherever the name came from, they began as the brainchild of former band member Matt Pelissier after he witnessed the 9/11 attack on the World Trade towers, which prompted him to write a song called 'Skylines and Turnstiles'. 

Eventually, My they signed a record contract and their debut album, 'I Brought You My Bullets, You Brought Me Your Love' was cut and released. My Chemical Romance followed that album in 2003 with their second, called 'Three Cheers for Sweet Revenge', released in 2004. The album went platinum. But all was not well with the My Chemical Romance band members and Matt Pelissier left the group due, according to gossip, to an argument with Ray Toro about his drum playing abilities.

In 2005, My Chemical Romance warmed up audiences for the Taste of Chaos tour and then later for Green Day, and later that year, they opened their very own tour around the United States. Following that lukewarm success, My Chemical Romance joined in on a benefit single that was released on iTunes and Internet music download websites, playing for a cover of 'Under Pressure' of Queen fame. 

More recently, in early 2006, they released a new CD titled, 'Life on the Murder Scene'. My Chemical Romance then proceeded to work on their third release, cut under a working title of 'The Rise and Fall of My Chemical Romance'. Fans will just have to wait and see what develops from that.

Last year, in 2006, mishaps befell two of the My Chemical Romance band members while working on a music video that caused the band to cancel several appearances. Nevertheless, My Chemical Romance had fans lining up for their show in London this past summer, to kick off the release of their latest album, 'The Black Parade', which was released in the United States later that year. 

You can check out My Chemical Romance on MySpace page and on their official website. Their latest album reached Number One on the UK singles chart, their first. And for all the My Chemical Romance fans out there, prepare for a 2007 My Chemical Romance arena tour in England, though whether or not My Chemical Romance will add performances in the United States isn't known at this point in time.


