Title: 
About Sterling Silver

Word Count:
506

Summary:
Sterling silver is a material that can be used for a variety of purposes, fitting to use form almost any event, and comes in many different quality levels and prices range, some people like to use sterling silver beads to create their own unique jewelry.

The sterling silver is commonly referred to as pure silver but in reality it is silver alloy. You see pure silver as the name denotes is 99.9 percent pure silver and because of this it is often very soft for any type of ap...


Keywords:
sterling silver jewelry, sterling silver ring, sterling silver bead, sterling silver beads


Article Body:
Sterling silver is a material that can be used for a variety of purposes, fitting to use form almost any event, and comes in many different quality levels and prices range, some people like to use sterling silver beads to create their own unique jewelry.

The sterling silver is commonly referred to as pure silver but in reality it is silver alloy. You see pure silver as the name denotes is 99.9 percent pure silver and because of this it is often very soft for any type of application or use. Sterling silver on the other hand has 92.5 percent silver and the excess 7.5 percent is usually of another metal and very often it is in the form of copper.

There are various things that can be done with sterling silvers like for instance in producing fine tableware like utensils, knives, silver trays, forks, spoons, coffee sets and tea sets. But the most remarkable application of Sterling silver is in the creation of various jewelry pieces.

The beaded silver necklace is one jewelry piece that is very popular around the world and a favorite choice of shoppers almost anywhere. The sterling silver beads enhance the beauty of the necklace so even from a distance you would be captivated by it.

How to Take Care of Your Sterling Silver

Many people find that making your own jewelry is a creative way to get things done and save money at the same time. Many popular clothing and jewelry fashion lines started by someone who set out to make his own clothing or jewelry and because of success continued to make it as a business. Naturally there is a lot of fun making your own jewelry items and sometimes great pride in using them. You can make your own necklaces and bracelets out of sterling silver bead.

Sterling silver also tarnishes once it is exposed in the air. The metal part of the alloy is the one that cause the tarnishing since pure silver just like gold are resistant to oxidation. One way of testing whether a sterling silver is already tarnishing is to feel your thumb over it. If ever you see a dull stain then this implies a tarnishing sterling silver.

Sterling silvers are beautiful if they are shiny. Make use of cotton cloth to polish your sterling silvers. To maintain their shine regularly polished them. For sterling silvers that has been stored for so long you would need a polishing paste to make them shiny again.

Or you can try this simple tip. Get a tin foil and a dishpan. Cover the bottom of the dishpan with the tin foil. Pour hot water on the dishpan and add teaspoons of salt plus baking soda. Place your sterling silver pieces in the mixture that you make and be sure that your silver pieces are close to each other. Be sure also that they touching the foil. The tarnish is then transferred to the foil. Soak your sterling silver pieces for at least five minutes. Afterwards rinse and then dry.


