Title: 
Advantages Of Motivational Posters In Your Home Or Office

Word Count:
506

Summary:
Tim is suffering from a bout of depression. The reason- Tim always dreamt of becoming an economist. However, one year down the line Tim feels that he is not as talented as others. His analytical skills are poor and he is not strong in quantitative analysis. He is sure that his dream will remain a dream.

One day, while on his way to college, he comes across two posters. The first one reads, “"Cherish your dreams and aspirations. They are the blueprint of your achievements.”...


Keywords:
posters, artwork, paintings, modern art


Article Body:
Tim is suffering from a bout of depression. The reason- Tim always dreamt of becoming an economist. However, one year down the line Tim feels that he is not as talented as others. His analytical skills are poor and he is not strong in quantitative analysis. He is sure that his dream will remain a dream.

One day, while on his way to college, he comes across two posters. The first one reads, “"Cherish your dreams and aspirations. They are the blueprint of your achievements.” and the second poster says, “What the mind can conceive and believe, it can achieve.”  Tim returns, organizes his study schedule and starts working hard. When it is time for the results, Tim is a surprise topper. So, what caused this sudden change in Tim? Well, the posters seemed to have an effect on Tim. Now, this is what a well-written motivational poster can do for you.

Motivational posters have become a rage. Be it a school, home or an office, the walls seem to be flaunting positive messages. The important question is ‘what are the advantages of putting up motivational posters?’

Words, when used in a correct way, can melt the stoniest of hearts. Words are known to have triggered mass movements, which changed the course of history. Who can ever forgot Martin Luther King and his words  ‘I have a dream’? Motivational posters, too, make use of concise words to deliver the message in the most striking of manners. Hence, they tend to create a rather strong impact on the mind. They have also initiated actions in many cases.

Motivational posters put up in office or home have a kind of hammering effect. A motivational poster on the wall of an office remains in sight for a long time. For instance, if you put a poster near the entrance lobby, employees will see the poster every time they enter and leave the office. The message, too, will remain in front of their eyes and hence after some time, it will begin to produce effect in some of the employees. This is akin to brain washing, albeit a positive one.

Motivational posters also add a class to your office and homes. It is like having your own personal style statement. For instance, if your office cabin displays the following poster “Focus on your goals and let nothing get in the way of your dreams”; chances are that you are a focused person. Motivational posters are a great of medium of displaying your beliefs with élan. 

The other advantage of motivational posters is that most of them have a great picture or natural scene to compliment the words. Thus, they add a beauty to your otherwise drab walls. Many motivational posters are a treat to watch and definitely enhance the look of your office or home.  

The biggest advantage of having a motivational poster on the walls of homes and offices is that they induce a sense of optimism if things are not going well, a sense of love if you


