Title: 
All Shook Up Tickets - Broadway And "The King" Come Together

Word Count:
547

Summary:
All Shook Up tickets will bring together two loyal fan bases for one intriguing show. The play is based upon a work by William Shakespeare and features the music of Elvis Presley. The original show ran at the Palace Theatre in 2005, and thespians filled the venue for over 200 performances. The producers are now sending the production on tour for runs in more than 30 American cities in the fall of 2006.

About the Story

The play is loosely based on Shakespeare’s Twelfth N...


Keywords:
All,Shook,Up,Tickets,Broadway,and,The,King,Come,Together


Article Body:
All Shook Up tickets will bring together two loyal fan bases for one intriguing show. The play is based upon a work by William Shakespeare and features the music of Elvis Presley. The original show ran at the Palace Theatre in 2005, and thespians filled the venue for over 200 performances. The producers are now sending the production on tour for runs in more than 30 American cities in the fall of 2006.

About the Story

The play is loosely based on Shakespeare’s Twelfth Night, and it is set in a small Midwestern town in 1955. The entire plot takes place within 24 hours, and features two main characters: Natalie, a small-town girl with big dreams, and Chad, an ultra-cool rebel drifter who arrives in the town because his motorcycle needs repair.

The plot tells the story of how Chad is in love with one thing above all else - rock and roll. The fictional town in which he stops frowns upon such “dangerous” music, but Chad’s influence even within 24 hours manages to change the town’s attitude forever.

Natalie has always wanted to escape from her hometown, and she is immediately smitten with Chad as the “mysterious” newcomer. Chad is unlike any of the boys in the town, and Natalie is attracted to the apparent dark side in his persona.

Natalie crosses paths with Chad because she is the mechanic assigned to work on Chad’s bike. She overhears Chad talking while she’s at work, and she hears him talk about how he has been with many women during his time. However, Chad is not looking for companionship from women, and he states clearly that he prefers the company of men when he travels.

Natalie decides to dress as a man before she meets Chad, and she calls herself “Ed.” Natalie goes as far as smearing oil on her face to complete her look, and she works on befriending Chad as a comrade in both motorcycles and rock and roll.

We’d tell you how the story ends, but you’d be disappointed if you didn’t secure All Shook Up tickets for yourself to watch and listen to this intricate plot unwind. What better combination is there than the King of Rock and Roll and the greatest playwright in history?

Theories on the Characters

Several Elvis fans who have seen the play have posited theories on who these characters could have been in real life. Obviously, Chad is seen by many as Elvis, and even his look on stage is reminiscent of the king. Natalie is thought by many to be Natalie Wood, who was a known female companion of Elvis while both were alive. Ed, the fictional male character, is thought to be Nick Adams, who was a close friend of both Presley and Wood.

Awards

All Shook Up was a success on Broadway, and it won two awards during its run. The show took top honors at the Theatre World Awards for Cheyenne Jackson’s portrayal of Chad, and it also took home top honors from the Drama Desk Awards for Outstanding Set Design of a Musical.

If you haven’t seen this jukebox musical, you’re missing out on a “collaboration” between two of history’s greatest artists. Get your own All Shook Up tickets today.


