Title: 
An Introduction To Violins

Word Count:
336

Summary:
The history of the violin runs for centuries as an instrument that is used in various musical genres like classical, pop, jazz and country. It is a small, hollow stringed instrument with a long neck and four strings tuned from low to high; with each note having a perfect fifth to the one below it.

The violin is made of different kinds of wood where the top is usually made of spruce while the sides and back are usually of maple. The fingerboard of the violin is usually made...


Keywords:
violin, violins, electric violin, violin strings, violin cases, violin stores, history of the violin


Article Body:
The history of the violin runs for centuries as an instrument that is used in various musical genres like classical, pop, jazz and country. It is a small, hollow stringed instrument with a long neck and four strings tuned from low to high; with each note having a perfect fifth to the one below it.

The violin is made of different kinds of wood where the top is usually made of spruce while the sides and back are usually of maple. The fingerboard of the violin is usually made of ebony; however, sometimes ivory is also used. Violin strings were originally made of gut but is today made of different materials. Different kinds of violin strings give different tones and sound quality. Some violin strings also stay in tune, and last longer than others. Violin strings are today usually metal, synthetic core or gut strings.

Metal violin strings produce pure, clear and loud tones and are easy to play. Beginners and intermediate players prefer using steel core strings. The synthetic core violin strings are made of the nylon perlon and produce subtler sounds than metal strings and don’t have to be tuned often.

Today, there are also electric violins that send signals via an electrical pickup device. There are also electric violins that work only when plugged in. Electric violins have a solid body design with wiring and batteries found in its body. Being a new invention, electric violin makers today can use their imagination to decide on the shape of the electric violin.

Violins are best bought in violin stores for a better range of violins. There are some violin stores that sell violins from different manufacturers, and some that manufacture their own violins. Some violin stores also rent out violins and sell used violins. As new violins cost between two hundred to twenty thousand dollars, beginners usually rent violins or buy used ones. Whatever the case, make sure that the violin comes with a violin case to provide it protection from any damage.


