Title: 
An Internet Gambling Glossary - Part One

Word Count:
490

Summary:
Despite the fact that internet gambling is now a multi-billion dollar industry, and countless thousands of new bettors world-wide sign on daily to play at online casinos, there are still millions of newcomers to the world of online gambling who do not as yet have a clear understanding of much of the terminology used in online gambling, and betting on sports in general. However, knowledge of these terms is essential to understanding the games and rules of play:

ACTION: Any ...


Keywords:
Best Casinos Online, Best Online Casinos, Internet Casinos


Article Body:
Despite the fact that internet gambling is now a multi-billion dollar industry, and countless thousands of new bettors world-wide sign on daily to play at online casinos, there are still millions of newcomers to the world of online gambling who do not as yet have a clear understanding of much of the terminology used in online gambling, and betting on sports in general. However, knowledge of these terms is essential to understanding the games and rules of play:

ACTION: Any type of wager.

ALL-IN: In poker, all-in means a player has put all of his chips into the pot, but cannot be forced out of the game by other bettors. A side pot is set up for the bettors with remaining chips, who, if winning can take the pot, and the side pot. If the all-in bettor should win, he can take only the pot, and not the side pot.

ALL-UP: To bet on several horses in the same race.

ANTE: A poker term for placing a required amount of chips into the pot before each hand begins.

BRING-IN: A mandatory bet in seven-card stud made by the player showing the lowest value card.

BUST: You lose; As in blackjack, when a player’s cards total over twenty-one.

BUY-IN: The minimum amount of money required to enter a game or tournament.

CALL: As in poker, when a bettor equals a previously made bet.

CHECK: In poker, to stay in the game without betting. This is allowed only if no other players bet in that round.

CLOSING A BET: As in spread betting, meaning to place a bet equal to but opposite of the initial bet.

COLUMN BET: To bet on any of the three columns of a roulette table.

COME BET: In craps, similar to a pass-line bet, but made after the shooter has established his point.

COME-OUT ROLL: A crapshooters first roll to establish a point, or the first roll after a point is established.

COVERALL: A bingo term, meaning to cover all the squares on a bingo card.

CRAPPING OUT: In craps, to roll a two, three or twelve is an automatic loss on the come-out roll.

DAILY DOUBLE: To select the winners of the first two races of the day.

DOWN BET: To bet that the result of an event will be lower than the lowest end of the quote on a spread bet, also known as a “sell”.

DOZEN BET: In roulette, to bet on any of three groups of twelve numbers, 1-12, etc.

EACH WAY BET: A sports bet, meaning to bet on a team or player to win or place in an event.

EVEN MONEY BET: A bet that pays the same amount as wagered, ( 1-1 ).

EXACTA: Betting that two horses in a race will finish in the exact same order as the bet – also known as a “ Perfecta “.

FIVE-NUMBER LINE BET: In roulette, a bet made on a block of five numbers, such as 1-2-3-0, and 00.


