Title: 
Annie Tickets - A True Broadway Classic Returns

Word Count:
430

Summary:
Annie tickets have moved beyond the simple aspect of seeing a Broadway show. This famous musical has become a rite of passage for families everywhere, and Annie has inspired little girls all over the world to sing, dance and dream big. Annie is a hero, and the show is returning to Broadway for what is sure to be another successful run.

About the Story

Annie is a downtrodden little orphan girl whose life has been nothing but a run of hard luck. She is poor, hungry and ap...


Keywords:
Annie,Tickets, A,True,Broadway,Classic,Returns


Article Body:
Annie tickets have moved beyond the simple aspect of seeing a Broadway show. This famous musical has become a rite of passage for families everywhere, and Annie has inspired little girls all over the world to sing, dance and dream big. Annie is a hero, and the show is returning to Broadway for what is sure to be another successful run.

About the Story

Annie is a downtrodden little orphan girl whose life has been nothing but a run of hard luck. She is poor, hungry and appears to have no hope for the future as the play opens. However, she has a vibrant personality and a general spark that sets her apart from the typical orphan.

Annie is unhappy at this Depression Era orphanage, as Miss Hannigan, the owner of the orphanage, is extremely cruel. However, Annie’s luck changes when local billionaire Oliver Warbucks decides to host a local orphan for Christmas. Annie is chosen as the guest, and she moves into the mansion for her stay.

At first, Warbucks is rather cold towards Annie, but the two strengthen their bond through several experiences. Eventually, Warbucks discovers Annie’s broken locket, which she keeps as a promise from her parents to come for her someday. When Warbucks attempts to replace the locket, he is confused when Annie refuses to remove her keepsake, and she tells him why she keeps it.

Warbucks decides that he is going to use his influence to help Annie find her parents, and he takes many steps towards doing so, including appearing on a radio program with Annie. Meantime, the plot’s conflict is revealed. It seems that Miss Hannigan and her conman brother have decided to try to fool Warbucks into thinking that they are Annie’s parents.

If you’d like to see how this intricate plot concludes, you need to secure Annie tickets to see for yourself, as the story and the production has achieved legendary status for several reasons.

Adaptations

Annie has been such a success on stage that it has inspired several productions in other formats. A movie version of the story was produced and released in 1982, and it was such a success that a sequel was produced for television in 1995. Another made-for-television film was put together and aired in 1999, and as a result of this recent exposure, girls everywhere are clamoring for Annie much like past generations.

If you want to see a true classic of theater and see a show that the entire family can enjoy, Annie tickets are the perfect way to enrich your cultural memories.


