Title: 
Zeitgeist: A Movie For The Time

Word Count:
498

Summary:
Since June 2007, the movie "ZEITGEIST" has been taking the internet by storm. As of December 2007, ZEITGEIST had already gathered more than 6 million hits, making it one of the most popular online videos of all time. In fact, on Google video, ZEITGEIST was the no. 1 video for the months of November and December 2007, and there doesn't seem to be any stopping it. The movie's creator, Peter Joseph, has reported some 40,000 to 60,000 hits to his website, ZEITGEISTmovie.com, per ...


Keywords:
zeitgeist, christ conspiracy, acharya s, suns of god, who was jesus, christianity, horus, jesus


Article Body:
Since June 2007, the movie "ZEITGEIST" has been taking the internet by storm. As of December 2007, ZEITGEIST had already gathered more than 6 million hits, making it one of the most popular online videos of all time. In fact, on Google video, ZEITGEIST was the no. 1 video for the months of November and December 2007, and there doesn't seem to be any stopping it. The movie's creator, Peter Joseph, has reported some 40,000 to 60,000 hits to his website, ZEITGEISTmovie.com, per day! Also, in November 2007, ZEITGEIST was presented a "Best Feature" award at the prestigious Artivists Film Festival at the Egyptian theater in Hollywood. As one of the sources for Part 1 of ZEITGEIST, I was in attendance as a featured panel speaker addressing some 650 people, who shared a mind-blowing evening. Both Peter and I have also done several radio programs addressing the subjects raised in ZEITGEIST, with me specializing in Part 1. The movie's narration has also been translated into a number of languages, including German. Truly, ZEITGEIST is a global phenomenon!

What is so special about ZEITGEIST that it has attracted so much attention? First of all, the movie is done in a very powerful manner - and, secondly, its message is controversial, to say the least! Since my work inspired some of Part 1, I can only discuss as an expert that segment, which deals with religious conspiracy. Part 1, in fact, claims that our modern religions, including and especially Christianity, are not "original" or "new revelation" but remakes of ancient faiths, particularly that of the Egyptians. In my books, "The Christ Conspiracy" and "Suns of God," I have striven to demonstrate that fact, with a combined 1000+ pages of fascinating research as to the true meaning of religion. Because of the intense controversy surrounding ZEITGEIST, with forums all over the net engaged in heated debates over the movie, I have now completed an ebook specifically addressing some of the comparisons between the Egyptian religion and Christianity. This new ebook is called "The Companion Guide to ZEITGEIST, Part 1," and it scientifically examines the purported parallels between the Egyptian god Horus and the Jewish godman Jesus, including whether or not Horus was born on December 25th of a "virgin," among other important assertions made in ZEITGEIST. The research on this subject was so abundant that I was unable to put it all into an ebook. In almost 50 pages, I did, however, manage to highlight these significant issues, including ancient resources in their original languages, with translations!

It is the fervent belief of both the creator of ZEITGEIST and me that this information is extremely important in this day and age, in order to further cultural understanding and bring greater peace to the planet, as well as to provide an insight into the working of society's elite, who may not have in mind the best interests of the common man. In this regard, we have taken the risk of bringing this controversial and often contentious material to the public eye, with the hopes of greater enlightenment worldwide.


