Title: 
11 Reasons to Submit This Article to an Ezine

Word Count:
463

Summary:
What's an article anyway, and why would I want to submit one to an ezine? That was a two-fold question and will require two answers. 

An ezine article is usually composed of approximately 500 words on a single subject that would be of interest to your target market. At the end of the article, you should include a "resource box." This box should provide such things as your name, the name of your company, your web site address, email address, and a small blurb about your product/service.


Keywords:
submit article, ezine, submission,


Article Body:
What's an article anyway, and why would I want to submit one to an ezine? That was a two-fold question and will require two answers. 

An ezine article is usually composed of approximately 500 words on a single subject that would be of interest to your target market. At the end of the article, you should include a "resource box." This box should provide such things as your name, the name of your company, your web site address, email address, and a small blurb about your product/service. 

Writing an article is not hard work. All it requires is some research and note taking. Use any of multiple sources to find information about the topic that you choose to write about. Then write your article in your own words using the notes that you took during your research. It's not difficult and it's something that you learned to do early in school (grade school probably). Write in a conversational tone. Write like you are talking to your best friend. 

Now, I'll answer the second question. The reasons to submit this article to an ezine are varied, but not difficult to understand. They all boost your bottom line. 

1. The submission of the article will help identify your business (web site) in the Internet marketplace. This is normally called "branding." 

2. Article submission provides publicity, virtually free. 

3. Someone may like your writing style and hire you to write articles or ebooks for them. 

4. The published article will drive traffic to your web site. 

5. If the publisher of the ezine that you submit your article to maintains an archive, your article may be read many months later. Traffic may still be driven to your site this way. 

6. People will come to know you as an expert on your subject. 

7. You might get your article published in free ebooks that are distributed all over the web. This will drive more traffic to your web site. 

8. This will help you become a trusted vendor of information. 

9. If you allow anyone to publish your article or email it to a friend, you will gain further exposure for free. 

10. Webmasters may read your article and display it on their web site. You get additional free exposure. 

11. If you send out an ezine, you could offer to swap articles with other ezine publishers for free. This provides more publicity without expense. 

So, there are quite a few benefits that you could receive from publishing small articles like this one. If that isn't enough reasons for publishing your own articles, I don't know what else you'd need. Don't forget to provide enough valuable information. The more knowledge you supply, the more valuable you become. Provide real value and you will always have people clamoring for more.


