Title: 
3 High-Impact Fixes For Your Marketing Woes

Word Count:
400

Summary:
How many times has your competitor gotten one over on you?  The feeling of being left behind just eats away, until you do something about.  The problem is that we often feel that we've got to come up with some grand plan in order to get our business skyrocketing again.  Don't be fooled!  Getting back on top of the market isn't as tough as it seems with these high-impact, easy-to-use fixes.


Keywords:
competitors, alternative marketing


Article Body:
How many times has your competitor gotten one over on you?  The feeling of being left behind just eats away, until you do something about.  The problem is that we often feel that we've got to come up with some grand plan in order to get our business skyrocketing again.  Don't be fooled!  Getting back on top of the market isn't as tough as it seems with these high-impact, easy-to-use fixes.

1. The Magic Number - 1
Implement a "advertise 1 item at a time" motto for your advertising strategy.  Does that mean you can't SELL more than one item at a time?  No... but wait until AFTER the sale.

When a customer sees more than one of a product offered at unbelievably low prices, he's confused.  Which one is the better deal?  Which one does he prefer?  These questions encourage procrastination - one of marketing's greatest thieves.  Instead, offer the consumer a product that compliments his purchase in a nearby display... or even at the register.  You'll make extra profits instead of losing a sale.

2. Outsmart Your Competitors
Your competition is looking for you in all of the usual places.  Don't go there.  Quietly look for new methods of advertising and new markets to target.  

Niche markets provide the perfect sneak tactic for reaching new clients.  Here's they key... sub-divide your current market into smaller, more specific niche markets.  Familiarize yourself with the needs and concerns of the niche, then present yourself as the pro in their corner.  Leave your competition in the dust with the intensity of new prospects that will come your way.

Modernize an old marketing technique that still carries a wallop - postcards.  Yeah, these small, inexpensive marketing tools still carry a personal message that is quick and easy to read, but with new high-impact colors and designs that capture the attention of readers.  Your competition won't even know that you're using them!

3. Encourage Communication
Communication is crucial to understanding your consumers.  Encourage questions before the sale, during the sale and after the sale.  Make it easy and comfortable.

Provide convenient contact information on all of your sales materials, including Websites.  If you find yourself overloaded with questions, create a frequently asked question page where clients can get the answers they need without claiming as much of your time.

Confused customers, tough competitors and communication mishaps won't steal profits from your account when you fix things up with the 3 quick tips.


