Title: 
3 Marketing Tactics That Will Send Your Sales Through The Roof

Word Count:
442

Summary:
It's difficult to reach your buisness goals if you don't have the right materials and/or the information to help your buisness reach the success it's capable of.  These 3 insights will help you generate the buisness you've always dreamed of.


Keywords:
marketing, advertising, promoting


Article Body:
When the tide comes in, all boats in the harbor go up... the tough part is figuring out how to bring the tide in.  Booming economies come and go and bring surges of profit increases,  then ebb to leave behind shortages and tough times.  Regardless, there are some business that just seem to weather the tough times with grace, not really affected by recessions.  It's almost as though they have a secret source... maybe they do... customers.

Hey, customers always buy... in the good times and in the bad times.  They still have needs and still make purchases.  When you understand their needs and wants, you have the keys to keeping your business afloat when others are grounded.  Implement these three tactics successful marketers use, and you're set for success.

1.  Just One
Customers can be like a two year old in a candy store... they want it all.  Yeah, sometimes it's hard to make up your mind about what you really do want when everything looks so good.  That's why it pays to promote one product over the others.  It spells out loud and clear... I'M THE BEST DEAL.  That will be the deciding factor in most cases.

2.  Make Them Feel Good
Customers buy because they want to enjoy the benefits of the purchase.  A lady might buy a dress because she wants to feel sexy, or a man will buy a saw because he finds pleasure in creating things.  Emotions are the key element that drives purchases.

Use word pictures to stir up the emotions that will instigate the sale.  Let them "feel" the benefits, and they'll be more apt to head for the cash register.  Put them where you want them.

Selling a riding mower?  ... the birds are singing, Easter lilies are blooming and kids are flying kites in the wind... spring has arrived.  Yep, it's time to get out that mower and fuel it up for the summer ahead.  How many springs have come and gone since you promised yourself a riding mower? ... It's not hard to paint mental pictures that whet their appetite for the product you are advertising.

3.  Make Contact
Following up with a customer who didn't buy can be the determining factor between and "almost sale" and a satisfied, loyal customer.  Simply contact them afterwards and let them know the product is still available or offer them further information they may find valuable.

Internet marketers can offer free newsletters or reports that consumers find useful and marketers find profitable.  Not only do you keep your product in front of the customer on a regular basis, you get email information to stay in contact.  Both parties win!


