Title: 
Two Week Free Trial Not a Good Introductory Offer for Audio Books Right Now

Word Count:
442

Summary:
Audio Book renters need to empahsize the audio book medium more.  A "why audio books"  sales pitch will attract more attention than a generic introductory offer.


Keywords:
audio book rentals on CD


Article Body:
I have discussed the similarities of audio book renters to Netflix numerous times in my reviews. Similarities include "unlimited rentals", an online prioritizing queue to speed up expediting of customer shipments, no due dates and free shipping. All these features helped make Netflix a successful business in a short period of time. This business strategy and my belief that the Regular CD format and MP3-format are a long way away from disappearing amidst the ever increasing amount of data downloadable to iPods, cell phones, car stereos, etc. works well for audio books too.

Larger and thoroughly catagorized audio book sections at book stores are being created to encompass the increasing demand as people continue to find the CD format more accessible and convenient than before, largely due to most new cars automatically equipped with CD players. The high price of new audio books has helped make the audio book renters' monthly subscriptions a Godsend to many commuters. People trying to update their business acumen, escape from the pressures of work into a master storyteller's drama or lighten the day's load with something humorous or inspirational.

The similarity between the door-to-door DVD renters and audio book renters that needs some adjustment is the introductory offer. For Netflix a two week free trial gives the customer just enough time to decide if they'd rather run down the street to video store or wait at home for the DVDs to come in the mail. As suspicious as a two week free trial on a monthly subscription plan may seem it works for Netflix because people don't need an introduction to renting DVDs. The same is not true for audio books because most people have not yet seen the access to the vast wealth of literature an audio book subscription presents.

For many commutors driving two or more hours a day listening to audio books is increasingly becoming a necessity and a way of life. But still most people can't yet wrap their mind around how driving to work can be enjoyable. Instead of a monetary inticement, focus on how listening to books can give people an opportunity to enjoy literature they wouldn't otherwise have time to read.

First sell the product, then the subscription. Show the prospective subscriber that listening to books can broaden their imagination. Show how this unique medium allows the listener to experience the author's story with their own imagination while guided by a narrator's gift to unlock the emotional and sensational elements of a book's characters.

People first need to know that with the help of audio books they can realize the adage "The book was better than the movie".


