Title: 
Webloyalty Jobs

Word Count:
411

Summary:
Webloyalty rewards their clients and, in turn, their clients' customers for sticking with an e-commerce provider and giving them their valuable repeat business. You've seen similar programs, but in this case Webloyalty truly values consumers and provides excellent membership programs and service guarantees. They promise good service and they keep that promise.


Keywords:
Webloyalty, Webloyalty jobs, Webloyalty News & Events, Webloyalty reservation Rewards, Webloyalty Press


Article Body:
<b>Webloyalty: a new revenue stream for online retailers.</b>

There's an exciting way to create a new revenue stream for online retailers: Webloyalty. By placing a small banner ad on the post-buy confirmation page, e-commerce sites can increase revenue, site visits, and customer satisfaction. Customers are offered a free trial of premiere reward, discount and travel protection programs.

Webloyalty pays you for every customer that accepts the free trial regardless if they choose to continue with our offer. Customers pay Webloyalty a monthly membership fee for which they gain access to discounts on travel, dining in popular restaurants or cash back rebates from hundreds of top online retailers. They can cancel anytime online or by phone.
How Webloyalty creates new revenue streams for online businesses?

Online commerce sites who partner with Webloyalty can earn extra revenue for every site transaction and generate repeat business. Generally, during the transaction process customers are offered a trial in one of Webloyalty's membership services and a $10 Cash Back Reward on a future purchase.

Webloyalty's membership services include discounts on local shopping, online shopping, travel and car rentals.

You get paid for every customer who accepts a membership. Customers who accept the membership can use the benefits for as long as they remain a member. The customer pays Webloyalty a monthly membership fee for access to the benefits and can cancel anytime online or by phone.

<b>What makes Webloyalty such a powerful concept?</b>

Webloyalty is a membership programs that deliver outstanding benefits.


      1.Webloyalty's membership programs provide dining and shopping discounts, travel protection, and travel benefits. Members can  benefit all across the U.S., whether by enjoying savings at retail locations, restaurants, hotels or by travel protections like roadside assistance. Here is a look at some or Webloyalty's membership programs:


        2.Reservation Rewards provides discounts for retail shopping, leisure activities, and movie tickets, as well as travel protection. Members select the activity they want online and simply print out the discount coupons which they present at purchase for savings up to 50%.


      3.Shopper Discounts & Rewards provides cash back shopping at hundreds of online retail web sites. Members also receive coupon codes to unlock further savings online, as well as special offers for even greater savings.

 4.Travel Values Plus provides 50% hotel discounts at thousands of participating hotels across the U.S. and Canada. Travel Values Plus also provides 24-hour road & tow protection, car rental discounts and more.

The Article is Originally Published Here: http://www.webloyalty.net/


