Title: 
What You Need To Know Before Hiring A Copywriter

Word Count:
431

Summary:
The right copywriter can help you take your business to the next level. If you are putting together text based marketing material including a web site, a brochure, an advertisement, or a direct marketing appeal letter, a copywriter who knows the business of selling can really give you a leg up on the competition. However, working with a copywriter can do your business venture more harm than good if you make a hiring mistake and end up with the wrong writer for your purposes, ...


Keywords:
copywriting, direct mail


Article Body:
The right copywriter can help you take your business to the next level. If you are putting together text based marketing material including a web site, a brochure, an advertisement, or a direct marketing appeal letter, a copywriter who knows the business of selling can really give you a leg up on the competition. However, working with a copywriter can do your business venture more harm than good if you make a hiring mistake and end up with the wrong writer for your purposes, or if you don’t know how to best take advantage of the skill set your writer provides. To make sure you hire a copywriter who will help you rather than hinder you, make sure your writer is a good fit in two key ways. The best copywriter you can hire is one who knows a lot, but wants to know more.

To do a great job on your project, the copywriter you hire should know a lot about the specific format you’ll be working in; about the audience you’ll be appealing to; and about the industry the product or service you’re pitching is a part of. Look for a copywriter who has a strong background doing work similar to your project. From brochures to web sites to persuasive slide shows, every marketing format has its own unique demands, so make sure the writer you hire knows the format you’ll be working with inside and out. The best brochure writer may be a bust when it comes to creating a dynamic text for the Internet, and vice versa, so be sure you pick someone who is equipped to do the job you have.

However, experience and a strong portfolio aren’t enough on their own. You need a copywriter who wants to know more about your product or service; about your company’s vision; and about the entrepreneurial mission that drives your company. These are compelling ideas that a good copywriter can translate into language that will help the customer understand why your business is unique and valuable. The more curious the copywriter is about your company, the better that writer will be able to absorb the tenets of your business and then communicate those facts to the readers. Marketing is all about standing out from the pack, so look for a copywriter who wants to know what is special about your work. A copywriter who wants to know this kind of information is a copywriter who will want to tell that kind of information when he or she sits down to write.


