Title: 
You Can Make a Fortune on Ebay ...But Only If You Get Going!

Word Count:
619

Summary:
Would you be surprised if I told you over 12 million people visit Ebay a month. I haven't checked all the sites on the Internet, but I doubt there are many sites bringing in that much traffic.


Keywords:
Ebay, wholesale directories, selling, marketing


Article Body:
There are a number of things you need to make money on the Internet, but the most important is targeted traffic. Think about it, having a good product won't make you money if nobody sees it, a good headline, good copywriting, nice website, none of these things will make you a dime if nobody sees them.

Just knowing that targeted visitors are the most important part of making money will do us no good unless we take action. How are we going to take action? We get going, going to where the targeted traffic is, and the traffic is at Ebay. Would you be surprised if I told you over 12 million people visit Ebay a month. I haven't checked all the sites on the Internet, but I doubt there are many sites bringing in that much traffic.

Ok we have solved one of the main problems with making money, we now know where we can get targeted visitors, but don't be fooled  thinking it will be a piece of cake just because we overcame the main problem. You see we are not the only ones that know where the traffic is, so we are going to have a lot of competition.

What can we do about the competition? I would just send them an email and ask them to stop selling so I could sell my products and make a lot of money. Now if that doesn't work there are a few more ways we can beat the competition. It might be easier if I just list them below.

1. Since most visitors use the search tool to find a product on Ebay we would want to make sure we were using the best keywords we could come up with that describes the product we are selling. 

2. We would also want to take our time and make sure we list our product in the correct categories.

3. If we can find a unique product with little competition that would be great, but we will need to be careful with this,

because if no body is selling it, it could be because there is little demand for it.

4. If we find a product that we can buy at a lower cost than our competition then we could sell it at a lower price than the competition.

I think we have a good idea how to sell on Ebay, but we  need a product to sell. If you are new to Ebay you could start by selling products you have  around the house. That is how I started, I did a check on Ebay to see what products were selling and what they were selling for. If there was a high demand for it and I had one, I would take a picture of the product and offer it up for auction. You would be surprised at some of the objects people will buy.

After you have sold all you have around the house you will need to get a tax number from your state tax office and sign up with a wholeseller. You can search the Internet to find a wholeseller, but there are lists you can buy that will save you a lot of time and will list the top wholesellers. You can find wholesellers that don't require a tax ID, but I would not use these, because I don't think you will get the best price or best products from them. Since there is so much competition you want to make sure you have the right product at the best price.

There is no way I can cover the whole process of selling on Ebay in one article, but I hope this has been some help to you.

Good Luck!


