Title: 
Your Greatest Marketing Assets

Word Count:
291

Summary:
Do you know what your greatest marketing assets are? Here's a hint: It's got nothing to do with a killer logo or a great web site. Two of the greatest marketing assets you posses can make all the difference in your results.


Keywords:
small business marketing, marketing tips, marketing ideas, marketing strategy


Article Body:
<b>You might not think that you are a marketing and sales person,</b> but if you own or work in a small business think again. When you're in business for yourself - whether you like it or not, feel like you're good at it or not - you are a marketing and sales person.

I tell my marketing clients and those that attend my various marketing presentations all the time that the two greatest assets you posses are your Attitude and Belief. When these are positive and show through your marketing and sales efforts, your results will increase dramatically.

<b>Attitude: Be enthusiastic and passionate</b> about your value proposition to the marketplace. You know that what you offer can make a difference and have an impact on your clients. When it comes to your own marketing, if you feel good about yourself and you have self-confidence because you are doing everything for the benefit of your clients, you'll become more attractive to prospective clients.

<b>Belief: You don't have to have a degree in marketing</b> to get great marketing results. But you do have to believe in yourself and your actions. I call it a self-fulfilling prophecy. If you believe that can't do something, you're right - you won't do it. On the other hand, if you believe that you can learn what it takes to get better marketing results you will.

<b>If you're persistent in pursuing your business</b> and your small business marketing with a positive attitude and belief that you can, sooner or later you'll find what works for you. You'll discover the marketing strategies and tactics that allow you to begin attracting attention and bringing in new clients consistently! I know because it's happening for me.


