Title: 
Your Marketing Sounds Like You're Talking Underwater

Word Count:
525

Summary:
I know that the majority of you at the time of this reading is about tired of or is now accustomed to spam and telemarketing. We are definitely tired of it, but I think we have grown to accept it. But at least now there are spam filters that block alot of it. One thing that I have learned from all of this, is that this form of so called "marketing" being that of spam, telemarketing(phone spam),and of course snail mail spam, is not the way to conduct business in a civilized ma...


Keywords:
network marketing,mlm,home based business, internet business


Article Body:
I know that the majority of you at the time of this reading is about tired of or is now accustomed to spam and telemarketing. We are definitely tired of it, but I think we have grown to accept it. But at least now there are spam filters that block alot of it. One thing that I have learned from all of this, is that this form of so called "marketing" being that of spam, telemarketing(phone spam),and of course snail mail spam, is not the way to conduct business in a civilized manner. It might work for some people some of the time. For long term success and successful relationship building, I doubt it. I equate this to chaotic marketing. I don't see how anyone doing this type of marketing is actually succeeding. As a matter of fact, its rather monotone.

The spam that I receive and the telemarketing that I used to receive all reads or sounds the same as any other form of spam. Day in and day out, I see the same type of emails from people trying to sell me on their business. Join my business, mine is the greatest.Make lots of money. Meanwhile, the next spam down from that one and so on is the same just a different persons name attached to it.

I remember when I was a kid, my friends and I would go swimming at a local pool and we would play a silly game which worked like this. Go underwater, talk, and I will try to guess what you are saying. What usually happens is, you go underwater... your friend talks...you have no idea what he just said... he tries again... you laugh... he laughs...ou swallow alot of water... and you come up for air coughing with a bad taste in your mouth realizing you almost drowned.

I received this one email not too long ago. The person writing seemed interested in my business. I pointed him to my website and told him if he has any questions just send me an email. Well the joke was on me. He wasn't interested in my business. He responded by begging me to get into his business."Please... Please... will you get into my business". Huh? You have to beg to get business? How long do you think you will last?Hmmmmmm.

To me, thats what most of the marketing that I see sounds like.Talking underwater.I hear you, but I don't know what you are saying because I really don't care. What usually happens in this situation for most people, is they do not realize the problem and they are doing what their upline told them to do or they are copying what everyone else is doing. How can you stand above the crowd if you are doing what everyone else is doing? Bottom line, you can't and won't. Therefore, if you are doing the same with your marketing, stop... re-think and plan what you are doing... and stand above the rest. Don't drown in the big pool of monotone marketing because noone hears you.

(c)Copyright 2006.All Rights Reserved


