Celebrating Fabulous Cars in Style

Have you ever wondered exactly why many people organize and participate in car shows?  After all, it seems that the only purpose is to walk around and look at car after car that is restored or in the process of being restored.  How much fun can it possibly be?  If you have ever attended a car show you know that they can be an incredible opportunity to view some incredible pieces of machinery that have been restored.

Many people also enjoy attending car shows to see some of the different cars that are entered and highly enjoy walking around and seeing how the different cars vary.  It can be a great source of inspiration for many people who are either working on a car, or dream about working on a car.  Of course, there are also those who merely enjoy admiring the gorgeous cars and never have any plans on building their own.

Regardless of whether you own a car or not, going to see a good car show can be a great experience.  The people who own cars that are submitted have spent often hundreds of hours working on creating the perfect masterpiece that is designed to be a proud representative of the style that the car once had in its original life.  Of course, some people also take the car and turn it into a custom piece of art with numerous modifications that make it hard to recognize the original vehicle.

Most car shows also have competitions where someone will be responsible for judging all of the cars that are entered to determine which are the best looking, most unique, and best restored for example.  To many whom own a restored car there is nothing better than winning a prize saying that others agree that their car is the best.  Some of the prizes involve money or ribbons and others are just a certificate.  For most owners of the winning car they simply want the recognition.

There are different types of car shows that are organized as well.  There are some that are designed for the upscale car lover.  These tend to be semi-formal events with people dressing up and pulling out only their best clothes to attend.  Many of these types of events do not involve children, or at least very few children.  The other style tends to be very laid back with most people wearing comfortable clothes such as jeans and t-shirts and bringing their entire family along.  

The choice of which type of car show is best suited to your tastes depends on your own personality but there are plenty of options available no matter which style you prefer.  Many people enjoy car shows so much that they travel all around the country and even the world to find a car show that they are interested in seeing.  This is a great way to spend some quality time with your family and enjoy looking at the gorgeous cars at the same time.

If you have a car to enter, it is an amazing experience that can be a lot of fun.  Many people who attend car shows are able to gather numerous opinions about different things they can do with their car.  Additionally most owners walk away with at least one offer from someone to buy their car as well.  This can be a great time to show off your pride and joy and see just how much others appreciate your hard work as well.  After all, everyone is looking for acceptance and finding out that people love your car when they are surrounded by dozens and hundreds of gorgeous cars is an incredible feeling.

As you can imagine a car show is about so much more than simply looking at the cars.  Making contacts, viewing the gorgeous cars and meeting new people are all just some of the great aspects that await you at a car show and besides being able to see all of the gorgeous cars well maintained and in their perfect condition is such a true thrill.

PPPPP (word count 676)
