Finding Your Perfect Car Show
Deciding which type of car show thrills you the most is not always easy, after all there are so many and your options are so large that it is sometimes quite easy to be confused and lose track of which are which, and what you like, as well as which you dislike.  The easiest thing to do generally is to determine which type of car you are most interested in, this then helps you to narrow down the field.

Some of the most popular car shows are the antique car shows, and also the street rod and hot rods.  These are all different and feature different types of cars.  Everyone who enjoys one type is not always thrilled and fond of the others.  If you enjoy and appreciate the finer things in cars and really enjoy looking at the gorgeous cars of yesterday then the antique shows may be perfect for you.  If however, you really enjoy the idea of looking at cars that are created with the idea of racing you may find that this is not your style to look at antique cars.

For those who love speed and racing the street rods and even the hot rod shows tend to be a much better solution and offer a much more fun experience.  There are generally plenty of shows in both categories and seeing the different cars can be quite thrilling and exciting.  In addition, there are also car shows that are geared towards specific models.  This is typically most common in higher end cars, but is sometimes done for lower models as well.  If you are interested in a particular model such as Ferraris there is nothing better than going to a Ferrari show and being surrounded. 

Once you have determined the type of car show that you are interested in you can start looking around.  If you find a car show that you are unsure about, call and ask the event coordinators what types of cars will be present.  Generally, you should be able to gather enough information before the show that you can avoid those that are not of interest to you, and instead focus on those shows that you do find interesting.  Feel free to ask questions, and you are going to have a better time.

You may discover that if you subscribe to a magazine that specializes in the type of car that you are interested in you have a much easier time locating the shows that interest you.  Most street rod magazines for example are not going to list car shows for trucks or even antique cars.  The process of elimination is usually heavily used and typically, only car shows applicable to the magazine are published and advertised to help make it easy for people to find exactly what they are looking for.  

There are some newsletters that you can sign up for as well.  These newsletters typically publish the dates and locations for various types of car shows all around the country and even tend to list a few international shows in case people are interested.  While the number of shows that are listed tends to vary depending on the style of the car, it can be a great source of information and make it much easier than having to search all around to find the car that you are most interested in.  

PPPPP (word count 562)
