Finding the Antique Car Show of Your Dreams

If you are looking for a great antique car show you are certainly not alone and there are dozens of shows each year that are ready and waiting to satisfy your craving for gorgeous old cars.  There are car shows in almost all locations around the world that focus on older cars and this is the perfect opportunity to get your fill of these beautiful cars.  But how do you really locate the show that you are interested in?  There are plenty of great car shows that are available and with some tips and suggestions, you are sure to find the show of your dreams.

Start looking on the internet.  There are thousands of shows listed on the internet and with some decent research skills, you can move past the hot rod and street shows and are merely left with the antique car shows.  If you are determined to really put forth a good effort, you can typically find a show for each weekend for a year or more.  Finding the car show online can allow you to easily narrow the search down to just your particular area, and it can also allow you to search for shows that are only in a particular area you choose or during a particular time of year that you specify.  

Another option that you have is looking in the antique car magazines.  There are always shows going on, and the antique car magazines are typically only going to list the antique car shows that are going on.  Additionally, many of the magazines are able to usually offer these lists broken down by both month and region in which they are held.  This can help you to easily organize several trips at the same time, rather than cross referencing information to even schedule a single trip.

One of your other options is to check with the antique car clubs that are in your area.  Many of the members are likely to participate in these shows so they generally know exactly when the shows are, where they are located and plenty of other useful information.  Always look for the clubs that are particularly specializing in antiques in order to get the best results.  If you call just a general car club, they may not be able to help you with antique car shows since most of their information will be lumped together by date, rather than type of car featured.

Look at your local newspapers as well as city calendar to help you as well.  Often these resources will list car shows that are coming up and are great sources of new car shows.  The good news about these is they are usually in your local region as well, but the options that are listed tend to be very limited this way because there is almost nothing that will be listed in different regions or even states.  The options will be much smaller, and additionally they are not generally announced as far in advance using these methods.  This can make planning in advance a bit of a hassle particularly if you are trying to organize numerous car shows for the same weekend, or fill up an entire summer with tons of antique car shows.

If you have a membership in a car club yourself look to your monthly newsletter to give you a bit of information.  These newsletters typically list all car shows that are coming up in the near future and will only list basic information but generally give you the information several months in advance.  This can allow plenty of time to plan out the trip if you need to travel and can be a huge timesaver.

Your last option is to ask around at each car show that you attend.  Most car shows are going to know about other shows that are around the same time.  Asking some questions of the organizers or even looking for a program of the car show will generally be a great way to help locate the next great antique car show that you are interested in attending without having to do hours of research.

PPPPP (word count 688)
