Helping Your Car Stand Out at the Next Show

If you are interested in really helping your car stand out well at the next car show that you enter, there are some things that you can do to help really ensure that your car is presenting the best image possible.  There are likely to be dozens if not hundreds of others cars present, so you need to ensure that your car puts forth the best wheel possible in order to really make a good impression on the judges.  Taking a car that is not properly prepared will usually leave you walking away empty handed, no matter how good your car normally looks or how unique it is.

Your first step should always be cleaning the outside of the car.  This includes all crevices on all places around the car.  Do not forget about cleaning the wheel wells, tires, door handles, window seals, license plate and all other places that can get dirty.  Even if it looks clean, clean it again just to ensure that it looks good.  


Once you have finished the exterior of the car you can start moving inside.  It is a good idea to do a good detail cleaning on the car before you go to the show.  This includes cleaning out all of the air vents, seat belts, window seals on the inside, dash gauges, switches and anything else that is visible and viewable.  You should also pay extra close attention to the pedals, door handles, window handles, and upholstery.  If the upholstery can be cleaned sufficiently using a vacuum cleaner then it is a faster process but also be sure to shampoo any stubborn stains.  You should also take the time to use protectant wipes on all of the vinyl or leather inside the vehicle to ensure that it is protected and shiny so it looks good.  If you have any wooden accents, ensure that they are also protected and shiny as well.

Wash the windows several times thoroughly both inside and outside.  You need to ensure that there are no spots, streaks or smudges.  Anything that looks dirty should be cleaned again, and even after the first time you clean them it is wise to clean it again just to ensure that there is no dirt or debris left on the windshield.   You should also carefully pay attention to all mirrors and any chrome that is on the vehicle and ensure that everything is shiny and looks like new.

The tired should also be cleaned as well, but you may need do to a brief touchup on the tires once you arrive at the car show.  You should always ensure you bring the supplies to clean the tires while you are there, rather than just cleaning the tires before the show.  If the tires are not dirty on the way, then you can possibly omit cleaning at the show, but always ensure that at least the sides of the tires are perfectly clean and there is no dirt or debris.

Your final steps should be ensuring that the car is waxed and polished before the show.  This can then be touched up if necessary at the show itself but makes the paint job on the car really pop and look quite impressive.  Having a clean car that is not waxed can be a bit of a disappointment for the judges so taking the extra time to wax the car is a great extra step that can score major points with the judges when they make their rounds. 


Overall, your car should always give off a car powerful, clean and stately impression at the car shows.  Unless you are taking a car that you are working on as a work in progress for demonstration purposes you should never take a car that is dirty or in pieces.  Only taking beautiful, clean, shiny and completed cars is one of the best ways to ensure that the judge’s notice all of your hard work, rather than the dirt on your vehicle.

PPPPP (word count 665)
