Kids and Car Shows


Have you considered taking your children with you to a car show but not sure how they will act?  Many parents are concerned about the behavior of children but with some careful instructions and careful guidance there is no reason at all why children cannot be a part of car shows.  In fact, taking children to car shows can be a great way to encourage children to enjoy working on cars and also help teach them lots about the inner workings of cars as well.

Parents who carefully explain proper behavior to their children are much more likely to enjoy a positive experience at the car shows.  Parents who do not teach their children proper behavior skills are not likely to have an enjoyable or even positive experience.  Children in general are very curious, if they take the time to carefully consider their behavior and work to teach their children how to behave in crowds and importantly towards the vehicles at the show you may be surprised at how well it goes.

You need to understand that if you are taking small children the best place for them is in a stroller.  This will help prevent them from getting hurt or damaging a vehicle and also helps to ensure that they are not badly worn out trying to walk around the entire show.  Additionally, a good stroller will also give them a place to take a quick nap when they get really tired.  Trying to take a small child without a stroller could turn into a nightmare quickly especially since children tend to get very heavy, quite quickly. 

You should also think ahead to snacks and drinks for your child.  If you know the car show will have plenty of drinks and snacks you may not need to take many, but you should still take a couple of things.  Without anything, you could have a complete meltdown on your hands if your child is overly hungry while waiting on food from a vendor.  Having a small pack of crackers in your pocket can give your child something to snack on while you wait on the food that you order and ensure that they are kept occupied rather than pitching a tantrum if they are hungry.

You should carefully teach your children that it is unacceptable to touch things that are not theirs.  This is especially important when it comes to the cars.  Without this lesson, you may find your child running around and touching all of the vehicles, which can potentially cause damage to them.  While not all touching can cause damage, your child may not realize that hitting a prize car with a rock is unacceptable.  The owner of the car will not find it cute, nor adorable and you are likely to be forced to pay for the damages.  Teaching your child not to touch what belongs to others is much cheaper.

You should also ensure that your child is dressed appropriately for the car show.  While dressing appropriately as an adult is important, it is even more important for children.  Adults have a much easier time regulating body temperature than children do, so dressing your child appropriately is a wise decision.  Most often, you may discover that it is necessary to dress your child in layers to ensure that you can keep them at the appropriate temperature.  

Taking the time to take your child with you to a car show is a great way to bond and with the appropriate planning in place it can be a lot of fun.  Just always be sure you supervise your child closely to ensure that they stay safe and that the vehicles around them are safe as well and you are sure to enjoy your experience.

PPPPP (word count 626)
