Planning the Ultimate Car Show 

Car shows are always fun events and often they are also considered fabulous family events as well.  Ensuring that you plan the ultimate car show is not always easy, but with a basic strategy in effect first you can usually make the process much easier and have the best car show around.  Always take the time to start planning in advance because without plenty of advance planning you are going to be rushed and stressed trying to organize the entire event.

Some of the first things you need to do is find a good location for holding the car show.  You are going to need to consider how many cars you think will be attending.  In addition, you need to try to determine exactly how many people you think will visit the car show.  These figures are essential to helping you determine the exact size that you need the car show grounds to be.  It is important to remember that if you do not find a large enough location you are going to have people overcrowded, and also have the problem of possible injuries because people cannot move about freely.

Finding a good location is not always easy, but typically if you look towards large parks they can be some of the best options that you have as well as very affordable to rent for the day or the weekend of your car show.  At the same time that you are looking for a location that is large enough you need to ensure that there is ample parking available.  If you do not have plenty of parking, you are going to have issues with people having nowhere to park and it can ultimate hurt your attendance numbers.  However, you do not need a parking lot for all of the cars; a large grassy field can also serve for parking if necessary.

In addition to the parking and the overall large enough location, you also need to ensure that there are plenty of bathrooms located all around the car show.  Without enough bathrooms, your event will suffer.  Ensuring that you have plenty may mean that you need to have bathrooms brought in but this is generally a very affordable expense if it is necessary.  

Your other important consideration should be food for the car show.  If you know that you are unable to coordinate all of your food needs for the car show as well, it may be a wise decision to contact some local restaurants to arrange for them to provide the food for the car show.  If you are able to do this you can generally provide a greater range of food for visitors and also help to keep costs down since there is plenty of competition.  

With a bit of planning ahead and some careful attention to the small details you can be amazed at just how well the entire planning process can go.  Careful attention to even the smallest details will show people that you are looking forward to a fabulous event and are quite excited to share it with them.  Never discount the importance of planning ahead as it gives plenty of time for problems and other emergencies to appear that need to be handled.  A great car show is like a fine art, the more practice you have at organizing them the better they will be with some time and a source of great contacts.

People love door prizes as well.  Look and try to arrange for some door prizes that you can arrange to give away at the fair.  People always love prizes so the more you have to give away, the more excited people are going to be from the moment they walk into the doors of the car show.  Look to some businesses to donate some prizes so that you are not having to pay for them out of the funds to plan the car show.  

PPPPP (word count 654)
