Tips for International Car Shows

Attending international car shows can be a thrilling experience. Regardless of whether you are planning to take your family or even your own car to the show there are some things that you should think about ahead of time. Always planning ahead can ensure that you are well on your way to being fully prepared and ensure that your visit to the car show is the best possible.  Never leave things to the last minute to plan a trip if you are going to an international car show.

Your first step is to always ensure you know exactly the dates of the car show.  You never want to arrange the trip on the wrong weekend or at the wrong period of time.  This can be a huge and costly mistake that is not always easily fixable.  Double and triple check those dates to ensure you know exactly when they are, and also determine exactly which of those days you plan on attending.  

Once you have confirmed all of the dates for the car show start looking at accommodations.  Pick out your hotel rooms early and ensure that they are booked well in advance for the best rates.  Waiting until the last minute can force you to pay as much as double for the rooms that you would normally pay which is a huge increase and not something that is unavoidable.  Additionally, determine if you are going to need transportation for the car show.  After all, if you are taking a car to show, you may not want to drive it around the area where the show is.  If you are not taking a car, you probably will not be taking a car.  

Once you have your accommodations arranged and the dates picked out it is time to start handling transportation.  If you are merely going to view the cars this is much simpler.  Either purchase a boat ticket and take a cruise at the same time, or purchase a plane ticket.  If however, you are planning to take your car you need to spend some serious time planning this.  You are going to need to find out about shipping your car, ensure that you have all inspections for the vehicle done on time, ensure you have adequate insurance coverage for the vehicle in case it is lost, stolen or damaged while in transit and even ensure that there will be efficient transportation for the vehicle. This is not a simple task at all and can be quite a nightmare trying to arrange at times.  Start in advance to ensure that this goes as smoothly as possible. 

Some of the other considerations is you need to find out about admission.  Regardless of whether you are taking a vehicle or not it is important to ensure that you know you will be able to get in.  For example, if the show is by invitation only, you may be upset to discover you made all of the arrangements and are not able to get into the show.  This can be a huge disaster, so always ensure that you know exactly what is expected in order to get admission to the show once you arrive.  Call to check with the planning organization well ahead of the car show to ensure that you have the best results possible with this.

As you can see, a bit of preplanning is all it takes in order to ensure that your trip to an international car show is as smooth a process as possible.  Never worry about the show being a disaster, with a good bit of planning you are certain to really enjoy the entire international car show experience.  Never have any worries, with good planning skills you are more than certain to thoroughly enjoy the show and be quite excited about all of the prospects that the show can hold for you.  There are so many exciting things at the international car shows and it is a spectacular feeling to attend.

PPPPP (word count 665)
