Using a GPS to Find the Car Show

How are you supposed to ensure that you do not possibly get lost on the way to the car show?  Aside from asking plenty of questions about location before the show, you can always use the newest gadgets on the market the GPS to help you locate the exact location.  Some GPS devices are updated continuously, which will allow you to search for areas of interest, and under this category you may discover that the car show you are looking for is located.

Otherwise, you may need to type in the address you are looking for.  While the GPS device seems expensive they are really quite convenient, and for those who are attending tons of car shows they can be a great investment.  After all, how many times have you driven around aimlessly while you search for the elusive event?  Most people experience this quite often, especially when they are trying to determine a location in an area that they are not familiar with.

You are certainly not alone in getting lost, and you probably will be lost numerous times trying to search for different shows.  It is especially important that you be on time for the car shows if you are one of the exhibitors.  Most car shows do not take kindly to people showing up late, this can be a dangerous and especially stressful situation.   Using the GPS system to your advantage can help you ensure that you are always at the correct place, at the correct time. 

Not all shows are able or willing to give detailed directions on how to get to the car show; this often leaves you stranded at the last minute trying to find where you are supposed to be, especially when you are expected to attend early and set things up for your car.  If you do not use a GPS, it would be advisable to print out directions using an online service such as Yahoo! Maps, or even MapQuest to help you ensure that you are going to the correct destination.

In addition, try to drive by the location for the car show in advance if it is in an area that you are not familiar with, this will help you to ensure that you are well on your way to being there on time, and fully prepared for everything.  Failing to be to the show in advance can result in your vehicle being disqualified from the competition, or worse yet you not being able to participate at all.  These are never good results and if you are well aware of where you are going in advance, you can help avoid these problems.

In the event that you are not able to drive by the location in advance it is also wise to check for a phone number of someone in charge of the event, this will allow you to easily call someone in the event of an emergency and ensure that your place is still being held.  

After all, accidents and emergencies do occur and you do not want to lose your position for any reason.  Using the tools that are available to you can help ensure that you are on time and fully prepared for any car show no matter where it is located.  So kick back, enjoy the trip and have a lot of fun at the show knowing you will not be late. 

PPPPP (word count 566)
