What Can You Do at Car Shows?

Have you ever wondered exactly what you can do with your car while you are at a car show?  Aside from the obvious of staging your car perfectly there are some things that you can do to help pass the time, or even help share your love of cars with the different people who are there. From simple things to those that are more elaborate if you talk to the coordinators of the show you can usually have a lot of fun and do more than stand beside your car talking to the occasional visitor.

There are many car shows that would love to have someone doing detail cleaning, or a bit of light bodywork, or even some minor engine work to show visitors what goes into the car.  If you are skilled in any of these areas, you could volunteer to demonstrate these skills and help teach the visitors a few things.  This is something that you can that is very inexpensive, allows you to continue working on your car that weekend and still enables you to share your love of the vehicles.

Other things that you think about doing is bring along a television and VCR and perhaps show a video of you doing some work to the vehicle that you brought.  This would enable people to see how far the vehicle has come and what type of work was put into it in order to get it ready to go to the car show.  Realize that most people have no clue what it really involves to get a car ready for the show.  They generally think that all you do is roll out of bed the day of the show and decide to go.

You could also consider having plenty of pictures and a small table that you set up to depict the work process.  This would be a great way to also allow people to see the process and without the hassles of needing an inverter or electricity for the television.  You would be surprised how much small details like this can really encourage people to spend time by your car.  

Additionally, if you are willing to talk about the history of your car and how you have worked on it this is another great way to share experiences.  Not all people at car shows are willing to talk about the work they have done on their car, if you choose to share you are in the minority.  What their reasons are tends to vary, but for the most part there are few who will openly discuss their work.  Feel free to talk about it and share your experiences.  You may help inspire someone to start getting involved with their own vehicle.  

You should be very careful though and always discuss your plans with the car show coordinators to ensure that there will be no safety concerns.  Additionally, some car shows do not allow demonstrations because they feel that they are distracting or pose large liability risks.  As long as you have received the okay from the event coordinators feel free to have some fun sharing your love of cars and showing off your skills as well as your gorgeous car.  Just always ensure that you are making sure everyone is safe first, so leave the welder and other dangerous equipment at home.

PPPPP (word count 557)
