When is the Best Time to Go to Car Shows

If you are trying to decide on the best time of year to attend car shows then you are in luck, there are several times of year when car shows are highly popular however, they do start to subside during the winter months when it is very cold.  Unless you plan on only searching for car shows that are indoors your best goal is to avoid shows in the winter unless you enjoy bundling up and venturing into the areas that are very warm.

Most car shows tend to be held in the spring and summer when it is very warm.  The number of shows in the winter months tends to subside heavily mostly due to the cold weather and the holidays combined together that make it very difficult for organizers to have a large enough attendance to be worth the effort.  If you are looking for the best car shows possible, you need to search heavily during the spring and summer.  

If you are looking for the best car shows in terms of weather, looking in the late spring and early summer is best.  This is the time of year when the weather is warm enough you can skip the heavy jackets, but still cool enough that you will not roast as you walk around the show grounds.  It is very important regardless of when you plan on attending the car show that you dress appropriately.  

For example, in the summer you need to wear short sleeves and shorts most likely, especially if the car show is outside so that you do not overheat while you are there.  In the early part of the spring, you should wear a lightweight jacket in case it is chilly outside.  If you are going to a show in the winter check to see if it is held indoors since many during the winter are.  Choosing appropriate clothing will ensure that you are not uncomfortable during the show.

If you are taking children with you, you may want to look for shows that are in the afternoons.  Late evenings tend to find children rather cranky and early mornings tend to also find children cranky because of having to wake up early.  Looking to the afternoon time frame after lunch usually finds kids in the best moods possible and less likely to get into trouble and misbehave.

If you are going to the car show by yourself or only with other adults, you may find it is best to go during the early part of the day so that you can avoid a good majority of the crowd that appears in the afternoon.  If you are looking for the biggest crowds of people then afternoon is generally going to be your prime time to attend.  Choosing the best time to attend the car show is often going to depend upon your schedule with other activities in the same weekend as well.  

Once you have a good indication of the weather and your schedule, it is usually quite easy to fit a trip to the car show in so that everyone is able to do something that they thoroughly enjoy without a lot of problems and hassles.  If you have any questions about what to wear to the show or the weather always feel free to consult the local weather, or call the organization that is sponsoring the car show to ask.  They are generally able to help you ensure that you are dressed appropriately and have a great time.

If you are quite uncertain over the weather, taking a change of clothes may be your best option to ensure that you are comfortable during the car show.  After all, you certainly do not want to be uncomfortable or you may want to leave early which could have you missing out on a large portion of the show.  Keeping yourself cool, warm and comfortable is a key need to ensuring that you enjoy the car show as much as possible. 

PPPPP (word count 665)
