Where to Find Car Shows

Finding the car show of your dream may seem impossible but in reality, it is not.  There are plenty of great places where you can search for your dream car show and with some creativity, you can find the show based on the type of car you are most interested in, or you could just search for any show that is close to where you are located.  The options are up to you, and the fun of enjoying the entire even is possible with just a bit of planning ahead of time.

One of the best places to look for car shows are in your local event calendars.  Most cities and regions offer these calendars and they can usually be found online as well.  They will give you information about the location of the show, admission charges, what is offered at the show and any other detailed information you need to know.  This will usually be a great way to locate those shows that are in your area that do not do much advertising as well.  

Another option that you have is to do a search in your favorite car magazine.  Most magazines have a place where groups can advertise the car shows that they are organizing.  This will allow you to see shows from all around the country typically and possibly even some shows that are located in different countries.  Each place has their own requirements and admission information that may not be readily available in the magazine but you should be able to find the dates and some general contact information to use to get more information if you need it.

If you belong to a car club, your monthly newsletter should also have some information on various car shows that you may be interested in.  This is not always going to be an all inclusive list so be sure to look around in other locations for information as well to ensure that you are getting a good picture of all shows that are going to be available. 

The newspaper is another good source.  Newspapers almost always report on events that are coming up, and this can be a great way to get a good scoop on the upcoming shows in the area.  Anyone who is organizing a car show in your area is going to ensure that their event is listed in the newspaper and this makes the perfect opportunity to find everything in a single place.

Some of your other options include doing a search on your favorite search engine for recent car shows.  This option is most effective if you are not concerned with sticking within a specific region.  It is often much harder to narrow down specific areas but it is still possible.  This can often be a great way to plan out any trips that you have in mind to take for a good while into the future.  This can also allow you to book hotels ahead of time for discounted rates if you are going to be traveling to the car shows. 

If you are interested in attending tons of car shows, you are going to find plenty that will interest you.  There are almost always at least one show a weekend and some weeks are busier with more than just a single show.  If you are interested, you could fill up all of your weekends for a year or even longer without any problems.  This would also be a great way to travel all around the country and check out some other attractions as well.  

Never think that car shows are boring, if you find the good ones you are sure to have a great time and the time spent locating the show is a great investment.  You are going to have a ton of fun planning your trip and searching for the car shows of your dreams as you can see is really a simple project.

PPPPP (word count 656)
