Common Problems to watch out for During Winter Sports

While winter sports offer you plenty of fun and great exercise, you also have to be careful. There are plenty of developments that can occur during winter sports if you aren’t careful. Some of them aren’t serious while others can cause severe injuries or even death. Being prepared for winter sports can help you avoid having to deal with such issues so you can focus on having a great time.

One common factor is blisters developing on the toes or on the heels because the boots aren’t a proper fit. You want the boots for winter sports to be extremely snug in order to prevent them from rubbing. Make sure you wear socks made from cotton as well as they will help to reduce the amount of friction and they will keep your feet warm as well.

Blisters are often the result of you not being comfortable in the boots you have purchased. Try to wear them a few times before you engage in the sport so you will be able to loosen them up some. You want them to be flexible when you are walking around in them so your feet don’t feel stiff. It is a good idea to try on boots for winter sports with the same type of socks you plan to wear for the events. This way you can make sure they will fit well together. 

On the flip side of that coin though you don’t want your socks or your boots to be too tight. This can result in a condition known as Neuromas developing which causes the nerves of the feet to be tightly pinched. Common symptoms include pain, burning, and tingling sensations in the feet. 

Engaging in winter sports requires your body to be very flexible. Be prepared for the toll it will take on your body and make sure you stretch before you and after you take part in winter sports. The impact can be more than you have expected for winter sports so be prepared with the right equipment. You don’t want to suffer from broken bones or a head injury because you didn’t think about the force of the impact.

Sprains are very common during winter sports, especially skiing. This is often a sign of your boots being too loose or your ankles being too weak. Try to perform various exercises that will help you have stronger ankles before the winter season approaches. If you think you have sprained your wrist or ankle during winter sports you will want to remove yourself from the activity. Continuing to engage in it will increase your chances of a broken bone or a very serious injury. 

Don’t travel too far from your vehicle or shelter while engaging in winter sports. If signs of frostbite or hypothermia are present you don’t want to have to trek for miles to get help. Make sure you always have a good idea of where you are at. It is a good idea to use the buddy system when you engage in winter sports so you have someone to assist you. Make sure others know where you are and when you should be back as well. This way they can send help for you if necessary.

You really need to be careful with children and the issue of frostbite. They will often withstand the cold as long as possible in order to continue enjoying the fun. However, by the time they tell you their fingers or toes are too cold it may be too late. Put a limit on the amount of time you allow them to stay outdoors in such weather as a precaution.



Educating yourself about these various issues that can arise during winter sports is important. Too many injuries can be avoided if people take the time to learn about them and to protect themselves against them. Always invest in the proper clothing to wear during winter sports in order to ensure your body is well protected from the elements and from injuries. 

PPPPP

Word Count 678


