Get your Body Ready for Winter Sports

There is a wide selection of winter sports that you can participate in. This is a much better option than spending the winter indoors being a couch potato. It is important to realize that your body will respond differently to winter sports. Many people find it is harder to breath and they have to wear heavier clothing while engaging in the sporting events in most instances.

You need to take a very realistic approach to getting your body ready for winter sports. Take an honest assessment of your current fitness level and compare it to where you want to be. Then work hard to implement a successful exercise plan that is going to allow you to reach that goal. Don’t wait until winter starts to make changes so you will be ready for the various winter sports you want to be a part of. If you have any medical concerns you need to consult with your doctor before you begin any program to get ready for winter sports. 

Try to spend up to 30 minutes at a time out in the winter weather walking or running. You should be able to do these feats without running out of breath. If you aren’t able to do this than work on it several days per week until you can. Eating a balanced diet will help you achieve this as well. Too many foods that we consume are full of carbohydrates and sugars that cause the body to feel tired. Eating right will help you have the energy you need and built lean muscle mass. 

Once you have completed this without too much trouble you should start adding some aerobics and resistance exercises at least 15 minutes a day, three to four days per week. Make sure you are stretching during both of these projects to get your body in shape for winter sports. This way you reduce the risk of getting hurt while you engage in them. 

Make sure you take the time to celebrate the success you have made. When you feel like you still have so much work to do, focus on what you have already accomplished. Nothing motivates a person to continue moving forward towards their overall winter fitness goals like identifying where they are at now compared to where they started from. 

If you have a specific winter sport that you will want to engage in you need to look for exercises that are going to strengthen the weak areas of your body that are needed to do a good job at it. For example if you want to go ice skating you are going to need to build up strength in your legs and ankles.

For many people that want to engage in different types of skiing, they need to improve their upper arm strength. You may be surprised at how much better you will be able to ski if your arms are strong enough to help with the balance instead of placing all the responsibility on your legs. 

Make sure you pay close attention to any problems during winter sports that may be a sign that you need to take a break or seek medical attention. If you feel pain in the chest, arms, or the jaw you should see a doctor. This can be a symptom of a very serious medical issue including a heart attack. If you get short of breath you should discontinue the sport and walk around until you are breathing normally again.

In order to enjoy winter sports to their fullest, you really need to be able to take your time to prepare your body. Building up the strength in your legs and arms will help you do well in the various sports offered this time of year. As you spend more time outdoors in the winter your will find your body is able to respond to the cold weather better than before. 

PPPPP

Word Count 659
