Keeping Warm during Winter Sports

Many people love to engage in various sports that take place outdoors during the winter months. However, it is vital that you know how to keep yourself warm so that you don’t become ill or suffer from frostbite. It is also important that you stay hydrated as your will lose body heat if your body is lacking the right amount of water to regulate your temperature. 

Since you don’t really know what the temperature is going to be like from one moment to the next in winter, you just have to be prepared for it. While it may warm up during the afternoon the temperature can rapidly dip in the morning and the late afternoon. You will likely generate body heat to stay warm if you are engaging in a winter sport that keeps you moving such as ice skating, skiing, sledding, or ice hockey.

Dressing in layers is a very important for you to stay warm during winter sports. There are particular types of clothing that work well for various sports so pay attention. You want to have three distinct layers of clothing – they base layer, the under layer, and then the outer layer. 

Underneath the clothing wear a cotton under shirt which will allow your skin to breath. For winter sports such as skiing you will want to wear thermal underwear and then a snowsuit. Hats and gloves with thermal linings are very helpful too. Most of the body heat a person loses is from their head so a hat is very important.

The boots or shoes you use for a particular winter sport are very important as well. They need to be designed to offer you plenty of traction as well as mobility. They need to keep your feet dry and warm so you won’t suffer from frostbite on your toes. There are special tennis shoes designed for running in the winter time that will prevent you from slipping due to ice or snow.

Various types of foods and drinks can help to keep you warm during winter sports as well. Soups and stew are very nutritious and they will keep you warm. Hot drinks such as coffee, tea, coca, and cider will help to warm you up as well. Enjoying these types of foods will also serve to help you maintain your energy while enjoying winter sports.

Pay close attention to the signs your body gives you to warn that you aren’t staying warm enough during winter sports. You don’t want to find yourself far away from shelter and extremely cold. Knowing where you are at and where you can find shelter from the cold is very important. Hypothermia can set in if you get too hot while engaging in winter sports and then the sweat from the process makes you cold. You will loose too much body heat this way so pay attention to the physical abilities of your body. 

Enjoying winter sports is a great way to have fun and to keep your body healthy. However, it is very important that you do everything you can to stay warm. Serious injuries or death can occur if you aren’t prepared for the elements. Make sure you also have a cell phone, food, blankets, and flares stocked in your vehicle. You never know if you will get stranded driving to or from any type of winter sports activity. You always want to be prepared. Make sure you have at least one other person with you as well. 

PPPPP

Word Count 586
