Safety Issues to be aware of with Winter Sports

Taking part in winter sports is a great way to stay in shape and to get fresh air. Some winter sports such as skiing and snowboarding involve the snow so you can be sure they will take place in cold areas. It is important that you take safety into consideration at all time while engaging in winter sports. You want to have a great time without getting injured.

It is very important that you stretch properly before you start any types of sports. This helps to keep your body flexible which will reduce the chances of getting hurt if you do fall down. Dressing for the weather is very important because you want to keep your skin dry and your body warm. At the same time you need to have the right equipment on to keep you safe for that particular winter sport.

Many people believe you can only become dehydrated while playing sports in the summer but this isn’t true. Make sure you drink plenty of water and sports drinks throughout the day to keep your fluid level where it should be. Pay attention to the amount of sweat your body releases during winter sports as well. With the cold weather, the mixture of sweat and the cool air can result in hypothermia. Pay attention to symptoms including dizziness, shivering, and exhaustion while you are out in the cold.

You want to make sure you eat properly while engaging in winter sports. This is where you will get your energy from. Your body may become too weak to trek back from the site of your sport if you haven’t given it sufficient fuel. Keep quick snacks such as peanuts or granola bars on hand in case you need a quick bite to rev up your energy levels.

If you have to travel on rough terrain to get to the site for your winter sport, make sure you have checked over the vehicle. You never know when you may get stuck so make sure you are prepared. The vehicle needs to be stocked with food, water, a radio, a cell phone, blankets, and flares. 

Pay close attention to the posted signs and written regulations when you engage in winter sports. You don’t want to be on ice for skating or playing hockey that is at risk of breaking. There should be posted signs informing you to the status. You also don’t want to be on private land or cross the barriers when you are skiing or snowboarding. Doing so can result in you getting lost or injured. It can also trigger an avalanche due to the vibrations of the ground while you are participating in your sport. 

Make sure you have the proper training before you jump into any winter sport. You don’t want to get in over your head. Watching other people perform the sport may be misleading as their level of skill makes it look easy. Take your time to be cautious and you can get faster and more advanced in your winter sports after you have a firm grasp on the basics. 

The quality of your equipment is a very important part of enjoying winter sports safely. Check your ice skates to make sure the blades are sharp enough and they aren’t falling apart. Check the latches on your skis and snowboard to make sure they are still very durable. Sleds and snowmobiles need to be carefully checked that they are in good working condition so they don’t build up speed and then get out of your control. 

There are plenty of fun winter sports to look forward to each year so do your part to make sure they are safe. Teaching children to follow the rules and to wear proper safety equipment is important. However, the very best way to teach them this is to wear that equipment yourself and you play winter sports. 

PPPPP

Word Count 657
