Skiing in Colorado

Colorado is a very beautiful state and one that is well known for both the mountains and the amount of snowfall they get annually. It is only fitting that many locations in the Colorado Mountains are top ski resorts. 

Copper Mountain is considered to be the very best because of the variety of ski slopes it offers. The fact that the slopes are separated by skill levels means beginners don’t have to be intimidated by more advanced skiers. Likewise, those with better skills don’t have to worry about those without experience being in their way as they are barreling down the mountain.

Snowmass is located about 15 miles from Aspen and offers plenty of skiing for intermediate and expert skiers. They offer a few slopes for advanced skiers and only a couple for beginners. This isn’t the place to visit if you are new to the concepts of skiing. However, it is heaven for snowboarders with three separate parks. They are also locations for speed skiing and for various types of racing events. 

For the expert skiers and snowboarders, the very best place in Colorado to go is Winter Park. They offer 143 slopes and approximately 65f% of them are for experts. The way the slopes are set up at Winter Park is like going to three different ski areas. Some of the steepest ski slopes in Colorado are found at Winter Park so this is the place to go if you are looking for some great thrills and challenges. 

In fact, some of these areas are so dangerous for skiers that you have to sign up for an orientation class. Upon completing that safety class you have to also sign a waiver stating you don’t hold the Winter Park Ski Resort liable for any accidents while you are on those types of slopes. There is an additional cost of $20 for this right but you only have to pay it once. Then you can access it each time you return to Winter Park for the season. 

In Telluride, Colorado you will find one of the least known ski resorts in the state. Telluride only offers 84 slopes but it is a place that you will find to be very beautiful and not nearly as busy as the other ski resorts around Colorado. Many snowboarders have found this hidden location to offer some of the best snowboarding areas in Colorado. One downside is that Telluride is one of the most expensive ski resorts to visit in Colorado. 

Steamboat Springs is the place you need to be if you are an intermediate skier. More than ½ of their slopes are for this category of skiers. They do offer a total of 164 slopes though so you will have plenty to keep you entertained for the entire day. In fact, you should plan to spend several days in Steamboat Springs in order to experience as much of it as possible. 

Many people travel to Steamboat Springs to ski in Colorado because it is very easy to access. There is a major airport only minutes away so you can avoid the traffic and the difficult road conditions. You can take advantage of great deals on ski packages for Steamboat Springs that include your airfare, accommodations, a rental vehicle, and your ski lift tickets. 

While traveling to the various ski resorts to enjoy winter sports you need to be very careful. The road conditions can be very terrible due to the ice and snow in the mountains. If you are driving your own vehicle you may want to consider renting a four wheel drive vehicle. Take your time and make sure you pay attention to the weather reports. You should have tire chains with you in case you need them. It is a good idea to travel with food and blankets too just in case you get held up on the way. 

Knowing what all the different ski resorts in Colorado have to offer you will definitely help you to make an informed decision about which one you would like to visit. The majority of them are very affordable and offer plenty of places to get something to eat and comfortable lodging. Thousands of people travel to Colorado annually to enjoy the various ski resorts so check them out so you can see what you have been missing all this time. 

PPPPP

Word Count 730
