The Game of Ice Hockey

The game of ice hockey is very fast paced and full of action. As the players glide effortlessly across the ice in order to control the puck and score points, it gives the illusion that this is a very easy sport. However, that is quite far from the truth because you have to develop excellent skating skills and you need to know the game of hockey inside and out.

Both men and women enjoy playing ice hockey and there are minor league and major league teams out there. Ice hockey is even a team event in the Winter Olympic Games which are held every four years at a location that changes each time. To help reduce the amount of injuries sustained during ice hockey players have to wear helmets and padding. This is a contact sport that still results in some interesting injuries though in spite of quality safety equipment being used.

Professional ice hockey is considered to be one of the most violent sports out there. While the number of hits that take place among the players have tapered off over the years, there are still plenty of fights that continue to take place out there on the ice. Many people will tell you that is one of the reasons why they enjoy watching it so much. 

For their participation in various penalties such as shoving, tripping, and other types of interference during the game players have to spend time in the penalty box. Generally this period of time is two minutes for each infraction called by the referees but the amount of time can be up to four minutes. 

Even though these time periods are very short, they can result in the other team scoring. 
This is because the player on the other team gets a free shot of the puck towards the goal without any one defending it due to the penalty call. Still, players often engage in any types of behaviors they can while playing ice hockey in order to gain control of the puck for their team.

The game of ice hockey is generally played in three periods, each lasting 20 minutes in length. If the game is tied it can go into overtime in order to determine the winner. For professional ice hockey one 20 minute time period is placed on the clock. The game continues until the 20 minutes ends without any scoring or when one of the teams scores. Amateur games may decide to leave the game as a tie or follow the professional rules.

Ice hockey games can also be found being played by kids on frozen ponds during the winter months. This can be a great way to pass the time and to have fun during the colder time of year. However, it is vital to make sure the ice is solid as it can crack from the weight of the players on it. This can result in serious injuries or even death due to drowning. 

Proper safety equipment should also be used for this type of ice hockey because it is still a dangerous sport. Even though most people that engage in ice hockey on the frozen ponds don’t engage in the violent behaviors of the professionals, there are still plenty of risks. Getting hit with a hockey stick or falling down can all be serious if you don’t have the right equipment to protect yourself. 

PPPPP

Word Count 572




