The Sport of Ice Fishing

Fishing is a very common sport that can take place all times of the year. During the colder months of the year though ice fishing becomes a very popular event. Depending on the area where you are fishing there may be small cabins with heat for the person to sit in. Other times you will have to make due on the cold ice so make sure you are prepared for the weather.

Some of the most popular places for ice fishing include Alaska and Canada. The weather is often cold enough there to offer ice that remains completely frozen enough to safely fish on. You need to make sure you have the right tools for you in order to enjoy ice fishing though. You need to cut a whole in the ice that will allow you to place your fishing pole in. Depending on the depth of the ice you can use either a saw or an auger. 

The types of fish you will find at any location depend on the time of year that you go ice fishing. If you are after a particular type of fish, make sure you take the time to research where they will be found at. You can schedule ice fishing trips to various locations around the world if you don’t happen to live in an area that offers this amazing winter sport. The type of fish you are targeting will also affect the type of bait you want to use in order to entice them to take a nibble. 

You will find most fish are willing to bite early in the morning as that is when they will go to the surface area looking for food. As the day progresses you will find you catch fewer fish. About an hour before the sun goes down you will find the rise the surface to eat again. Knowing when the fish will be biting can help you have the most success while ice fishing. 

While ice fishing is a very exciting adventure and a popular winter sport, there are plenty of accidents that take place annually. People can become ill or die from exposure to the cold so make sure you are well protected against the wind. Pay attention to signs of hypothermia and frostbite while you are ice fishing. 

Avoid consuming alcohol which can delay your reaction times while ice fishing as well. Make sure you wear boots that will keep your feet warm and offer you good traction as you walk along the ice. You should dress in layers for ice fishing so you can be as warm or as cool as you need to be. Remember to wear sunscreen as the sun can easily reflect off the ice and snow which will cause the sun to burn your face faster. 

Many people walk along the frozen ice to find a good spot to make their hole. They may also take their vehicles or small wagons for their fishing supplies onto the ice. There is the risk that you or your equipment may fall through the ice so always take the time to find out how secure it is. It is a good idea to carry rope with you in case you see someone in danger that needs help getting out of the ice. 

PPPPP

Word Count 556
