What is so thrilling about Snowboarding? 

Snowboarding is a thrilling twist that incorporates some of the basic concepts of skiing. However, it is much more daring and many people find it offers them the challenges that they love while out in the snow. To keep a snowboard on the feet, there are straps on the board. Most snowboards look similar to a surfboard but shorter. There are no poles used for snowboarding and so you have to use your body to control it.

Even though the concepts behind snowboarding have been around since the 1970’s, the popularity of it exploded around 1998. It became very popular with the younger crowds that often engaged in skateboarding activities. This is even now on of the most anticipated events that takes place in the Winter Olympic 
Games. The internet is also responsible for the popularity of snowboarding as there are numerous sites offering videos of the activities that really capture the attention of viewers. 

Due to the popularity of snowboarding today, many ski resorts now rent snowboarding equipment and offer lessons for free on their slopes. They would prefer for people to learn the basics of snowboarding from a qualified individual than risk getting injured attempting the moves on their own. The fact that so many other people make snowboarding look easy can be misleading. 

Some people believe you have to know how to ski before you can learn how to snowboard. This continues to be an issue of hot debate and it appears that it simple comes down to what you learned first. There are plenty of snowboarders out there that don’t know how to ski. It is similar to the issue of learning to drive on a stick shift – those that did think it was easy while those that didn’t can’t imagine having one more thing to try to do while learning how to drive. 

Many ski resorts often hold snowboarding competitions as well for great prizes including cash and free lodging at their ski resort. The freedom that people get with snowboarding makes it very enjoyable. The various flips and turns that people perform while skateboarding can be incorporated into a snowboarding routine. It is fascinating to see snowboarder’s compete as they attempt the most difficult moves in order to get the best ranking from the judges. 

There are also plenty of big name sponsors that have come on board for these snowboarding competitions. Some of them are only for professionals while many of them are reserved for amateurs. The Ticket to Ride is a snowboarding competition that takes place in various locations in order to continually promote this winter sport. 

The advances that have taken place in the overall design of the snowboards and the number of ski slopes that now allow them to be used. It is even possible to have your snowboard customized so it has the look and fit that you really want. This is common for those individuals that engage in snowboarding on a regular basis. The forecasting for snowboarding through 2015 indicates that by then snowboarding will be more popular than skiing.

One of the biggest problems with snowboarding is the risk of injuries. While wearing helmets are recommended very few people wear them while engaging in this sport. In order to encourage this some ski resorts won’t allow you to snowboard without a helmet. Some of the top names in the sport have also volunteered their time to promote the use of helmets in posters, magazines, and commercials. 

Even though snowboarding is a thrilling winter sport to enjoy, you need to make sure you keep safety in your thoughts as well. Never snowboard in unauthorized areas and without the right skills to do it safely. Make sure you use quality equipment that fits you securely so that you minimize injuries to your body. 

PPPPP

Word Count 672
















If you have mastered the skills of skiing, and you are looking for something fun to do during the winter you may find snowboarding offers you what you have been looking for. 
