Why Sledding is so Fun

Sledding is one of those winter sports that children often enjoy, and many adults too. There are so many ways you can go sledding that you can make do with just about anything. It can be an impromptu  event that takes place after a snow storm has blown in. Sleds come in many different sizes so you can have one person on one or several at the same time. They can be made from wood or from plastic depending on the brand you want to purchase.

Common household items are often used for sledding as well. Cardboard boxes and even laundry baskets can be used to climb to the top of the hill and then slide back down. You can travel to the hills around your home to enjoy sledding or even enjoy those that the snow plow makes as they remove the snow from the streets. 

The biggest problem with this type of sledding is that you have no control over the speed or how you will stop. Therefore you don’t want to climb up too large of a hill as you will pick up momentum as you go down. You also want to investigate the landing area so you won’t be at risk of running into trees or other objects that can result in an accident.

Inner tubes are also a common item used for sledding. They are lightweight and round like a donut. You can sit on them or lay on them. It is quite common to pull an inner tube along behind a moving vehicle with a piece of rope. This allows the riders to sled at a faster speed. You do need to be careful though of other vehicles on the road. Make sure the exhaust isn’t going directly into the faces of the rides either.

Sledding is a winter sport that the entire family can enjoy. Make sure you protect everyone from the cold with thick gloves and hats. You also want to wear boots with plenty of traction that are waterproof. This way your feet will stay dry and reduce the risk of frostbite or hypothermia. Make sure you all pay close attention to the warning signs of these problems so you can protect against them. 

It is very important for children to be supervised while sledding. They may not be paying close enough attention to how cold they are getting. You also don’t want them getting lost in the snow. Sometimes injuries happen such as bumping heads with each other or cutting a lip. While they are minor, having a parent around to deal with such issues is important. 

The best time to buy sledding equipment is in the fall when they put out the new merchandise. You may be disappointed with what is left over if you wait too long into the season to buy them. You also don’t want to have the first snow storm come along and you don’t have anything to go sledding with as it may be too dangerous to travel to the store at that time. 

Sledding is one of the least expensive winter sports which also makes it very popular. You don’t have to travel and you don’t have to invest a great deal of money for the equipment. Most people already have hats, gloves, and boots for the winter time anyway. Investing is a few good sleds isn’t’ going to cost you very much either. Instead of being coped up indoors during the snow, get out there and enjoy it.

Most adults feel like a kid again when they go out sledding. It is a great way to relieve childhood memories and to get some great exercise during the colder time of the year when too many people simply don’t venture out for such activities. Take your time to try out different types of sleds too so you will find those that are a good fit for your size. 

PPPPP

Word Count 660













