Title: 
Advice On Credit Card Debt Consolidation - Make The Experts Work For You!

Word Count:
554

Summary:
For many of us, credit cards are so convenient in our lives, but they are also the easiest way to slide into uncontrollable consumer debt. When this happens, you really need to get advice on debt consolidation. But how do you do that? Read on...


Keywords:
debt,consolidation,help:, credit,card:,become,debt,free!


Article Body:
Copyright 2006 Geoff Morris

Credit cards can be a great boon to many people, and have been since the introduction of the first one, BarclayCard, back in 1966, which then enjoyed a credit card monopoly into the seventies, when, in 1972, Access was launched. Nowadays every major ( and minor) Bank, large store, etc, have added to the virtually thousands of cards to choose from. The introduction of so many plastic money sources, for many of us, has caused an uncontrollable temptation to spiral into consumer debt.

Do you really know how many credit cards you carry and what their balances all are?

Do you know what the rate of interest is on these cards?

Do you have a list of long-pending bills?

Do you know your exact financial situation?

But these credit card producing companies only have one thought in mind. They are not thinking of the convenience that plastic money brings to us, or for those of us that use the credit card interest free period, but for those of us that take the easy temptation into debt not considering where the real money will come from to repay these credit card debts.

Worse of all,  there are  virtually no controls whatsoever over these card issuing firms, especially over their extortionate interest rates. I saw one card, with an interest rate of 35%.

Because this temptation is so easy, it doesn't matter whether  you're already deep in debt or whether you are on the verge of getting into it; in many cases you need some advice on debt consolidation--and not informally from friends--but from experts.

Where can you get expert advice on debt consolidation for your credit cards?

You can get advice on credit card debt management from banks and financial firms. There are loads of debt consolidation companies around who will supply you with a financial expert or councilor to help solve your problems. You may also find some helpful advice online on debt management.

All you are required to do is to fill-out a form, giving them information about your credit rating, your secured and unsecured debts, and the list of your creditors. They will chalk out a plan just for you and advise on which steps you should take next.

Another advantage of debt advice is that your advisor will also suggest you some lifestyle changes you can make in the future to changes in your lifestyle to prevent another credit card debt pile up.

That's great, but how much do you have to pay?

Don't worry! Most of the advisory part is done free of charge. Although the price can only be known once you have chosen the company or bank with whom you wish to work. There are definitely online sites and other firms which will offer you advice free of cost but this is for you to decide.

Credit Card debts should not be neglected and it is always better to take advice from the right source. Choose your company with utmost care and you will find your way out of debt.

Also, if you ever get into debt, do not become an ostrich. Sticking your head in the sand will actually not make the situation any better. As well as debt counseling, you should inform your credit card company ( or companies) as soon as you get into trouble.


