Title: 
Christian Debt Consolidation Company Advice: Finding the Best Program Solution

Word Count:
454

Summary:
There are many Christian debt consolidation companies that may appear to be contradictory to many Christian’s beliefs. These Christian debt and loan consolidation companies however, tell fellow Christians that it is Biblical to take advantage of a consolidating program run by a Christian debt consolidation company.


Keywords:
christian debt consolidation program, christian debt consolidation company


Article Body:
There are many Christian debt consolidation companies that may appear to be contradictory to many Christian’s beliefs. These Christian debt and loan consolidation companies however, tell fellow Christians that it is Biblical to take advantage of a consolidating program run by a Christian debt consolidation company.

Whether or not it is acceptable for a Christian to get into debt is being discussed within the Christian community. Some say that it is not alright for a Christian to owe any money, even in cases such as car and home loans. Others say that it is alright to keep some personal debt as long as the item purchased is an asset with the potential to appreciate. Another view of debt being OK is that it was purchased to produce an income or that the value of the item purchased equals or exceeds the amount owed against it or the debt is not so large that repayment puts undue strain on the budget.

Christian debt consolidation companies point to the verses in the scripture regarding debt and borrowing. ‘Owe no man any thing, but to love one another’ (Romans 13:8). Proverbs warns us that, ‘Just as the rich rule over the poor, so the borrower is servant to the lender’ (Proverbs 22:7). Christian debt consolidation companies also say that it is very clear in the scripture that we are to pay back what we borrow as it says ‘The wicked borrow and do not repay, but the righteous give generously’ (Psalm 37:21).

Christian debt consolidation companies say that the Lord wants us to live an abundant life which becomes increasingly more difficult with increasing debt and that being free from any financial encumbrances is an incredible empowering feeling. Christian debt consolidation companies are committed to helping people get back control of their finances and become debt free. This is an interesting twist on the words of the scripture but many Christians believe that they cannot deal with a non-Christian organisation but are perfectly comfortable with Christian debt consolidation companies. Interestingly, Christian debt consolidation companies do not have any restrictions on the religious beliefs of the people that they lend to – of course, that would be discrimination, but it is worth wondering why they claim to be Christian debt consolidation companies and not simply debt consolidation companies.

Christian debt consolidation companies claim to be offering people the ability to re-finance their debt at lower interest rates, some even to zero interest. The simple fact is that being a Christian debt consolidation company or a non-Christian debt company does not seem to have made any difference in their ability to make false claims! There is no reason to choose a Christian debt consolidation service over any other apart from personal preference.


