Title: 
Debt Management UK: Filing For Bancruptcy? …  Stop … “Think Again!”

Word Count:
784

Summary:
Debt Management UK is an informal process of negotiation between creditors and borrowers to obtain a reduction in the contractual repayment. This is the last resort before filing for bankruptcy. The need for Debt Management UK arises when a borrower no longer has the funds to make his monthly payments towards a loan he has taken previously. A Debt Management process is initiated only once borrowers provide proof that they have insufficient funds to meet all the contractual niceties.


Keywords:
Uk debt consolidation loan, debt management, Debt Advice-Uk debt consolidation


Article Body:
We face financial crunches time and time again and therefore take loans to help us get through the situation. However, many a time we make a mountain out of a mole hill – making a small economic snag seems like an impossible accomplishment and so … we take loans again! In UK especially, taking a personal or consolidation loan has become a part of life. Often, misjudging our circumstances, we fall further and further into debt. And since we’ve always been told that there’s a solution to every problem, here is another concept that we have created, that has survived over time, it’s called Debt Management UK. 

Sometimes, while in the process of paying up umpteen loans, the varying high interest rates, innumerable monthly payments to be sent out to different lenders and demands of everyday life begin to take their toll on us. This is why most of us fail to keep up with our regular payments. Result: constant harassing calls from our lenders, incessant collection visits and reminders and finally, legal notices. This is where Debt Management UK is commonly suggested. Debt Management UK is a process which involves informal negotiations with your creditors so as to achieve either a reduction in the interest, a reduction in the complete contractual payment or waiver of any additional charges like creditor fees, processing charges, etc. 

A Debt Management process is initiated only once borrowers provide proof that they have insufficient funds to meet all the contractual niceties. This is followed by a negotiation with their creditors regarding their inability to repay the entire loan. Most lenders prefer a settlement with Debt Management UK because if they don’t, the next option for the borrower is filing for bankruptcy. No lender can get anything out of that! Most creditors understand the problem and offer solutions to make repayment easier. They may also waive off some part of the loan. Expert advice from credit counselling agencies makes the process a lot simpler. These agencies even negotiate with lenders on your behalf and help you repay your loans. 

Points to remember for Debt Management:
1. Make a budget and keep to it:
While making a budget, be specific and detailed with it. Try your level best to stick to it. The more you write down and record your financial transactions, the more likely you are to stay on track. You'll be amazed at how much money you spend on things you don’t really need. Your budget should define how much money you'll send to each of your creditors monthly, how much you need for bills, and how much is left for flexible spending. Make sure you limit the amount kept aside for flexible spending. 

2. Evaluate your debt situation:
Assess your financial standing – your spending and your savings. When taking your loans into consideration, remember to include the principal amount, the interest, creditor charges, etc. Include all other debt and owed amounts.

3. Clear your debts one by one:
While sorting out your situation, even though you cannot make the regular payments, try to send small amounts toward all your loans. Eliminate as much debt as possible. Start by sending slightly larger amounts to clear off the larger loans. Smaller loans will get sorted out with small regular payments.

4. Take expert advice if necessary:
When it comes to Debt Management UK, credit counselling agencies are the best places to turn to. Most credit counseling agencies are non-profit companies. Of course, there are fees involved. The idea is that you write one monthly payment to the agency, and they in turn distribute that money to your creditors. Credit counseling agencies are used to dealing with people with bad credit or poor credit, and can help you create a custom debt management plan (DMP) too. They can suggest money lenders that might be more willing to make a loan to someone with a lower credit rating. 

When in a grave financial situation, never hesitate to consider Debt Management UK. If you don’t or if debt management UK too, fails to help you, then you will have to file for bankruptcy. Bankruptcy frees the borrower from all his debt so that he could start afresh. However, it leaves a bad impression on the credit score and the borrower will find it very difficult to obtain a fresh loan for many years.

Debt Management UK may be able to lower your monthly payments by 30-50%, stop the late fees and over limit charges, improve you overall credit and put an end to life full of debt. Get the help you need through Debt Management UK today. You will walk through the process and will be on your way to being debt free.


