Title: 
Debt Solutions - Your 12 Ways Out from Debts (Part 2)

Word Count:
602

Summary:
Being in debt is no fun, especially if you are struggling to make ends meet.  Because debt is a complex issue but there may be more than one solution. This article will outlines 12 common methods use by most of debtors to get rid of their debts. Find out these 12 debt solutions from here.


Keywords:
debt consolidation, debt consolidation loan, debt settlement, debt free, get out of debt, loan


Article Body:
Being in debt is no fun, especially if you are struggling to make ends meet. Because debt is a complex issue but there may be more than one solution. This article will outlines 12 common methods use by most of debtors to get rid of their debts. Among these 12 debt solutions, there may be one or more options which you can use to solve your financial problem. 

2 of the 12 methods: Self Repayment Plan and Debt Settlement had been discussed in part 1, let looks at the other 2 methods in this part 2: Debt Consolidation and Debt Consolidation Loan. 

<b>Debt Consolidation</b> 

<u>Debt consolidation</u> is a debt reduction process that allows you to combine your assorted unsecured debts into one payment. Instead of sending out payments on six or seven banks and store credit cards, for instance, you would make one payment to the debt consolidation company and that company would then disperse the funds for you. 

In the process of debt consolidation, the debt consolidation company will also help you to negotiate with your creditors to reduce your debt amount, sometimes by as much as 30% to 60%. In most cases interest rates are reduced. Late fees and hidden taxes are also waived at times. The revised consolidated debt amount is divided into easy monthly installments that make your repayment plans much easier. 

Although both debt settlement (the method discuss in part 1) and debt consolidation involve the negotiation to reduce your debt amount, the difference between debt settlement and debt consolidation is in the debt settlement, you need to pay off your debt with a lump sum amount which agree between you and your creditor whereas in debt consolidation, the consolidated debt amount is pay in monthly installment basic. 

With consolidate all your debts, your will have a clearer picture on what debts you are currently bearing and what are the total repayment for each month. The easy one monthly payment to the debt consolidation company will help you to manage your debts and avoid unwanted late &amp; miss payments. 

<b>Debt Consolidation Loan</b> 

The debt consolidation loan will help you to combine all your outstanding debts into one loan account. For example you may have the existing loan of $8,000 with interest of 15% and credit card balance of $3,500 with interest rates of 12%. These debt balances could be consolidated into one loan of $11,500 with lower interest rate of 8%. 

You may consider a debt consolidation loan if you find difficult to meet your monthly repayment. You could get a lower interest rate on debt consolidation loan with affordable monthly payment and the repayment period be extended. 

Most of debt consolidation loans will require you to put up your home or other assets as collateral. If you can&#39;t make the payments or if your payments are late, you could lose your home or assets which are pledged as the collateral. Hence, you should review your affordability on the repayment amount of the new loan. If the repayment is out of your repayment capability, you may consider a long loan term, of course the longer of loan term, the more interest will be spent for the loan, but it will bring down the repayment level to your comfort level. 

<b>In Summary</b> 

Consolidate your debts into a single payment will ease you in your debt management while enjoying a few advantages to save up your money from your negotiation outcome with your creditors. Combine all your debts into single loan account with a lower interest rate could give you a more affordable and repayable debt elimination plan. 

See you on part 3 for more debt solutions.


