Title: 
Debt Solutions - Your 12 Ways Out from Debts (Part 3)

Word Count:
577

Summary:
Being in debt is no fun, especially if you are struggling to make ends meet.  Because debt is a complex issue but there may be more than one solution. This article will outlines 12 common methods use by most of debtors to get rid of their debts. Find out these 12 debt solutions from here.


Keywords:
Credit Counseling, refinance, home equity, home equity loan, budget, loan, debt consolidation


Article Body:
Being in debt is no fun, especially if you are struggling to make ends meet. Because debt is a complex issue but there may be more than one solution. This article will outlines 12 common methods use by most of debtors to get rid of their debts. Among these 12 debt solutions, there may be one or more options which you can use to solve your financial problem. 

4 of the 12 methods: Self Repayment Plan, Debt Settlement, Debt Consolidation, Debt Consolidation Loan had been discussed in part 1 and part 2. This part will focus on another 2 common debt solutions: Credit Counseling and Cash out Refinance. 

<b>Credit Counseling</b> 

If you do not have self-discipline to work out a budget plan for yourself and a repayment plan with your creditors, then stick to it to get your debt payoff; or you debt balance has reached to an unbearable level, you should consider to get service from a professional service from credit counseling agency. 

Through the credit counseling, the counselor will discuss your entire financial situation with you and will advise you on how to realistically manage your money and your debts, help you develop a workable budget, and usually offer free educational materials and workshops. 

Normally the credit counseling agency doesn&#39;t consolidate your debts. They will work out payment plans with lower interest rate and fees for your outstanding debts. What you need to do is to make one monthly payment to the counseling agency, which will pay all your creditors. Credit counseling programs usually does not hamper your credit rating and if you stick to the plan, it is possible for you to get rid of debt in 3 to 6 years. 

Although many credit counseling organizations are nonprofit and work with you to solve your financial problems. Be caution on the hidden fees, some credit counseling organizations charge high fees which may be hidden that can cause more debt. Hence, before you sign up any of the debt management plan offer to you by the credit counseling agency, review their fee structure and ensure the debt management plan is in line with your financial condition. Try to avoid the service which requires you to pay for an up front fee. 

<b>Cash out Refinance</b> 

If you have equity such as a home, you could refinance it to cash out money for your loan repayment. Typically you are allowed to refinance up to 75%, (sometimes 80%), of the value of the property on conforming loans. For example, if your home is now valued at $150,000 and your loan balance is $70,000, you might be able to get a new $150,000 x 75% = 112,500 mortgage. That would allow you to repay the existing $70,000 balance and use the $42,500 for your financial needs. 

Comparatively, refinancing loan has lower interest compare to other personal loan and it has various repayment period which you can choose the one that meet your repayment capability. 

<b>In Summary</b> 

Credit counseling agencies have wide expertise in handling debts and they have various options for debtors which one of it may suit your financial situation. Get the service from them will help you to have clear picture on the options available for you in handling your debt issue. 

If you have built your equity from the past such as bought a home, and now you have financial crisis, this equity will play an important role to save you from the crisis and pull you out from debt. 

See you on part 4 for more debt solutions.


