Title: 
Debt Reduction Is Easy

Word Count:
310

Summary:
Debt can be easily reduced. There are several ways to reduce debt. If debt becomes too big, then a person can even be declared bankrupt. According to a Federal Reserve study, 1 out of every 100 families in America declare bankruptcy every year. This spells badly for the economy too. This means that there are no savings for the future. Savings are required for future capital investment and generation. In fact China is a country where the savings per family is the highest in th...


Keywords:
debt reduction


Article Body:
Debt can be easily reduced. There are several ways to reduce debt. If debt becomes too big, then a person can even be declared bankrupt. According to a Federal Reserve study, 1 out of every 100 families in America declare bankruptcy every year. This spells badly for the economy too. This means that there are no savings for the future. Savings are required for future capital investment and generation. In fact China is a country where the savings per family is the highest in the world. 

The reduction in the debt will help us to buy goods and services that we want to by, pay for the future bills such as medical and home bills when we are unable to earn. Savings in Debt reduction can fund a second home or education for your children. For most families the major chunk of debt is the credit card debt and the cash advances taken against credit cards. Its necessary that the credit card amount be paid in full and not the minimum balance. By paying minimum balance, you are incurring debt as well as interest charges. The credit card companies can charge an interest rate of almost 36% compounded annually. Therefore it's best to clear out accounts and not revolve the credit. Resist from paying the card bill with another credit card. At the end of the day you would need to repay the amount.

Another chunk of debt is the payday loans, which are taken to override short-term cash problems. For example if you have issued a check for the electricity bill and don't have cash in the bank, the payday loan will cover the shortfall. However these need to be paid back within a week. If not the loan sharks can charge a hefty rate of interest. Therefore it's essential that you reduce the debts for a safe and secure financial future.


