Title: 
Debt consolidation and what it means to you

Word Count:
431

Summary:
Debt is haunting millions of americans daily.  What can be done to stop the collector calls?  What options does one have?  Debt consolidation may be a great choice for many.  Debt consoladation may work to help you re-build your credit and help your financial future


Keywords:
debt consolidation, debt consolidation, debt help, credit counseling, credit management, credit cards, credit card debt


Article Body:
Credit card debt and other personal debt is one of America’s most threatening dispositions.  Millions of individuals every day are going further and further in to debt.  Credit card companies and other debt collection business offer no remorse or help to those who have already spent their money.  This causes a strange relationship between the ones the debt is owed to and the one that owes the debt.

For many of those there are only a few options.  One of those options is just don’t pay.  This is a problem because it means getting calls day after day from angry intimidating debt collectors and constant fear of repossession.  Another way is to file bankruptcy.  It means more expenses and horrible credit for long periods of time.  You have to go to court for this and then you can not even thing about getting a credit card for about 10 years.  Some also may decide to pay debt in the standard old fashioned way.  One bill at a time.  This is essentially the best way to do this.  But what if those bills add up to be higher than your paycheck?  How is this problem resolved?  Debt consoladation may be the answer.

Debt consolidation is the process of taking ones debt and combining it into one monthly payment.  The monthly payment is also often times reduced because of arrangements made with the debt consoladation company if you make your payments.  It’s the whole “something is better than nothing” bit.  The ones in debt know they may never see a payment again if they don’t agree to such terms.  Lower monthly payments and less interest rates make it much easier for one to pay their debt off completely and work to make them credit worthy once more.

Being credit worthy is essential because that gives you the buying power of financing a house, financing a car, making larger purchases, getting a cell phone service and many other services that one cannot get without credit.  Debt consolidation gives them the opportunity to do such things.  It can be a hard way, but often times the right way.  And it is not the hardest way by far.  It is much more damaging to completely not pay your bills, or to claim bankruptcy.  If you need help this is a great option.

The very best way to help debt is to never get into it in the first place.  Good financial planning and responsible spending are the keys to building your financial future and staying away from debt problems and seeking debt help.


