Title: 
Debt Consolidator - How To Compare Debt Consolidators Online

Word Count:
362

Summary:
Debt consolidation companies negotiate lower interest rates for your unsecured bills, such as credit cards. By reducing your interest rates, you can pay off your debts sooner. These debt consolidation programs don’t use a consolidation loan, so you can avoid additional credit issues. The following guidelines will help you find a reputable company that will not take advantage of your financial situation.

Request Quotes

Whether a debt consolidation company is non profit o...


Keywords:
debt relief, debt consolidation, debt problem, debt management


Article Body:
Debt consolidation companies negotiate lower interest rates for your unsecured bills, such as credit cards. By reducing your interest rates, you can pay off your debts sooner. These debt consolidation programs don’t use a consolidation loan, so you can avoid additional credit issues. The following guidelines will help you find a reputable company that will not take advantage of your financial situation.

Request Quotes

Whether a debt consolidation company is non profit or for profit, they will charge monthly fees to service your payments. Fees range from $14 to $69 depending on the number of creditors involved. Upfront fees or a percent of your monthly payments are usually a sign of a fraudulent non-profit company. For profit companies do charge a fee since they aren’t subsidized by creditors.

There are several legitimate debt consolidation companies out there. You want to make sure you are getting the best fees, so don’t settle for the first quote you receive. To get accurate quotes, be prepared with a list of creditors, account balances, and interest rates. You can also decide how many accounts you want to consolidate, leaving a couple out to use for personal or business reasons.

Expect Questions

The best debt consolidation programs will ask questions before they give you quotes. Only by knowing your financial situation can they determine how long it will take to pay off your bills.

You should also be wary of companies that steer you toward debt settlement if you can’t pay their fees. Such programs don’t improve your credit, and you also get charge fees for something you could do on your own.

Demand Pay Off Dates

One sign of a good debt consolidation program is their ability to offer pay off dates. Each account will have a different date since account interest rates and balances will vary. However, general dates, like less than five years, are a sign of a shady company.

As with anything, if the claims are too good to be true, they probably are. By researching companies and asking questions you will not only protect yourself from scams, but also find the best company to help you reduce your debt.


