Title: 
Debt And Bill Consolidation

Word Count:
285

Summary:
Debt and bill consolidation is the practice of paying off many loans with one loan. This is undertaken by debtors for lowering their interest rates on loans and to enjoy the convenience of making a single monthly bill payment than multiple ones. Multiple bill payments increase the chances of missing a payment, which could adversely affect one’s credit score. Sometimes, debtors take one loan to pay off multiple loans with the intention of locking in a fixed interest rate.


Keywords:
Debt And Bill Consolidation, Debt Management Programs, Free Debt and Bill Consolidation, Debt and Bill Consolidation Companies


Article Body:
Debt and bill consolidation is the practice of paying off many loans with one loan. This is undertaken by debtors for lowering their interest rates on loans and to enjoy the convenience of making a single monthly bill payment than multiple ones. Multiple bill payments increase the chances of missing a payment, which could adversely affect one’s credit score. Sometimes, debtors take one loan to pay off multiple loans with the intention of locking in a fixed interest rate. 

The debtor secures a lower interest rate through debt and bill consolidation by paying off unsecured loans, like credit card balances, with a secured loan, like a loan on the house. Since secured loans are less risky for the lending agency, the debtor gets charged a lower interest rate. There can be sizeable gains from reduced interest rates, since credit card interest rates are substantially higher than mortgage interest rates. 

Debt and bill consolidation is normally resorted to by people who have used their credit cards considerably above what their current income levels permit them. Students also consolidate their student loans to lower their interest rates and improve their credit rating. Debt and bill consolidation helps one improve one’s credit score by enabling one to make the monthly payments on time and keep credit card debt to a minimum. 

There are many debt consolidation companies that help debtors manage their debt through various debt management programs, counseling, and advice. Some of these work for free, while most work for a fee. The psychological benefit of consolidation is immense. However, debt consolidation can work in the long run only if the debtor does not go back to his or her spending ways with credit cards.


