Title: 
Debt Solutions - Your 12 Ways Out from Debts (Part 1)

Word Count:
645

Summary:
Being in debt is no fun, especially if you are struggling to make ends meet.  Because debt is a complex issue but there may be more than one solution. This article will outlines 12 common methods use by most of debtors to get rid of their debts. Find out these 12 debt solutions from here.


Keywords:
debt relief, debt settlement, credit card, balance transfer, credit counseling, debt consolidation


Article Body:
Being in debt is no fun, especially if you are struggling to make ends meet. Because debt is a complex issue but there may be more than one solution. This article will outlines 12 common methods use by most of debtors to get rid of their debts. Among these 12 debt solutions, there may be one or more options which you can use to solve your financial problem. 

Please note this article will be divided into 5 parts, this part will examine 2 of the 12 methods: Self Repayment Plan &amp; Debt Settlement. 

<b>Self Repayment Plan</b> 

The ideal way to start your debt solution program is with the <u>self repayment plan</u>. Self-discipline is the key factor to ensure the success of this method. Before you come out with your debt repayment plan, you need to understand you current debt condition; detail out all your debts: mortgage &amp; car loan, credit card and other personal loans. Then list down all the fixed expenses such as power, phone, insurance, food and other expandable such as entertainment, gym, membership, dinner at restaurant &amp; etc. Then record down your monthly incomes from salary, part-time job and other source of incomes. 

Tailor your budget plan in line with your debt repayment plan. Budgeting is very important aspect in self repayment plan; you need to make a budget plan which will cut down or eliminate unnecessary expenses, has a saving of portion of your money for emergencies and unexpected expenses while focus most of your money on your debt repayment. 

If possible, you might also consider a part-time job or look for other opportunities to increase your monthly income and these extra incomes can be utilized to fund your repayment plan. If you feel that you might not have a good self-discipline to follow your repayment plan, you might want to consider in set up a direct payroll deposit and automatic payments with your bank. 

While running your repayment plan, you should not take in new debt and follow strictly what you have stated in your repayment plan. With these calculated steps and self-discipline to manage your money and debts, you can overcome your debt problems within a considerable time period. 

<b>Debt Settlement</b> 

<u>Debt Settlement</u>is an aggressive approach to debt reduction, which is appropriate for debtors with a serious amount of debt. This method is commonly use by debtors who have unbearable debts and considering bankruptcy. Creditors will usually settle for less than owed when the debtor is under serious financial strain because if the debtor chooses to file bankruptcy, then the creditor gets nothing. Creditors want to get as much money back as they can. 

You may do it yourself and get help from third party, debt settlement agency to negotiate with your creditors to outcome an agreed settlement amount, sometimes by reducing your debt balance as much as 50%-70%. If you plan to hire a debt settlement agency to negotiate with your creditors, you need to carefully choose a reputable debt settlement agency, understand their fee structure and you are advised to check out if there are any hidden fees involved in the settlement process. 

Debt Settlement is a way to get out of debt in the shortest amount of time, and with the least amount of money without filing for bankruptcy. Although this method of debt relief will hurt your credit rating, it is definitely a better option than bankruptcy. 

<b>In Summary</b> 

Self repayment plan is good if you have manageable debts, a strong intention to get out of debt and a good self-discipline to follow the plan and make a success. Whereas, debt settlement is a fast way to get out of debts with some drawbacks to your credit rating, but it is a better option for debtors who are considering the bankruptcy option. 

See you on part 2 for more debt solutions.


