Title: 
Debt Reduction Program And Slowing Your Spending

Word Count:
414

Summary:
The best idea available to any individual or business for debt reduction program is to slow your spending. There are two important factors to be remembered for debt reduction and slowing spending. First one is commen sense - Stop adding to your debts. If you continue to rack them up, you may never get out of them in the first place. You will also need some extra money left on the table each month to pay off your debts quicker. This is where slowing spending can help.

Busin...


Keywords:
debt reduction, debt consolidation, debt counseling


Article Body:
The best idea available to any individual or business for debt reduction program is to slow your spending. There are two important factors to be remembered for debt reduction and slowing spending. First one is commen sense - Stop adding to your debts. If you continue to rack them up, you may never get out of them in the first place. You will also need some extra money left on the table each month to pay off your debts quicker. This is where slowing spending can help.

Businesses that provide products and services already have a lot of information about you. This information is stored and tracked based on what you eat, where you shop, products and services you buy. Based on this information, they continue to send emails and flyers to entice you into spending further. They try every possible way of making it easy for you and eventually you will get into the downward spiral of debt. These businesses will also go a step further to provide you with credit cards and personal loans.

So what do you do?

You will need quiet some effort and planning. You will also need to budget your purchases. Think hard for a few minutes before you actually make the purchase and ask a few questions to youself whether you really need that nify gadget / product or service.

You must define a purchase checklist and when you are about to make a purchase revert and re-read the questions in the checklist.

What is the price for the product / service?
Is this a regular price or a sale price?
If this is a sale price, how much am I saving over the regular price?
Do I really need it?
Can I cough up the cash to buy it today? 
If not, where will the money come from?
If credit, what will be the credit cost?
If the credit costs are factored in, is it worth it?
Does the purchase really fill a need or want?
Can I justify this purchase to a friend?
Would I accept these reasons from someone else?

The above simple questions will help in slowing you down on your newer purchases. Try not to rack up any credit card debt along with the purchase. It does take little extra work but is very well worth in the end. Now with the money you save, work on your debt reduction plans. Take each debt at a time and work hard on reducing and eliminating it.


