Title: 
Debt Management Plan - Know What Plan Works Best For You

Word Count:
397

Summary:
Debt management plans (DMP) work to reduce your unsecured debt. They can also reduce your interest rates with most types of unsecured loans. To know what plan will work best for you, identify your own needs first. Then look for a company that has answers to your questions, reasonable rates, and a good record.

Identify Your Needs

Before you begin searching for a DMP, identify which accounts you want handled. Interest rates on credit card accounts and bills, such as medic...


Keywords:
debt elimination, debt consolidation, debt management


Article Body:
Debt management plans (DMP) work to reduce your unsecured debt. They can also reduce your interest rates with most types of unsecured loans. To know what plan will work best for you, identify your own needs first. Then look for a company that has answers to your questions, reasonable rates, and a good record.

Identify Your Needs

Before you begin searching for a DMP, identify which accounts you want handled. Interest rates on credit card accounts and bills, such as medical, can be lowered with a DMP, but some types of accounts, like mortgages and student loans, can’t. DMP can still handle payments for these accounts, but they will charge you a fee for the service.

Make a list of the accounts you want handled. Include the lenders’ names and account balances. You can use this information to get quotes from DMP companies. Do not give account numbers or social security numbers until you have researched the company and signed a contract.

Compare Pay Off Dates And Information

As with any service, you want to compare companies before choosing one. To find a reputable plan, ask about pay off dates and the process. Legitimate companies will be able to give you specific closing dates for each account based on the balance and creditor’s name. All DMP receive the same low rate from creditors, so pay off dates should be the same.

Companies that require money upfront or give vague dates should be avoided. Such companies are either more interested in taking your money or are not qualified.

Research Rates

With a list of reputable companies, begin researching rates to find the best deal. Some companies have a small start up fee with monthly charges of no more than 15%. Other companies are subsidized in part, and may have a reduced fee, especially if you have poor credit.

Companies that charge a large, partially refundable initial fee are betting that you will drop out of the program before your accounts are paid. They keep your money without providing service. You should be cautious with such plans.

Check With Others

Another step to checking a DMP company is to look up their record with the Better Business Bureau or your state government. You can find records of past complaints online with these agencies.

Taking the time to investigate DMP companies can save you money and headaches later on.


