Title: 
Debt Elimination Program - Comparing Debt Programs

Word Count:
354

Summary:
Debt elimination programs help to reduce your debt and improve your financial situation. But not all programs offer the same benefits or risks. Depending on your situation, some programs will be better than others.

Debt Management Plans – Programs To Handle Accounts

Debt management plans (DMP) handle your unsecured loans. You make one monthly payment to the company, and they handle the rest. A debt management company also works with creditors to lower your rates, helpin...


Keywords:
debt elimination, debt consolidation


Article Body:
Debt elimination programs help to reduce your debt and improve your financial situation. But not all programs offer the same benefits or risks. Depending on your situation, some programs will be better than others.

Debt Management Plans – Programs To Handle Accounts

Debt management plans (DMP) handle your unsecured loans. You make one monthly payment to the company, and they handle the rest. A debt management company also works with creditors to lower your rates, helping you to pay off most accounts in five years. Creditors have predetermined rates, so all debt management companies will get you the same reduced rate on your accounts.

Not all loan rates can be lowered, for instance car and student loans. Your credit may also be frozen for a year or more. However, as you establish regular payments and a lower debt to income ratio, you will soon qualify with conventional lenders.

Debt Negotiation – Programs To Reduce Debt

Debt negotiation programs reduce part of your debt. Most companies boast that for a fee, they can reduce accounts from 10% to 50%. With a lower principal balance, your monthly payments will be lower, allowing you to pay off the rest of your account.

A reduction of your loan balances will have a long term affect on your credit history. While you may qualify for subprime lending, most conventional lenders won’t handle your application for at least two years. Reduced debt also has to be reported as income for tax purposes.

Credit Counseling – Programs To Develop A Plan

Credit counseling programs create a personalized financial plan. A certified counselor discusses your situation in a private meeting, either in person or over the phone. They may suggest loan consolidation, DMP, or debt negotiation. They can also help you plan for your future goals, such as purchasing a home or retiring.

When you are comparing programs, be sure to compare the affect on your credit score, not just fees and tempting lower payments. The slower approach of a DMP can save you thousands in interest costs on future loans. However, there are cases when debt negotiation is the better option, especially to avoid bankruptcy.


