Title: 
Debt Management Advice

Word Count:
370

Summary:
The best debt management gives you the most financial options. By making regular payments and having a low debt to income ratio, you can access credit when you choose. If you aren’t in that situation, then ask for help from the variety of debt management companies out there. In the end you have to pick the plan that will best fit your unique financial needs.

Pay Off Debt

The best way to maintain and improve your credit score is to pay off debts. Regular monthly payments...


Keywords:
debt consolidation, debt management, debt negotiation


Article Body:
The best debt management gives you the most financial options. By making regular payments and having a low debt to income ratio, you can access credit when you choose. If you aren’t in that situation, then ask for help from the variety of debt management companies out there. In the end you have to pick the plan that will best fit your unique financial needs.

Pay Off Debt

The best way to maintain and improve your credit score is to pay off debts. Regular monthly payments make good habits and high credit scores. High interest credit cards should be tackled first, followed by other unsecured loans. Mortgages and student loans are considered “good” credit, and can be paid off last.

Debt consolidation loans, through home equity or personal loans, can help make payments easier by reducing interest rates and lowering monthly payments. You can also transfer credit card balances to reduce rates.

Get Help

If you find making on time payments difficult, then it is time to get some help. Credit counseling can help you figure out a budget and saving plan. They can also educate you on financial services that could help, such as a debt management company.

Debt management companies consolidate your unsecured debts into one payment. They will also negotiate lower interest rates with your creditors. This may temporarily lower your credit score, but it can get you out of debt in less than five years.

Debt negotiation is also an option. For a fee, a company will negotiate with your creditors to reduce your loan amounts. Not all creditors will agree to this, but many will. By reducing your debt, you will be able to pay off loans, but it will be on your credit report for seven years. It may be a couple of years before you can qualify for credit.

Choose What’s Best For You

There is no one answer to debt management. Each person’s financial situation is unique and requires an individualized plan. Take a good look at your financial situation before deciding on a debt management plan. Don’t be afraid to ask for help. Lenders and debt consolidation companies can supply you with free information about their services.


