Title: 
Debt Elimination Through Financial Management

Word Count:
320

Summary:
Debt elimination needs a bit of financial management. Analyze your expenses and the debts that you have taken. This will help you in debt elimination. The debts can be classified as short-term loans, medium term and long-term loans. Short-term loans are loans, which must be repaid within a year. Medium term loans are those, which have to be repaid within 1 to 10 years, and long-term loans are the loans, which are longer than 10 years. Even the payment that is unpaid on the cr...


Keywords:
debt elimination


Article Body:
Debt elimination needs a bit of financial management. Analyze your expenses and the debts that you have taken. This will help you in debt elimination. The debts can be classified as short-term loans, medium term and long-term loans. Short-term loans are loans, which must be repaid within a year. Medium term loans are those, which have to be repaid within 1 to 10 years, and long-term loans are the loans, which are longer than 10 years. Even the payment that is unpaid on the credit cards qualify for the debts that you have. Many people have the tendency to pay only the least amount. The remaining portion is then charged a rate f interest, which is on a compounding basis. Thus credit card dues should be paid in full

It's difficult to eliminate long-term loans; it's certainly possible to eliminate short-term loans. Stop buying and spending on credit in short term. This will lead to short term debt elimination. For example don't buy groceries on the credit card. This will automatically lead problems, this advice will be useful for you. Use cash to buy and use coupons for getting a few dollars off on various products. Thus there will be less credit card bill at the end of the month. Use a credit card only when you must.

It's a great policy to save and then spend. If it makes you a miser, so be it, at least you won't go bankrupt paying your debts. This is also one of the ways of debt elimination. By not having debt in the first place, you are doing yourself a favor. Therefore make it a point to do debt elimination whether you are home or office, only in this way can you rid yourself of debt. "Only when I have cash will I spend" should be your motto for all the transactions in your personal as well as professional life to the maximum extent possible.


