Title: 
Debt kills!

Word Count:
542

Summary:
If you realize that you are in debt, it is not too late, start planning now and try to defeat your debts. If faith can move mountains then surely faith and determinedness would dissolve your debts.


Keywords:
debt settlement company, debt negotiation, debt settlement program, debt settlement strategy


Article Body:
Once I overheard a man saying “debt kills”, but then I realized that debt does not kill a man once and for all, but it slays him everyday and every time. Even though nowadays there’s considerable awareness about debt, people are still becoming a prey to this monster. Knowingly and unknowingly they get tangled in this knot, where liberation becomes next to impossible.

  Reports confirm that individuals spend their fun-filled years of their life by just paying their school and college debts.

    But then you just can’t bring this debt system to a halt because, there are times when these debts prove to be really handy. 

     So we have to let the debts survive, in such a way that it does not hinder our growth.
We can divide people categorically, where one category lives, not to live but to save. People tend on saving and thus they miss all the enjoyments and comfort in their life, but this lucky set will not get themselves into debt. The next category of people are called as the “achievers” and these people strive to establish themselves and in the process they get in to debts, but the achiever never slows down he works hard and pays his debts, and after paying all his debts only he will realize that he lost all his valuable years only for his future gratification. The final category are called the lavish spenders, these people become an ideal prey to debt. They spend easily by swiping their plastic cards and in the end they are left only with dismay. Analyze yourself to identify your personal character and the category you belong.  

     Now the million dollar question is “how are we going to overcome our debts?”, once you find yourself in debt it is better to stop overspending. Do not pile up all your responsibilities just because it is bitter, some day you have to face it, why not today? So start planning your finances wisely, if possible get help from a knowledgeable person. When ever you feel tempted to buy something (which is not really necessary!) just think of the black days you have to face in debts. This small remainder will impede you, from buying. 

Life after debt!

We have no aim of frightening you, but the fact is that life after debt would be very different. There are many who become frustrated, as they have spent most of their years in the prison called debt. Debts are very capable of swallowing our happy lives and thus make us live as a corpse.

So really try to understand the negative aspects of debts, before you take up loans. And never postpone your payments; this is the first step that leads to debts. Apart from monetary obscurity, debtors have to face a lot social tribulations. 

 
Sometimes people may find themselves in debts due to unavoidable situations, like divorce, death of the bread wining member in the family etc. do not fret, try hard and overcome the debt through your hard work.         

Now if you realize that you are in debt, it is not too late, start planning now and try to defeat your debts. If faith can move mountains then surely faith and determinedness would dissolve your debts.


