Title: 
Debt Negotiation Vs. Debt Management

Word Count:
385

Summary:
Debt negotiation and debt management/consolidation both help consumers pay off their debts through two different approaches. Each affects your credit score, payoff period, and taxes differently. Before choosing either options, be sure you understand the long term consequences of each debt management option.

Influence On Credit Score

Debt consolidation is better of the two when it comes to influencing your credit score. By consolidating your different loans into one, you...


Keywords:
debt consolidation, debt management, debt negotiation


Article Body:
Debt negotiation and debt management/consolidation both help consumers pay off their debts through two different approaches. Each affects your credit score, payoff period, and taxes differently. Before choosing either options, be sure you understand the long term consequences of each debt management option.

Influence On Credit Score

Debt consolidation is better of the two when it comes to influencing your credit score. By consolidating your different loans into one, you are using the same amount of credit and will be dinged only slightly for opening another account.

If you choose a debt consolidation company, your creditors may report delayed payment. However, after regular payments have been established for several months, you will be able to apply for more credit if needed.

Debt negotiation leaves a lasting impact on your credit history, much like a bankruptcy. When creditors agree to reduce your debt, a record of the debt reduction will stay on your credit score for seven years. However, you will be able to qualify for credit as your score improves, usually within two years.

Payoff Period

Using a home equity or personal loan to consolidate your debt can extend your payoff period up to 30 years. You can also choose shorter periods for your loans. A debt consolidation company can help you pay off unsecured loans in less than five years.

Debt negotiations reduce debt, but don’t eliminate it. Credit cards and short term debt can be paid off in less than five years. Other forms of credit can take longer.

Tax Impact

Interest from your home equity loan can be deducted from your taxes for a financial savings. But any debt reductions have to be reported as income to both federal and state governments. Expect to pay income tax with debt negotiations.

Cost Of Fees

With both types of debt management, you can expect to pay fees. Depending on the type of home equity loan you pick, fees can range from hundreds to thousands of dollars. A second mortgage or line of credit have lower fees than cashing out your equity with a refinanced mortgage.

Debt management and debt negotiation companies also charge fees for their services. Fees should not be paid until these companies actually provide you with a service. Also, compare several companies to be sure you find the best deal.


