Title: 
Don't Turn Debt Consolidation into Your Next Credit Issues

Word Count:
635

Summary:
Debt consolidation is one the most common debt solutions used by many debtors to plan for debt relief. And most of time, debt consolidation will accompany by a debt consolidation loan. If you are planning a debt free with a debt consolidation and accompany by debt consolidation loan, stick on your goal and don't turn debt consolidation into your next credit issues. Find out things that you can do to avoid the tragedy.


Keywords:
debt consolidation, debt relief, debt consolidaiton loan, debt solutions, credit card debt, debt


Article Body:
Debt consolidation is a process to combine all your high interest rate into single and lower interest rate monthly payment. It has been used by many debtors to plan for a debt relief. Commonly, a debt consolidation will be accompanied by a debt consolidation loan. The debt consolidation loan will be used to payoff all your high interest debts and you just need to focus on single monthly payment to clear the debt consolidation loan. Hence debt consolidation with a debt consolidation loan will help to make your debts more manageable to achieve your debt relief goal. 
After paying off your debts with the debt consolidation loan, your credit cards balance will go to zero and now you have the maximum credit limit for usage. The dangerous part is if your do not control the uses of your credit card and continue to use them to pay for your purchases and use to pay minimum payment on your credit card balances, you will be trapped into another debt issue soon or later. 

You are working hard to go through the debt consolidation process and manage to get a debt consolidation loan to clear all debts, don&#39;t let yourself fall back into the hot water and struggling to get rid of debt again. Things that you can do to avoid it from happening are: 

<b>1. Change Your Spending Behavior</b> 

If you tend to buy items spontaneously, you are an impulse buyer. Impulse buying behavior may cause you to spend out of your budget. Hence, you much change your spending behavior to avoid new debts added to you, else you effort to consolidation your debts and plan for a debt free will be a waste because new debts will snowballing to a serious debt issue if you not control it and you soon will again trap into another financial crisis. To avoid any impulse purchase, you should plan your shopping list and just buy the items in the list. 

<b>2. Make A Budget Plan</b> 

Budget Plan is an important in financial management, it enables your to have controlled on you money, know where your money will go and how much will be on each spending. You much include your debt consolidation loan repayment into your budget plan so that you have allocated budget for loan repayment. If you projected spending in your budget plan exceed your allocated budget, you need to cut away all the optional expenses such as entertainment, luxury vacations or downgrade your life style, for example if you use to buy branded cloth and shoes, you may now go for cheaper options so that you control your spending within your budget. 

<b>3. Avoid Swiping Your Credit Card</b> 

Paying with electronic money such as credit card is easy and convenient. And because of these advantages, it may cause you to over spend and not aware about it until you receive the credit card statement. Hence, avoid using your credit card again. Cancel most of your credit card could you a wise decision. You can leave one or two credit cards for emergency uses. 

<b>4. Make Full Payment On Credit Card Balance</b> 

If you can&#39;t stop using your credit card but you think that you can control swiping it just to buy items in your budget plan. Then, you must commit to yourself to pay full payment on your credit card balance each month. By paying in full on your credit card balance, you save yourself in added new debts to your account. 

<b>In Summary</b> 

Debt consolidation is a debt solution that can get you out of debt, in contrary it can lead you to trap into second debt problem. Hence, you need to accompany debt consolidation with a proper money management to ensure your debt issue resolve.


