Title: 
Get Out Of Debt Now

Word Count:
307

Summary:
Get out of debt now. Credit card debts can be huge. These are some of the tricks to use to get out of credit card debt. If you have cash then you should make your purchases cash. Also remember that money spent on clothes, toys, jewelry etc are counted as conspicuous expenditure by the IRA. However if you spend on books, periodicals furniture for your office etc, there are tax rebates for these. Therefore think whether the items that you buy on credit cards are eligible for ta...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Get out of debt now. Credit card debts can be huge. These are some of the tricks to use to get out of credit card debt. If you have cash then you should make your purchases cash. Also remember that money spent on clothes, toys, jewelry etc are counted as conspicuous expenditure by the IRA. However if you spend on books, periodicals furniture for your office etc, there are tax rebates for these. Therefore think whether the items that you buy on credit cards are eligible for tax rebates or not.

There are innumerable credit cards, which are available in the market. Since it's a competitive market, credit card issuers will waive off joining fees and annual fees if you can negotiate. Thus there is no charge for holding the credit card

Secondly all credit cards have a due date. Lets say that 15th of each date is your due date for making the payment. The credit card company will bill you for all charges up to say the 1st of every month. Therefore if you make purchases on the second, then it will reflect in your next month statement. This effectively gives you 45 days to the next payment. Therefore the money can earn more interest in your bank and you can also make a full payment. Thereby you will not incur any credit card debt. So you can get out of debt.

Use cash for all daily purchases. Don't charge the credit card for small value items like $50 or so. Some stores will charge an additional fee if you shop on credit card below a stipulated amount such as $100. A dollar saved is a dollar earned. 

Carry only one credit card and don't rotate the credit card debt on many cards. Ultimately you will have to pay the credit card debt at one point of time.


