Title: 
Get Another Debt to Be Debt Free?

Word Count:
418

Summary:
To be debt free, you don't need to subscribe to another debt. Amazing, how people think. People seems to like those “debt consolidation services”, and they are becoming very popular offline and online...


Keywords:
mortgage,bankruptcy,debt help,debt,debt management,credit card debt,personal finance,debt consolidation loans,debt free,get out of debt


Article Body:
These Debt Consolidation or “Debt Continuation” Companies don't tell you what you should absolutely know to be debt free.

78% of people who consolidate their debts will fall again in debts after a short period of time, and will end up in the office of a debt consolidation service.

Why? Simply because you think that you will really be debt free after three or five years, but it is not the case. Let me explain... Those company, after giving you a very nice pitch (anyway, you did not have choice: bankruptcy, home equity - you can loose your home - , debt settlement company – another kind of wolf -), promise you that you will pay a lower interest rate.

But what is the catch? Yes there is a catch. The catch is that you will stay longer in debt if you want lower interest rates.

It is not the only reason why I call them Debt Continuation Services. Another reason is: While people are trying to consolidate their debts, they still need to live, and they drag out the credit card for their everyday life. Yes, bills are not stopping while you are trying to get out of debt, it is going on. And those services know that you will come back, this is the reason why they want to “help” you.

They know that debt consolidation companies are gaining in popularity, and  because thousands of customers turn to these services, they continue to grow. 

How do they catch so much customers?

Let's review some examples of pitches promising to be debt free:

* “We will help you to eliminate your debts, don't worry”

* “Consolidate your bills into one monthly payment without borrowing”

* “Stop credit harassment, foreclosures, repossessions, tax levies and garnishment”

* “Keep your property”

* “Wipe out your debts! Consolidate your bills! How? By using the protection and assistance provided by federal law. For once, let the law work for you”

Until here, it sounds good... Let's continue,

* “For that, you just need to pay us a one time bill, or a small fee”.

Oh great you say! I found these people and they want to help me, and I will be debt free in less than three years. I must give it a try.

What? They just need to get you more in trouble, by having more debts, paying interest rates, work for them (making them richer than they already are).

And upon that, you need to investigate before choosing any debt consolidation service, because there is a lot of scams out there.


