Title: 
Get Debt-Free with Debt Consolidation

Word Count:
337

Summary:
If you’re looking to consolidate your debt, whether it is credit card debt, loans, bills or any other form of debt, there are many online options available. 
Even if you have a bad credit score or history there are still certain online lenders willing to help.


Keywords:
online debt consolidation, debt consolidation services, bad credit loan services, credit lenders, loan services, unsecured loan


Article Body:
Within this short guide you’ll find the most important online financial options available for you. 
There are financial products for every credit situation and this guide will explain all you need to know before you start your search. 

Consolidate your debt with a Loan

There are many loan options for those who want to consolidate their debt. If you own a home you can consolidate by applying for an equity loan. 
The equity you’ve build on your home will provide all the finance that you need to cancel your outstanding loans and other debts. 
You can also refinance your home mortgage for a larger amount than the outstanding mortgage loan and use the extra cash to cancel the remaining loans, bills, credit card balances and other debts. 
Though harder to qualify for, you can also apply for an unsecured loan. This kind of loans let you consolidate your debt by using the money to repay credit card balances, loans and bills without having to use an asset as collateral avoiding the risk of repossession. 

Debt Consolidation Agencies

There are also certain agencies and professionals that can negotiate with your creditors so as to lower the interest rates, extend repayment schedules and sometimes, even cut a considerable percentage of your debt that can reach up to a 60%. 
Usually this companies and professionals charge a small fee for their services, considering the large amount of money they will be helping you save, it’s not such a big sacrifice. 
Besides the fact that you’ll get a cut in the interests you pay for finance, the most important thing is that you’ll be paying down the loans principal and thus, reducing progressively yourdebt till you become debt-free. 
Consolidating Debt will provide fresh air to your credit situation and will solve the problem of harassing calls from debt collectors. 
There are many alternatives for debt consolidation but as any other financial decision a lot of thinking must be done and rushing in is not a wise choice.


