Title: 
Help With Debt Problems

Word Count:
374

Summary:
Many reputable debt management companies can help you deal with your debt problems. You can work with a credit counselor to create your own plan to pay off bills. Companies can also help you reduce your debt through debt management plans, consolidation loans, or debt negotiations. While each program has its own benefits, they can all help you get out of debt sooner

Credit Counseling

Credit counselors work with you privately over the phone, email, or in person to develop...


Keywords:
debt consolidation, credit card debt, debt relief


Article Body:
Many reputable debt management companies can help you deal with your debt problems. You can work with a credit counselor to create your own plan to pay off bills. Companies can also help you reduce your debt through debt management plans, consolidation loans, or debt negotiations. While each program has its own benefits, they can all help you get out of debt sooner

Credit Counseling

Credit counselors work with you privately over the phone, email, or in person to develop a financial plan for you. They will identify areas of savings and create a debt payment plan.

They can also recommend services that might help you, such as debt management plans or debt consolidation loans. Services are explained, and specific companies might be recommended. You should still research other debt service companies before signing up with a recommended one.

Debt Management Plans

Debt management plans receive a monthly payment from you which they pay your unsecured debts with. They also negotiate lower rates and fees with your creditors. Most debt management plans can get you out of unsecured debt in less than five years and have a minimal impact on your credit score.

Debt Consolidation Loans

Debt consolidation loans are handled by you. Paying off your short term debt with a home equity loan or personal loan can lower your interest rates and monthly payments. You can further reduce monthly payments by picking longer terms for your loans. To minimize the affect on your credit score, close paid off accounts.

Debt Negotiations

Debt negotiation companies reduce your debt through agreements with your creditors. Not all of your lenders will agree to reduce your loan amount, but many will if they believe you might declare bankruptcy. With reduced debts, you can pay off your debt sooner.

However, debt negotiation will remain on your credit history for seven years. You will be able to get credit within a couple of years, but at subprime rates. Reduced debt also has to be declared on your federal and state taxes as income.

No matter which debt management option you choose, research several companies before you sign up. Make sure their rates and services are reasonable. If you have questions, request additional information, which is free from reputable companies.


