Title: 
Home Equity Debt Consolidation Loans - 3 Things To Know

Word Count:
365

Summary:
Decided to consolidate your debt with a Home Equity Loan? That may be a very smart idea! Consolidating your debt allows you to make just one monthly payment, and home equity loans tend to have low interest rates and tax perks too, which could save you money. But before you borrow from the equity in your home, remember these three things:

It's not available to everyone.

Just because you "own" your home doesn't mean you'll be able to get a Home Equity Loan. The equity you...


Keywords:
debt consolidation loan, home equity loan


Article Body:
Decided to consolidate your debt with a Home Equity Loan? That may be a very smart idea! Consolidating your debt allows you to make just one monthly payment, and home equity loans tend to have low interest rates and tax perks too, which could save you money. But before you borrow from the equity in your home, remember these three things:

It's not available to everyone.

Just because you "own" your home doesn't mean you'll be able to get a Home Equity Loan. The equity you have equals the value of your home minus the amount you still owe on it. So if you only purchased your home recently--or home values have fallen in your neighborhood--you might not have any available equity. Moreover, a lender will also assess your credit and financial situation--such as your credit score, current employment and income--before approving your loan application. Although it's a lot easier to get approved for a home equity loan than other types of loans, some borrowers may not qualify.

Your home is at risk.

With a Home Equity Loan, your house is collateral for the loan. So if you have problems making payments, the bank or lender can actually repossess your house. In general, you should only borrow from a home equity loan for debt consolidation if you're absolutely certain that you'll be able to make the monthly payments.

You may not save as much as you think.

People assume the interest they pay on a Home Equity Loan is tax deductible, and in most cases they're right. However, there are some states in which Home Equity Loan interest is not tax deductible, so check out the rules and regulations in your area before you sign up for the loan. Also, watch out for fees, charges and other extra costs that may be attached to your loan. Paying lots of points and fees could mean that you're not saving as much as you think with your Home Equity Loan.

Although a Home Equity Loan can be a smart, low-cost way to consolidate debt, make sure you carefully research your decision--and weigh the pros and cons--before signing on the dotted line.


