Title: 
How To Consolidate Debt and Be Successful in Life.

Word Count:
389

Summary:
More an more consumers, in every part of the world need to go to debt consolidation services. It is a real society problem today, and more people are choosing that way as an alternative to bankruptcy...


Keywords:
mortgage,bankruptcy,debt help,debt,debt management,credit card debt,personal finance,debt consolidation loans,debt free,get out of debt


Article Body:
How to change your life and your bad habits to go beyond debt, and  discover new trends to live the life you deserve...


What is Debt Consolidation? Debt consolidation consist to take out one loan from a debt consolidation service in order to pay multiple loans or bills like credit card bills, or other student loans.

For several reasons, it is not recommended.  Debt Consolidation companies offers sound exciting, but many end up costing you much more than you think you earned. The major problem is that you may be tempted to use your credit card even more, simply because you rely on these companies and unconsciously, you spend and drag out your credit card and you don't mind.

What is their goal, and what they will never tell you?
First you should know that they don't have any interest in giving people the right advice, as their main revenue is from people like you, I mean people in debt.

What you should understand is that the ultimate goal  of these debt consolidation services is not to help you, but their real purpose is to make money.

Well it is a good purpose, make money. The truth is that there is nothing wrong with that, and we all need money to live. But why make money with you when you need help?

These companies are playing on the psychologic side, they know that you have no choice and that you got to avoid bankruptcy, so you finish at their offices...

You may be asking yourself, why so much people are turning to these companies? If so many people are going there, it should not be a problem.

Well, I was working as a financial advisory, and do you know what was my first task when I come to my office at 7.30 am? No, how in the world would you know?
My first task was: take the phone, and call people who were delinquent with their account, people who did not paid their debts in time.
Most of the  time, those people  were still sleeping when I rang them! But I got to do it, because the system is like that.

The main reason is that people can't afford the following: credit harassment, foreclosures, repossessions, tax levies and garnishment, bankruptcy, or loose their house... and family. They got no choice.


