Title: 
How To Solve Debt Problems – 3 Tips To Lower Debts

Word Count:
368

Summary:
Being credit savvy is the best way to guarantee the best and lowest rates on mortgages, auto loans, and personal loans. Unfortunately, millions of Americans suffer from credit denial. They acquire an enormous amount of debt, and instead of creating a plan to reduce debts, they ignore the problem. However, your debt will not miraculously disappear. Here are some tips to help you reduce your debts and become financially free.

Unsecured Credit Cards: Get Rid of the Plastic
...


Keywords:
debt relief, debt solutions


Article Body:
Being credit savvy is the best way to guarantee the best and lowest rates on mortgages, auto loans, and personal loans. Unfortunately, millions of Americans suffer from credit denial. They acquire an enormous amount of debt, and instead of creating a plan to reduce debts, they ignore the problem. However, your debt will not miraculously disappear. Here are some tips to help you reduce your debts and become financially free.

Unsecured Credit Cards: Get Rid of the Plastic

Credit cards account for a large portion of consumer debts. In fact, most people with debt problems have several maxed-out credit cards that total thousands of dollars. While the average household has a credit card debt of approximately $6,000 to $8,000, some consumers are carrying credit card balances over $20,000.

First step to reducing credit card debt involves getting rid of the card. Do not close credit card accounts. Instead, cut the cards in half. This way, you no longer have the ability to shop freely.

Next, outline a realistic plan for repaying debts. Individuals who earn a sizable income may be able to allocate their disposable income toward paying down balances. If not, consider obtaining short-term second employment.

Take Advantage of a Home Equity Loan or Mortgage Refinancing

If you own a home, getting a home equity loan or refinancing your current mortgage may provide you with enough funds to eliminate your unnecessary consumer debts. Both loans are protected by your home; thus, these loans are easy to qualify for.

Common uses of home equity loans and cash-out refinancing include debt consolidation, home improvements, education expenses, weddings, etc. Furthermore, by using the funds to pay credit cards, you will also boost your personal credit rating.

Debt Management and Credit Counseling Services

Using a debt management and credit counseling services to reduce debts is very effective. Although these agencies accept all types of credit, individuals with poor credit and non-homeowners can greatly benefit from these services. Debt management agencies will provide applicants with valuable information to help them use credit responsibly. Moreover, agencies will contact creditors and negotiate lower interest rates, and attempt to get late fees waived. Through a debt management agency, you can expect to be debt-free within a few years.


