Title: 
How Much Does That Sofa Really Cost You?  The Cost of Consumer Debt

Word Count:
528

Summary:
Do you have consumer debt with nothing to show for it? How much does it really cost you to buy consumable goods on credit, anyway? Find out in this humorous article by Leo Quinn. Learn why it's never a good idea to go into debt for stuff you'll eventually use up or replace.


Keywords:
consumer debt, debt help, debt advice, debt management


Article Body:
Copyright 2006 Leo J Quinn Jr Enterprises, LLC

Let's talk about consumer debt.  You know, the kind you rack up because you really need stuff.

Your sofa is looking pretty nasty.  It’s covered with Kool-Aid stains,and throw pillows are hiding threadbare spots where the tufting peeks through.  You even had to throw down some plywood to keep the pillows from sagging.

Time to go out and buy a new one, right?

Not if you don’t have the cash.

Here’s why that new sofa is going to cost you a lot more than the $800 sticker price if you go into consumer debt to buy it.

Let’s assume you buy the sofa as well as matching loveseat and end tables for a grand total of $2000.  You finance your purchase through the furniture store for three years at an interest rate of 21.45% (let’s leave out the “no interest for two years” deal for a minute).

Your monthly payments will be…drum roll, please…$75.

“Wow”, you think.  “That’s pretty affordable.”  Sure it is.

Until you count the true cost of that sofa.

Let’s assume you’re 30 years old and you’re going to retire at 65.  Let’s also assume you have access to a 401(k) that your employer matches at 50%, you can earn a 10% average return on investments, and your combined federal and state tax brackets are 20%.

If you pay for your furniture with cash and invest the $75 a month in your 401(k) for three years instead, you’d have $4,330 more in your account at the end of the three years (plus your sofa).  Now keep that $4,330 in your 401(k) without any additional investment and in another 32 years, at retirement, it will have grown to $83,112.

So, basically, your sofa cost you $2,000, plus $700 interest, plus $83,112 that would have grown over 32 years in your retirement account.

Final sticker price:  $85,812.

Yikes.

Here’s an alternative plan:  hang on for another two years, save $80 a month in a money market mutual fund or savings vehicle that earns at least 4%, and use cash to pay for your new living room set.

Final sticker price:  $1,920

Here’s an even better alternative plan:  hang on for another two years, save $80 a month, and after you buy the sofa, put $80 a month in your 401(k) instead (you were already living without it for two years).

Final sticker price:  $1,920, plus an extra $815,699 in YOUR bank account by age 65.

Now what about those “no interest for two years” deals?  Well, you can certainly take advantage of those, if you’re disciplined enough to pay off the balance in less time.  Most people aren’t.

You can use this strategy for every major purchase you make.

The cost of consumer debt is a big deal, when it’s compounded by time, interest and 50% employer matching.

So next time you hit the furniture store and the salesman is telling you, "It’s only going to cost you $75 a month", you’ll know better.  Tell him or her, "Nope!  It’s actually going to cost me around $85 grand. See you in two years."

Avoid consumer debt, and you're well on your way to a much stronger financial future.


