Title: 
How To Really Get Out Of Debt – Without Spending A Fortune On “Credit Counseling”!

Word Count:
567

Summary:
Do you need an expensive credit counseling service to get out of debt? Maybe not. Find out here and explore other ways to rid yourself of debt without spending a lot of money. If you decide you need counseling - you'll find reliable referral resources to match you up with a reputable service.

If you’re like most people, you may not realize credit counseling is big business. Some of those “nice folks” trying to help you get out of debt make good money for their efforts. And...


Keywords:
credit counseling, debt counseling, credit consolidation, debt consolidation, freedom from debt


Article Body:
Do you need an expensive credit counseling service to get out of debt? Maybe not. Find out here and explore other ways to rid yourself of debt without spending a lot of money. If you decide you need counseling - you'll find reliable referral resources to match you up with a reputable service.

If you’re like most people, you may not realize credit counseling is big business. Some of those “nice folks” trying to help you get out of debt make good money for their efforts. And guess who pays for their services? You, the poor debt-ridden client! The fees end up bundled into the “consolidation solution”. 

The fact is you may not even need their help. This article is meant to help you determine if you do need counseling. If you decide you do, I’ll provide links to reputable sources for counseling. You may still pay a fee, but at least but you can breath a sigh of relief knowing you’re not being taken for a ride. But first, do you really need counseling? Let’s find out…

Are you bombarded with calls from creditors?

If so it may be time to get help – many agencies can work with creditors on your behalf to establish payment schedules.

Are you making regular payments on all your debts?

Good for you. Making regular payments is a sign you may not need counseling yet. However if you’ve stopped making payments or have missed more than just a couple in the past few months, you may wish to consider contacting a counselor.

Have creditors started legal action against you? 

If you’re facing foreclosure on your home, your car being repossessed, or other legal actions, you should really consider getting outside help.

But what if you are “just a little behind”? Or even if you’re simply a tad uncomfortable, wondering where all your money goes. If so you may be in better shape than you think. 

One way to get out of debt is to do it yourself. These days there are many self-help books and courses designed to help you get back on track and even win back your financial freedom from debt. 

Leo Quinn offers one such book “How to Own Your Paycheck Again”. Leo’s no-nonsense style has helped hundreds of people shed their debt like an old rag as he shatters some of the myths spouted by many so-called “experts” like:

“Buying a home is the best investment you can make” – oh really? Leo shows you in dollars and cents how this is not always true.

Leo also challenges the “pay off your high interest debts first” idea and shows exactly why you should challenge it too!

The bottom line is Leo Quinn not only shows you how you pay off all your debts (yes including your mortgage) in less than 10 years and the tools you need come right with the book. If you believe you’re not quite ready for counseling, check out Leo Quinn’s “How to Own Your Paycheck Again” 

If you would like to find a credit counselor, the Association of Independent Consumer Credit Counseling Agencies (http://www.aiccca.org/) or the National Foundation for Credit Counseling (http://www.debtadvice.org/) both offer referral services for accredited counseling agencies. Be sure to compare any agency by the checklists provided by these organizations. 
 
Here’s to living debt free!


