Title: 
How Bill Consolidation Can Help Eliminate Your Debt

Word Count:
440

Summary:
In current times, many people are turning to credit cards for extra cash and even a way to pay bills on time. Although pulling out the credit card can seem very easy and harmless, it can become addicting and sometimes leads to an extreme burden if used irresponsibly.


Keywords:
bill consolidation services, bill consolidation services


Article Body:
In current times, many people are turning to credit cards for extra cash and even a way to pay bills on time. This is caused by the fact that the average family now faces higher costs of living than ever before. With the high costs of expenses ranging from food, utilities, rent, transportation, clothing, insurance, etc., it can be very hard to handle everything without occasionally turning to credit cards.

Although pulling out the credit card can seem very easy and harmless, it can become addicting and sometimes leads to an extreme burden if used irresponsibly. Many people end up owing large amounts to credit card companies, and this debt only increases if you can't pay it on the due dates. It will continue to pile up, and at some points you may even be unable to pay other expenses such as your phone bills due to the high payments of your credit cards. It can seem almost unbearable at times, leaving people feeling helpless to conquer their debt. Is there a solution? How will you solve your financial problems?

The answer would obviously be to simply continue to pay your bills, and eventually you'll get out. However, this can sometimes be impossible as you may not even have enough money to pay off even one of your credit card statements. The real solution is to educate yourself on the other options available, one being a service called bill consolidation.

Bill consolidation is simply the process of combining all of your bills into one single payment with lower interest rates and lower monthly payments. Instead of paying your credit card bills and other unsecured debt to multiple companies, you'll only have to make a single payment to the company providing the service.

One thing to take note of is that bill consolidation services and bill consolidation loans are very different. Bill consolidation loans usually put you longer in debt, as the repayment period is extended in order to lower your interest rates. Bill consolidation services, on the other hand, negotiate with your creditors to greatly lower your payments without using a loan at all. Many people get out of debt in a handful of years with a bill consolidation service as opposed to potentially decades on their own.

In 2006 to 2007, the Center for Media Research reported that more than half of the United States population owned more than one credit card, and MSN Money reported that 8.3% of Americans had more than $9000 of debt to their credit card companies. You aren't alone in your struggle, and there are thousands of people a day looking for help on getting out of debt.


