Title: 
Lower Monthly Payments – Options For Reducing Debt Payments

Word Count:
357

Summary:
Unfortunately, many who acquire an unnecessary amount of consumer debt take the easy road and file bankruptcy to avoid their obligations. Reducing debts without bankruptcy protection is doable. However, this requires effort and persistence. Debts accumulate over years. Thus, it is unrealistic to expect a quick fix. There are many options for reducing debts and monthly payments. Here are a few tips on ways to lower debt payments and save money.

Reduce Interest Rate

Highe...


Keywords:
debt consolidation


Article Body:
Unfortunately, many who acquire an unnecessary amount of consumer debt take the easy road and file bankruptcy to avoid their obligations. Reducing debts without bankruptcy protection is doable. However, this requires effort and persistence. Debts accumulate over years. Thus, it is unrealistic to expect a quick fix. There are many options for reducing debts and monthly payments. Here are a few tips on ways to lower debt payments and save money.

Reduce Interest Rate

Higher interest rates on credit cards and other types of debts will result in higher monthly payments. The key to saving money on debt payments is to negotiate a lower rate with creditors. If your credit rating is high, you may be able to do this without the help of a debt consolidation service.

Before an interest rate reduction occurs, creditors review credit reports. Be aware, this will show as an inquiry on your credit report. Credit inquiries can potentially reduce your credit score. If you have many credit accounts, it may help to only reduce the accounts with the highest rate.

Once the interest rate on credit cards is reduced, a large percentage of your monthly payments will be applied to the principle balance. This makes it possible to reduce debts at a faster rate.

Personal Debt Consolidation Loans

If getting a debt consolidation loan, you will in essence be reducing your interest rate on credit accounts. Again, obtaining lower rates is the easiest and most effective way of quickly reducing monthly debt payments. Various lenders offer debt consolidation to people with all credit types. In most cases, collateral is required for this type of loan.

Transfer Credit Balances to a Low Interest Credit Card

High interest credit cards make it harder for some to get out of debt. With this said, take advantage of low interest or 0% interest balance transfers. By transferring credit card balance to a low-rate card, you are able to save money and eliminate debt at the same time.

If using a balance transfer option, timely payments are essential. These credit card companies will penalize you for irregular payments. A late payment immediately validates an interest rate increase.


