Title: 
Personal Debt Consolidation Loans: Isn’t it time to stabilize your financial position

Word Count:
716

Summary:
A personal debt consolidation loan is taken for personal debt settlement. The process initiates bringing together of various debts, individual loans, pending bills and additional payments. These amounts are consolidated into one and then repaid through the personal debt consolidation loan. Although the debts owed by you are immediately repaid, this consolidation loan can be spread out and paid later. Time utility is added by spreading the repayment over a significantly longer period.


Keywords:
Personal loans, bad credit loans ,debt consolidation loans ,personal debt consolidation loans


Article Body:
Have you ever felt that you can no longer manage to stabilize your financial position? Your expenses are outgrowing your income? Your payments are too much to handle and are stressing you out??? Well…..its time you got your act together and took control of your own future. Personal Debt Consolidation Loans may be the ideal act to put your finances back on the road to freedom!!!

Personal Debt Consolidation Loans are ideally offered to those who are unable to manage their monthly payments. They are a good option for you to reduce your debts and gradually move to a debt free life. Consolidation loans merge all your debts and bills into a single payment. This loan reduces your monthly payments by lowering the interest rate or extending the repayment period or sometimes both. With these loans, your pending debts are immediately cleared, while the repayment options of the new loan are customized according to your financial capacity and expectations. Thus, the loan is “personalized” in accordance with you!!

Personal Debt Consolidation Loans are of two types: Personal Debt Consolidation Secured Loans and Personal Debt Consolidation Unsecured Loans. 

Personal Debt Consolidation Secured Loans:

Personal Debt Consolidation Secured Loans, like any other secured loan requires collateral in the form of the borrower’s home, vehicle or any securable property be placed against the loan to guarantee payback for the amount borrowed. The lender is not risking anything because he has ownership to the collateral, until repayment. Because of this assurance, the interest charged on the loan, is lower. Collateral with the highest value should be used to get lower interest rates and better loan terms. With this loan, you can borrow from £5,000 to £75,000 and up to 125% of your property value in some cases. Also, the personal consolidation secured loan creditor individually deals with each of the previous lenders and negotiates payment with them. Thus, you don’t have to deal with any prior debts personally. This loan has a loan term of 10 – 30 years. A good debt consolidation secured loan would be that which fits beautifully in your financial situation. A secured personal debt consolidation loan is generally preferred over an unsecured personal debt consolidation loan because of the low rate of interest. Secured personal debt consolidation loans are better suited if one needs a larger amount. 

Personal Debt Consolidation Unsecured Loans:
A Personal Debt Consolidation Unsecured Loan does not enforce placement of any collateral against it. This justifies the higher interest rate charged on them. Ideally, you must find a loan with lower interest rates than what you are currently paying on your individual bills. The loan amount is usually restricted to £25,000 because of the absence of any security for the lender. These loans are usually applied for by tenants and non homeowners who do not have a home to offer as security, however, this does not stop homeowners from applying for them. These loans are faster to get because the time required for valuation of collateral is waived.

Personal Consolidation loans are advantageous to almost anyone because of the ease with which you can customize them to your financial stability and your choice. Although bad credit history may prove to be a temporary obstacle in the process, it definitely doesn’t prevent you from getting the money you need. Bad credit history includes CCJs, arrears, bad debts, etc. Borrowers with bad credit history have to shell a greater amount because of the higher interest rates they are offered. This is because of the jeopardy involved in dealing with borrowers with a bad credit history. With your co-operation, we can unquestionably find a consolidation loan, tailored to your need. This means that there’s a Personal Consolidated Loan for everyone, all you have to do is find it!! 

Remember: 

•With a good credit score, you can negotiate the interest rate to a certain extent.

•Do the calculations yourself. 

•You should consider your financial position, the amount you want to borrow and the repayment option you will be able to afford. 

•Try to repay your loans as soon as possible. Paying more means paying faster!

•Take informed decisions with proper guidance from experts. They will have a wider opinion on the matter.

•Take an active part in choosing your repayment options. Ultimately, it’s customized specially for you!!


