Title: 
Quality Debt Settlement Businesses

Word Count:
354

Summary:
Are you in debt? Are you finding it hard to tackle this problem alone? A debt settlement company may be the solution. Take care to learn what the impact will be on your credit standing if you choose to go with such a plan.


Keywords:
debt settlement, debt relief, debt consolidation, bad credit, no credit, credit report, FICO, money


Article Body:
Are you in debt? If so, you might need the help of one of the many quality debt settlement businesses available to you to help pay off what you owe. Finding such businesses isn’t always easy, and there are some questions you must ask before you commit to a contract. Do some personal investigating to find out which businesses [if any] are right for you.

So, how can you locate a quality debt settlement businesses? First of all, by searching right online. Naturally, not all businesses are the same and you must find out if each one is valid or not, including if it is licensed by your state. Happily, most corporate web sites share this type of information openly. 

<b>Here are five steps you can take to ensure that the company you are dealing with is on the up and up:</b>

1. Check with the Better Business Bureau {BBB} to see if complaints have been registered against a particular company. Ask the BBB for a list of quality debt settlement businesses.

2. Obtain the company’s D&B report from Dun and Bradstreet. This report will reveal if the company is in the black, who members of its board of directors are, as well as other key corporate information.

3. Check with your state’s consumer affairs department for information. If the company has not registered with your state, find out where they are registered and call that state’s consumer affairs department. 

4. Ask for references. If you still feel good about the company, get references. If they are solid, they will freely share that information.  If the company is not willing to part with references, just move on to the next company on your list.

5. Ask friends and family members if they know of a specific quality debt settlement business. 

You can thin your list by comparing their fees, by learning what impact a debt settlement loan will have on your credit rating, and determining how long you have to pay off your debt. 

You can get out of the debt spiral if you choose a plan that works to your advantage.


