Title: 
Real spells that work? The truth about REAL white witchcraft spells.

Word Count:
877

Summary:
This article is about energy influence, psychic powers and ability to spell cast. Is it just paranormal beliefs making people feel cured, or is there more to it? It discusses how people get out of financial debit just by believing they can do it with the help of a spell that they can't see.


Keywords:
witchcraft, love spells, metaphysical, herb medicine


Article Body:
Author: Ashra Enchantments
When people think of powerful love spells and energy influence, they think witch craft supplies of scented pillar candles, hogwarts, magic voodoo love spell dust or secret love potions being made over a black leaky cauldron. For thousands of years, civilization has relied on real spell knowledge, energy influence and herb medicine. The truth is that real wicca practice and ancient Egyptian spell work is nothing like the movies. 

We are all connected through an energy network that links our spirituality, metaphysical and paranormal experiences. Through this network, those with an inherited gift and psychic ability can pass through time to gain a reading on your future. This same energy network influences what will come to be and can be altered through white magic. These charmed spells normally are passed through generations of shadow books. 

There are many people that laugh at new age remedies. They have problems, but never seek the spiritual path. They hear the word pagan, occult or psychic powers and decide to run. Most people don’t believe working with energy can help overcome a love, money, or health problem. Why then are their so many people turning to these solutions instead of health products? 

Through my natural gift and ancient Egyptian witchcraft practice, I have helped many through energy influence and my spells. The truth about white magic is that it must be cast from the heart in a genuine fashion to truly work. There are only certain individuals who have the psychic sight to guide spells that work. 

How do you use black magic or white magic to get a soulmate back? Is there even a way for you to learn witchcraft on your own? These questions come into my email more and more. My answer: There are many spells that can be performed by an individual and are within the reach of the average beginner witch craft. I have several witchcraft spell books on my website that will help those who want to learn the art. They have all been written by myself and have been followed up with spell reviews. If you feel you have “mind over matter” and a natural psychic ability then check them out. 

I believe that in our culture and society, there will always be resistance when you speak of fortune tellers or spell casting. We won’t see people saying, “I just had a spell cast upon me.” This will be your own spiritual journey and you must seek happiness from within the enchantment of your soul. There are many mainstream religions that teach you about the inner aura for a reason. 

Cast a spell? If you believe in spell casting or psychics, then you are halfway to understanding your own spiritual guidance path. This isn’t about some tarot card reader sitting you down or some commercial psychic. When you have a spell casted by someone with clairvoyant insight, then there you receive accurate and powerful results. If you get a white spell cast by just anyone, they it floats in the air and you are wasting money on conjures that don’t work. 

Those who have yet to experience energy influence should really try it. Many to date have had financial problems or personal debt are looking for financial freedom and to get themselves all out of debt. There are many success stories about using money spells to accomplish this in a matter of months. You can stop credit card debit from ruling your life. 

There have been many who seek help for relationship problems using spells. If you need love advice on relationship problems then I invite you to speak with me. Everyone has experienced communication problems that need to be fixed – just a matter of how. I listen to many cases for free and provide good remedies using energy influence. Love spells do work and can be effective for long term relationships. The secret to white magik is trusting someone that can conjure with genuine feelings. There have been many people wanting to learn witchcraft from me that just don’t have the real heart or connection for solving problems. The “how to” is their issue. 

If you are looking to improve your love life, attract a new love, or improve the sex relationship consider white magic. Make sure you choose someone that genuinely cares about your well being. If you can open your mind to magic spells and spiritual solutions then lasting change can happen. Getting out of debit, attracting more money, or a serious relationship needs to be handled by a professional to get results. You need to know the truth about real magic and that is that is must be done by someone who truly cares. 

Why just decide to end a relationship or stop building a relationship because there are a couple sex problems? Decide to see the truth about your spirituality and understand how real spells work. 

© Spell Enchantments 2006. 

Ashra: Renown clairvoyant psychic, spell caster and Akychi Master. She specializes in paranormal, metaphysical and Egyptian witchcraft energy influence to turn people's dreams into reality. Owner of Spell Enchantments, her success in future predictions and love spells has earned place rank of eBay's #1 Psychic and published recognition worldwide. 
Website: Free Love Spells .ca


