Title: 
Reclaim Your Life Through Debt Negotiation. The Better Way to Saving You Time, Money and Your Credit.

Word Count:
530

Summary:
Discover the advantages of Debt Negotiation, the better way to saving you time, money and your credit. What you learn may very well


Keywords:
Keywords: debt negotiation, bankruptcy, credit rating, debt collectors, creditor, bankruptcy laws


Article Body:
Are you losing sleep at night? Do you dread answering your phone or answering your door for fear that it could be your creditors or a collection agency? Debt Negotiation can help.

Do you want to reclaim your life back? Finally get a good nights sleep? Save your credit rating? Save money? Get out of debt once and for all? If you said yes to all these questions, Debt Negotiation can help you to achieve all of these things. 

When you fall behind on your bills your creditor will often take action against you and this can be followed by a court judgment such as wage garnishments, tax liens or bank account levies. All of these inconveniences can be relieved through a Debt Negotiation Plan.

Debt Negotiation is the process of settling your debt with your creditors. A professional debt negotiator will act on your behalf negotiating directly with your creditors so that you can avoid bankruptcy and the creditor doesn’t have to go to court to retrieve the money. Through debt negotiation you can save yourself from the disadvantage of bankruptcy while at the same time allowing yourself to get the benefits of bankruptcy.

The do it yourself approach can not be done effectively as it can cause you a lot of wasted time. And it can often result in more added financial hardship. But through a Debt Negotiation Service, they will help you to negotiate with your creditors by writing Debt Negotiation Letters or make telephone calls on your behalf to your creditors or debt collectors negotiating settling for a better term, a smaller payment or even to reduce your debt by a substantial percentage for a lump sum payment. 

Bankruptcy laws now make it more difficult to file. And what you need to also consider when you file bankruptcy is that your credit rating is ruined and for business owners this can be the kiss of death. With Debt Negotiation you can save your credit rating and for business owners literally save all that they have worked for.

Benefits of Debt Negotiation 

Debt Negotiation takes less time than consumer credit counseling. Consumer Credit Counseling Services can take 60 to 82 months to complete and only reduce interest. Debt Negotiation can take 24 to 36 months to complete and they settle your debt principal and interest.

Debt Negotiation can save you money. Most creditors and debt collectors who haven’t been paid for awhile are usually ready to negotiate and typically will settle unsecured debt for 50% or more of the balance.

Debt Negotiation can help to improve your credit scores. Because you are starting to pay off your unsecured debts, your debt to income ratio goes down.

Many creditors are willing to replace negative information on your credit report with positive information if it can be worked out through Debt Negotiation. 

Debt Negotiation can stop creditor or debt collectors from harassing you. 

Most importantly, Debt Negotiation prevents you from filing for bankruptcy which can result in long term credit damage and maximum financial ruin.  

If you work with a Debt Negotiation expert then you will reap the benefits of saving time, saving money and saving your credit rating. 

© Copyright 2007 Judith Howard


