Title: 
Reduce Your Student Loan Debt in 3 Easy Steps

Word Count:
522

Summary:
When the student loan payments begin to fall due, and you find yourself overwhelmed with monthly payments, you have to consider how you’re going to handle the load. You certainly can’t let the loans just slide and hope they go away because that is most definitely not going to happen.


Keywords:
student debt consolidation,debt consolidation,debt consolidation loan,student loan


Article Body:
When the student loan payments begin to fall due, and you find yourself overwhelmed with monthly payments, you have to consider how you’re going to handle the load. You certainly can’t let the loans just slide and hope they go away because that is most definitely not going to happen. 

The easiest way to reduce the amount of payments and interest on your student loans is to research the different programs that are available for student loan consolidation. There are several consolidation loan options available for student loans from Federal student loan consolidation to private student loan consolidation, and how much you are able to accomplish will be based on the policies of the lending institution. Some of these loans start as low as 2.75% with terms anywhere from ten years to twenty-five years based on the amount of the loans that are being consolidated. 

Another tip to keep in mind as you research the means for obtaining a student loan debt consolidation loan that there are different programs available. The federal student consolidation loans do not always require proof of income or a credit history/ As such, these type loans are a perfect fit for students who are just leaving college and have not yet become settled in their career choices. This type loan can make a difference of up to $300 monthly on loan payments depending on how much is borrowed in comparison to what the original payments were. The difference in payments can help the student get settle into a home and career instead of struggling to make ends meet while repaying numerous student loans. 

The student debt consolidation loans that are not backed by the government have a slight higher interest rate that oven starts at about 4.5% and caps at about 6.25% depending on the state. In addition, these loans require good credit as well as income sufficient to make the payments. Some of these loans allow repayment terms up to about thirty years depending on the amount of the loan. For those who have completed their degree and are settled into their career, this type of loan can ease the burden of paying back all of the numerous student loans.

When you begin to look for a student loan debt consolidation loan, you have to do some research and find the one that best suits your individual needs. You want to be sure that the plan you choose is going to allow you to make the payments on time as well as paying all of your other post-college obligations. Be careful not to accept the first deal that sounds like it fits your needs. Do some investigation and get quotes from three to five lending institutions before you make the final decision. By doing this you allow yourself the opportunity to see what other lenders have to offer and can choose from the most attractive package. After all, college costs are expensive, so consolidating those loans is a rather substantial amount of money. A difference of .25% over a term of ten years can make a tremendous difference in the final amount that you will have to pay back.


