Title: 
Reduce Debt - How To Prevent Bankruptcy By Reducing And Consolidating Your Debt

Word Count:
432

Summary:
You can prevent bankruptcy by consolidating your debt with the help of a loan or debt consolidation agency to reduce your monthly payments and quickly pay off your liability. But before signing final paperwork, you should develop a financial plan and research your options.

Goal Of Consolidation

The goal of consolidation is to lower your monthly payments so you can pay off your debt and avoid bankruptcy. However, consolidation only works if you make it part of a larger f...


Keywords:
debt relief, debt consolidation, debt problem, debt management, poor credit, bankruptcy


Article Body:
You can prevent bankruptcy by consolidating your debt with the help of a loan or debt consolidation agency to reduce your monthly payments and quickly pay off your liability. But before signing final paperwork, you should develop a financial plan and research your options.

Goal Of Consolidation

The goal of consolidation is to lower your monthly payments so you can pay off your debt and avoid bankruptcy. However, consolidation only works if you make it part of a larger financial plan. You have to be committed to reducing your liability and saving for financial emergencies.

Once you have consolidated your loans, it is a good idea to build a financial cushion of six months worth of cash reserves. This ensures that you can pay cash for the inevitable financial emergency and not increase your credit load.

Your next goal should be to make extra payments. The sooner you can pay off your principal the less you will pay in interest payments.

Types Of Debt Consolidation Loans And Programs

The two types of debt consolidation loans are mortgage loans and personal loans. Mortgage loans are ideal since their interest is tax deductible. However, you need to be sure that you have enough equity to borrow against and that you can recoup the cost of up front fees.

The other option is to use a personal loan. Personal loans are based on your credit score and income. Personal loans typically have lower interest rates than credit cards, but are usually higher than mortgages rates.

Instead of a loan, you can also use a debt consolidation service. These companies will negotiate lower interest rates with your creditors. There are no fees involved since these companies are usually non profit. They also provide credit counseling, offering financial advice and guidance.

Debt Consolidation Providers

Depending on what type of loan or program you choose, debt consolidation providers are relatively easy to find. If you are planning to use your home equity, then you will want to search for a mortgage lender. Many lenders offer free quotes online for easy comparison.

Personal loan lenders also can be found online. As with any financing company, you need to research rates and terms to find the best deal. Requesting a quote from a lender does not lock you into a loan. Legitimate lenders will be more than willing to provide this information to help you make a wise financial choice.

You can also get connected with debt consolidation services online. Some directory sites will help you find an agency in your area or you can work with a national agency.


