Title: 
Secured Debt Consolidation Loans—get rid of previous debts in one go

Word Count:
489

Summary:
Secured debt consolidation loans aim at bringing all previous debts under one lender in order to reduce the financial outgo of the borrower and to save his valuable time. But it is the strategy to avail the loan, which matters the most. The article apprises the borrowers of the vital tips.


Keywords:
Secured loans, Payday loans, secured debt consolidation loans


Article Body:
With availing loans now becoming increasingly easier, large number of borrowers now faces the familiar problem of expenses outgrowing income. They take loans for almost each and every purpose. Some of these loans are taken at a higher interest rate, which become a financial burden. Secured debt consolidation loans come to the rescue of such borrowers, as it is designed to help in eliminating previous debts. The borrower can improve his credibility also when he opts for secured debt consolidation loans.

If the loan is taken carefully it solves all the debt worries of the borrower so that he may make a new beginning. Before you start looking around for the secured debt consolidation loans, first of all you should find out the amount you would need to pay off previous debts. To do this, make a total of all those debts including the interest on them to arrive at the sum you require. You can even take the services of a debt expert who will advise you on the amount you actually need.  

After you have pinpointed an amount you would require, the next step is to put a property of your own as collateral with the lender. Any property like home, car or even savings account serves the purpose of collateral. On the basis of the collateral the borrower can ask for the desired amount.

Normally lenders provide secured debt consolidation loans in the range of £5000 to £50000.If the borrower requires even larger amount because of high previous debts then the lender will look at the value of the collateral. If the collateral is of high value the borrower will get desired amount.

Though normally the rate of interest remains lower in secured debt consolidation loan, still high value collateral becomes an added advantage in demanding lower rate of interest. The repayment of secured debt consolidation loan usually is spread to a convenient duration of up to 25 years. The borrowers have the option of paying secured debt consolidation loan either in monthly or quarterly installments. Borrowers with high value collateral are offered the maximum repayment term.

A lot depends on the borrower’s loan repayment reputation, which the lenders often judge by looking at the borrower’s credit score. Higher the credit score, higher are the chances of extracting lower interest rate and greater amount from the lender. So it would be a good strategy to update the credit record, which is compiled by one of the three credit rating agencies—Experian, Equifax and Transunion. Credit score of 620 and above is considered favorable and safe by the lenders

Secured debt consolidation loans are also the best option for those borrowers who want to improve creditability, as the loan is taken mostly for the purpose of eliminating previous debts 

Surely, those borrowers who have many previous debts should opt for secured debt consolidation loans as they get this loan easily by putting property as collateral without selling it.


