Title: 
Should I Consolidate My Credit Card Debts?

Word Count:
490

Summary:
Credit card debt consolidation is a good option for more than one reason; not only do you get relief from the increase in the amount of your credit card debt, but you may also get other benefits.


Keywords:



Article Body:
Unlike general debt where the answer to problems is rarely to consolidate, the consolidation of credit card debt is often worhtwhile. Credit card debt consolidation is regarded by many ias being the first step toward card debt elimination. But, before you taking the initial step towards consolidating your credit card debt, you need to understand that consolidating credit card debt (or using balance transfers) is an action that is being taken to eliminate your credit card debt. Consolidation of your credit card debt is not simply a mechanism for putting the problem away for a while. 

Credit card debt consolidation is a good option for more than one reason; not only do you get relief from the increase in the amount of your credit card debt, but you may also get other benefits. Many card issuers make offers to new users who transfer in ther existing balances that can be very attractive indeed. 
Almost all offers for consolidating credit card debt/transferring balances have an initial period with a low APR often as low as 0%. This is, in fact, one of the main reasons why consolidating your credit card debt is an attractive option. 

As well as low APR, offers for balance transfer often include benefits such as 0% interest on any purchases made during first few months after the balance transfer. This is another thing reduces the rate at which your credit card debt increases. Of course if the purpose is reduction or elimination of debt then new purchases are not the highest priority! These are the two most significant benefits that credit card issuers offer to attract new clients into consolidating their credit card debt with them. 

After these main benefits there are other benefits such as additional reward points on the issuer's reward. These reward points can be redeemed for other attractive goods/rebates/rewards etc, but thioer purpose is to encourage you to spend more money and increase, not decrease your debt!
Sometimes, the new credit card might be one that caters better to your current spending needs both in terms of credit limit and the way that you might use your new card. For example, the new credit card might be co-branded by an airline that you frequently use. The credit card you are consolidating to might open up discount offers to you. But usually these offers all encourage additional spending. 

The most important thing to remember when consolidating your credit card debts is the reason for doing it. If the purpose was to reduce debt and manage payments then you can and must ignore any offers that will increase your indebtedness. Balance transfers are not offered by card issuers to make it easy for clients reduce their debt - the opposite is true! As a credit card user you must use the tools offered by card issuers to YOUR benefit, not the bank's!

Good luck reducing your debt through disciplined credit card consolidation and balance transfer.


