Title: 
Student Loan Debt Consolidation – Students Cannot Afford to Lose Sleep over Debts.

Word Count:
680

Summary:
Student loan debt consolidation can help students shift their debt burden. This combines the features of student loans and debt consolidation loans. As a debt consolidation loan, all debts incurred are consolidated and then paid off through a single loan. The interest rate and method of payment are derived from student loans. Read more about student loans in the following article.


Keywords:
Student debt consolidation loans, student loans, student loan debt consolidation


Article Body:
Studies take a back seat when debts begin to hold a prominent place in students’ finances. Guardians would find this strange, since most guardians feel that they send their wards more than enough money to meet the needs of their wards. The needs have a very narrow definition that includes not more than basic necessities. For all other needs, students have to depend on external sources like friends and moneylenders. The problem arises when debts become unmanageable because of its size. Student loan debt consolidation plays a very important role at this stage.

The features of student loans are included into debt consolidation loans to give them a distinct character, suited to the student debtors. Repayment of the student loan debt consolidation for instance, differs from the regular repayment methods. The repayment will be due only when the student graduates from studies. This means that repayment will begin only when the student begins to work and earn. Parents and guardian will appreciate this feature since this helps them shift a part of their financial burden.

It is incorrect to consider student loan debt consolidation as just another loan. As a debt consolidation loan, the student loan debt consolidation consolidates the entire debts, prepares a list of debts incurred, and then settles them through a single loan. 

Do you find the task easy? That it is; as long as there is a debt settlement agency to implement the plan. Students would be advised not to embark on the debt settlement activity since this will unnecessarily take up their valuable time. Besides, there are chances that the student will not be able to settle debts in full. Being inexperienced in debt settlement, there is a probability that the loan amount will not be used optimally.

Debt settlement agencies, on the other hand, are professional in dealing with debts. Each case is studied in detail before suggesting effective debt solutions. The procedure will be helpful in deciding among the several debt management techniques available.

Students qualify for the cheapest interest rates. The interest rates and other terms of the student loan debt consolidation must be given prime importance. These contribute largely to the cost of finance. Also check for prepayment penalties. One must ensure that the option to refinance is not curbed. This is helpful when better finance opportunities come your way. 
Students do have to face problems in qualifying for student loan debt consolidations. No credit history is the root cause behind most ineligibilities. For most students the student loan debt consolidation has been the first experience of credit transactions. So, how do loan providers determine credibility of borrowers? In the absence of any satisfactory method, loan providers will prefer not to lend. Some lenders place restrictive conditions on students in order to deter students from using the facility. Age restriction like upping the age of students who can use student loan debt consolidation is one such tactic.

Another point of disqualification is the lack of stable income. Stable income to enable regular payments is a prerequisite for most loans. This can be mended if the student shows that he is involved in some part time jobs. With guardians guaranteeing repayment, in case the student fails to do so, the problem is offset to a large extent. 

Websites advertising their financial products have lessened the quandary significantly. The purview of search for student loan debt consolidation has widened. Students find themselves searching for student loan debt consolidation from banks and financial institutions spread far and wide. All this has been facilitated through Internet and web technology. The refusal by loan providers is not a concerted action. There will be certain loan providers who have matching deals for the students. Online search can help find the particular lender who accepts the borrower with his set of circumstances.

Student loan debt consolidation is a testing ground for students. Though it will not be wise to take an active participation in the debt consolidation process, students can supervise the process. Proper advice will be necessary to make the important decisions on student loan debt consolidation.


