Title: 
Student Loan Debt Relief - School Loan Consolidation

Word Count:
410

Summary:
In order to relieve some of the financial burden associated with furthering their educations, many students are opting to consolidate student loans at lower rates, and getting a longer period of time to repay the loans. The following paragraphs will answer some commonly asked questions about student loan consolidation, as well describe how loan consolidation can aid in debt relief.

What Is Student Loan Consolidation?

School loan consolidation is the act of combining you...


Keywords:
student loan consolidation, loan consolidation, debt, loan


Article Body:
In order to relieve some of the financial burden associated with furthering their educations, many students are opting to consolidate student loans at lower rates, and getting a longer period of time to repay the loans. The following paragraphs will answer some commonly asked questions about student loan consolidation, as well describe how loan consolidation can aid in debt relief.

What Is Student Loan Consolidation?

School loan consolidation is the act of combining your school loans into one loan in order to help manage your financial debt caused by college or trade school. When you consolidate student loans, you will only have one monthly payment to make, which is usually lower than your combined monthly payments of your unconsolidated student debt. This is possible because when you consolidate loans, you are generally offered a longer time period to repay the debt - sometimes up to 30 years. Many consider the lower payment a huge benefit, which it is, but consolidation can also cause you to pay more interest, over a greater length of time, than you would with your combined unconsolidated debt.

Student loan consolidation rates are generally lower than unconsolidated loan rates, and most often the student loan consolidation rate will be fixed. With unconsolidated loans, most commonly the interest rates are variable, which means they can change at any time, sometimes without much warning. With a fixed rate, the monthly interest will remain the same throughout the entire duration of your consolidated student loan.

What If I am Default on My Student Loan Payments?

If you are default in making your debt payments, you may still qualify for school loan consolidation. It is important to check with your loan holder, to ensure your defaulted loan has not been subject to wage garnishment. If your defaulted loan is subject to wage garnishment, you may not be able to consolidate.

How Can I Obtain More Information Regarding School Loan Consolidation?

There are many ways to obtain more information regarding this issue

· by requesting it from the financial aid office at school
· by requesting it from the holder of your original debt
· by researching the internet

Information is usually available in any financial aid office of any learning institution. If you cannot get to your financial aid office, or if your financial aid office does not have the information you need, please request the information from the holder of your original debt, or search the internet for valuable information on student loan consolidation.


