Title: 
The Four Types Of Direct Student Loan Consolidation

Word Count:
493

Summary:
As a student, do you find it hard to repay your student loans? While student loans are great in that you and I will probably not be able to afford a tertiary education without it. On the other hand, it can be difficult to pay the monthly payments on time due to the high interest rate and other external factors which can challenge your wallet.


Keywords:
student loans, student loan consolidation, federal student loans, consolidate student loan, college student loan


Article Body:
As a student, do you find it hard to repay your student loans? While student loans are great in that you and I will probably not be able to afford a tertiary education without it. On the other hand, it can be difficult to pay the monthly payments on time due to the high interest rate and other external factors which can challenge your wallet.

If you have a difficult time in repaying your student loans, you might want to consider a direct student loan consolidation.

So what is a direct student loan consolidation?

In essence, it is simply exchanging or consolidating your existing outstanding student loans with higher interest rates for one loan with a more manageable, fixed interest rate. The interest rate is determined by the average of your loans, rounded to the nearest 0.125 per cent.

A direct student loan consolidation is especially useful if you know you are about to default on your monthly student loan payments. A direct student loan consolidation can mean a new start since it is considered a new loan.

When you consolidate your student loans under a new loan, your existing loans will show up on your credit card as paid off, thereby increasing your credit score.

Before getting a direct student loan consolidation, you need to know the types of plans for repaying. There are four major types. You may like to investigate more to consider which is best for your needs.

1. Standard Repayment Plan

Standard Repayment Plan allows you a fixed monthly payment for up to 10 years depending on the amount you owe.

2. Extended Repayment Plan

An extended repayment plan allows you up to 30 years. Obviously, the longer the period, the less amount you need to repay each month. Do note, however that you will end up paying more as a whole if you spread your payment over longer periods of time due to interest rates.

3. Graduated Repayment Plan

Graduated Repayment Plan usually have a repayment period between 12 and 30 years. The main difference between graduated and extended repayment plan is for graduated, the amount of your monthly payment will increase every two years.

4. Income Contingent Repayment Plan

If you have a job, then this plan may be what you are looking for. The income contingent repayment plan set a monthly payment based on your gross annual income. Other factors include your family size and the amount owe. The repayment period is usually 25 years.

A word of caution, if you are close to paying off your student loans, then a direct student loan consolidation may not be suitable for you since you will be paying more due to interest rates over the long term.

However, if you have difficulty in repaying your student loans and it is still years away from being paid off, then a direct student loan consolidation may be the answer. Not only do you pay less interest over the long term but it can improve your credit rating as well.


