Title: 
The Best Debt Management Programs - How To Choose

Word Count:
346

Summary:
There are gems and there are duds of any business. This is true of debt management programs as well. Your money is very important to you, so you should choose a program that has the best reputation for success. Reviewing the number one debt management programs is your best option for choosing the company that is right for you.

Certified - One thing all great debt management programs have are certified credit counselors through the NFCC (National Foundation for Credit Couns...


Keywords:
debt management, debt consolidation, debt relief, non-profit


Article Body:
There are gems and there are duds of any business. This is true of debt management programs as well. Your money is very important to you, so you should choose a program that has the best reputation for success. Reviewing the number one debt management programs is your best option for choosing the company that is right for you.

Certified - One thing all great debt management programs have are certified credit counselors through the NFCC (National Foundation for Credit Counseling). This ensures that any counselor you work with has gone through extensive training and has taken six certification tests to get accredited. Anyone who handles your money should be professional.

Non Profit Work - Another characteristic many of the best debt management programs possess is nonprofit work. The reason these programs seem to be the best is because they have your best interests in mind. They are not thinking about their bottom line when setting up a payment program for you. Most of the time these organizations require you to close all open ends of credit, such as credit card accounts. Their goal is to assist you with your current financial problems, but then never see you again. You want a debt management program who doesn't want you as a return customer.

Confidentiality - One of the most important things the best debt management programs have is a strong commitment to your confidentiality. This is important for two major reasons: privacy and security. First of all, most people don't want neighbors to be aware of their financial problems. Any visit to a debt management program should be kept confidential. Second, the information given during a credit counseling session is very sensitive. You may give social security numbers or credit card numbers. Since identity theft has become so prevalent, you must be able to fully trust your debt management program to keep your information safe.

If you find yourself in the situation where you need a debt management program, be sure you choose one with NFCC certified counselors, that has your best interests in mind, and respects your confidentiality.


