Title: 
Things You Must Know About Free Debt Consolidation Services

Word Count:
507

Summary:
When a company advertises free debt consolidation services, don't get misled by the word 'free'.  Remember, you can never consider yourself free with a debt consolidation loan as you are still in debt! These companies may claim to offer free services without any fees, but they usually make up for these free fees in your monthly payments.


Keywords:
debt consolidation,debt consolidation service,debt consolidation loan,christian debt consolidation


Article Body:
Passing through a phase of debt in your life will prove to be a rather tedious and strenuous period. There is lots of stress involved in ridding yourself of debt. You may feel the need of some support from someone to come out of debt safe and sound. This is the reason the free debt consolidation services prove to be rather inviting and helpful to you. However, there is more to these free debt consolidation services than meets the eye!

Basically, a debt consolidation loan is a single loan that is used to pay for your multiple loans. Here, instead of making numerous monthly payments to your creditors, you have to make a single payment to the debt consolidation company, and it is they who will pay your creditors on your behalf. With this, you can avoid the hassle of facing the creditors every month! However, be aware of some companies that collect money from you to end up never paying the creditors! There are some black sheep amongst free debt consolidation companies that do such things, and thus spoil the repute of debt consolidation services in general!

When a company advertises free debt consolidation services, don't get misled by the word 'free'.  Remember, you can never consider yourself free with a debt consolidation loan as you are still in debt! These companies may claim to offer free services without any fees, but they usually make up for these free fees in your monthly payments.

You can get debt consolidation services where the consolidator will study your financial situation and then approach your creditors to negotiate interest rates. They will negotiate on lowered interest rates, and for a longer period to repay your loan. Your creditors are more than likely to agree to this arrangement as they will definitely prefer receiving some payment from you, instead of getting no payment at all!

Though some debt consolidation companies like Christian debt consolidation may charge you for their services, the charges will definitely be lower than the fees charged by for-profit debt consolidation companies. The reason the debt consolidation services can afford to quote reduced fees is because they are subsidized in part by creditors. This is why they only charge a flat monthly fee from you. Besides offering debt consolidation loans, these debt consolidation companies help people get their credit under control by offering sound financial advice.

It is usually people with poor credit that choose free debt consolidation services. This is because the debt consolidation company can take the risk of helping a person with bad credit. They receive healthy subsidies from creditors and thus are not that worried about the occasional missed payments. 

However, when approaching a free debt consolidation service, make sure that the company is a reputed one to avoid ending in massive debts! Always get quotes from different debt consolidation companies, to compare and decide which company actually offers debt consolidation services. It is always better to read between the lines of any agreement you sign with the company, to avoid future misunderstandings.


