Title: 
Top 10 Reasons Why People Look for Ways to Consolidate Debt

Word Count:
543

Summary:
People tend to have their own reasons for choosing to consolidate their debt, but for the most part, it has to do with time and payment management. If you have only one payment that you have to make, the interest will most likely be lower on a monthly basis, though if the loan is extended over a period of time, it may be higher in the end.


Keywords:
bill consolidation,consolidation loan,consolidation


Article Body:
People have different reasons why they look to consolidate their debt, but among the most important ones are the following:

<ul><li>1.	Save money on interest

<li>2.	Lower monthly payments

<li>3.	Have one manageable bill per month instead of many small bills

<li>4.	Easier to keep track of due dates

<li>5.	Easier to keep track of how much is owed

<li>6.	Making extra payments is much easier when there’s only one loan

<li>7.	Saves time with bill paying

<li>8.	Reduces the possibility of forgetting to pay the bill

<li>9.	Saves money on postage and checking writing fees

<li>10.	Makes it easier to know how quickly the loan will be paid in full</li></ul>


People tend to have their own reasons for choosing to consolidate their debt, but for the most part, it has to do with time and payment management. If you have only one payment that you have to make, the interest will most likely be lower on a monthly basis, though if the loan is extended over a period of time, it may be higher in the end. On the other hand, if you have several student loans that all have terms of ten years or more, and you reduce those into one loan of ten or even fifteen years, the overall interest is not going to be substantially greater. Having one payment also means you can put a little extra into the payments each month without having to think which one to pay off first. It can be a difficult decision, and having only one bill to pay can make that easy to do.

You must be certain that when you choose bill consolidation you do it for the right reasons, especially if you use the equity in your home as collateral to finance the loan. Depending on how loans are outstanding, it may be more beneficial to pay extra on them each month until you pay one off then add those funds to another payment. If they are small balances, that is probably your cheaper and quicker alternative, but if you are carrying loans with rather substantial balances, consolidation is probably going to allow you to pay the loans off much quicker. 

How you choose to handle paying off your debt is a personal decision, but it’s important to look at all of the options before you make a final decision. Even if you have loans with large balances, there may be other ways to get rid of those quicker than consolidation, especially if you are nearing time to file income taxes, and you customarily have a refund. Likewise, if you work for a company that pays bonuses for performance or as rewards, you may want to wait until those things are utilized before you commit to a consolidation loan. It is a simple process of looking at the facts before you, doing some research, and then making the decision that is going to be the most beneficial for your financial situation. Don’t make a decision that you are going to later regret, so take some time to consider so that the decision you make will be one that has not been made in haste and will give you the results you want to see.


