Title: 
UK Debt Consolidation – Helps you Forget Debts Like a Last Night’s Dream.

Word Count:
630

Summary:
Debt consolidation is a very popular technique in the UK, employed for elimination of debts. In this technique the borrower gets help to settle debts in the form of loan or mortgage. While debts are settled immediately, the debt consolidation loan or debt consolidation mortgage will have to be settled over a larger time period. An advantage, specific to debt consolidation techniques, is that the loan provider guides borrowers in the process.


Keywords:
Personal Loans, Bad Credit Loans, Debt Consolidation, UK debt consolidation


Article Body:
Debt consolidation is the name given to a very popular process of debt settlement in the UK. Debtors didn’t have lesser choices before the conception of debt consolidation techniques, for settling their debt load. Debt consolidation however allowed them to settle debts under the guidance of experts- that is what the debt settlement agencies refer themselves to. Several years of experience has made them adept at designing debt solutions for the debtors. They can easily decipher the effectiveness of debt solution from the kind of debts that the individual has incurred.

UK Debt consolidation gets its name from a sub-process involved in the debt settlement. During this stage the borrower (debtor) is required to list all debts on a piece of paper. There is no pre-stated format in which this needs to be done. Borrowers are free to use the method that suits them most. It will be better if debts are categorised. One look at the list shows the category of debts holds a prominent place. The process of debt consolidation allows the debt settlement agencies to immediately get to the work of debt elimination.

Debt consolidation is a part of debt settlement, constituting the initial stages of the process. The stage holds a place of prominence in the entire scheme of things. The task of remembering debts owed to each creditor is an arduous task. Debt consolidation too requires borrower to remember debts, but in a more systematic manner. The fear of debts being left behind and swelling further with interest is dismissed through the use of debt consolidation.

The actual process of debt settlement starts only after debt consolidation loan or debt consolidation mortgage starts functioning. Debt consolidation loan and debt consolidation mortgage constitute the debt management techniques commonly used in the UK. Each has its own set of advantages and disadvantages. A consideration of these advantages and disadvantages will form the basis for selection of appropriate debt management techniques.

Ddebt  consolidation loan is a regular loan moulded to cater to the debt-ridden residents of the UK. Loan is borrowed in order to settle debts. Though secured debt consolidation loan is preferred largely, there are many borrowers who would opt for the unsecured version. There is a need for collateral in secured debt consolidation loan. Several assets like stocks and shares and automobiles form collateral for the purpose. Unsecured debt consolidation loans however, free the borrower of the need to offer collateral. The increase in risk, brought about as a result of no collateral, is compensated through a strictness of terms. Consequently, APR on an unsecured debt consolidation loan is higher than on secured debt consolidation loan.

Debt consolidation mortgage adds debts to an existing mortgage. Though on the face of things it appears that you are paying for a mortgage, you are actually paying for your debts. The mortgagee, in exchange of promise to repay through regular installments, disburses off debts of borrower.

Help through negotiation is other important help provided by debt consolidation agencies. Though the facility is optional, no borrower would like to lose on the opportunity of having debt consolidation agencies by their side. The debt settlement agencies would represent the borrower, minimising contact between the debtor and creditor. Debt consolidation agencies in UK adopt several methods to bring down the repayable amount. Greater advantage lies with the borrower if the amount of debts to repay is lesser.

Supervision needs to be carried out on the manner of functioning of the debt consolidation agency. Since the debtor himself best knows his finances, he can provide valuable directions to the debt consolidation agency. The borrower also has to confirm through proper checks and comparisons that the loan or mortgage offered to them is the best that they could have availed through any other lender with a similar set of circumstances.


