Title: 
Understanding Credit Card Debt Consolidation Loans

Word Count:
803

Summary:
The following article lists three important factors that borrowers need to look for in a credit card debt consolidation loan. While most of us take special care to get a good rate of interest, not much effort is put into finding the appropriate term of repayment and optimum monthly repayments. This article shows why these too are important and how borrowers can derive them on their own.


Keywords:
credit card debt consolidation loans, credit card debts UK, credit card debt consolidation loan service


Article Body:
If borrowers are asked to vote for the most striking feature of credit cards that appeals them, then increased spending power ought to bag the largest number of votes. In fact this is a feature that distinguishes credit cards from cash, cheque, and the newly launched debit cards. Credit cards allow customers to spend up to a certain credit limit, even when their account may not sport a similar amount. The feature takes not much time to be turned into a drawback when the credit card is used inappropriately. People often keep a multitude of cards and when each card has been stretched to its credit limit, it becomes difficult to repay the debts in totality. It is here that credit card debt consolidation loans come into play.

Credit card debt consolidation loan is a regular debt consolidation loan, reengineered to counter credit card debts. The speed with which debts are eliminated is of prime importance in credit card debt settlement process. Since the debts carry a very high rate of interest, employing a method that moves slowly will only increase the interest burden over time. Credit card debt consolidation loans present the fastest method of coming out of debts.

Credit card debt consolidation loan borrowers need to keep tab of three factors before consenting to any deal. 

Rate of interest or APR constitutes the very first factor. The APR being charged on the credit card debt consolidation must be the cheapest available in the UK. The principal motivation behind the use of credit card debt consolidation loan is to escape high rates of interest. It must thus be ensured that the rate of interest must not be equally higher. This has a direct effect on the cost of loan. Secured and unsecured credit card debt consolidation loans, which define the categories of credit card debt consolidation loan, influence rate of interest significantly. Secured credit card debt consolidation loan are backed by a collateral. Borrowers thus cannot be irregular in making monthly repayment without risking the asset kept as collateral. The APR on a secured credit card debt consolidation is generally lower.

Rate of interest or APR is the visible face of a loan. The loan quote requested from loan providers gives the APR. Many borrowers, as a part of the homework or loan search, request loan quotes from a large number of loan providers. Cheapest loan immediately comes into the fore when loan quotes from several loan agencies are compared. In order to confirm that the APR being promised is really cheap as asserted by a loan provider, many borrowers also make use of loan calculators. Loan calculator lists the APR charged by banks and financial institutions, many of which are well known among the financial circles in the UK. Shopping around for interest is going to be very helpful in getting cheap credit card debt consolidation.

The next important factor is the term within which the credit card debt consolidation loan will be repaid. Just as credit card debts become costly if not repaid on time, credit card debt consolidation loans too have a time period within which it will be wise to repay. This is known as the term of repayment. In the absence of any fixed rule stating the term, the borrower will have to depend on his personal discretion. Unless necessary, the term of the credit card debt consolidation loan must not be extended beyond a certain level. Payment calculator is an easy method to find the optimum number of repayments. The potential borrower has to fill the amount of loan and the number of years that he would like to spread the repayments in. Payment calculator calculates monthly repayments on a particular rate of interest. If the monthly repayment so derived suits the potential borrower, the optimum term of repayment is found. If not, borrowers must continue using different permutations and combinations to achieve the optimum level.

Monthly repayments are the last important factor to be considered before taking up a credit card debt consolidation loan. As seen in calculations for term of repayment, monthly repayment is a by-product of the search. Borrowers, in some instances, have already determined that they cannot afford beyond a particular monthly repayment. The search process can thus be centered upon the monthly repayments so determined. Monthly repayments need to be determined with a sufficiently larger period in mind. Whether one would be able to pay the monthly repayments at that point of time will be an issue for consideration. Being irregular on monthly repayments can result into repossession of collateral as well as bad credit.

The list of points to be considered before accepting a credit card debt consolidation deal may not be limited to these three. It may be endless. Depending on the priorities of a borrower, differences in prominence attached to these are often visible.


