Title: 
Unsecured Debt Consolidation - Pros & Cons

Word Count:
361

Summary:
Unsecured debt consolidation lowers your rates, helping you to pay off your debt sooner with one easy payment. You can also reduce your monthly payments. However, consolidating your short term loans can temporarily lower your credit score. You may also be tempted to use your paid off accounts, creating a bigger financial problem.

Lower Interest Rates And Payments

Consolidation loans and debt management plans (DMP) can both lower your rates. Home equity or personal loans...


Keywords:
debt consolidation, unsecured debt


Article Body:
Unsecured debt consolidation lowers your rates, helping you to pay off your debt sooner with one easy payment. You can also reduce your monthly payments. However, consolidating your short term loans can temporarily lower your credit score. You may also be tempted to use your paid off accounts, creating a bigger financial problem.

Lower Interest Rates And Payments

Consolidation loans and debt management plans (DMP) can both lower your rates. Home equity or personal loans offer lower rates than credit cards and can be used to pay off bills. A DMP company negotiate lower rates with your creditors.

With reduced rates, your minimum monthly payment will also be lower. While it is tempting to pay the minimum, keep paying what you are now to rapidly lower your debt. If you do need to lower your payments, consider extending your loan terms.

Easier To Manage

Consolidating your bills makes payments easier to handle. Instead of several accounts to manage, you only have one. DMP only require one monthly payment to the managing company, they then handle paying your accounts.

Temporarily Lowers Credit Rating

A loan or DMP will lower your credit score temporarily. By opening a loan account, your rating is lowered for the credit activity and amount borrowed. You can offset this in part by closing accounts that you pay off.

DMP will lower your rating if your creditors send notice to the credit reporting agencies. Not all creditors report arrangements with DMP companies. If they do, in the short term you may be unable to open new accounts. After a year of regular payments and reduced debts, you will qualify with most lenders.

Tempting To Use Open Credit

Paying off accounts can make it tempting to rack up credit card debt again. This can put you in a worse financial position. To avoid this problem, close accounts that you don’t need. Take credit cards out of your wallet and leave them in a safe place, only to be used for emergencies.

Before signing a contract to consolidate your debts, investigate several companies’ rates and terms to find the best deal. Online websites enable you to find this information easily.


