Title: 
What Kinds of Debt Can Be Included in the Debt Consolidation Program?

Word Count:
502

Summary:
Debt consolidation programs can help many people get back on track with their monetary assets while also helping to improve their financial futures during a time when many people may feel hopeless and lost.  Many people who are interested in debt consolidation programs are not sure if their specific types of debt will be included in intriguing debt consolidation programs, helping them to eventually escape debt and the financial problems which are burdening them.  Debt consolidation is not a loan or something that the individual will be newly responsible for with increased payments.


Keywords:
debt consolidation


Article Body:
Debt consolidation programs can help many people get back on track with their monetary assets while also helping to improve their financial futures during a time when many people may feel hopeless and lost.  Many people who are interested in debt consolidation programs are not sure if their specific types of debt will be included in intriguing debt consolidation programs, helping them to eventually escape debt and the financial problems which are burdening them.  Debt consolidation is not a loan or something that the individual will be newly responsible for with increased payments.  Rather, debt consolidation programs are designed in order to help individuals to pay off the money that they owe to one or more organization, at a faster rate than they would be able to take care of on their own.  Here are some of the most popular types of debt that are dealt with in the debt consolidation program.

For the most part, almost all of an individual's unsecured debt can be consolidated with the debt consolidation program.  Companies to which individuals owe money are most often willing to accept the fact that people enroll in debt consolidation and will be making lower payments since these people can also be considering bankruptcy.  Bankruptcy is often a more dangerous option for individuals in that it will take seven or more years to recover from such a financial move, which will also result in the unsecured debt company's complete loss of recapturing any due money.      

Unsecured debt is money that a person needs to repay to an establishment, individual or organization that has no property or collateral that could be considered as attached to the owed money.  Some of the most popular examples of these types of debt include credit card debt and debt owed to particular stores, many of which will issue to their customers a person credit card meant specifically for the individual store.  However, these debts can also include personal loans, medical bills and student loans.  Individuals who owe money in back taxes or current taxes can also look to the debt consolidation program with hope since these owed specific and identified monies are further examples of unsecured debt that would be included in the consolidated debt structure and repayment programs.

However, there are also types of debt that will not be covered in such consolidation programs most of the time and they are known as secured debts.  Secured debt is slightly different and varied when compared to unsecured debt.  This is mostly because the individual who has secured debt needs these items in order to continue to live and function in a manner that would allow them to make payments to creditors or in the debt consolidation program.  Shelter and transportation to and from work are two of the basic necessities that individuals need in order to live and prosper.  Some of the most popular examples of these types of secured debt include home loans or mortgages, as well as car or vehicle loans and repayment packages.


