Title: 
What Is A Debt Consolidation Loan All About

Word Count:
418

Summary:
A debt consolidation loan is one type of personal loan available to you. Its goal is to cover the total amount of all your bills put together. This loan will let you pay off every company you owe and save you a ton of money in late fees and over limit fees, as well as save you from having possessions repossessed or utilities turned off.


Keywords:
debt, debt consolidation, debt consolidation loans, credit card consolidation, credit card debt


Article Body:
What Is Debt?

Debt is the bills that are left over at the end up the month after you have made payments on everything you can afford. Do you still owe 2 months on the electric bill and a few thousand dollars on a few different credit cards? Add all your outstanding bills up and you will have the amount of your debt.

What Is Debt Consolidation?

Debt consolidation is one of the methods that you can choose to help free yourself from the debt that seems to grow every month. By working with a financial service or a financial counselor, you can come up with a plan for debt consolidation that fits your personal situation. Debt consolidation plans usually consist of the following:

* Combining all your bills into one bill.

* Negotiating with your creditors to come up with a more manageable number.

* Dropping tax payments.

* Creating a definitive, financial plan for the next 3-5 years that will allow you to live within a budget and leave you debt-free.

What Is A Debt Consolidation Loan?

A debt consolidation loan is one type of personal loan available to you. Its goal is to cover the total amount of all your bills put together. This loan will let you pay off every company you owe and save you a ton of money in late fees and over limit fees, as well as save you from having possessions repossessed or utilities turned off. Your interest rates, too, will decrease because you have only one creditor to pay every month – the lender of your debt consolidation loan. 

Secured Debt Consolidation Loan

When you take a out a secure debt consolidation loan, it means that you have to promise a security to cover the bill if you can't pay it back. This usually means that you have to be able to put your house up as collateral or something of equal value. Remember: if you can't pay back your loan, your lender can take your collateral.

Unsecured Debt Consolidation Loan

No security or collateral is needed for an unsecured debt consolidation loan. The key to being approved for a debt consolidation loan of this nature is your credit report and credit score. Even with bad credit, you may still qualify for an unsecured debt consolidation loan, but it will usually be at a much higher rate of interest.


No matter how you choose to free yourself from debt, eliminating as much of it as quickly as possible is the key to finding your financial freedom.


