Title: 
What is debt consolidation

Word Count:
303

Summary:
This article explains how a debt consolidation service can help those experiencing debt problems by reducing their monthly payments.


Keywords:
debt consolidation, debt consolidation uk


Article Body:
If you are struggling with debt then it may be worthwhile considering a debt consolidation service. They should then be able to let you know how much money you can save you each month and relieve the stress of debt. 

• The advice is usually free.
• There are NO credit searches.
• Your details are kept in the strictest of confidence.
• You are under no obligation. 

The last thing you want to do if you are already in debt is to borrow more, all this would do is increase the level of debt you already have.

Debt consolidation is designed to clear all your existing credit cards, loans and your other debts and put these together so you will have just one single lower monthly payment. 

Once on board with the debt consolidation organization and they have received your agreed payment they will request that the creditors freeze or reduce their interest and stop adding any further charges so that your payment goes off the debt rather than the interest you are currently paying and because of this you could clear your debts quicker despite reducing your payments.
Being in debt, as you know is not pleasant, a debt consolidation service will help reduce the stress you are under because you will be confident that you can meet your monthly payments with comfort. 

If you are currently experiencing difficulties paying your debts, your credit rating may have already been adversely affected due to one or more of your creditors recording late/missed payment, defaults etc. However, by using a debt consolidation service you are ensuring an affordable monthly payment is made to each of your creditors.

Therefore, once the debts are cleared you should be able to obtain unsecured credit again, albeit in smaller amounts to begin with until you re-establish a good payment record.


