Title: 
What is the Federal Debt Relief System?

Word Count:
529

Summary:
The Federal Debt Relief System is a unique company because of their determination to educate debtors in the United States of America.  The company works to alleviate the debt of many individuals around the U.S., not just by helping with the actual debt of the individual but by also bringing education to the individuals about debt and debt relief.


Keywords:
debt relief


Article Body:
The Federal Debt Relief System is a unique company because of their determination to educate debtors in the United States of America. The company works to alleviate the debt of many individuals around the U.S., not just by helping with the actual debt of the individual but by also bringing education to the individuals about debt and debt relief. When a person signs up for the program, they will get an educational newsletter and video that can be utilized in order to help the individual understand more about the program and their situation.

The company itself offers free consultations to individuals who are interested in their services. However, the program is not for everyone since it is an education program as well as a debt relief service. Some individuals that will benefit the most from such a program include people who owe more than ten thousand dollars in debt. If you choose to sign up with the company, you will not have to enroll all of your credit cards in the program. You have the choice of which credit cards will and will not be included in your program. Debt that works within the program can include credit cards, especially major credit cards, unsecured personal loans and other lines of credit cards. Secured debt is not covered in the Federal Debt Relief System program. Medical bills, child support, business debt, utilities and student loans are also not always covered in the program. Accounts will be closed during and after the program takes place so that individuals cannot get in any more debt while they are going through the educational process. The program works well with thousands of creditors across the country. 

If you have debt that is in collection, but you have not made any payments on these collection debts, you can include that debt in your Federal Debt Relief System program. If you have made a payment toward that collection based debt, the Federal Debt Relief System cannot help you with that debt because your payment signifies your belief in the validity of the debt that you are being charged. The program will not work for debt that is already in consolidation. The processes that are accomplished by the Federal Debt Relief System can be performed by individuals, but only if they are lawyers. 

For tax consequences, it is important for individuals to get the proper information about how the program will affect them from a tax standpoint from tax professionals. This is because the program does not give out this type of financial advice and sticks to the areas of education that they are best suited for. Legally, it is not possible for the company to guarantee their work. No lawyer can guarantee their work one hundred percent because the legal system is not always clearly able to be forecasted. However, it is important to note that the program has a one hundred percent success rate to date and the program continues to be improved upon regularly. The program's associates are working on a continuous basis to ensure that their consumers are happy and the debt is taken care of in a legal and educational manner.


