How to Find Cheap Air Travel Rates

Are you in the process of planning a trip?  Whether you are flying to Hawaii, Europe, or another destination that calls for air travel, you may be looking for information how you can save money.  Better yet, you may be looking for cheap air travel rates.  

The first step in finding cheap air ravel rates is to know that they do exist.  Unfortunately, many individuals do not know or even truly believe that there are ways that they can save money on the cost of traveling by air, but you can.  Depending on where you look, you may be able to save one hundred dollars or more on just one trip!

As for how you can go about finding cheap air travel rates, you will want to turn to the internet.  When using the internet, you will find that there are a number of different approaches that you can take to find cheap airline tickets.  First, you will want to start with online travel websites.  Many allow you to compare flights with different airlines.  You are also often able to compare flights with one airline, but with a flexible time or date window.  This approach is one that you will want to examine.  Many travelers do not realize that the same flight can cost more money on a Saturday than it would on a Wednesday and so forth.

In keeping with using online travel websites to help you find cheap air travel rates, you will want to visit a number of them.  If you don’t already know of a number of online travel websites, you can easily find a few by performing a standard internet search.  Examining multiple online travel websites and their rates is important, as they will likely vary.  For example, many online travel websites charge you a fee for using their services.  This fee is typically included in the price that you are quoted, but since different travel websites charge different fees, you will find some price differences.

Another great way that you can go about finding cheap air travel rates, while still using the internet, is by examining popular airlines individually and independently. This can be time consuming, but still worth it if you are able to find a great deal.  First, examine airlines that provide flights from your starting point to your destination.  Then, compare prices.  Remember that being flexible, in your destination and travel dates and time can result in you saving money.

When comparing prices, either for airlines individually or with online travel websites, be sure to write down all quote rates.  Other information that you will want to write down includes the airline, date, time, and the name of the online travel website the deal is being offered on.  This will allow you to easily compare to find the cheapest air travel rates, without making any errors.

If you find a good deal, try to buy your tickets right then and there.  It is important to remember that prices can change and at the drop of a hat.  Also, airlines that are offering great deals on flights may have their seats fill up quickly.  That is why you will want to act fast if you see a great moneysaving air travel rate.

As an added tip, if you will be traveling with young children, namely those who are two or younger, you may be able to receive a small, but helpful, discount.  Children under two have the option of sitting on the lap of an adult, but many airlines will offer discounts to help fill up all seats.  To see if an airline will offer you a discount for traveling with a child under the age of two, contact them directly.  If you are given a small discount, be prepared to buy your tickets then and over the phone.

The above mentioned ways are just a few of the many ways that you can go about finding cheap air travel rates.  As a recap, comparing airlines, travel websites, and flight dates and times is likely to result in you finding the best deals.

PPPPP

Word Count 681
