Traveling By Plane:  The Importance of Familiarizing Yourself with Restrictions

Are you preparing for a trip, namely a trip that requires air travel?  If you are, you may be looking to start packing your bags soon.  Of course, this is a great thing to do, but there is a step that you may first want to take.  That step involves familiarizing yourself with all airport rules and restrictions.   

As nice as it is to hear that you should take the time to familiarize yourself with all airport rules and restrictions, you may be wondering what is so important about doing so.  In actuality, you will find a lot.  Familiarizing yourself with all airport security rules and restrictions can have a significant impact on your travels.

One of the most common mistakes made by air travelers is bringing items that are prohibited.  These items may include a pocket knife, scissors, or other sharp objects.  Although you may find a few small exceptions, it is generally best to leave all sharp objects at home or at least pack them in your checked luggage.  In fact, do you know what will happen if you are caught at airport security with a prohibited item that looks dangerous?  Chances are, you will find yourself detained.  You will be asked to give up the item, like your pocket knife, but you may also be asked a series of other questions, to ensure that you are not a danger to other travelers. 

As previously stated, you may be asked to give up any items that you have in your bags that are actually prohibited.  This not only includes sharp objects, but many everyday items as well.  For example, the TSA has strict rules on liquids being in carry-on luggage.  As for drinks, you are advised not to bring anything with you to the airport.  There are some exceptions to this rule, like small bottle of juice or formula for your children.  Everything else should be purchased at the airport, past a security checkpoint.  As for health and beauty products, only small travel sizes are allowed and they must be kept separate.  If not, you may be required to throw away your things, which can result in wasted money.

Another one of the many reasons why you are urged to familiarize yourself with airport security rules and restrictions before leaving for your flight is because of the dire consequences.  As previously stated, you may be detained and asked questions if you are traveling with anything out of the ordinary or you may be required to throw away prohibited items.  Another consequence of not knowing and following all airport security rules is missing your flight.  In fact, that is why all travelers are encouraged to arrive at the airport well before their flight leaves, to account for security problems and other delays.  If you miss your flight due to a misunderstanding at a security checkpoint, your airline should help you make other arrangements.

Now that you know the importance of familiarizing yourself with all airport security rules and restrictions, you may be curious as to how you can go about doing so.  The good news is that it is relatively easy to do so online.  Your best source of information, perhaps, is the online website for the TSA.  Their online websites is located at www.tsa.gov.  There, you will find a large amount of information, including a detailed list of prohibited items, other airport rules and restrictions, as well as general travel tips for air travelers.

Another great way to familiarize yourself with airport security rules and restrictions is by visiting the online website of your departing airport.  Most will follow the same rules set in place by the TSA, but you may also find other rules and restriction in place for that specific airport, such as with parking.  These rules and restrictions, should they exist, should be clearly outlined on an airport’s online website.  All airport websites can easily be found online, with a standard internet search.

PPPPP

Word Count 658
