Title: 
Krispy Kreme Fundraising

Word Count:
321

Summary:
Krispy Kreme fundraising has been helping schools, youth sports groups, and churches raise money since 1937. Krispy Kreme doughnuts are a great fundraiser. Raise money by selling fresh doughnuts. Works well for school fundraisers, churches, clubs, and youth sports teams.


Keywords:
fundraising,fundraiser,fundraisers,youth fundraising,school fundraisers,PTA fundraising,non-profit fundraiser


Article Body:
Krispy Kreme fundraising has been helping schools, youth sports groups, and churches raise money since 1937. Krispy Kreme doughnuts are a great fundraiser. Raise money by selling fresh doughnuts. Works well for school fundraisers, churches, clubs, and youth sports teams.

Krispy Kreme fundraising has three different programs:

Traditional doughnut sales 
Gift certificates 
Partnership cards
  
Krispy Kreme Fundraising - Traditional Doughnut Sales
Perfect for the fund-raising needs of schools, clubs, churches, and other non-profit organizations. Doughnuts are made fresh and packaged by the dozen in special fund-raising boxes. 

Customers buy them by the box and your profit is generally 50% or more per box. Pricing and availability will vary. 

Contact your local Krispy Kreme store for fundraiser group sales pricing.

Krispy Kreme Fundraiser - Gift Certificates  
They are an alternative to actual product sales. Customers redeem each certificate for one dozen Original Glazed Doughnuts at any participating Krispy Kreme retail shop. 

Certificates give your customers the option to help your organization and pick up their doughnuts at their convenience. Minimum order required.  These work especially well for smaller groups that may not have as many volunteers to draw from to help with pick up and delivery.  Consider using gift certificates to sell during another fundraising event.  This is called an overlay and can increase profits without having an additional fundraiser.

Contact your local Krispy Kreme store for gift certificates for fundraisers.

Krispy Kreme Fundraiser - Partnership Cards
These partnership cards allow customers to get a free dozen Original Glazed Doughnuts with the full price purchase of any dozen of their choice. 

Ten punch cards allow the customer up to 10 free dozen doughnuts with the purchase of 10 dozen. (Limit of 3 free dozen per visit with the purchase of 3 dozen.) 

Pricing allows for 50% profit for each card sold. 

Program availability varies by market and cards may not be valid in all Krispy Kreme locations. Minimum order required.

Contact your local Krispy Kreme store to purchase your fundraiser partnership cards.


