Title: 
Officially Licensed Products Give A Kick To Your Youth Or School Fundraiser

Word Count:
430

Summary:
Fundraisers have changed somewhat from when I was a kid. We sold one thing and one thing only, candy. Candy for the school basketball team, candy for the local baseball league and yes, candy for the football team too. Don’t get me wrong, it was good candy, but we didn’t have the choices today’s organizations do.

Everything imaginable is generating funds for our children’s sports these days. The local or school leagues genuinely need this money too. Many struggling families...


Keywords:
fundraising ideas, school fundraiser, fundraiser, fundraising, pop warner, sport fundraiser


Article Body:
Fundraisers have changed somewhat from when I was a kid. We sold one thing and one thing only, candy. Candy for the school basketball team, candy for the local baseball league and yes, candy for the football team too. Don’t get me wrong, it was good candy, but we didn’t have the choices today’s organizations do.

Everything imaginable is generating funds for our children’s sports these days. The local or school leagues genuinely need this money too. Many struggling families in today’s economy would be unable to enroll their children in some of the wonderful programs out there. Programs like Pop Warner that emphasize scholastics as well as sports. In many cases these programs would be doomed even though they are adequately priced.

One great fundraising campaign I recently became aware of was the Spirit Cup program offered by BRAX Fundraising. This program distributes Officially Licensed NFL, MLB and Collegiate drinking cups to youth and school fundraisers across the country. These amazing 3D cups have a version for every NFL and MLB team as well as some specialty versions. Their unique design, and BRAX's no upfront cost program, has enabled skyrocketing earnings for youth and school fundraisers across the country.

For over 20 years the principals of the BRAX team have been actively involved in sports marketing on a national scope. Through BRAX's various license affiliations, they have gained a clear understanding of the power of collegiate and professional sports merchandise when aligned with fundraising.

The BRAX partners have coached at the high school and collegiate levels. And their sales associates have backgrounds in youth, high school, college, and even professional sports, as participants and/or coaches. 

"We believe strongly that our sales associates will provide the best customer support and care to your organization because we are aware of the many challenges your organization faces," states Pete Hexter, one of BRAX's principals. 

"We want to keep our approach simple, and appeal to the passion of the American sports fan by offering these team related products. In turn, the sports fans are happy knowing they are supporting their local youth sports organizations." 

The BRAX goal is to always provide the best possible pricing, customer care, and ongoing support to all of their fundraising partners. They do not develop relationships anticipating that this is a one time opportunity rather the beginning of a long term partnership. It is this foundation that has maintained their outstanding reputation as leaders in the sport marketing business. 

Come to think of it, that candy wasn’t so good after all…

-Dave


