Title: 
Soccer Fundraising Ideas

Word Count:
720

Summary:
It seems like soccer fundraising is either a season-long effort or a quick hitter that doesn't cover all your needs.   Well, the good news is that there are some ways to make money quickly, or even all season long, that merit your consideration.


Keywords:
fundraiser,fundraising,youth fundraising,sports fundraiser,school fundraiser,soccer fundraising,non-profit fundraising


Article Body:
It seems like soccer fundraising is either a season-long effort or a quick hitter that doesn't cover all your needs. 

Well, the good news is that there are some ways to make money quickly, or even all season long, that merit your consideration.
 
What are your fundraising goals?

Many youth sports teams and leagues want:

1 - Fundraisers that can be done with little effort
2 - Fundraisers that may be done sporadically
3 - Fundraisers that will produce significant results
 
Soccer fundraising programs
In this article, we'll examine several soccer fundraisers that are quick hitting and sure to score. 

The three soccer fundraising programs are:

Bottled water
Shot cage and radar gun
Fast-food discount cards

Soccer Fundraising: Bottled Water
The first soccer fundraising program is selling bottled water. Consider for a moment that each team member will bring water to every practice and to every game. That's at least a couple dozen bottles right there and probably a whole lot more. 

Add in sales to spectators and you've got at least 500 bottles that could easily be sold. Sure, you can buy in bulk at a warehouse club, but you can add extra value to your soccer fundraising with private branding of your bottled water, either as a team or as a league.

The initial setup for each label is $75 and afterward, the unique label with your logo emblazoned in color costs nothing extra. Prices for the bottled spring water are wholesale, which allows your group a comfortable 50% profit margin.

When you think about it, doesn't it make sense to capture the wholesale-to-retail markup for your group while building team spirit at the same time?

Soccer Fundraising: Shot Cage 
The second soccer fundraising program is best suited for a league-wide effort. On Picture Day, during a tournament, or at any other event with high attendance, set up a soccer "shot cage" with a radar gun to measure velocity.

Every player will want multiple chances to show just how fast their shot speeds toward the goal. You can set up contests with prizes for various age ranges, team awards, Top Gun, etc.

Soccer fundraising featuring a radar-equipped shooting cage is actually an inexpensive event to host. 

Several companies rent the equipment by the week with radar gun, cage, and freight all included for less than $350.

You can also find suppliers who will put together a soccer fundraiser with a hosted radar cage and do a revenue split with your group, so there would be no upfront cost. 

To maximize your soccer fundraising success, price shots in a multi-shot package, such as two for $1 or other combinations.

Count the number of players in your league or potential shooters at a tournament event and determine if this type of soccer fundraising is right for your group. 

Soccer Fundraising: Fast-food Discount Cards 
The third soccer fundraiser is one that your group can use once or use to raise funds all season long. And that's selling fast food discount cards. 

This is a simple item to sell. Each fundraising discount card contains a certain number of two-for-one meal packages at a well-known fast food outlet. 

Participating companies include McDonalds, Burger King, Pizza Hut, Subway, Taco Bell, Kentucky Fried Chicken, Dominoes Pizza, and other large fast-food chains.

Your group purchases a certain number of these cards in advance and sells them to families or individuals that will appreciate a substantial discount. The number of two-for-one deals on each card varies by company. 

Pizza Hut's card offers a free pizza with the purchase of another pizza up to a maximum of ten. The McDonalds card seems to offer the least number  of "double deals" but its also one of the most popular. 

Each card retails for $10 and costs between $1 to $2. Each one features the fast-food company's logo on the front along with a message stating that 80-90% of the price of this card goes to support your soccer fundraising group. 

It's a nice way to tap into the consumer spending revenue stream with an attractive product that benefits both parties. 

Find out more about fundraising discount cards from a supplier that handles all the different cards, Krazy Kard Fundraising. 

These programs allow your group to reap an excellent return by offering quality products that require only moderate effort. 

They are guaranteed to score a goal every time out with your players and your supporters.


