Title: 
Three Great Fundraising Event Ideas

Word Count:
693

Summary:
These three fundraising events work well for any size group. To maximize your success, you must create awareness within the community of both the specifics of your fundraising event and the reason why your group is raising funds.


Keywords:
fundraising,fundraiser,fundraisers,non-profit fundraising,school fundraiser,church fundraiser,church fundraiser,sports fundraising


Article Body:
These three fundraising events work well for any size group. To maximize your success, you must create awareness within the community of both the specifics of your fundraising event and the reason why your group is raising funds. 

Both are important to any fundraiser, but they are absolutely critical for pulling off a successful event. You have to generate enough publicity to draw a sizable audience and you must motivate the attendees to support your program. 

So, which fundraising events shall we talk about?

Three Event Ideas:

1- Get The Picture 
2- Rubber Duck Derby 
3- Clean Comedians 

#1 - Get The Picture
Get The Picture is a name I coined for portrait event fundraisers. The idea here is to offer family portraits, glamour shots, vintage photos, and other "dressy" pictures. 

You'll need a central location with plenty of room for costume changes, picture-taking backdrops, and a waiting area. The best times are usually Saturdays. Pre-sell the event with flyers and reserved session" tickets. 

You'll want to get photo commitments up front from 250 people to make this worth your while. 

Your sales pitch should "Focus on the Fun:" 
Capture The Moment (before it slips away) 
Dress up Picture Party (be there or be square) 
Goofy Faces Wanted! (yours included) 

Or tug at the heart:
When's the last time you sent a family photo Christmas card? 
They're not getting any younger... Get a portrait! 
Mother/daughter, Father/son - Pictures last a lifetime! 

Your group can coordinate with a local photographer or partner with a national photography chain. One that I recommend is Vista Studios. They offer a 10x13 family portrait for $8 and your group gets paid $6, plus additional performance bonuses. 

#2 - Rubber Duck Derby
The Rubber Duck Derby is an easy and fun fund-raising event that can be scaled in size to fit your group's supporter base. The actual event, crazy as it may sound, involves racing rubber ducks down a local waterway. 

Your local community "adopts" the ducks for a chance to win valuable donated prizes. Duck races have become a unique and profitable event for many charities. 

Your group sells a ticket linked to a number that's painted on one of the racing rubber ducks. Depending on the prizes involved, tickets are priced somewhere between $5-$10 a ticket. 

A standard size for a race is 3,000 rubber ducks, but you can adjust that up or down depending on the size of your group and the amount you need to raise. 

Large plastic bags full of the ducks are simultaneously emptied into the water. The winning duck is the one that floats to the finish line first. 

It adds a little extra zing to the old-fashioned raffle ticket sale. Prizes can also be awarded in various categories to add to the festivities. Many groups organize their "race" around a group picnic near the waterway and make a leisurely afternoon out of your fundraiser event. 

A company called Great American Duck Races can supply you with everything you need. 

#3 - Clean Comedians 
The third of our fundraising events is Clean Comedians. They offer over 50 performers capable of meeting almost any entertainment need. These hilarious entertainers will have your audience rolling with laughter -- and no one will be offended! 

All you need to coordinate is a hall or auditorium and arrange an audience. Sell tickets up front or at the door. If you want to make additional funds, you can also offer food items as well. 

If your group is small, partner with another organization and split the profits. Many groups are reporting record giving with this unique "Bucks through Yuks" approach. 

Hundreds of schools have used Clean Comedians for years to provide top quality entertainment for their students. From stand-up comedians and impressionists - to musicians, magicians, and jugglers - their performers provide outstanding, clean entertainment for any group. 

Not only are these guys hilarious entertainment, but each performer also has several messages focusing on important issues students face today. 

Performances can be arranged at this web site: Clean Comedians  

Special Events - Wrap-up 
Pick an event that suits the talents and size of your group. Then, focus your energies in getting your message out to your potential supporters. These fundraiser events will do the rest.


