Title: 
Evaluation Of Some Of Hillary's Socialist Statements

Word Count:
519

Summary:
Is Hillary a Socialist?

I recently received this email as probably over a million other people have. It comes in the form of a test and takes 6 Marxist styled statements that Hillary has made and asks you to guess who said them. I decided to look up these quotes and first see if they are real and second what was the context that they were spoken in to decide if they are really socialist statements. Each are quotes from Hillary, 4 are direct quotes and two are slightly piec...


Keywords:
Hillary Clinton


Article Body:
Is Hillary a Socialist?

I recently received this email as probably over a million other people have. It comes in the form of a test and takes 6 Marxist styled statements that Hillary has made and asks you to guess who said them. I decided to look up these quotes and first see if they are real and second what was the context that they were spoken in to decide if they are really socialist statements. Each are quotes from Hillary, 4 are direct quotes and two are slightly pieced together. Below I will give you the quote in it context and discuss whether or not there is any validity to it being a socialist statement.

This is a copy of the email I received.

Time for a history lesson.

How made these statements. Give your best guess if you do not know.

1. "We're going to take things away from you on behalf of the common good."

A. Karl Marx
B. Adolph Hitler
C. Joseph Stalin
D. None of the above

2. "It's time for a new beginning, for an end to government of the few, by the few, and for the few and to replace it with shared responsibility for shared prosperity."

A. Lenin
B. Mussolini
C. Idi Amin
D. None of the Above

3. "(We)...can't just let business as usual go on, and that means something has to be taken away from some people."

A. Nikita Khrushev
B. Josef Goebbels
C. Boris Yeltsin
D. None of the above

4. "We have to build a political consensus and that requires people to give up a little bit of their own... in order to create this common ground."

A. Mao Tse Dung
B. Hugo Chavez
C. Kim Jong Il
D None of the above

5. "I certainly think the free-market has failed."

A. Karl Marx
B. Lenin
C. Molotov
D. None of the above

6. "I think it's time to send a clear message to what has become the most profitable sector in (the) entire economy that they are being watched."

A. Pinochet
B. Milosevic
C. Saddam Hussein
D. None of the above

Answers:

(1) D. None of the above. Statement was made by Hillary Clinton 6/29/2004
(2) D. None of the above. Statement was made by Hillary Clinton 5/29/2007
(3) D. None of the above. Statement was made by Hillary Clinton 6/4/2007
(4) D. None of the above. Statement was made by Hillary Clinton 6/4/2007
(5) D. None of the above. Statement was made by Hillary Clinton 6/4/2007
(6) D. None of the above. Statement was made by Hillary Clinton 9/2/2005

The conclusion of the research into the context of each of these statements is that statements 1, 2, 3, and 5 are true to their context and are socialist statements. Statements 4 and 6 are taken out of their context and are not socialist statements.

The evaluation of each statement is too long for this article. The evaluation of each statement gives the context of each statement and the date and location of the speech in which the statement was made. It also has a link to a copy of the speech in which it is found. The evaluation of each can be found at http://www.common-sense-america.com/hillaryclintonsocialist.htm


