Title: 
Mod Report Says Ufos Do Not Exist In The Uk: Some British Pilots And Military Members Might Disagree

Word Count:
1106

Summary:
According to a once secret report released by the British Ministry of Defense in April of 2007, UFOs are not anything to get excited about. The MoD report claims that all the incidents they have investigated show the objects in question to be without mass, no danger to air traffic and not under intelligent control. Despite the four hundred pages of nay saying, not everyone agrees.

For almost two decades, a number of British Intelligence Analysts and former UK Military cons...


Keywords:
ufo,alien,mod,uk,ministry of defense,military,encounter,bentwaters


Article Body:
According to a once secret report released by the British Ministry of Defense in April of 2007, UFOs are not anything to get excited about. The MoD report claims that all the incidents they have investigated show the objects in question to be without mass, no danger to air traffic and not under intelligent control. Despite the four hundred pages of nay saying, not everyone agrees.

For almost two decades, a number of British Intelligence Analysts and former UK Military consultants working for the MoD have leaked documents which reveal that UFOs are intelligently-controlled vehicles of extra-terrestrial origin. The MoD leaks, recent reports that former Canadian Prime Minister Paul Martin saw a UFO from his aircraft in 2004 and statements from other Canadian officials which indicate UFOs are alien spacecraft may be the reason for this latest piece of disinformation.

While the MoD may believe that there is nothing to this whole UFO thing, they might have considered checking with at least two UK Commercial Airline Pilots that recent saw one. Captain Ray Bowyer, 50, of Aurigny Airlines, spotted a "bright-yellow light" 10 miles west of Alderney at about 3pm during a flight from Southampton while his aircraft was 30 miles from the island at 4,000 feet on Monday, April 23, 2007.

Captain Bowyer: "It was a very sharp, thin yellow object with a green area. It was 2,000ft up and stationary. I thought it was about 10 miles away, although I later realized it was approximately 40 miles from us. At first, I thought it was the size of a [Boeing] 737.
"But it must have been much bigger because of how far away it was. It could have been as much as a mile wide."

While on approach to Guernsey, Bowyer noticed a "second identical object further to the west". He said: "It was exactly the same but looked smaller because it was further away. It was closer to Guernsey. I can't explain it. At first, I thought it might have been a reflection from a vinery in Guernsey, but that would have disappeared quickly. This was clearly visual for about nine minutes. As I got closer to it, it became clear to me that it was tangible. I was in two minds about going towards it to have a closer look but decided against it because of the size of it. I had to think of the safety of the passengers first. I'm certainly not saying that it was something of another world. All I'm saying is that I have never seen anything like it before in all my years of flying."

Bowyer reported the incident to Paul Kelly, 31, an Air Traffic Controller on duty. Kelly indicated that nothing appeared on his radar. However, ATC Paul Kelly received a "similar report" from a Blue Islands pilot en route to Jersey at the same time. Kelly explained that as the pilot went past Sark he "described an object behind him to his left". Kelly continued: "The description was very similar to Captain Bowyer's and they described it as being in exactly the same place. But they were looking at it from opposite sides." The other pilot said that the UFO was 1,550 feet lower than his aircraft, which was at 3,500ft. "Both pilots placed it at the same altitude", Kelly added.

In 1987, I published a phone interview that I did with an official for the British Ministry of Defense in The New York UFO Report. The official was an assistant to a person involved with nuclear investigations. Because I knew the person which arranged the phone interview very well, there was no doubt that I was speaking with a very important source of insider information when it came to the MoD.

The official told me that there were numerous incursions into areas where nuclear weapons and other sensitive materials were stored. These incursions involved unidentified aircraft and physical beings of unknown origin. He refused to elaborate about the beings fearing that any further descriptions might help identify him. According to him, general stories about the creatures and crafts that made the incursions were common knowledge to many in the MoD. Recent statements by Nick Pope may have helped to validate those stories.

In November of 2006, Nick Pope (the former head of the MoD UFO research project) told the British Press that his Country was vulnerable to invasion or infiltration by extra-terrestrial forces. Pope felt that the shutting down of UFO research at the MoD Directorate of Defense Security has left his nation unprepared to defend against Aliens. As a result, he resigned his position with the Directorate. On previous occasions he has stated that the MoD wasn’t hiding anything from the British Public. I wonder how he feels now?

My own source at the MoD said that the organization was of two minds when it came to UFOs. Many UK Military Officers feel there is ample evidence to believe that Aliens exist and are visiting the Earth without respect for national boundaries or security. That makes them a national security concern. Others at the MoD believe the entire matter is without merit and should be ignored.

Time either heals all wounds or wounds all heals. In this case, time has been a friend to my source. Over the past twenty years since that interview with him, I have watched the UK Government split hairs over UFOs. When the UFO incident took place near the Bentwaters Base and NATO Facility in 1980, it was confirmation that UFOs are making incursions into security sensitive UK military facilities. The aftermath also revealed a clear split among military members and their hierarchy when it came to the subject of UFOs.

Officially, it seemed that no one was really sure what happened at Bentwaters. Everything from Light House Beacons to reflective tree bark was rolled out to explain away the incident. But most of the people on the ground when it happened seemed convinced this wasn’t an ordinary event involving a conventional explanation. As with Roswell and hundreds of other cases involving military bases, aircraft, ships and UFOs, you had the choice of believing those who were there or people writing reports about it later to suit there own political and philosophical needs.

Even if you have spent just a few minutes researching UFOs and have an open mind, will not be fooled by the MoD Report. As with other self-serving documents like the 1997 Air Force Report on the Roswell Crash and the recent UFO files released by France, these papers are designed to create doubt and mask any other information government agencies possess about UFOs and Aliens.

Read more true stories about the Unexplained at http://www.UFOguy.com


