Title: 
Re-Connecting Again: The Online Search for Classmates

Word Count:
434

Summary:
As time goes by, there are certain questions that keep popping up.  What ever happened to that girl I had a crush on?


Keywords:
classmates


Article Body:
As time goes by, there are certain questions that keep popping up.  What ever happened to that girl I had a crush on?  Where did my high school buddies end up after college?  I wonder what ever happened to so-and-so?  These are questions that are not uncommon, and with the wonder and curiosity that is aroused by these lines of thoughts, the information age has provided a new opportunity that several companies have taken advantage of.  Just type in the word “classmates” on any Internet search engine and see what the first results are.  Enough people are obviously asking the same questions you are, because websites specializing in re-connecting alumni from both high schools and college growing at a steady rate.

	With how times change, the days of high school graduates coming back to the same home town they grew up in is more or less long gone.  Even if some remain, many more will move, and many individuals nowadays will change jobs six or seven times in their lives, and may move even more often.  This can make it difficult for even the most dedicated of friends to keep in touch   What about those friends you still want to keep in touch with, but just don’t have the time?  Or what about that friend you remember fondly, but haven’t heard from in ten years?  That’s where the new plethora of classmates websites come in.

	These websites may very well be the best way to keep in touch with former classmates.  While there are always class reunions, some obvious problems can come up: 1) What if your friend wasn’t in the exact some grade as you were?  2) Time.  Reunions are generally only every five years.  3) Communication/appearance.  Even if you make it to a reunion, the students you are most interested in seeing may not be there, may not have received an invitation (it is very difficult to keep track of everybody) or there are some schools and classes that simply do not have class reunions.

	The advantage of the website is that the classmates you’re looking for may already be on the website, looking to hear from other graduates.  Also, you can post updates of your own life today, and see what other people from your old stomping grounds have been up to.  Most of the websites offer a free basic membership to put up your information, than a fee for more advanced memberships.  For free, what’s the harm in giving it a try?  You never know, but your old friends may already be there waiting for you.


