Title: 
Russian Cruise - the best way to travel in Russia

Word Count:
330

Summary:
Russia is one of the top tourist destinations on our planet. Because it is so large, one of the best ways to visit Russia is on Russia Cruises and here is why...


Keywords:
Russian visa, Russia visa, Russian visas, visa Russia, Russian visa application, Russian visa service, Russia River Cruises, Volga Cruise, Cruise Russia, Russian River Cruise tours, Russian River Cruise, Volga river


Article Body:
There are many ways to explore Russia, but some ways are better than others. Cruises to Russia is one of the best ways to explore Russia and there are plenty of reasons why.

First, Cruises to Russia take you to many great places. When you go on a land tour you visit Moscow or St Petersburg, or possibly both. When you go on a river cruises, you visit Moscow and St Petersburg as well as many of Russia's ancient capitals in between. On a river cruise, you can visit a famous Kizhi Island that can only be reached by water or sail across Russia from St. Petersburg to Volgograd.

Second, river journeys are much better deals than land tours. Since you travel on a ship, you don't have to pay for hotel, which could be quite expensive, especially in Moscow. On Cruises to Russia, you pay from $140 to $200 per day for an all-inclusive treatment, cabins, delicious food, drinks, shows, excursions and even on-board classes of Russian history, culture and art.

Third, traveling on a Russian cruise is usually more fun than traveling on land. In your trip, you will be accompanied by travelers from other parts of the world. You can share your personal stories and your experience in Russia. You will have a wonderful time on board in the ship's restaurants and bars. You will make plenty of new friends and have an unforgettable experience as your ship carries you across the Russian territories.

Fourth, arranging Cruises to Russia is much easier than a land tour. There is a cruise departing every week so you can choose the one that suits you best. There are dozens of cruises designed for English-speaking customers sailing across western Russia from north to south and vice-versa. You can set a sail from Moscow to St Petersburg or from St. Petersburg to Moscow. You can sail on the famous Volga River and explore Russia's southern territories, including the famous cities of Volgograd and Astrakhan.


