Title: 
Supporting Our Troops: We're Behind Them No Matter What

Word Count:
496

Summary:
The United States military is the strongest and most disciplined military in the world.  The troops in the U.S. military have fought and died for many of the freedoms that we enjoy today.  Without our troops we would not have independence at all, because they rose up against the tyrannical reign of the British government to fight for our freedom.
  
As the United States became a super power the U.S. military has also waged many wars in defense of our nation as well as other...


Keywords:



Article Body:
The United States military is the strongest and most disciplined military in the world.  The troops in the U.S. military have fought and died for many of the freedoms that we enjoy today.  Without our troops we would not have independence at all, because they rose up against the tyrannical reign of the British government to fight for our freedom.
  
As the United States became a super power the U.S. military has also waged many wars in defense of our nation as well as other nations that could not defend themselves.  I do not believe that war should be glorified, but I do believe that sometimes war is necessary.  Also since our country is the most powerful country in the world, I believe that we should look out for the “little guy”, and defend smaller nations that can not adequately defend themselves.  No matter if you believe in a war or not you should always support the troops that are fighting in the war for us.

Some wars that America has fought in have not been very popular wars, but we should never lose sight of our troops that are fighting in that war.  Vietnam was one of the bloodiest wars that we have ever been apart of.  Also it was a very unpopular war in the U.S., with millions of people protesting daily.  The wonderful thing about America is that we have the freedom to protest a war.  However we must not forget the troops that are fighting in that war.  

One thing in our history that I am very ashamed of is the fact that when the troops from Vietnam returned to America people did not show their appreciation.  In fact many people actually taunted the troops and made them feel bad for fighting in the war.  We should not have done this, because the troops did not have a choice whether to fight in the war or not.  Many of the troops were drafted and if they did not fight they would have been put in jail.  We should have given the soldiers a parade and cheered for them when they returned.

We are currently in a very unpopular war in Iraq.  At the beginning of this war, the American people were behind the war, because we thought it was a good start in the war on terrorism.  However the usefulness of this war has far been surpassed by the amount of American lives that have been lost.  Many people in America believe that we should end this war and bring our troops back, because we are never going to be able to gain a complete win.  I am actually starting to believe that we should bring our soldiers back now as well.  However no matter what happens with this war or the decisions our government makes, we need to make sure that we show our troops the support that they deserve while they are fighting and when they return.


