The importance of Milestone Birthdays

You have to keep in mind that with a milestone birthday, it is a special event that no one can ignore. It is just one of the few times in a person’s life where you need to focus on yourself and celebrate your growth. 


When it comes to a milestone birthday, you will find that there is some serious partying done, but also that the gifts are very extravagant. Most of these birthdays are a sort of coming-of-age along with increased privileges and responsibilities.

The milestone birthday starts with your first. It tends to be a big deal, because in one year an infant can grow so much. Normally during a child’s first birthday it is more about the family and friends of the parents as opposed to a party for the child’s friends.

Most children on their first birthday are given either their own small cake or their own piece to eat however they like. The first birthday ends to get a little messy, because you usually want to encourage your child to just dig right into the cake. 

The next most important milestone birthday is usually the 13th birthday. This is when a child officially becomes a teenager.

The importance of being 13 is that you are considered to be on your way to being an adult and therefore, you are taken more serious. You’ll want to keep in mind that there are plenty of other birthday parties to look forward to after this milestone birthday. 

The 16th birthday is the year that most US states allow a teen to legally drive without their parents present.

Then there is your 18th birthday. You are no longer a child (but that doesn’t really make you an adult), however you are able to do many adult things like vote and join the military. In the eyes of the law, you are an adult. 
 

Don’t forget the 21st birthday. It is a milestone birthday because you are legally allowed to consume alcohol. 

The next milestone comes at 35. This is when in most countries, someone can run for the highest political office such as President of the United States.

Typically, after 40, you are considered to be over the hill. Then you will still have a milestone birthday, every ten years. These birthdays may not be something that you look forward to, but it is still a big deal and needs celebrated. 
