The History of Weight Lifting

The history of weight lifting depicts that in ancient period of prehistoric tribes has major importance, in that period the testing of manhood was done by weight lifting. They have lifted heavy stones such as Blue stones of old Dailly, Dinnie Stones and Inver stone to show the power moreover it was the matter of prestige to the tribal kingdom in ancient age however, it is not possible to find the exact date of the first weight lifting championship.

Perhaps, the testing of human strength is very old may be older than civilization of human being. Lifting heavy object images are shown in ancient Egyptian records, which are in scripted, in Chinese text and Greek carvings.

Weight lifting is a sport in which participant attempt to lift heavy weights mounted weights on steel and barbell. Precisely, the execution of which is a combination of flexibility, power, concentration, will power, skills, discipline, athleticism, fitness, technique, physical and mental strength. As per the history of weight lifting, weight lifting is informally called as weight training, weight lifting trains the athlete for functional strength, utilizing the body's major muscle groups.

Although, Weight lifting plays an important role in the success of many athletes, however, when not done according to the proper method, it can cause many problems concerning with health. Technique is the most important part in lifting the weight, and without proper method, weight lifters will get hurt before they have the opportunity to receive the benefits from weight lifting.

Considering the available facts, the history of weight lifting first began in Europe in the late 1880 and the champion of the competition was crowned in 1891. On those periods, there were no other sub division and the crown went to the man able to lift the maximum weight. Weight lifting competition was clubbed as a part of athletics in 1896; however, weight lifting was excluded in the 1900 games. Again, the art of weight lifting was notice in 1904, but the game was not included in Olympics however, in 1920, weight lifting has been accepted as a game and provided with its own right.

In those periods, Olympic introduce some strange weight lifting programs such as, one and two handed lift with no weight division however, rules where changed in 1932 and five sub division has been established and form three discipline for the competition viz. snatch, press and clean and jerk. 

In snatch, the weight lifter lift the weight above the head in one fast-uninterrupted movement however, in the second movement the weight is brought to the shoulders and after that weight is jerked out above the head. Although, in the second movement the weights are lifted in two stages makes it easier and the lifted weights.Later in 1972, press division was abolished and only snatch and clean jerk where accepted as the sports to Olympic discipline.

As a revolution in 2000, women also put their feet in this powerful event in Sydney. Hence, the history of weight lifting show the journey of the powerful game attain a high level of place in the world Olympic.
