Weight Routines

Is a set of exercises, how many repetitions you do as well as how many sets you complete. There are certain weight routine to be followed such as three repetition of flat bench press, two repetition of bench dumbbell and three repetition of inclined bench press is a set of weight routine for chest similarly there are other exercise programs for the body.

The routine is a term given how you manage the weight program, It is something to managing a schedule of a weight lifting program. Routines are made to split the workout in such a way, that you are not overtraining the same muscle groups. 

Don’t lift more weights than your limit especially if you don’t have any spotter because it can end your lifting career.

The technique mainly used for developing biceps is to hold and grip up close to the inside of the dumbbell plates. There will be a space of several inches between your pinky and the side plates. Chest exercises, including the bench press, Incline bench press, Flat dumbbell flyes and inclined dumbbell flyes.

For developing the back muscle exercise like deadlift, lat pulldown, seated cable row, bent over ball row and bent over one-arm dumbbells. Bicep can be worked by doing standing barbell curls, preacher curl with dumbbell, seated or standing dumbbell curls. And for triceps, there are tricep press down, dips and French press.

Squats and clave raises exercises are for legs. The important part of our body, for weight lifting is the shoulders, which you can develop by seated or standing militarty press, lateral raises and by shrugs.

One thing that people are always confused about are the abs and how to get a six pack. The answer is very simple, the only way to get your abs is to lower your body fat. For men the mid drifted is a common place for fat to build up, and unfortunately it's the last place to loose excess fat!

Doing push-ups is not going to burn the fat, it will only tone the stomach muscles underneath. Lower your overall body fat and your abs will be visible.
