A Weight Lifting Schedule is Vital

A weight lifting schedule is very much important for a weight lifter. To plan his workout routine and to get the best results. The schedule should begin with fat burning, strength gaining and finally building strong muscle through heavy weight lifting.

For a weight lifting schedule, there must be concrete plan to achieve success so far weight lifting is concern strong plan should be implemented to get the desire result. The program should be split so that the body gets proper rest. It will be a great idea to divide the week in three part and make three weight lifting program according to your wish.

The weight lifting is a unique and different kind of sport because of the dynamic movement by lifting the weight under a full squat and with the lightening speed, moving the weight overhead with a fast movement of legs and hips to generate a large amount of force upon a loaded barbell. Weight lifters are not only strong but sometimes it boosts your energy as well.

It is better to start with a weight that you can easily handle at least ten to twelve repetitions. And for the first set, it is better to do the routine wih minimal weight, before starting the proper workout. If you were start with heavy weights, it may tear the muscle easily and result in injury.

Weight lifting should be split in such a manner that if you are doing the exercise for back and biceps on Monday, then you must do chest and triceps on Wednesday and shoulders and legs on Friday. By splitting the workout, it gives plenty of time for each group to recover.

There are many exercises for the body. The lifting technique helps to have a spotter while lifting heavy weights as it helps to get extra one or two reps which helps make difference in results.

Perhaps, it helps to put a weight back as if it is unable to complete a rep. Similarly, don’t lift more weight than your limit especially if you don’t have any spotter because it can end your lifting career. It will be wise decision to stick with the same weight and trying to do at least eight to ten reps without hurting yourself.

As though, it would give the better results. Hence, weight lifting schedule is very important  to achieve your goal. 
