Weight Lifting Bars

A weight lifting bar is equipment known as plate hangers, the major role of a weight lifting bar is to support at right angles or parallel all weights to the bar at a selected distance. The bar are also use for exercise under some condition, such as when lifting underneath the bar to be on the floor.

A weight lifting bar is made up of an extended cylindrical bar that is surrounded by a revolving sleeve with a shorter length than slid bar. The accessory of bar made up of a sleeve that slides on top of the end, portions depending on the plate hanger. A bar that supports weight while extending at right angles is said to be a lifting bar and the lower portion is said as plate hanger.

Weights are mounted on each side of plate hanger, given weights that have holes in the centre for easy sliding engagement and clamping is done to hold it tight. The weights is slid directly into the end of weight lifting bar to make it into a straight weight lifting bar. 

A weight lifting bar as delivered in claim and each side comes with a sleeve which slides on  end-portion of weight lifting bar. The bar plate hanger includes an additional hole to enable weight supporting to the bar and selectively slid into hole to lower the clearance between weight and weight lifting bar moreover, bar also support the welded plate hanger

There several important tips, which should be followed to safely lift a bar, off the floor. Certain exercises require you to lift the bar from the floor just to the front of thigh and some other exercise require to lift the bar up to the shoulder in two bar movements. Such exercises should be done in the presence of a trainer.

Always hold the bar using an over hand grip and position the hands outside the leg then shuffle you feet towards the bar so that your shins are almost touching it after that closed the weight been lifted  to the body  without using effective force.

Although this type of exercise is dangerous and risky, a single wrong step can cause dangerous accident while lifting the bars. There are many multifunctional bars available in market, which can be used for different exercise.

Hence weight lifting bar play an important role in the field of weight lifting.
