Graf Air Freight Tips and Tricks 

Graf air freight is one of the leading air freight services that many business and companies have relied on for years now. This is because of the highly competitive service that Graf is known for. They are famous for providing logistic solution in transporting time-sensitive materials both internationally and domestically. 

In addition, they have a highly trained customer service support present 24 hours a day and 7 days a week. These people are ready to answer any queries and eager to help their customers plan out the best strategy so that their package will be delivered on time and in the best condition. 

What makes Graf air freight service different from the rest is that they maintain strict standards regarding shipment. This is because they know that there is a constant need for things and materials to be moved around. With the many issues that involve these kinds of services, it is important that customer satisfaction is first in mind.

Graf is continuously formulating new strategies to improve their service. The one thing they focus on is to avoid the many problems that are related with air freight shipment. 

But then it is not only the air freight service that is responsible transporting cargo effectively and efficiently. It can be noted that customers have to do their part so that their package or cargo will be shipped effectively and efficiently. 

Below are some tips to help avoid air freight problems. 

1. Pad all fragile items. 

If you are shipping breakable items with unbreakable ones, it is important that you pad the fragile items carefully. Rough handling cannot be avoided especially if you do not make a note regarding the contents of your package. 

Even if you are assured that your package will be handled right, unavoidable circumstances are sure to happen. Rather than take the risk that chance, it is best to provide additional safety measures so that none of the materials will be compromised. 

2. Fill up your box.

It is not advisable to ship partially or half filled boxes. This is because boxes are filed on top of another. When this happens, your box has the tendency to be crushed by heavier boxes. 

The best option would be to put your package in a smaller box. This way, all the space will be consumed and the materials will be made intact and immobile.

3. Pack perishable items properly.

If you want you package to arrive fresh and edible in their destination, you have to make sure that you put them in the proper package before shipping them. 

There are rules and regulations that customers should adhere to when they want to ship perishable items. Make sure that you know about these rules beforehand. You can always contact their customer service so that you will not violate one or two of their rules. 

4. Infectious substances and dangerous goods. 

Most air freight services have strict standards regarding the shipment of dangerous chemicals and goods. Some of them do not even accept these kinds of shipment. 

For those who do, you are required to provide the necessary documentation that will support the safe shipment of these materials. Be prepared to provide these documentations. 

These are some of the tips that Graf air freight are providing their customers. In doing your part, you can be assured that the company will do the rest. 
