INSIDER'S SECRETS TO YOUR OWN MILLION DOLLAR MULTI-LEVEL

EMPIRE BY MAIL AND OTHERWISE

There seems to be any number of appealing Multi-Level Marketing
programs available these days. Our researchers haven't analyzed
them all, but based upon the appeal of those for the
participants--most of them look as though they could put money in
your pockets. However, don't ever delude yourself into thinking
that  multi-level marketing won't cost you anything nor require
much of your time, or work on your part. Indeed, successful
selling, and most assuredly, multi-level marketing, will require
an investment--decication--and a lot of hard work!

However, before you "sign-up" for any MLM deal or begin one of
your own, it's going to pay you to do a little bit of market
research relative to the sales potential of the whole deal. for
instances, if you can sell to a "waiting market" you'll make
money. But if the people you attempt to recruit as duplicates of
yourself feel that they're going to have a hard time selling it
to someone else, then you haven't got much of a winning MLM
program; regardless of how much money you claim they can make, if
only they'll get out there and sell!

This specifically applies to MLM programs that offer "limited
appeal" products such as gourmet recipes, health foods, household
"knick-knacks", books on needlecraft or magazine subscriptions.
Beware also of deals that require you to purchase an inventory or
maintain a certain sales level. Look for the "bad parts" of an
offer, and then weigh these against the ease with which you'll be
able to make a sale. At the bottom line, if you have a hard time
selling it, then the people you recruit to sell it for you will
find it even harder to sell, and that'll be the end of your "big
money" muti-level program.

There are countless reports, manuals, books and other
publications that "supposedly" tell you how to attain riches in
mail order, party plan selling, and even street-corner sales. the
thing is, all of these "how-to" publications try to instruct you
how to put a mailing piece together, how often to send for you
offers out, and even the importance of "neatness & quality"
within your offer, but very few if any come right out and help
you get your offer to your most likely customers. As you know,
unless an interested buyer sees your offer, you're not going to
make any money.

What I'm saying is that most people thrash around,waste time,
spend hundreds of dollars, and never make any money simply
because they don't know how to get their offers to the
people--without it costing them an arm and a leg...

Here's how it's done: Regardless of what your offer entails,put
together the most dynamic and mass-appeal "one-page" advertising
circular you can come up with. As I've so often stated in the
past, the best-selling and most-productive circular is one that
"tells the reader you have a solution to his many money
problems." In other words, with your circular, promise him a way
to make himself rich, and he'll not only be interested,he'll jump
on your program.

Next, make it as easy as possible for the people who see your
offer to respond. That is, addition to an order coupon at the
bottom of the advertising circulars describing your offer, give
him the chance to get involved in your program for least possible
cost.

If you've put together a "winning offer" most people seeing it
will want to know more about it, but if you charge them $5 for
registration or enrollment fees, you'll lose about half of those
" wanting in," because they're afraid of being ripped off. But if
you charge them $2 or less, almost all of the people seeing your
offer will "take a chance," just to find out what kind of deal it
is you're offering.

In summary, you must have a one-page advertising circular that
really appeals to most of the people CHANCE TO SOLVE ALL YOUR
MONEY PROBLEMS! It must include a coupon the reader clips off and
sends in to you for enrollment or registration in your program.
It has to be priced at $2 or less to "get everbody" to at least
check it out. And, it must be complete on one page to hold your
printing costs in line.

Assuming you're with us, and organized thus far, take this
advertising circular you've made up in original form, to a quick
printer in your area. Ask him to print up $10,000 of these
one-page advertising circulars for you. This will cost you
approximately $200.

If you don't have the money, you can either work an arrangement
with the printer to pay him in 30 days, or include him in as a
"silent partner" in your program. Ask him to read over your
offer, explain how you intend to get it to the people, and about
how much money you expect to gross from it. Then, simply offer to
split the proceeds if he'll carry your printing costs for you.

While the circulars are being printed, and the ink is drying,
line up your initial distribution efforts. The first thing is to
contact the Cub Scout and Brownie organizations in your area.
Arrange with the leaders of these groups to pay them $10 per
thousands if they'll station people at the exits to all the
shopping centers in your area and pass out one of your circulars
to everyone as they leave the shopping center. Simply tell them
that you've got 10,000 of these circulars to hand out, and that
you'll pay them the $100 for handing them out, on the first of
the month.

The best kind of places to handout your circulars are those that
feature discount stores, recycled clothing stores, and inventory
reduction sales. Next on your list of places to hand out
circulars should be Flea Markets, Swap and Shop events, and even
garage sales. Anywhere there's a lot of people congregating or
coming & going, is a good place to hand out your advertising
circulars--all in your own home town and without postage costs.

Now comes the good part...While your "hired helpers" are handing
circulars out for you at strategic locations throughout the area,
you should be calling in person on every shopkeeper and store
owner or manager in the area.

Show them each copy of your circular. Explain your program to
them, and offer to cut them in on the profits if they'll help you
hand them out by dropping one in with the purchases of each of
their customers. The stores won't want to become involved in
extra bookkeeping nor the handling of money for you, so you'll
have to devise a method of knowing where your orders come from--a
code for each of the stores handing out circulars for you.

This is very simple. Just assign a different "department number"
to each store, and when you have the circulars printed for each
store, insert the department code in the address the reader is
supposed to send his order to...

Generally speaking, you should offer to supply the circulars
without cost to the distributors, including the "special coding"
for each store. Thus the need for a good working relationship
with the printer in your area. The amount of commissions per
order received that you allow to each store should range between
15 to 30 percent, but of course, always try to finalize each deal
for the least amount.

Be sure to keep records of al your in coming orders. It would be
wise to have a separate record book for each distributor. Thus,
you can review the number of orders received from each
distributor's customers with him when you pay him his commission
at the end of the month. At the same time, you should jot the
name, address and phone number of each person sending in an
order, onto a 3x5 index card. Arrange thee cards in alphabetical
ad zip code order, ad store them in an old shoebox. When you have
10, 15, or 25 thousand of them, you'll be able to sell them at $1
per name to any number of mailing list brokers.

Another thing you'll want to do, each envelope you receive--clip
the stamp off and save these in still another shoebox--stamp
collectors will pay you $10 to $25 for each shoebox full of
stamps you can collect. After you've clipped the stamps off,
place these envelopes with your customer's return address in
still another storage box. When you have several boxes full of
these envelopes from people who have spent money with you, there
are any number of "list buyers" who'll pay you for them.

Once you've got your town saturated with circular distributors--
be sure to leave a stack in all the barber shops and beauty
salons, as well as at the counter in cafe restaurants, bowling
centers, theaters, and the "lodges" of all the fraternal as well
as labor unions in the area--your next move is simply to
duplicate these efforts in a neighboring town or city.

Basically, we're talking about multi-level marketing and total
advertising-recruiting efforts on your part. Your main thrust
should be to "pull in" as many people as possible--show them the
program, and if they want it, let them get in on it--if not,
forget about them and move on to the next prospect...This is
called "prospecting," and it's going to cost you money and time,
regardless of what you're trying to sell.

So you put together an "invitation type announcement" which is
your initial 42 advertising circular and you get it to as many
people as possible. They pay you a "cover charge" of $2 to find
out what your program is all about. And before you get all upset
and throw this report in the waste basket, think about this:
Let's suppose there are 42,000 people in your town--30,000
adults, and 18,000 separate families. If each of these 18,00
families were to send you $2, how much money would you have?
436,000 right? Now then, tell me whether or not you'd like to
have an extra $36,000.

The people send you $2 for a "look see" at your program for
solving their money problems. You send them back your multi-level
program brochure which describes how they can duplicate what
you're doing and make a bundle of money for themselves, and the
cost of the supplies for them to get started. At the same time,
you send out another one-page advertising circular that offers
business success reports. Just another for instance, let's say
that 30% of the people receiving your MLM Brochure enroll and
send for a start-up kit or supplies. You've expanded your MLM
distributorship and made money, right? And now, let's suppose
that of all the people who've sent $2 to find out what your
program is all about, a total of 40% spend $5 with you for one of
your business success reports--$36,000 gross income for initial
expenses of $600--then, let's say your MLM brochures cost you
$100 per thousand for total expenses thus far of $2,400--plus
another $600 for your business success reports circulars--with
another $11,250 as your commission from these reports, for a
total gross income thus far of $47,250--then, 3rd class postage
and envelope costs of $2,550...Subtract your expenses from your
gross income of $47,250 and you should end up taking $41,700 to
your bank, catching up on all your bills, or spending on a long
overdue vacation to Acapulco or Hawaii...

That's it! That's how easy and simple it is and it actually
works! Once you've covered your entire state in this manner,
simply start renting mailing lists of people listed as
Opportunity Seekers, and shotgun your basic page, $2 offer to all
of them. By following these instructions and working according to
this plan, you should easily take in more than a million dollars
within the next twelve months.

We've been using the attached "$2 circular{ for some time now,
and it's proven to be a fantastic winner for us from the
start...We had 10,000 printed at a cost to us of $200--paid a
couple of cub scout troups $100 to hand them out for us; and from
the initial 10,000 circulars we handed out, we received 2,341 $2
inquires=$4,682...And, another 353 orders for the MLM Manual
offered on the same circular=$7,060- Total income form our
initial $300 investment was $11,742...

Since that time, we've expanded our market, and we're now putting
out 10,000 of these circulars each and every week.

You can do it too! All it takes is that first circular and then,
distribution. If you'd like to make some of this "big money"
we've been talking about--feel free to duplicate our circular
with your name/address on it, and get it out to the people in
your area.
