SIXTY USES OF VINEGAR

1.  Arthritis tonic and treatment; 2 spoonfuls of apple cider
vinegar and honey in a glass of water several times daily.

2.  Thirst-quenching drink:  apple cider vinegar mixed with cold
water.

3.  Sagging cane chairs:  sponge them with a hot solution of
half vinegar and half water.  Place the chairs out in the hot
sun to dry.

4.  Skin burns:  apply ice cold vinegar right away for fast
relief.  Will prevent burn blisters.

5.  Add a spoonful of vinegar to cooking water to make
cauliflower white and clean.

6.  Storing cheese:  keep it fresh longer by wrapping it in a
vinegar-soaked cloth and keeping it in a sealed container.

7.  Remove stains from stainless steel and chrome with a
vinegar-dampened cloth.

8.  Rinse glasses and dishes in water and vinegar to remove
spots and film.

9.  Prevent grease build-up in your oven by frequently wiping it
with vinegar.

10.  Wipe jars of preserves and canned food with vinegar to
prevent mold-producing bacteria.

11.  To eliminate mildew, dust and odors, wipe down walls with
vinegar-soaked cloth.

12.  Clean windows with vinegar and water.

13.  Hardened paint brushes:  simmer in boiling vinegar and wash
in hot soapy water.

14.  Clean breadbox and food containers with vinegar-dampened
cloth to keep fresh-smelling and clean.

15.  Pour boiling vinegar down drains to unclog and clean them.

16.  Clean fireplace bricks with undiluted vinegar.

17.  An excellent all-purpose cleaner:  vinegar mixed with salt.
 Cleans copper, bronze, brass, dishes, pots, pans, skillets,
glasses, windows.  Rinse well.

18.  Make your catsup and other condiments last long by
adding vinegar.

19.  To clear up respiratory congestion, inhale a vapor mist
from steaming pot containing water and several spoonfuls of
vinegar.

20.  Apple cider vinegar and honey as a cure-all:  use to
prevent apathy, obesity, hay fever, asthma, rashes, food
poisoning, heartburn, sore throat, bad eyesight, dandruff,
brittle nails and bad breath.

21.  When boiling eggs, add some vinegar to the water to prevent
white from leaking out of a cracked egg.

22.  When poaching eggs, add  a teaspoon of vinegar to the water
to prevent separation.

23.  Weight loss:  vinegar helps prevent fat from accumulating
in the body.

24.  Canned fish and shrimp:  to give it a freshly caught taste,
soak in a mixture of sherry and 2 tablespoons of vinegar.

25.  Add a spoonful of vinegar when cooking fruit to improve the
flavor.

26.  Soak fish in vinegar and water before cooking for a tender,
sweeter taste.

27.  Add vinegar to boiling ham to improve flavor and cut salty
taste.

28.  Improve the flavor of desserts by adding a touch of vinegar.

29.  Add vinegar to your deep fryer to eliminate a greasy taste.

30.  Add a tablespoon of vinegar to fruit gelatin to hold it
firm.

31.  Steep your favorite herb in vinegar until you have a
pleasing taste and aroma.

32.  Use vinegar instead of lemon on fried and broiled foods.

33.  To remove lime coating on your tea kettle;  add vinegar to
the water and let stand overnight.

34.  To make a good liniment:  beat 1 whole egg, add 1 cup
vinegar and 1 cup turpentine.  Blend.

35.  Apply vinegar to chapped, cracked skin for quick healing.

36.  Vinegar promotes skin health:  rub on tired, sore or
swollen areas.

37.  Reduce mineral deposits in pipes, radiators, kettles and
tanks by adding vinegar into the system.

38.  Rub vinegar on the cut end of uncooked ham to prevent mold.

39.  Clean jars with vinegar and water to remove odor.

40.  Avoid cabbage odor by adding vinegar to the cooking water.

41.  Skunk odor:  remove from pets by rubbing fur with vinegar.

42.  Paint adheres better to galvanized metal that has been
wiped with vinegar.

43.  Pets' drinking water:  add vinegar to eliminate odor and
encourage shiny fur.

44.  For fluffy meringue:  beat 3 egg whites with a teaspoon of
vinegar.

45.  Pie crust:  add 1 tablespoon vinegar to your pastry recipe
for an exceptional crust.

46.  Half a teaspoon per quart of patching plaster allows you
more time to work the plaster before it hardens.

47.  Prevent discoloration of peeled potatoes by adding a few
drops of vinegar to water.  They will keep fresh for days in
fridge.

48.  Poultry water:  add vinegar to increase egg production and
to produce tender meat.

49.  Preserve peppers:  put freshly picked peppers in a
sterilized jar and finish filling with boiling vinegar.

50.  Olives and pimentos will keep indefinitely if covered with
vinegar and refrigerated.

51.  Add 1 tsp. vinegar to cooking water for fluffier rice.

52.  Add vinegar to laundry rinse water:  removes all soap and
prevents yellowing.

53.  After shampoo hair rinse:  
     1 ounce apple cider vinegar in 1 quart of distilled water.

54.  For a shiny crust on homemade bread and rolls:  just before
they have finished baking, take them out, brush crusts with
vinegar, return to oven to finish baking.

55.  Homemade sour cream:  blend together 1 cup cottage cheese,
1/4 cup skim milk and 1 tsp. vinegar.

56.  Boil vinegar and water in pots to remove stains.

57.  Remove berry stains from hands with vinegar.

58.  Prevent sugaring by mixing a drop of vinegar in the cake
icing.

59.  Cold vinegar relieves sunburn.

60.When boiling meat, add a spoonful of vinegar to the water to
make it more tender.

Bonus:

61.  Marinate tough meat in vinegar overnight to tenderize.

62.  A strength tonic:  combine raw eggs, vinegar and black
pepper.  Blend well.

63.  Douche:  2 to 4 ounces of vinegar in 2 quarts of warm water.
