A SHORT MEMORY COURSE!

HOW TO REMEMBER NAMES

You just called the TV repair shop and the voice on the other
end of the line tells you "this is Don Smith".  About 5 minutes
later you tell your wife that "this guy" will be out to fix the
TV in the morning.  You can't think of his name although you
know he mentioned it on the phone.

This happens all the time to just about any of us unless we have
learned to concentrate and implant the name in our memory right
at the time we hear it.  To do this you first must make a habit
of repeating the name back to the person.  This action will
remind you to store the name in your "Memory banks" each time
you hear someone's name, and, within a matter of a short time
the "repeating" process can be discontinued.

When you meet someone in person use the same procedure, and in
addition, visualize something different, unusual from the
ordinary, or "ridiculous" about their appearance, position, or
actions that "ties in" with their name.  You may have to put the
descriptive information on one side of a card or piece of paper
and the name on the other side for a while until it is imbedded
in your memory permanently.  Look at it repeatedly, see the
"picture" in your mind's eye as you look at the name, or when
you see the name visualize the "picture" you have assigned to
the name.

Getting this system to work will require certain changes in your
thinking and it may take several days or several weeks to become
proficient.  After all, you have developed a "bad Habit" over a
period of many years and it is difficult to turn it around
overnight.

This method also works with anything else work remembering, not
just names.  When you have occasion to remember something, jot
it down and incorporate it into your list . . . No complicated
formula . . . Just a system that works with a little
concentration.

HOW TO REMEMBER ANYTHING!

As mentioned above a person may train their memory by
associating names with specific illustrations.  This works just
as well with written information.

There are several key words or a key thought in each paragraph
of printed matter that can be associated with an illogical or
ridiculous illustration.  It is much easier to remember and
recall ridiculous associations than it is to recall normal and
uneventful relationships.

As you proceed through any text choose one or several Key words
or key thoughts from each subject and relate the same to a
ridiculous cartoon or illustration.  Actually "see" it in your
minds eye as it relates to the key word or key thought.

When you have occasion to remember a particular matter, the
"picture" should automatically appear to you and the entire
thought should be recalled.  Be sure to SEE the ridiculous
picture associated with the printed matter you wish to recall.

As you proceed through a book, practice seeing a picture and
relate it to the key words or the main thought of the written
material.  This method of learning should improve your ability
to retain what you read.  With sufficient "practice" using this
method, many individuals will be able to develop a "photo-Type"
memory.

The Key to this memory system is to "see" the "picture" in your
"mind's eye".  After you have practiced and mastered the system
and are able to get instant flashback recall you should be able
to read most any text material and visualize ridiculous pictures
to associate with the thoughts expressed in the printed
materials.

We suggest you prove this system to yourself.  As you read the
first several pages of information, "see" a picture related to
the words or  thought.  It may be rather difficult to "see" at
first but by constant effort and concentration amazing progress
can be made.  When you have seen the picture, just go on 
reading the following subject matter and repeat the process. 
Don't be concerned that you will forget the prior subjects! 
They should remain imprinted on your mind and recalled later,
instantaneously and clearly.

After you have read several pages, recall the first few
"mind-pictures".  If you originally "saw" the picture as related
to the key thought of the printed material, you should remember
the basic information.

Try it!  It's interesting!  After you have mastered this
learning system, it should be easy to file various programs away
in your memory and recall them as needed to progress in your
search for success.

MEMORY AND PUBLIC SPEAKING TIPS!

The same system mentioned on the previous page may be used to
memorize a speech by linking a series of thoughts to a series of
ridiculous pictures in sequence.

Proper preparation of your  speech is half the battle.  Know you
subject thoroughly then make an outline for the introduction,
main body and conclusion.  Start your speech with something to
startle your audience into complete attention such as a weird
statement or funny happening.

In presenting the main body of your speech get the confidence of
your audience by letting them know you know your  subject very
well.  Get your points across without argument.

In making your conclusion you can briefly sum up what you have
just stated then end with a big bang;  recommending action your
audience should take or suggesting they change their viewpoint
on the subject etc.;  finalize with a joke that fits the
circumstances, or powerful word pictures they will remember
after they leave the meeting.

Make your outline in large print with plenty of space between
lines so you will be able to look up without losing your place
on the sheets.  Rely on your memory for the  most important
points, including the opening and closing lines.

Practice your speech with a tape recorder and in front of a
mirror before the meeting.  Work out any apparent speaking
problems or things that don't sound just right.  Know what you
are going to do with your hands and determine the better body
movements to go with your personality.  Continually make eye
contact back and forth across the room.

Take time to think before answering questions.  If you don't
have the answer, ask another question, refer it to someone else
better qualified to answer, answer in general terms, or change
the subject  (like politicians do) complimenting the person
asking the "impossible" question, or by telling a "clean" joke.
