Title: 
Big Brother 6 - Sam Heuston

Word Count:
475

Summary:
Despite being the best looking girl in Big Brother 6, Sam Heuston was voted out third, lasting a total of 22 days.


Keywords:
sam heuston, big brother 6


Article Body:
Despite being the best looking girl in Big Brother 6, sexy Sam Heuston was voted out third, lasting a total of 22 days and despite describing herself as "the horniest girl you’ve ever met", bisexual-by-numbers Sam was quite dull in the house and couldn't even tempt eventual winner Anthony Hutton into some action. 

Housemate Sam was a marketing student from Cheam, Surrey and 23-years-old when she entered the Big Brother house. She missed her final exam to participate on the TV show but gained a 2:2 degree anyway. 

Sam dreamt of being famous and saw Big Brother as a stepping stone to bigger things. She had a boob job but never told her family and once stripped naked on a podium on holiday in Tenerife in exchange for tickets to an event. Her idol is Christina Aguilera and although she loves both men and women, she relieves herself of boredom by thinking and talking about men. 

Before going into Big Brother, Sam believed the housemates would be annoyed at her prettiness. An issue that Sam raised in her continuous slanging match with "Lesleh". 

She may have been pretty but also described herself as "original, funny and fun". However, there wasn't much evidence of that during her brief stint in the house. 

By the second week of the show, Zoo magazine announced they would offer Sam a job as a sex columnist when she left the house - a role previously occupied by tabloid regular Jodie Marsh. 

She lasted just another week when she was put up for eviction alongside Derek and Roberto, receiving 59% of the public and duly being evicted from the Big Brother house. 

Sam had escaped being evicted at the second eviction on Friday 10 June (Day 15) when up against all her fellow housemates Anthony, Craig, Derek, Kemal, Lesley, Maxwell, Makosi, Roberto, Saskia, Science and Vanessa. If Big Brother had decided use the normal nomination procedure to choose possible evictees, Sam would have been up against Derek.

This is Sam’s nomination history during her stint in the house:

1st (Day 5) - Sam was nominated by Derek, Kemal, Lesley and Vanessa.

2nd (Day 11) - Sam was nominated by Craig, Derek, Lesley, Makosi, Roberto and Vanessa.

3rd (Day 18) - Sam was nominated by Anthony, Maxwell and Vanessa and was evicted by the public vote.

Since being evicted, Sam has beaten her obligatory battle against depression, had a short fling with Blue lothario Duncan James and dyed her hair blonde. 

She has been an almost permanent fixture in the lads mags, been offered TV presenter roles and a sex columnist. She also appeared on an episode of the Italian version of Big Brother as an audience member. 

With Big Brother 7 now well underway, Sam will have to come up with a new angle is she is to remain in the spotlight. A second appearance in reality TV, say Celebrity Love Island perhaps?


