The "How" of Vegetarianism

Sometimes the real obstacle of making that big change in your life to becoming a vegetarian is not the "why" of making this big change in your lifestyle but the how.  Its not hard to find good reasons to eliminate meat from your diet.  There are moral reasons, spiritual reasons and above all health reasons that make the change a perfect fit for where you are in life right now.

But what really stops a lot of people from making this very positive change in their personal lives is not knowing exactly how to make the transition.  So its a good idea to think through what it will mean to become a vegetarian so we can remove the mystery from what you are about to do.

There is no sugar coating the fact that a significant change in diet such as you will experience switching to a vegetarian lifestyle is going to take some getting used to. It is also going to call for some self discipline on your part to make the transition.  Yes, you will be more healthy and probably feel better ethically when you can honestly tell the world, "I am a vegetarian".  But the transition can be a challenge.  

That is why one of the big steps in making the change is to be well in touch with your priorities and reasons for becoming a vegetarian.  This is the most important in the first weeks of your new lifestyle as you get used to the diet and the health effects on your system.  And since most vegetarian diets go through an adjustment period as you assure you are going to get enough protein and vitamins, you will have a lot of new sensations and things going on inside that will take some patience to get through.

So be sure of your motivations and go back to that "mantra" of why you decided to make this change in your life in the first place.  And like any great goal, if you truly believe in what you are doing, you will push through the rough patches because you want to live right and enjoy the benefits of eating and living in a way that is harmonious with the environment and with your own bodily needs.

Sometimes the reason we hold back from taking the plunge on becoming vegetarians comes from a fear that is grounded in lack of information.  So the obvious solution is to learn all you can about your diet and what to expect as you begin living the life of a vegetarian.  The top priority in your new education program is how to create a diet that meets your nutritional needs as well as provides you with sufficient variety to be satisfying without the presence of meat.  The good news is that there are a huge variety of web sites and books you can use to learn how to supplements your diet so you get what you need nutritionally to begin your life as a vegetarian.

A big decision to make and one you should think through before you start your path to the life of a vegetarian is how you will make the transition.  You may be enthusiastic and want to go "cold turkey" or a very harsh vegetarian regimen.  But is not advised as it will increase the chances you will experience more severe reactions to cutting out so much of your diet.  Remember your body is used to a certain level of eating.  So make changes slowly one at a time and ease into your new vegetarian lifestyle.

If there is any question about whether a vegetarian diet is right for you, seek medical advice before starting to make such a big change to what you eat each day.  Your doctor can help you make sure you are getting enough vitamins for ongoing health and that you are planning meals that give you sufficient protein and nutrients so your active lifestyle is not hurt by your new eating discipline.

By begin smart, consulting with your doctor and being aware of your nutritional and vitamin needs as you start to change your diet and lifestyle, you will gently ease into a vegetarian life. And as you do so, you can celebrate that you are not just moving away from a bad diet but moving toward one you will enjoy and one that will benefit your health for a long time to come.

PPPPP

Word Count 747
