The National Burglar and Fire Alarm Association, A Model Organization


There are many different associations in the United States alone. Each association represents different sectors or field of specializations. One of the many associations is the NBFAA or the National Burglar and Fire Alarm Association.

The NBFAA has served for about 60 years already. It supported the varying needs of the industry, the society, the nation, as well as its members. The association is also the biggest professional trade organization in the US; and it represents, enhances, and promotes the development and growth of electronic life security and safety. Members of NBFAA are benefited because the association provides timely information, products, development tools, and services to foster business' prosperity and growth.

Being an advocate, the association helps in increasing awareness about electronic safety, integrated systems, and security. They are engaged in different activities like trainings and media programs, especially the ones which support new technology. Public safety is one of the many considerations that NBFAA is much concerned about, together with financial stability, recognition, and commitment.

You might wonder who the members are; to start with, members are from the different sectors of the industry namely: sales, installation, manufacturing, monitoring, and service. This enables the association to address different issues and concerns of the whole industry.

More or less 70% of the companies that are involved in life/fire safety systems, video surveillance, access control, and monitoring are all members of NBFAA. And these companies serve millions of commercial and residential customers which makes it easier for the association to identify the changing needs of the community and the nation.

Proven by its very long stay in the market, the mission of the association is always carried out effectively, and that is to promote, support, and represent the whole industry for growth and empowerment of businesses.

The following are its five components in order to fulfill the association's mission statement:

1. Government relations allow NBFAA to keep a close watch for various legislations regarding public safety, electronic life security, and the systems industry. This is done on the local as well as state levels. NBFAA provides monthly reports and conveys information to its members throughout the United States.

2. Information about different industry affairs are also provided to its members which includes issues on technological changes and other environmental issues that has a great impact on the businesses.

3. Public relation is also a very important component. NBFAA exert their efforts to reach consumers and other constituents to establish a good communication and ensure homeland security and public safety.

4. Standards have a vital role in the industry, and the association provides its members with useful information pertaining to the different status of current standards and aids in the creation or development of on-going standards.

5. Professional development through the National Training School which was founded in 1985 by NBFAA was able to meet the changing needs for trainings on electronic life. Now, the NTS still offers trainings, but the programs are more diverse and competent. Thousands of students are able to complete and get certification after attending at NTS.

NBFAA is a very good example of a non-profit organization which helps the entire industry and its consumers. Organizations such as this should be supported and given recognition. NBFAA still has a lot of people to serve, and it has a very good chance to stay for a long time.

   	
  
