Title: 
A Guide To World Class Cuisine on the Web

Word Count:
540

Summary:
This article tells the reader abotu fine dining website options that will show them different cooking tips for their own gourmet meals at home.


Keywords:
fine dining, french cuisine, luxury, luxury dining


Article Body:
As a self-declared gourmet from the womb, I'm always going out and trying the latest restaurants and culinary creations wherever I find myself. But sometimes, its nice to have a night in and be the one making the meals, rather than just eating them. Because I'm not the type to stick to a one-pan-easy-casserole-type-of-concoction, nor am I adept enough to combine flavors like the experts in my favorite restaurants, I turn to food sites for help with all my culinary questions.

If you're like me, and can't always follow a recipe without visual instructions, check out www.Gourmandia.com. The site includes not only written instructions, but also videos of chefs preparing the recipes. Recipes are divided into categories of the most popular videos, as well as by restaurants, which are predominantly French or French-inspired, as well as healthy recipes. You can also search by chef and see their Michelin ratings, which is fun as they are all European. Also take advantage of the site's special touches, like napkin-folding instructions as well as a store where you can purchase a selection of quality gourmet goods.

If you're not in the mood for French but feel like trying out a new recipe, and can't decide whether to go exotic or traditional; direct your browser to www.ifood.tv, where you can watch people who love to cook make recipes in their home kitchens. You can watch your dish being made and then print the recipe for your own time spent in the kitchen. If you're really inspired, you can join iFood.tv and share some of your own recipes with the cooking world.

At www.VideoRecipesOnline.com, you can find video instructions on cooking meals that are quick and easy. Each video demonstration gives instructions on how to turn packaged food -products and flavorings into a whole meal. This site is good for families with little time to cook, but who want to make home-cooked meals. However, if you're into making elaborate meals from scratch, you can skip it. 

Have you noticed how popular the Food Network has become in the last few years? The chefs are just as celebrated as their famous clientèle! If you are a fan of the famous foodies, watch your favorite Food Network stars make the recipes you forgot to TiVo anytime you want at www.FoodNetwork.com. You can search videos by popular chefs or by recipe categories and make yummy noises right along with Rachel or Giada.

One of my favorite sites, and the one I probably use the most can be found at http://AllRecipes.com. I like allrecipes.com because it really does seem to have every recipe imaginable. Not only does the site include recipes, it also has instructional videos on those tricky techniques real chefs seem to perform with such ease; like pitting an avocado or cutting and serving cake without all the layers falling apart. The range of recipes and levels of expertise are also extensive, so no matter what you're cooking up, allrecipes.com can probably help you out.

These sites are easy to navigate and can provide a lot of help for those who like to eat and want to try making fabulous food for themselves.


