Title: 
A Thing To Do With A Basket After The Fruit Is Gone

Word Count:
457

Summary:
Once you have consumed the fruit and other contents of your fruit basket, do not throw out the basket itself! These containers that hold a bevy of edible goodies are perfect for a number of clever uses around your home. From storage to decoration, the basket portion of your gift will allow you to keep enjoying the present long after the fruit has been enjoyed.

Today’s fruit baskets are using more unique and less traditional containers, ranging from colanders to planters. I...


Keywords:
fruit baskets, holiday baskets, gift baskets, edible gift baskets


Article Body:
Once you have consumed the fruit and other contents of your fruit basket, do not throw out the basket itself! These containers that hold a bevy of edible goodies are perfect for a number of clever uses around your home. From storage to decoration, the basket portion of your gift will allow you to keep enjoying the present long after the fruit has been enjoyed.

Today’s fruit baskets are using more unique and less traditional containers, ranging from colanders to planters. If your fruit basket has a container that is other than a basket, then you will probably already have a good idea for which it can be used. However, many fruit basket recipients find themselves puzzling over how to use their baskets. If you find yourself in this head-scratching crowd, consider these fantastic options:

• Storage: Baskets today are making a comeback and are used for storing everything from your favorite pair of shoes to your kid’s building blocks. A trip to your favorite home décor store will present you with tons of baskets in every shape and size, so consider using your emptied fruit basket in the same manner. Tuck towels into your basket and use it to add extra storage space in a tiny bath. Put a basket in your car to keep items from rolling around in a trunk or back hatch. Hang a basket underneath the garage to hold sporting equipment or use them inside your home to hold magazines, cleaning supplies, toys, and anything else under the sun! 

• Function: Many families designate each family member a basket, allowing them to pick up their items left around the home. This is a great idea, since you can keep things better organized and teach all family members (even the adults) tidiness. 

• Decoration: Many homeowners use baskets as a decoration, filling in blank corners or bare tops of furniture. Fill your basket with greenery or flowers and use as a centerpiece. Use your basket as a planter and move your live plants to a more aesthetic location. Baskets are also a great way to cover less savory items that have become a necessity in your home, especially wires and electronic equipment that is threatening to take over your room.

• Re-use: Instead of using boring gift bags or clumsy boxes to house gifts, consider using a basket! Half the impact of the gift is its presentation, so you can guarantee your gift to be a hit if you tuck the treasure inside a basket. Whether you choose to make your own gift basket or just use the basket for wrapping and transport, reusing your basket is a great way to pass on a lovely item to a friend, family member, co-worker, or neighbor.


