Title: 
An Atlanta Personal Chef Can Meet Your Dietary Needs

Word Count:
533

Summary:
Cooking and serving a nutritious and delicious meal can be difficult for people with dietary restrictions or who may have other special needs. That's when in home chefs can be a godsend.


Keywords:
personal chef, atlanta personal chef, atlanta personal chefs, georgia chefs, hire a chef, chef for hire, in home chef, m


Article Body:
On the surface, preparing a good meal seems straightforward. In practice, however, cooking and serving a nutritious and delicious meal can be difficult for people with dietary restrictions or who may have other special needs. That's when in home chefs can be a godsend. Let's look at three examples. 

Food Allergies

If you look at the numbers, the chances are good that you or someone in your family has a food allergy. The Food Allergy and Anaphylaxis Network notes that as many as 12 million Americans have food allergies. Granted, not all food allergies are life threatening. Still, consuming foods that one is allergic too can, over time, exacerbate the problem and trigger sensitivities to other allergens. 

According to the Asthma and Allergy Foundation of America, the eight most common food allergies are: milk, eggs, peanuts, tree nuts, seafood, shellfish, soy, and wheat. If one person in your family is allergic to a common food, such as milk, eggs, or wheat, you can face a difficult choice: you can prepare allergen-free meals for everyone in the household, or cook a separate meal for the family member with a food allergy. Given how hectic our lives are these days, neither is a perfect solution. 

That's where an Atlanta personal chef can be of service. The services of Georgia chefs are less expensive than you might think, and you can hire a chef who will meet with you to discuss your family's needs. Once you've communicated your concerns about food allergies, she can come up with menu ideas that can work for everyone in the family. Typically, she will then do the shopping and come into your home once each week to prepare several dinners, which she will then place in containers and refrigerate or freeze - and then she'll clean up. You can either have her cook meals for the entire family, or for the person with special dietary needs.

Nutritious Food for the Weight Conscious

Seeing how Oprah Winfrey has successfully lost weight and kept if off is inspiring, but her personal chef and personal trainer most likely made a difficult process easier. If you're fighting the battle of the bulge, a chef for hire can help you achieve your goals. An Atlanta personal chef can work with you to come up with menu ideas that will fit in with your diet - whether it's low-calorie, low fat, or low-carb, and then prepare delicious and nutritious meals that you simply have to reheat. 

Helping Seniors Remain Independent

If you have elderly parents, you undoubtedly understand their desire to live independently, but you may be concerned about their decreased appetites or their ability to prepare nutritious dinners every night. A personal chef can help out by coming in and cooking several meals at once, which will give you peace of mind and your parents delicious meals. Since she'll also do the shopping and clean up, they won't have to worry about those cumbersome chores.

Atlanta personal chefs can easily accommodate all of these situations, and many more. Whether you need meals that are low in salt, low in sugar, or tasty dishes that will tempt those with waning appetites, a personal chef can deliver an affordable solution.


