Title: 
An Organic Herbal Tea Blend

Word Count:
470

Summary:
With US$5 billion market in the United States alone in 2003, a 500% increase in 10 years, tea is a well established industry that is quickly growing.   Tea bags, loose teas, tea shops, and gourmet teas are only a few examples of the outlets for this ever increasing number.  Though sales have been mainly rooted in the standard teas stemming from the Camelia sinensis plant (Green tea, Oolong tea, and Black tea), a vast increase in herbal and natural medicines in the western world has brought upon a virtual explosion of Organic Herbal Tea Blend, releasing any confinements there may have previously been.


Keywords:
organic herbal tea blend, organic herbal tea, herbal tea, herbal tea blend


Article Body:
With US$5 billion market in the United States alone in 2003, a 500% increase in 10 years, tea is a well established industry that is quickly growing.   Tea bags, loose teas, tea shops, and gourmet teas are only a few examples of the outlets for this ever increasing number.  Though sales have been mainly rooted in the standard teas stemming from the Camelia sinensis plant (Green tea, Oolong tea, and Black tea), a vast increase in herbal and natural medicines in the western world has brought upon a virtual explosion of Organic Herbal Tea Blend, releasing any confinements there may have previously been. 

Now it is not only Big Business that is apart of this industry as the infinite number of herbal tea blends are combing with the free commerce of the internet.   This conception is creating new life in an industry that had been patiently waiting.  New companies are forming, new mixtures are being created, and now even new tea bags are being designed. 

The machine manufactured tea bags are still standard in market where cost is being put before quality.  A metal staple is used to close a bag filled with low quality tea dust, which is known to have very low health benefits and give a more bitter taste than its whole leaf loose tea counterpart.   Due to the manufacturing techniques used by these production factories, tea dust is the only filler able to be injected with the machines used to mass produce these bags.  As the general size of each organic herbal tea blend is larger, they are unable to be used with these processed bags.  

Second in popularity is a relatively new pyramid shaped tea bag.  A more spacious bag allows for a free floating of the loose tea that is inside.  Though higher in quality than the stapled standard, problems of this style include a large shape and size that makes bulk packaging difficult.  Also, most bags are filled with green and oolong loose teas, as opposed to organic herbal tea.  

With the combined short falls of these two bags, the ever increasing number of organic herbal tea blends and home based companies are in desperate need for a tea bag to match their unique nature.  Fortunately as the number of companies is increasing, and more money is entering into the market, handmade gourmet tea bags are being created, better matching the ingenuity behind each organic herbal tea blend.  It is very possible that as the number organic blends increase in popularity, raising the desire for organic products and higher health benefits, consumers will be more willing to pay slightly higher prices to receive significantly higher in quality tea bags.  With this in mind, it very well could be that a unique organic herbal tea blend could be your gateway to differentiation in a busy tea industry.


