Title: 
Bottled Water Tastes Better

Word Count:
399

Summary:
Due to the several alarming alerts that were issued by doctors, many of which were just false, I stopped paying much attention to the results of medical studies that proclaim one thing or the other is bad for my health.

But I must admit there are some warnings I simply can't ignore, and anything that has to do with drinking water is one of them.

What could be responsible for the sudden change of heart?

It's simple. The discovery of the level of chemicals and contamin...


Keywords:
water, fitness, weight loss, diet


Article Body:
Due to the several alarming alerts that were issued by doctors, many of which were just false, I stopped paying much attention to the results of medical studies that proclaim one thing or the other is bad for my health.

But I must admit there are some warnings I simply can't ignore, and anything that has to do with drinking water is one of them.

What could be responsible for the sudden change of heart?

It's simple. The discovery of the level of chemicals and contaminants that could be present in the water that comes out from the tap did it for me.

And on the spur of the moment, I knew it was time I check out a bottled water service.

My enquiries only led to another discovery: the assumption on my part that only businesses could afford to pay for monthly bottled water service was wrong. Though that may have been true a decade ago, it's definitely not the case today.

Most folks are realizing just how important it is to have a convenient source of pure, refreshing water at home as well as at the office. Fortunately, the bottled water service providers are in synchronization with the home owners who represents a rather large market.

This led the providers to commence tailoring their packages to fit individual and family needs. The response was instant; many families simply signed up for the home bottled water service, due largely to the fact that the cost is moderate.

However, there is more to bottled water service than the affordable price and the water content.

Make sure you know what you are paying for before you sign any contract. If you know there are certain features you won't use, ask if you can eliminate those from your bottled water service plans for a discount.

Again, scrutinize what's in the fine print carefully, there is likely to be a cancellation fee associated with opting out of the bottled water service contract.

The general rule is, if you simply want to try out the bottled water service for a while, then its best not to sign a long-term contract.

Anyone who signed up for bottled water service can't fail to notice the distinct improvement in the taste of the water they now drink. This ultimately will make them feel better knowing that the water is as clean and pure as can be.


