Title: 
Can Pizza Actually Be Healthy For You?

Word Count:
317

Summary:
This article may come as a surprise to you, especially if you follow a healthy and nutritious diet...

It's about pizza, the weakness of many people including me. I love pizza- always have. I make sure I eat it in moderation, but it's still one of my favorite foods.

Now there’s good news for pizza lovers.

According to Men's Health magazine, research concludes that pizza can be good for you. It’s important to point out, however, that we're talking about real pizza- not...


Keywords:
nutrition, pizza, healthy food, health, foods to eat, cheese pizza, tomato sauce, nutritious


Article Body:
This article may come as a surprise to you, especially if you follow a healthy and nutritious diet...

It's about pizza, the weakness of many people including me. I love pizza- always have. I make sure I eat it in moderation, but it's still one of my favorite foods.

Now there’s good news for pizza lovers.

According to Men's Health magazine, research concludes that pizza can be good for you. It’s important to point out, however, that we're talking about real pizza- not the kind you get from Pizza Hut, Dominoes or the frozen food section of your supermarket. By real, I mean pizza made with real crust, real tomato sauce and pure olive oil.

According to Men's Health, scientists writing in the European Journal of Clinical Nutrition found that eating pizza can reduce your risk of a heart attack. In a 4-year study of nearly 1,000 Italians, those who ate pizza at least once a week were 30 percent less likely to experience a heart attack than the folks who didn't partake of the pie.

This is contributed to pizza's cardio protective ingredients, including olive oil and tomato sauce. And here’s a way to make the pizza even healthier: top it with vegetables, part-skim cheese and use whole wheat crust. You’ll then have a meal that is actually good for you.

Can you get this kind of a pizza in a pizzeria? You might be able to find some that offer whole wheat crust, but I doubt you’ll find any that offer part-skim cheese. What you can do is buy the ingredients at your local grocery store and make the pizza yourself. Speaking from experience, this can be a fun thing!

Enjoy the experience of making your own pizza and savoring a nutritious meal. After all, feeding your body with nutritious meals is the number one thing you can do for better health.


