Title: 
Cheap, Healthy Foods - Watch Your Weight And Your Budget

Word Count:
411

Summary:
A major issue for those who are trying to create a healthy lifestyle is the cost of healthy food. There are many products on the shelves of your local grocery store that are healthy, 

but most of them have a larger price tag than the unhealthy, high-fat foods. There are options. If you shop wisely, you can eat healthier than you ever have before and decrease your grocery bill at the same time. Nutritious eating doesn't need to be expensive. 

Less Junk = More Savings: 
...


Keywords:



Article Body:
A major issue for those who are trying to create a healthy lifestyle is the cost of healthy food. There are many products on the shelves of your local grocery store that are healthy, 

but most of them have a larger price tag than the unhealthy, high-fat foods. There are options. If you shop wisely, you can eat healthier than you ever have before and decrease your grocery bill at the same time. Nutritious eating doesn't need to be expensive. 

Less Junk = More Savings: 

In choosing healthy foods, keep in mind that you will automatically be spending less than before due to the absence of junk foods that you may normally purchase such as soft drinks, sugary snacks, and high fat meats. 

Less Waste = Less Waiste: 

Healthy eating is not just eliminating certain foods from your diet; it is replacing them with healthy foods. And, if weight control is your goal, you will also be reducing your portion sizes, which will mean less money spent on each meal. 

Less Meat, More Veggies: 

Reducing the amount of meat you eat and replacing it with vegetables is a great way to save money. Fresh vegetables are not nearly as expensive as meat or poultry and your body will thank you for it. Salad is another cheap, healthy food. The pre-packaged salads will cost a bit more than if you purchase the lettuce and other vegetables separately and prepare the salad yourself. 

Frugal Fruit: 

Fruit can be a somewhat expensive, but if you purchase canned fruits in low-sugar syrup or water, you will pay relatively little in comparison to fresh fruit. Apples and oranges are inexpensive compared to some other fruits and you can often find sales that will further reduce your expenses. 

Beans and Rice are Nice: 

Legumes and rice are very inexpensive and you can use either or both of these to replace meat several times per week. 

Save on Meat: 

Canned fish costs considerably less than fresh fish and still contains most of the nutrients. Canned tuna and salmon are very cheap and are very low in fat and calories if you choose the varieties packed in water rather than oil. Chicken is less expensive if you purchase a whole chicken and remove the skin yourself before cooking. 

Healthy food does not have to be expensive. You can purchase cheap healthy foods and not only eliminate unhealthy fat and calories, but you can actually save money if you shop wisely.


