Title: 
Chicago Restaurants

Word Count:
341

Summary:
Chicago is a city that has pioneered many “firsts”. These include the first planetarium in the Western World, first atomic reaction, first elevated train system and commercial airplane. These events and facts have played a role in shaping Chicago into a city where tradition and enterprise coexists with innovative ideas. Chicago and its suburbs are home to more than 10 million people.


Keywords:
Restaurants, Fast Food Restaurants, New York City Restaurants, Chicago Restaurants


Article Body:
Chicago is a city that has pioneered many “firsts”. These include the first planetarium in the Western World, first atomic reaction, first elevated train system and commercial airplane. These events and facts have played a role in shaping Chicago into a city where tradition and enterprise coexists with innovative ideas. Chicago and its suburbs are home to more than 10 million people. 

Also known as the Windy City, Chicago has a distinctive style of its own and is also a fast-paced city. Chicago can be described as a restaurant town in a factual sense of the term, as diners here have the opportunity to taste cuisine from all parts of the world. The city is home to a wide range of eating establishments that serve Mediterranean, Israeli, Italian and Japanese cuisines. Specialized seafood restaurants, steak houses, burger joints or theme restaurants, they are all available in Chicago.  

Chicago is famous for its corner restaurant chains such as Pizzeria Uno and Georgetti. Diners in the city can also taste preparations by world famous chefs at eating establishments such as the West Loop’s Blackbird. The Everest, situated on the Chicago Stock Exchange’s 40th floor is another unique restaurant.

The city’s dining experience offers multiple moderately priced eateries. Chicago has a reputation for launching stylish and original restaurants. This trend has helped broadening the options for the diner besides providing reasonable prices. Along with these eating joints, Chicago is also home to numerous celebrity restaurants. These include restaurants owned by famous people such as Michael Jordan, Oprah Winfrey, Bruce Willis and Arnold Schwarzenneger.

Visitors to Chicago have an opportunity to pamper their taste buds and often, it is a problem of “ which one do I miss out on”. Trial and error is never a good way to get familiar with the dining culture of any city. It is important to read reviews that appear in the local print media or on the Internet. Some of these reviews give a pretty good glimpse into featured menus of various restaurants and an approximate pricing.


