Title: 
Chocolate Party Favors

Word Count:
315

Summary:
Everyone loves chocolate and Americans eat 10-12 pounds of it every year, so it makes the perfect party favors. Chocolate is considered a food that is relaxing the body, and it has a calming effect. It calms our nerves and helps us feel good. Some consider it a sinful indulgence, but it is not necessarily the case. If you choose your chocolate wisely, you can enjoy it without the guilty feelings we usually associate with it.

Party favors are small gifts the host gives each...


Keywords:
party, party planning, party favors, party favor ideas


Article Body:
Everyone loves chocolate and Americans eat 10-12 pounds of it every year, so it makes the perfect party favors. Chocolate is considered a food that is relaxing the body, and it has a calming effect. It calms our nerves and helps us feel good. Some consider it a sinful indulgence, but it is not necessarily the case. If you choose your chocolate wisely, you can enjoy it without the guilty feelings we usually associate with it.

Party favors are small gifts the host gives each guest to show their appreciation. It is a great way to say “thank you for being here.” There are many different party favors, but the most popular of them all is chocolate.

Chocolate party favors can be further enhanced with personalization. Personalized chocolates enable you to communicate a message to your guest. For example, if you are celebrating a birthday party you can include a message such as “Happy Birthday Joe.” You can have a date, the place of the party, or any other message printed on the chocolate wrapper. 

Your personalized wrapper is wrapped around usually milk chocolate, since it is the most popular kind of chocolate.

Chocolate not only tastes great, but it may be good for your health. Some research shows that chocolate may help your body use insulin more efficiently and lower your blood pressure. Chocolate includes essential minerals, such as magnesium and potassium. Vitamins B1, B2, D and E are found in chocolate. Chocolate includes antioxidants that can help protect against cancer and old age.

The history of chocolate dates back to the Maya civilization, and we still can’t live without it. According to recent surveys, chocolate is America's favorite flavor with over 50% of adults favoring chocolate to other flavors. Chocolate party favors are a great way to add to your party enjoyment, and with moderation it can even be part of a healthy diet.


