Title: 
Create A Beautiful Thanksgiving Centerpiece With Flowers

Word Count:
514

Summary:
Every Thanksgiving table should include a centerpiece to add to the festive feel of your dinner. It's quick and easy to make a Thanksgiving centerpiece from fall flowers, pumpkins, gourds, and greenery. You can create a beautiful Thanksgiving centerpiece in very little time and for very little money.


Keywords:



Article Body:
Every Thanksgiving table should include a centerpiece to add to the festive feel of your dinner. It's quick and easy to make a Thanksgiving centerpiece from fall flowers, pumpkins, gourds, and greenery. You can create a beautiful Thanksgiving centerpiece in very little time and for very little money. 

FLORAL PLATTER CENTERPIECE 

Here is a simple centerpiece that you can arrange on a tray or platter in just a few minutes: You will need a small potted ivy or mum, a few small gourds or pumpkins, several miniature pumpkins, a few apples, and some fresh or dried greenery such as moss, leaves, or parsley, and of course the platter or tray in which you will place your arrangement. 

Place the mum or ivy on one side of the platter and place a gourd and two small pumpkins next to the plant. Make sure you water the plant, but sparingly so as not to overrun or 

spill the water onto the other items on the platter. Arrange the miniature pumpkins around the platter and place the apples randomly to give a splash of color. Use small apples of both red and green colors. Place the leaves and/or greenery between the apples, gourds, and pumpkins. This makes a wonderful centerpiece that will make your Thanksgiving table a thing of beauty. 

HARVEST GLASS BOWL WITH FLOWERS 

To make a Thanksgiving centerpiece that includes all the symbols of fall, you will need the following: 

- a small glass tumbler 

- one very small pumpkin that has had the top cut off and the insides scooped out 

- six or more small gourds 

- a few dried leaves (preferably in various colors) 

- a dozen or more fall flowers such as mums 

- a cup of fresh or dried cranberries 

- shallow glass bowl 

After you have gathered your supplies, place the tumbler inside the pumpkin and fill it halfway with water. 

Arrange the flowers in the tumbler and place the pumpkin in the glass bowl. Place the bowl containing the pumpkin and the flowers on a cutting board or large glass plate on the table. Arrange the leaves, gourds, and cranberries in a random fashion around the pumpkin. Add a few small candles if you wish. You will have a beautiful centerpiece in just a few minutes of your time. 

CRANBERRY CENTERPIECE 

Create another easy centerpiece with only a clear glass vase (any size you desire), two pounds of fresh or dried cranberries, and a large bunch of pink or white carnations. Cut the carnation stems so that the flowers will be just above the top of the vase and remove any leaves. Place the carnations inside the vase and pull the flowers away from the edge. Drop the cranberries into the vase and then fill with water. This is a very easy and inexpensive centerpiece that will look beautiful on your table. 

It is quite easy to make a memorable centerpiece with very little time and money. Use your imagination and add lots of colors and textures to create a centerpiece that will create the perfect Thanksgiving atmosphere.


