Title: 
Culinary Arts

Word Count:
314

Summary:
Many believe that food preparation or cooking is an art. Restaurants and catering services anchor their success on the expertise and skills of their kitchen crew. As the saying goes, “ a man’s heart is through his stomach.”  Surely restaurants and the food industry keep their customers loyal though delectable and unique recipes using traditional and innovative ingredients.


Keywords:
Culinary Arts, Culinary Arts Schools, Culinary Arts Colleges, Culinary Arts Education


Article Body:
Many believe that food preparation or cooking is an art. Restaurants and catering services anchor their success on the expertise and skills of their kitchen crew. As the saying goes, “ a man’s heart is through his stomach.”  Surely restaurants and the food industry keep their customers loyal though delectable and unique recipes using traditional and innovative ingredients. 

Culinary arts have become an academic pursuit as well. Large food manufacturers look to culinary artists to create ready-to-eat, name brand food products that feature the same quality as those of homemade and restaurant-prepared food. Several culinary arts schools offer graduate studies for students. 

There are the more traditional, classical institutions that cater to students who are employed in luxury hotels, cruise ships, resorts and restaurants or those employed as personal chefs to the rich and famous. Famed chefs open up their own schools to train protégés. There are also culinary arts schools for hobbyists. Good schools provide intensive, hands-on training and real environment simulation to prepare their students well. 

Some culinary art’s courses touch on cooking science or the standard ingredients that go into most food products, food decoration and preservation. The courses also segregate trainings into stocks, sauces, soups, meat, fish and poultry cookery, breads and pastries, etc. Several schools also offer courses on exotic and traditional cooking. Students are also trained on food service safety and sanitation, management and finance.

As it is with other specialized professions, culinary arts graduates may often have to start at the bottom when they do find a position. This is especially true in the very discriminating food industry. Chefs become masters after years of experience and after earning the distinction through award-winning recipes and recognitions. They must first become souse chefs before taking the helm at the kitchen. But extremely talented students need not wait too long to establish their own reputation and following.


