Title: 
Executive Gift, Gourmet Smoked Alaskan Salmon

Word Count:
592

Summary:
A smoked salmon gift box from Alaska offers sincere thoughtfulness and exceptional gourmet taste in the same gift. Wild caught Alaska Sockeye Salmon are know world wide for flavor and are considered the very best smoked fish product on the market. For a gift of distinction, it makes an ideal executive gift.

"Appreciation is a wonderful thing: It makes what is excellent in others belong to us as well” – Voltair

A sockeye salmon fights the net as it is drawn from the ice ...


Keywords:
Executive gift, smoked salmon, gourmet gift


Article Body:
A smoked salmon gift box from Alaska offers sincere thoughtfulness and exceptional gourmet taste in the same gift. Wild caught Alaska Sockeye Salmon are know world wide for flavor and are considered the very best smoked fish product on the market. For a gift of distinction, it makes an ideal executive gift.

"Appreciation is a wonderful thing: It makes what is excellent in others belong to us as well” – Voltair

A sockeye salmon fights the net as it is drawn from the ice cold Alaskan waters. The fisherman lands an exceptional fish and spends an enormous amount of money shipping the smoked fillets home, but it’s worth it because he knows there is nothing like the taste of smoked Alaskan sockeye salmon. 

A fishing trip to Alaska might be out of the question as a gift for the executives in your firm, but you can still show genuine appreciation by giving the gift of a smoked salmon gift box.

The purchase of this unique corporate gift can help your team leaders know that they are appreciated. It may seem like such a simple thing, but the executive teams in many corporations receive less recognition than their contributions deserve. It’s safe to say that these team members are, in fact, highly valued, yet there is just so much involved in operating a successful business that one forgets the power of tangible expressions of gratitude.

Imagine the boost in morale when a cherry finish wood gift box housing eight ounces of the finest tasting smoked Copper River sockeye salmon, is presented as a gift of goodwill, acknowledging the contributions of your management team. 

Part of successful management is making sure the executives understand the core mission of the company and evidence the motivation to help the company reach difficult goals. A timely executive gift may help you achieve many separate, but connected goals. With such a unique corporate gift your staff understands much valued appreciation while finding motivation to continue in tough circumstances by knowing that they are highly esteemed through their work ethic and unique skills.

Smoked salmon is also a useful gift in courting, maintaining and thanking existing clientele. Your customers may have a choice when it comes to using your services or goods. They can always find a new firm to work with. In times of limited brand loyalty, a well timed gift to a valued customer may be the key that keeps them on the books. A smoked salmon gift box says a lot about the goodwill and appreciation your firm has for valued customers.

These highly prized and great tasting smoked salmon gift boxes are accessible online and can be ordered and delivered when convenient for you. A few simple clicks of the mouse and you’ve avoided traffic and parking issues while taking care of an often neglected part of good management and customer relations.

If your leadership team and customer base are used to pens and calendars, the gift of smoked salmon is sure to leave them talking. This approach will provide a well remembered taste tempting memento of the value you have attached to their contributions to the success of your company.

The gift of smoked salmon also shows your clients and staff that you care about their health as well. Smoked salmon is high in omega-three fatty acids and is low in caloric content. The tremendous taste of smoked salmon is linked with cholesterol reduction and heart health. It’s not often a gift this decadent also has such well established health benefits.


