Title: 
Experience The Joy Of Eating At  A Restaurant

Word Count:
402

Summary:
Restaurants offering a variety of cuisines are dotted all over the United States. They provide not just lip-smacking food but a great ambience too. Most restaurants also pride hemselves on their standards of cleanliness. You can choose to sit in comfort and enjoy a leisurely meal at a host of estaurants or order a take-away meal that you can eat at your convenience elsewhere. 

One great advantage of eating at a restaurant is that you get to try a range of international cui...


Keywords:
restaurant


Article Body:
Restaurants offering a variety of cuisines are dotted all over the United States. They provide not just lip-smacking food but a great ambience too. Most restaurants also pride hemselves on their standards of cleanliness. You can choose to sit in comfort and enjoy a leisurely meal at a host of estaurants or order a take-away meal that you can eat at your convenience elsewhere. 

One great advantage of eating at a restaurant is that you get to try a range of international cuisines, ranging from the Eastern to the Mediterranean. You could enjoy the fine meat preparations offered by Arabic restaurants or choose the exotic Filipino dishes like Sisig, Lechon Kawali and Laing offered by Filipino restaurants. Not to mention the Indian restaurants serving their mouth watering dals and curries and the much loved authentic Chinese restaurants which are a favorite with many people. For an indulgent evening, you could opt for a five course meal at an Italian restaurant. The first course is the antipasti or appetizers like garlic bread followed by pastas or soups as a second course or primi. The main dish or secondi usually comprises fish or meat platters, which are served along with side dishes or controni. The last course of this extravagant meal is the dolce or the dessert.

But eating out is not just about the food. The ambience of a restaurant is just as important. Most restaurants take great care of their decor, design and lighting to ensure a relaxing environment. A lot of restaurants liven up their interiors with vibrant colors and interesting posters, paintings or motifs. Some restaurants bring to their decor a touch of the culture of their country, so that your meal is a complete international experience. Music is another part of the ambience. While some restaurants stream lounge music which you can enjoy with your food, others have live bands playing.

Depending on your mood, tastes and time at hand, you can choose which restaurant to visit. Many restaurants offer power lunches for busy executives. If you have time, you could enjoy a lazy meal with some entertainment or choose a restaurant suited for a romantic evening out. Restaurants also offer a range of refreshing drinks, tropical delights and choicest wines. For those of you with a sweet tooth, there are a range of fine desserts, fresh fruit ice creams and goodies offered by most restaurants to pamper you.


