Title: 
Food Labeling: Why You Need It

Word Count:
353

Summary:
Food labeling is an essential way of protecting your health. Although you do not realize it every time you pick up a jar of peanut butter, someone has had to determine just what is in that jar and what it will do to you if you should consume it. For most healthy people, eating anything they like seems fine. They don?t feel bad and nor do they think twice about it. But, the problem with this is that people can become sick overtime based on the foods that they eat. The food lab...


Keywords:
labeling


Article Body:
Food labeling is an essential way of protecting your health. Although you do not realize it every time you pick up a jar of peanut butter, someone has had to determine just what is in that jar and what it will do to you if you should consume it. For most healthy people, eating anything they like seems fine. They don?t feel bad and nor do they think twice about it. But, the problem with this is that people can become sick overtime based on the foods that they eat. The food labeling?s job is to help to reduce the amount of illnesses that happen based on providing knowledge to individuals about what they are consuming. 

You will find a wealth of information on food labels. You?ll find information such as which vitamins and minerals are in the foods as well as how much of that should you be consuming. You?ll also find food labeling takes a hard look at the bad stuff too. How much cholesterol, fat, sodium are in foods is measured and recorded in this manner as well. Going even further, food labeling will tell you how many calories are in foods as well as how much a serving of the food is. All of this information is mandatory for foods that are sold in the United States to be listed. 

It is up to the consumer to pay attention though and act on what the food labels have on them. That means it is necessary for the individual to flip the product over and find out what is in the box, can, or other container. If the consumer doesn?t do this, he or she is risking his/her own health. 

But, how do you react to what is provided in the food labeling? The Food and Drug Administration has set up a number of excellent resources to help you. On their website you will find guidelines as to how much of what you should be consuming. This then can help you to decide if a food is worth eating based on the information provided.


