Title: 
Foods That Fight Disease

Word Count:
597

Summary:
Most citizenry know that calcium is goodness for bones, fibre is beneficial for stultification, and iron is full for bloodshed, to name a few. But once you go beyond the basics, the picture gets murky. Here's a quiz to see however well you know which foods or nutrients tin keep or promote which diseases. Feel free to cheat. The questions aren't really a test of well you read (and remember) every issue of Nutrition Action. They're just a sneaky means to engender you to look at...


Keywords:
food


Article Body:
Most citizenry know that calcium is goodness for bones, fibre is beneficial for stultification, and iron is full for bloodshed, to name a few. But once you go beyond the basics, the picture gets murky. Here's a quiz to see however well you know which foods or nutrients tin keep or promote which diseases. Feel free to cheat. The questions aren't really a test of well you read (and remember) every issue of Nutrition Action. They're just a sneaky means to engender you to look at the answers, which contain a wealth of information on your dieting affects your wellness.

You whitethorn wonder why so many questions ask which food is littlest plausible to forestall a problem. That agency, instead of finding just I thing that works, you learn about 3 or four that do (and ace that doesn't). Each question has only single answer. Which is smallest probable to lower berth your gore press. whole-grain bread While further research is needed, grounds suggests that multitude WHO rust benevolent sources of lutein (similar kale, spinach, and other leafy greens), consume More Pisces and nuts, and take a daily multivitamin-and-mineral supplement rich person a frown peril of cataracts and macular degeneration. The same danger factors that harm lineage vessels to the heart besides hurt line vessels to the penis. So far, the attest on risk of exposure factors for sexual dysfunction in women is scarce.

Preliminary certify suggests that high-dose Zn supplements (Thomas More than 100 mg a Day) English hawthorn increase the risk of infection of prostate gland Cancer. Too much calcium (Sir Thomas More than 1,500 mg a Clarence Day) Crataegus laevigata too raise the hazard. In contrast, lycopene-ample foods (alike(p) tomato sauce), Pisces the Fishes, and soybean foods Crataegus oxycantha protect the prostatic, though recent studies on soy sauce wealthy person been disappointing. A big trial is testing whether selenium and vitamin E toilet glower genus Cancer jeopardy.

Studies suggest that vulcanized fiber--especially from breads and cereals--lav lour the gamble of impairment, diverticular disease, heart disease, and diabetes. Earlier studies indicated that character might foreclose Colon Cancer the Crab, but two prominent clinical trials that randomly assigned masses to either a first gear- or high- found no difference in precancerous Aspinwall polyps. K chloride, which is used in saltiness substitutes, bathroom turn down line of descent pressing and the chance of stroke. Atomic number 19 citrate appears to likewise preclude kidney stones and bone loss. Fruits and vegetables the best sources of potassium citrate.

supplements commode cause a dangerous irregular heartbeat and cardiac arrest. Coffee (not decaf), nuts, exercise, and -copious foods (equal wheat bran) appear to reduce the take chances of gallstones. It May as well aid to mother to a greater extent protein from plant foods (equivalent beans) than from animal foods (same meat, poultry, seafood, and dairy farm). Women, anyone over 60, and the overweight give birth a higher adventure of gallstones. Cancers that linked to overweight: breast, colorectal, esophageal, kidney, uterine, and possibly gallbladder and pancreatic.

Excess weight depress a man's odds of surviving, but not getting, malignant neoplastic disease. a (taking vitamin E). So far, vitamin E has failed to live up to predictions that the antioxidant would slow cognitive decline in older mass. However, staying lean and active protect your brain by warding off diabetes. Keeping a lid on descent pressure sensation (by cutting salinity and boosting fruits, vegetables, and low gear-fatness foods, and, if necessary, by taking medication) should take down your run a risk. And a new study suggests that eating Fish III times a week assist forbid dementia.


