Title: 
Fruit For Though: How Grape Juice Can Help Keep Us Mentally On Track

Word Count:
301

Summary:
We've all heard that drinking wine is good for us, but what about those who are on medication and just can't indulge in alcohol? Well, according the experts, non-fermented (Concord) grapes may be just as healthy for you, especially when it comes to our aging brains. In fact new studies suggest that drinking a healthy amount of unadulterated (Concord) grape juice can help us healthy by keeping our bodies laden with important antioxidants and our minds limber and our memories o...


Keywords:
grape juice, grapes, health, memory


Article Body:
We've all heard that drinking wine is good for us, but what about those who are on medication and just can't indulge in alcohol? Well, according the experts, non-fermented (Concord) grapes may be just as healthy for you, especially when it comes to our aging brains. In fact new studies suggest that drinking a healthy amount of unadulterated (Concord) grape juice can help us healthy by keeping our bodies laden with important antioxidants and our minds limber and our memories on track.

Recent research shows that grape juice given to lab rats (who were approaching the end of their life span) enhanced their cognitive and motor abilities and skills. The researchers placed laboratory animals under a significant series of tests focusing on their short-term memory and their neuro-motor skills. What they found, was that the majority of the tests conducted revealed ample improvement or a trend toward substantial improvement in these essential areas that also significantly affect humans as they age.

These experiments, addressing our continually and increasingly aging population (people these days can look forward to enjoying a healthy life, up into their 80s and beyond, with a new standard reaching the 100 year mark), seek to determine better ways for individuals to grow "old" gracefully and maintain their mental and physical abilities and skills.

Experts go on to add that although these tests and findings are currently in the preliminary stages, they assert that much (previous) research has identified (red, concord) grapes as containing essential antioxidants that are beneficial for our health for a vast variety of reasons, including lowering cholesterol, and warding off serious ailments such as certain types of cancers. Now, drinking Concord grape juice is gaining notoriety for it (seeming) potential to help retard the mental and physical deterioration process that generally has been associated with aging.


