Title: 
Gift Baskets Sweeten The Deal

Word Count:
496

Summary:
Gift baskets in the middle of no-holiday month are not uncommon these days especially with the business community recognizing the potential gift baskets have to impress clients or prospective suppliers. According to statistics, gift basket sales have increased in recent years even during months that are considered off-season. It is also becoming a very popular gift of choice in the corporate setting. This gave rise to the concept of business gift baskets.

With the realizat...


Keywords:
business, career growth, business partnership, gift baskets


Article Body:
Gift baskets in the middle of no-holiday month are not uncommon these days especially with the business community recognizing the potential gift baskets have to impress clients or prospective suppliers. According to statistics, gift basket sales have increased in recent years even during months that are considered off-season. It is also becoming a very popular gift of choice in the corporate setting. This gave rise to the concept of business gift baskets.

With the realization that it is necessary for business survival, companies took extra steps to cultivate relationships with business partners, clients, suppliers, and employees. They realized that taking care of these professional relationships is essential to develop loyalty. And nothing says "I'm glad to be your partner" or "It's a pleasure to do business with you" than gift baskets sent right after closing deals. It is also to the givers' advantage if the gift baskets mirror the interests of the recipients. This shows that the giver is really interested and keen to develop professional relationship with the receiver. For example, send your new business partner a chocolate gift basket instead of a fruit basket after he closed a huge deal because he has a sweet tooth. Though the recipient would appreciate the fruit basket, the chocolate basket would reflect your sincere thanks and congratulations. In short, it is necessary to really know your partners, associates, and employees so your efforts would not appear half-baked.

However, you cannot just give gift baskets to anybody even if you do know what they like. It is also vital to consider the level or degree of professional relationship. Does the recipient has a higher position than you? Is he/she a prospective client that could bring in a huge deal? Is the recipient the your most reliable supplier that gives you the best deals? Then by all means, be generous. Give him or her a pricey gift basket. This will reflect your taste, and the value of your gift may be read as the value you place on them. This is not to say that you could go giving your employees dime-worthy gift baskets because they are inferior by position. It is alright to give your best employees special gift baskets as a token for closing a big deal or a project ahead of schedule. For general gift giving during the holidays, gift baskets that reflect their job would do the trick. For example, add a journal with a nice pen for your writers or a CD of new graphic styles for your graphic artists.

As cliche as it sounds, it is still the thought that you put into giving that counts. But remember that the gifts you are planning to give such as your gift baskets are not ordinary gifts. They show your partners that you value them, but they are also for forging stronger business ties and professional alliances with them. It may sound extreme, but what you give them could make or break your business.


