Title: 
Healthy Dinner For You

Word Count:
507

Summary:
The Holiday Season is the best time for you to spending your time with your friends and family, going shopping for Christmas, watching football games by a warm fire , and dining out in fabulous restaurants. And if you are on diet, trying to monitor your weight, you would probably lose the best chance to try healthy dinner at your favorite restaurants!

Chinese Restaurants would be one of the best restaurants for you in the season, as they offer numbers of food, a wide varie...


Keywords:
Healthy,coral calcium


Article Body:
The Holiday Season is the best time for you to spending your time with your friends and family, going shopping for Christmas, watching football games by a warm fire , and dining out in fabulous restaurants. And if you are on diet, trying to monitor your weight, you would probably lose the best chance to try healthy dinner at your favorite restaurants!

Chinese Restaurants would be one of the best restaurants for you in the season, as they offer numbers of food, a wide variety of broth-based soups , stir-fried specialties ( with seafood , tofu, vegetables and lean meat ), steamed fish and vegetable dishes , steamed rice , hot mustard sauce , chow mein , and other menus that you would love to try for low-fat , low-calorie , choices.

However, you should avoid some kinds of food for your health, for example, fried egg rolls, fried wontons, dishes made with duck, egg foo yung, and fried chicken. Just try to eat healthy food, avoiding food above and be ensure that you would be healthy. If you really want to eat rice, try to avoid Fried rice and eat steamed rice instead. The all-you-can-eat buffet is also not a good choice for your healthy reason, and should be avoided at all costs.

If you have a chance to dine out in a restaurant with Indian Cuisine, you would be offered a number of delicious menus to choose from for healthy, low-fat options, such as Chicken, fish, veggies, steamed rice; legumes are included in healthful dishes in every menu. Bean soups are tasty and healthy. Or you can try Chapati, Chicken or Shrimp Vindaloo, or Lamb kabobs. However, try not to eat fried breads, dishes served with large amounts of nuts and dishes made with coconut milk. Overall, Indian cuisine is a fantastic dinner when you are monitoring your food.

And in Italian Restaurants, there are some of the most fattening dishes you could possibly dream of , such as Fried Mozzarella sticks, Lasagna, thick creamy Alfredo pasta dishes and many others you can choose. However, there are some dishes offered for you to make your mouth water as well, for example, Thin crust pizza with vegetable toppings, pasta with tomato-based sauces, chicken cacciatore, chicken Marsala, and biscotti that will keep you enjoying your meal without having to cutting down calories and watching fat intake. Salads and soup dishes would be also interesting. Try to avoid all deserts in the Italian Restaurants, because most of them have a lot of cheese.

Mexican Cuisine is also another option for your healthy diet. You can try Black bean soup, grilled chicken or shrimp dishes, chicken soft tacos, chicken or shrimp fajitas, salsa, and chicken quesadillas, but try to nachos, refried beans, enchiladas, and fried choices, such as chimichangas.

The Holiday Season would be the best choice for you when dine out with family and friends. And it is essential to remember that while you are on diet, you don’t have to exclude yourself from all of the holiday cheers, but just try not to cheer as loudly as others!


