Title: 
How To Maximize The Health Benefits Of Green Tea

Word Count:
487

Summary:
Whether you are trying to lose weight or improve your health in general, drinking several cups of green tea per day can help. Green tea is the next best thing to a warm cup of hot chocolate to sooth and clam you, especially in the winter months.


Fat Fighting Benefits of Green tea

Drinking green tea can be a great addition to a well-rounded nutrition and exercise program. Green tea works to raise your metabolism, therefore helping you to burn more fat even while you’re...


Keywords:
tea,green tea,health,drink


Article Body:
Whether you are trying to lose weight or improve your health in general, drinking several cups of green tea per day can help. Green tea is the next best thing to a warm cup of hot chocolate to sooth and clam you, especially in the winter months.


Fat Fighting Benefits of Green tea

Drinking green tea can be a great addition to a well-rounded nutrition and exercise program. Green tea works to raise your metabolism, therefore helping you to burn more fat even while you’re resting and sleeping. Although this doesn’t give you an excuse to slack off at the gym, it does help us to burn up the stored fat we carry a little quicker. It also oxidizes the fat. It burns the fat that commonly settles around our middles: the waist, hips and thighs. 

The other benefit dieters receive from drinking green tea is having a reduced appetite. We all know that the fewer calories we take in and the more calories we burn are what it takes to lose weight. By this reasoning, green tea is the perfect diet companion.


The Other Health benefits of Green Tea

Dieters aren’t the only ones who should e drinking green tea though. There are many health benefits achieved from drinking this hot beverage every day.

Green tea will reduce your total cholesterol levels, decreasing the bad cholesterol and increasing the good cholesterol. 

Because green tea is high in antioxidants it is a good tool to fight the flu. It will help boost your immunity against viruses. 

Green tea kills bacteria in the mouth that causes plaque. This is good news for people who fear frequent trips to the dentist. 

Green tea helps us to think more clearly. It also helps stave off memory loss, like that associated with Alzheimer’s disease. 

In addition, green tea aids people with medical conditions like cancer, arthritis, heart disease and serious infections. 
 

Maximizing the Benefits of Green Tea

Use high quality green tea leaves. Once soaked, the tea should turn out a pale green color. 
Experts suggest that drinking mildly hot green tea produces better benefits that making it into iced tea. 

Let the tea brew in the mildly hot water for several minutes to help bring out the flavanoids. 
Experts suggest drinking between 3and 5 cups of green tea per day for better health. 

Skip adding sugar to your green tea. If you feel like you need to adjust the taste, add some honey, lemon or skim milk for added health benefits. 

Just don’t like the taste of green tea? Don’t worry. You can still reap the many health benefits of green tea in the form of a pill. 
 

However you manage to include green tea in your diet, including it on a regular basis will help you experience maximum results. Add green tea to a healthy, well-balanced diet and exercise routine for good overall fitness.


