Title: 
How Juicing Fruits And Vegetables Can Enrich Your Diet

Word Count:
753

Summary:
Many people lead fast-paced lifestyles that leave little to no room for proper meals within the day. Most are even compelled to skip meals because of the odd number of things that they need to do, meetings to attend and appointments to fulfill.  Over time, this way of life can take its toll on the body. It becomes susceptible to all sorts of diseases and injuries because it does not receive proper nourishment from a healthy diet.


Keywords:
fruit sellers


Article Body:
There has been a growing concern over the rapid deterioration of health among professionals. If you have been living on instant meals for most of you life, you may be subjecting your body to more stress than usual. 

It's high time that you started watching what you eat. 

The body needs proper nutrition for it to function properly. For people who are always on the go, incorporating fruit and vegetable juices in their daily meals is one of the many options that they can try. Juicing is an innovation that was popularized to provide an answer to the dilemma of being able to get the most out of vegetables and fruits.
While everyone understands the importance of eating fruits and vegetables, there are still a lot of people who are not too keen on the idea of eating their greens on every meal. Taking your fruits and vegetables in juice form is a good alternative especially if you don’t have much time to sit down for a proper meal. 
There are lots of benefits that can be had from incorporating fresh fruit and vegetable juices in your diet. In fact, there are many aspects in which fresh juice can be much better than eating cooked or processed fruits and vegetables. 

Maximized nutrition

Patients who are suffering from gastrointestinal problems are advised to go on a liquid diet because it’s much easier for the body to take liquids. The body is capable of absorbing nutrients much more efficiently when food is taken in juice form than when it is in solid form. This is mainly because it doesn’t take a lot of effort to digest juice and break its components down into simpler forms. With solid food, the stomach will need to work on breaking it down to turn it into a semi-liquid state before it is suitable for absorption into the bloodstream.
Cooking fruits and vegetables tends to cause nutrients in food to disappear. Heat can also destroy the enzymes found in these food products. Studies show that when vegetables are subjected to high temperatures, most of their nutritional value tends to get lost. 
Juicing fresh fruits and vegetables helps to retain their nutritional value. It keeps enzymes viable and usable by the body. Without enzymes, several different processes in your system will cease to function. These compounds provide some sort of a go-signal for different chemical reactions in the body to start. 
Hydration
Juicing is the most effective way to restore the body’s health because you’re preparing food in such a way that is easier for the body to process. It can also enhance your fluid intake as fruits and vegetables naturally contain water. Fresh juice not only provides you with most of the essential nutrients that you body needs, it also keeps you hydrated even when you don’t get to drink a lot of water throughout the day. With other types of drinks such as carbonated sodas, liquor and coffee, the body has the tendency to eliminate more water than it takes in. Juices contain water that can be readily utilized by the body because it comes in a clean and pure form.
Healthy habit
Fruit and vegetable juicing enables you to adopt a healthier lifestyle. Fresh fruit drinks can take the place of certain beverages that you tend to take in daily. With a steady supply of fruits and vegetables through juicing, you essentially gain a body that is revitalized. It also trains your palate to be more tolerant with certain types of food that you wouldn’t normally eat. For instance, if you don’t like eating vegetables a lot, taking them in juice form makes them more palatable especially when they are prepared properly. Fruits can also complement most types of instant meals that are available these days. 
Easy preparation
Juicing can be a big step towards getting proper nourishment for your body. In a world where processed food products are the mainstays in people’s refrigerators, it’s important to at least incorporate easy-to-prepare but nutritious food in one’s daily meals. Juices do not take a lot of time to prepare. All you need is a steady stock of fresh fruits and vegetables and a juice extractor and you’re good to go. It also doesn’t take rocket science to create them. In fact, the possibilities and combinations are endless when it comes to fruit and vegetable juices so it’s difficult to grow tired of this particular habit.


