Title: 
How To Make Jell Shots

Word Count:
519

Summary:
Learn how to make jello shots with diferent alchohol, alchohol proofs and jello flavourings.


Keywords:
how to make jello shots, make jello shots, jellow shots, make a jello shot, jello shot, vodka shot


Article Body:
So you want to know how to make jello shots?

Well learning how to how to make jello shots is really pretty simplistic to do!

To begin to learn how make jello shots you require jello (jelly to the Brits) and jello shot glasses. The traditional way to make jello shots is in a shot glass but serving them using this method can cause frustration when you attempt to remove the shot from the glass. It's much less messy and easier to make them in plastic glasses supplied with lids as they are easily turned inside-out to gain immediate access to the jello shot. This is the first point to remember in how to make jello shots!

You also need a packet of jello, boiling water, cold water and traditionally vodka to make jello shots.

For every 6 ounces of Jell-O you need 16 ounces of boilng hot water water 6 ounces of cold water and 10 ounches of your favourite liqour.

Here is a quick list of the ingredients needed for knowing how to make jello shots the perfect way. For twenty 2oz shots you need:

6 oz package of Jell-O 
16oz or 2 cups of boiling water 
6oz or 3/4 cup of cold water 
10oz or 1 & a quater cup of chilled vodka.

How to Make jello shots!

Empty your jello into a glass bowl and pour in the freshly boiled water. Stir until the jello has throughly mixed with the water.

Then add the vodka (or other alchohol) and the cold water. Stir the ingredients. Now is the time to pour your shot mix into their plastic cups or shot glasses.

The jello ingredients will set on their own but if you wish them to set quicker you should put them in a refrigerator.

Now you know how to make jello shots the standard way. However when it comes to learning how to make jello shots there is the extras!

You are now going to find out how to make jello shots with different liquor!

Apart from vodka any approiate alcohol can be substituted to make jello shots it all depends on on your taste. The gelatin mix you use should suit the liqour you are using. Different flavours of gelatin mix go with different alcohols. 

You should also be aware of the quantities of water to liquor given next when you want to how to make jello shots, as stronger proof liquor requires different quantities of cold water.

You are now going to find out how to make jello shots with stronger liquor!

30 to 50 proof needs 3 ounces of cold water for every 3 ounces of liquor.
80 to 100 needs 6 ounces of cold water for every 6 ounces of liquor.
150 to 200 (if you can handle it) needs 10 ounces of cold water for every 6 ounces of liquor.

When you how to make jello shots never try to freeze them! This is very often forgotten in articles and a key mishap that many people make when they begin to learn how to make jello shots. If you want a colder jello shot refrigerate your shots while they set or purchase some frozen shot glasses. After that you can enjoy!


