Title: 
How To Choose The Perfect Grill

Word Count:
356

Summary:
Charcoal or gas? Gas or charcoal? The timeless debate. It is said that over 65% of Americans choose a gas grill over a charcoal grill. For my husband and I when time came to make a decision between charcoal and gas it was gas that was our choice. It wasn't a matter of taste for me, it was a matter of ease. Oh, there are times when I lament the loss of the taste of a burger cooked over charcoal, nothing is quite like it. Some say there isn't much of a taste difference with ham...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Charcoal or gas? Gas or charcoal? The timeless debate. It is said that over 65% of Americans choose a gas grill over a charcoal grill. For my husband and I when time came to make a decision between charcoal and gas it was gas that was our choice. It wasn't a matter of taste for me, it was a matter of ease. Oh, there are times when I lament the loss of the taste of a burger cooked over charcoal, nothing is quite like it. Some say there isn't much of a taste difference with hamburgers cooked over gas vs. charcoal, but I have to disagree. However, for us convenience overshadows any loss in taste.

Another reason we chose the gas grill over the charcoal grill was that we didn't want to have to deal with dirty charcoal briquette and with trying to light them and then waiting for them to be hot enough to cook. We also didn't want to have to deal with the mess that comes with having to clean a charcoal grill. Charcoal ash is very dirty. A propane container lasts through approximately 20 hours of cooking.

Along with being able to start the gas grill and start cooking within minutes, with our gas grill we have much more control over the temperature of the grill for a longer period of time than we would have with a charcoal grill so that we can cook a roast, or a leg of lamb on the grill without having to worry about spent charcoal. Also, the gas grill gives us much more cooking area. We can easily have 10 or 12 people over and have enough space to cook all the hot dogs, hamburgers, corn on the cob, etc.

When it comes to cleaning out gas grill all I do is turn it onto warm for five or so minutes and any stuck on food wipes right off. It's the most easy cleaning of any appliance I can think of.

Of course, for some it may come down to price. You can get a small tabletop charcoal grill for as little as $30.00. Most gas grills start at about $200.00


