Title: 
How to Eat Healthy When Eating Out at Your Favorite Restaurant.

Word Count:
556

Summary:
Learn how to eat healthy at a restaurant with helpful eating out tips.  This article will assist you with calorie counting when dining at your favorite restaurant by giving healthy eating out food solutions.


Keywords:
restaurant,eating healthy,eat healthy,food,healthy diet,diet tips


Article Body:
This article was written to answer a frequently asked question, "<i>how to eat healthy at a restaurant</i>".  

When you are eating out, you probably watch your calories very closely. So to assist you with your calorie counting when dining out, these tips will help you make the most of it. I hope you find this information about how to eat healthy at a restaurant helpful ...

<b>Restaurant Eating Out Tips:</b>

-  Anytime you order pasta dishes, be on the lookout for tomato based sauces instead of the cream based sauces.  Tomato based sauces are much lower in fat and calories, and tomato sauce can even be counted as a vegetable!

-  Always order salad dressings or sauces on the side, as this way you have control over how much you add to your meal.

-  When you order grilled fish or vegetables, you should ask that the food be grilled without butter or oil, or prepared with very little or either or.

-  You should always try to drink water, diet soda, or tea instead of soda or beverages that contain alcohol.  

-  When you choose a soup, remember that cream based soups are higher in fat and calories than other soups.  A soup can be a great appetizer, as most are low in calories and you fill you up pretty fast.

-  Choosing foods made with whole grains, such as whole wheat bread and dishes made with brown rice is a great way to eat healthy while eating out at a restaurant.

-  When ordering a baked potato, ask for salsa instead of sour cream, butter, cheese, or even bacon.  Salsa is very low in calories and provides a healthy alternative with plenty of flavor and spice.

-  If you order dessert, share with a friend. Half of the dessert will equal half of the calories.

-  A simple eating healthy tip is when you are full, stop eating.  Listen to your body and what it tells you.

-  If you get full, take half of your meal home.  The second portion of your meal can serve as a second meal later.  This way, you get two meals for the price of one.

-  If you're looking to eat less, order two appetizers or an appetizer and a salad as your meal.

-  If you get a choice of side dishes, get a baked potato or steamed vegetables instead of french fries.  

-  Always look for food on the menu that's baked, grilled, broiled, poached, or steamed.  These types of cooking use less fat in the cooking process and are usually much lower in calories.

-  Another way to eat healthy at a restaurant is to eat plain bread or rolls which are low in both fat and calories.  When you add the butter and oil, you increase the fat and calorie intake.

-  As key ingredients to your meal, choose dishes with fruits and vegetables.  Both fruits and vegetables are great sources of dietary fiber as well as many vitamins and minerals.

-  If you crave dessert, look for something with low fat, such as berries or fruit.

I hope you found these tips on how to eat healthy at a restaurant helpful and you were able to get something out of it.

And always remember, do not deprive yourself of the foods you truly love.  All types of foods can fit into a well balanced diet.


