Title: 
Inexpensive Party Food

Word Count:
306

Summary:
Parties are fun but they can be expensive. You have many options to keep the costs down, but the easiest thing you can do is watch how much you are spending on food. If you have hosted parties in the past you know that food can be one of the most expensive aspects of the event. You don’t have to hire an expensive caterer to have a good time. A little imagination and effort can make a low budget party a memorable occasion.

Finger food such as small sandwiches, potato chips,...


Keywords:
party, party planning, party favors, party favor ideas


Article Body:
Parties are fun but they can be expensive. You have many options to keep the costs down, but the easiest thing you can do is watch how much you are spending on food. If you have hosted parties in the past you know that food can be one of the most expensive aspects of the event. You don’t have to hire an expensive caterer to have a good time. A little imagination and effort can make a low budget party a memorable occasion.

Finger food such as small sandwiches, potato chips, dips, fruit and vegetable trays are fairly inexpensive. This is a great option for informal parties.

A great alternative to a professional caterer is to have each of your guests do the catering for you. A potluck allows your guests to become amateur caterers. It also makes sure that each guest has something they like because it is unlikely that someone would bring something they don’t like. To help your guest and to avoid redundancy, include a suggestion as to what kind of food you would like your guests to bring such as a salad, dessert, and soft drinks.

Pizza is an all time party food. Young and old love pizza, and there is a wide selection of toppings that should satisfy all your guests.

Don’t serve alcohol if you want to save money. Alcohol free parties are safer, and less out of control. You won’t have to worry about designated drivers, or taking peoples’ keys once they had one too many drinks. In addition, you don’t have to worry about people staying over night.

You can have memorable party without spending a bunch of money. When you shop for food use coupons and look for sales. Always give yourself plenty of time to shop, so you can bargain hunt.


