Title: 
Low Carb Beer For Dieters

Word Count:
432

Summary:
As the low carb diet becomes so popular throughout the world, many companies especially the brewery companies have come to consider some of the necessary products for any sports and games, and interestingly, one of the essential products for any game trend is the low carb beer.

The emergence of the low carb beer is generally caused by the action that the beer industry has taken. Accordingly, the beer industry has responded to the low carb trend and that is by rolling out t...


Keywords:



Article Body:
As the low carb diet becomes so popular throughout the world, many companies especially the brewery companies have come to consider some of the necessary products for any sports and games, and interestingly, one of the essential products for any game trend is the low carb beer.

The emergence of the low carb beer is generally caused by the action that the beer industry has taken. Accordingly, the beer industry has responded to the low carb trend and that is by rolling out the low carb beers. The low carb beer is considered to have a reduced carb count, however, this does not ultimately mean as reduced flavor for the reason that it is all in your mouth.

In relation to that, it is noted that for years, the followers of Atkins diet and other low carb regimens have had to turn clear of beer for the purpose of maintaining the carbohydrate minimums. Now Michelob has made the some development in the brewery industry and have been enjoying a drink while following a low carb deit easier. And interestingly this was made perfect with the introduction of Michelob Ultra, a low carb, and low calorie beer.

Unlike the regular beer that contains 145 calories, the low carb beer contains for about 95 calories only that is why many reviews have considered it as a marketing trick. Speaking of the carbohydrates, when it comes to the low carb beers, the carbohydrates are another factor. Essentially, the regular beer usually contains 11 grams of carbohydrates, but then the low carb beers can in fact drop that to as little as 2.6 grams of carbohydrates.  With such contents, a single bottle is then compared with some of the popular beers like Stella Artois, Grolsch, and Smirnoff Ice which have pretty much carbohydrates and calorie contents.

Today, given the facts about the basic contents of the low carb beers, it is noted that this certain product is now one of the requirements for any trendy game party. Perhaps, with this kind of product, all the girls will think that you’re such a doll for taking their favorite low carb beer. And as a matter of fact, most of the guys nowadays think that having this kind of requirement makes you pretty cool and great.

And perhaps, one of the reasons that most people took this kind of product is that they are obviously health conscious. Well, the thought of bearing this product at your trendy party is just a typical thing. So if you want to have a cool party experience, then you go for the low carb beer.


