Title: 
More Concerns About Milk

Word Count:
580

Summary:
Have you heard about the big milk controversy? Outspoken spokesperson for The Vegetarian and Vegan Foundation, Heather Mills McCartney (soon to be x-wife of singer Paul McCartney) is bringing the dangers of modern milk to attention of the press.

"As Heather Mills McCartney speaks out about the health problems associated with dairy products, physicians and nutritionists with the Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine (PCRM) are urging U.K. consumers to try an experim...


Keywords:
milk,raw milk,The Vegetarian and Vegan Foundation, Heather Mills McCartney


Article Body:
Have you heard about the big milk controversy? Outspoken spokesperson for The Vegetarian and Vegan Foundation, Heather Mills McCartney (soon to be x-wife of singer Paul McCartney) is bringing the dangers of modern milk to attention of the press.

"As Heather Mills McCartney speaks out about the health problems associated with dairy products, physicians and nutritionists with the Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine (PCRM) are urging U.K. consumers to try an experiment: Eliminate milk and other dairy products from their diet for three weeks to experience firsthand the health benefits of a dairy-free diet," according to a PR Newswire release.

Although I don't agree with a lot of what Heather Mills McCartney believes, I do agree with the the facts. Homogenized pasteurized milk causes many health problems. Despite the fact that the dairy industry, with their money and power, want you to think otherwise.

The problem isn't with milk. Dairy products have been a major part of many cultures’ diets for thousands of years. Many people and races throughout history have lived almost solely on milk and dairy products, and have been extremely healthy for it. But the dairy products we have in our grocery stores now are very different than the dairy products consumed by people in the past.

The problem today is how we get our dairy products and how they are processed. Modern dairy cows are exposed to hormones, antibiotics, and pesticides, and fed a diet of high-protein soy and grain based feed instead of traditional grass feeding methods.

And then the milk they produce is homogenized, which alters the organic structure so the cream will blend into the milk. Unfortunately the new smaller fat particles don’t work well in our bodies, and can get into the blood stream. There is a very high correlation between countries that drink homogenized milk and the rise of atherosclerosis.

Pasteurizing milk is heating it until it is a dead food with little or no benefit to us. It is robbed of its enzymes and many of its vitamins. Today’s milk is know to cause allergic reactions in many individuals, because of the lack of enzymes needed to process the milk in our bodies. Enzymes are killed when they are heated to temperatures over 120 degrees F.

The modern milk produced now is something highly processed and unnatural. If that isn’t enough, when they make 1% and 2% milk, they add non-fat dried milk to these products to lower the fat percentage. Non-fat dried milk is ultra-processed, which oxidizes the cholesterol. Rancid (oxidized) cholesterol and fats are also what promote heart disease. Dried milk contains a very high nitrite content as well.

You will be hearing more and more about the dangers of modern milk. If you want safe healthy milk, try organic, raw milk from grass fed cows. Raw milk still has all its nutrients and enzymes, and many people have found it helpful for allergies, asthma problems and other health conditions.

My challenge to you is instead of eliminating milk products for three weeks, switch to organic raw milk products for three weeks. Once you try it, and experience the benefits and taste for yourself, you won't go back to the imitation grocery store stuff! For more information on the benefits and safety of raw milk visit the site at http://www.realmilk.com.


This article may be freely copied as long as it is not modified and this resource box accompanies the article, together with working hyperlinks.


