Title: 
National Prawn Company - Antibiotic-free quality shrimp and prawn farming aquaculture seafood producer

Word Count:
608

Summary:
National Prawn Company the worlds largest Antibiotic-free premium quality shrimp and prawn farming fully integrated desert coastal aquaculture seafood producer.


Keywords:
shrimp, prawn, seafood, aquaculture, shrimp farming, prawn farming, shrimp aquaculture, prawn aquaculture, quality shrimp, white shrimp, red sea shrimp, red sea prawn


Article Body:
As a result of research and development that began more than two decades ago, National Prawn Company has completed phase one of a $350 million "modified extensive" shrimp farm on the Red Sea, 150 kilometers south of Jeddah. The $200 million first phase resulted in eleven farms and 2,800 hectares of ponds with projected production of 13,500 metric tons of whole shrimp a year. Phase two will add fifteen more farms and 3,500 more hectares of ponds capable of producing 17,500 tons a year.

National Prawn Company follows the codes of conduct and methods of production outlined under the United Nation's definition of "Sustainable Development". It produces antibiotic-free shrimp with no hormones and no preservatives using eco-friendly, sustainable shrimp farming methods. It uses low stocking densities and settling ponds to protect the local aquatic ecosystem.

NPC's product line is currently marketed locally and internationally under the brand name "Al-Watania" and other brand names.

Work Force: More than 2,000 employees from 25 countries.

Broodstock: Specific pathogen-free, specific pathogen-resistant Penaeus indicus in its twenty-fourth generation.

Nauplii Production: 60 million a day.

Postlarvae Production: 180 million a cycle.

Processing Plant: Capable of handling 80 metric tons of head-on shrimp a day. M/S Marel/Carnitech (Denmark) supplied and installed most of the processing equipment. M/S Jonsson (USA) supplied the peeling machines and Mycon (Japan) supplied the refrigeration system. The plant is designed to process a wide variety of products from simple block frozen products to high-value ready to eat individually quick frozen and cooked products.

The shrimp reach the plant in less than an hour after harvest and are processed and packed in less than six hours after harvest. The plant has a large, fully automated chill room that can hold up to 25 tons of whole shrimp as it comes in from the farms.

There are three major processing lines, a head-on line with the capacity to handle two tons an hour, a headless line with the capacity to handle 1.2 tons an hour, and a peeling line with the capacity to handle one ton of raw shrimp an hour. Three plate freezers can freeze 20 tons of shrimp a day, and two spiral freezers can freeze three tons per hour. There are two flow pack machines from Sandiacre. As part of the worldwide marketing strategy, great importance has been given to the implementation of HACCP and ISO quality control systems.

Feed Mill: Capacity ten tons per hour. BUHLER (Switzerland) installed the machinery and technology.

Intake Pumping Station: The intake pump station was designed to create a flow of 90 cu/m/sec at a static head of 2.5 meters. It is equipped with twelve Amacan submersible, vertical pumps. The length of the intake canal is 35 kilometers!

Drain Pumping Station: The return water pump station is designed for a flow rate of 90 cu/m/sec at a static head of 1.1 meters. It is equipped with seventeen Amaline submersible, horizontal pumps. The total length of the return water canal is 38.2 kilometers.

Shrimp Head Powder: The offal plant processes fresh shrimp heads into shrimp head powder, which NPC sells as a feed ingredient in laminated, polypropylene bags weighing either 25 or 50 kilograms.

Miles of Roads on the Farm: 157 kilometers, 57 of them asphalted.

Employee Community: Furnished bachelor accommodations are provided with dining halls, relaxation facilities, indoor sports facilities, supermarkets and a mosque. Essential utilities like power, water and sanitation are available around the clock.

Distribution: NPC has entered into exclusive agreements with distributors in U.S.A, Canada, Spain, Cyprus, Italy, Australia, Japan, China, UAE, Korea, Egypt, Bahrain, and Jordan. It is looking for distributors in Kuwait, Qatar, Oman, Lebanon, and Tunisia. 

Employment: NPC is on course to implement its second phase and will be hiring people at all levels.


