Title: 
New Product Proven to Keep Foods Fresher Longer

Word Count:
355

Summary:
What causes food to go bad? All fruits, vegetables and cheese produce a natural gas called ethylene, which causes ripening.


Keywords:
New Product Proven to Keep Foods Fresher Longer


Article Body:
What causes food to go bad? All fruits, vegetables and cheese produce a natural gas called ethylene, which causes ripening. 

If you keep your produce wrapped or in a sealed container, you are actually accelerating the ripening process because the ethylene gas gets trapped inside. In addition, certain foods such as onions and garlic produce odors that transfer to other foods and dairy products, causing them to lose their freshness and flavor.

A new product called "Forever Fresh For The Fridge" has been proven to absorb ethylene gas, keeping produce fresh at least twice as long as normal and eliminating refrigerator odors. Two independent testing laboratories have tested Forever Fresh For The Fridge and verified its effectiveness. 

"Since I started using Forever Fresh all my fruits and vegetables stay fresher longer, like strawberries, which used to last just a couple of days, now they last a couple of weeks," said Nancy McKimson of Jacksonville, Fla. 

Forever Fresh For The Fridge consists of two small pouches: One goes on the bottom shelf of the refrigerator and absorbs ethylene gas, slowing down the ripening process and keeping produce fresh at least twice as long as normal; the second pouch goes on the top shelf of the refrigerator and absorbs food odors. Food stays fresh for up to 30 days longer.

"I used to make salads and throw out the leftover in a couple of days if we hadn't eaten them because they turned brown and shriveled up," said Jane Burke of Morristown N.J. "Now I just put the leftover back in the refrigerator and it stays fresh for about a week." 

The company also makes all- natural order eliminators. Forever Fresh Odor Eliminator, Pet Odor Eliminator and Vehicle Odor Eliminator are each made of a blend of highly absorbent minerals.

Unlike chemicals, sprays and fragrances - which only cover up odors, last for a short time and can be harmful to people with allergies or asthma - Forever Fresh absorbs and eliminates odors.

In tests conducted by Rutgers University, the Forever Fresh products eliminated strong odors, such as cigarette smoke, ammonia, paint thinner, alcohol, garlic, cooking odors and more.


