Title: 
Practical Tips For Buying Green Tea

Word Count:
528

Summary:
Green tea is considered as the “true” tea that has undergone minimal oxidation during processing. Experts believe that the secret of green tea is the fact that it is rich in catechin polyphenols such as epigallocatechin gallate or EGCG; this is a powerful anti-oxidant which inhibits the growth of cancer cells and kills cancer cells without harming healthy body tissues and also believe that chemical compounds in green tea are effective in lowering LDL cholesterol levels as wel...


Keywords:
green tea, green tea weight loss, green tea benefits


Article Body:
Green tea is considered as the “true” tea that has undergone minimal oxidation during processing. Experts believe that the secret of green tea is the fact that it is rich in catechin polyphenols such as epigallocatechin gallate or EGCG; this is a powerful anti-oxidant which inhibits the growth of cancer cells and kills cancer cells without harming healthy body tissues and also believe that chemical compounds in green tea are effective in lowering LDL cholesterol levels as well as inhibiting abnormal formation of blood clots.

Green tea may be useful as a glucose regulator, meaning it slows the rise in blood sugar following a meal. It does this by slowing the action of a particular digestive enzyme called amylase. This enzyme is pivotal in the breakdown of starches (carbohydrates), that can cause blood sugar levels to soar following a meal. This is pretty exciting stuff -- along with chromium, and possibly a vanadyl supplement, green tea might be the missing link in proper glucose management.

It is a special variety of tea that offers many benefits more than any other variety. In order for you to have the best cup of green tea, here are some tips on buying green tea:

1. Buy it in isolation. This is the best route to go if you have conclusively tied a result to a one particular ingredient. 

2. Buy a trendy fat burner that contains a good quantity of green tea in its formulation. Containing a hearty dose of green tea is Xenadrine EFX. There are also lots of other products that have the same content as well. Be sure to look at the content of the product before buying it. Make sure that it has the content that will be able to keep you fit and healthy.

3. Drinking green tea is more advisable rather than drinking coffee or any kind of tea. You really don’t have to spend lots of money to get these things in your system. Coffee brings hypertension and infects certain glands in your system. It is recommended even by some physicians to intake green tea rather than coffee.

Aside from the tips on buying green tea I think its fair to say that the best green teas comes from China, after all they’ve been producing tea for hundreds of years. Green teas are made for masses. Some of the best green teas of china are Gunpowder, Young Hyson, Chunmee - excellent teas and economical, Lung Ching - a great favorite around the world with good reason, the charming tiny snail-like leaf of Bi Lo Chun is one that is gaining favor in the U.S. and the other lesser green teas known that we have been fortunate enough to get are Huang Shan Mao Feng, Tianmu Qing Ding, and Tianmu Yunding - all highly recommended.

You should start buying your greens soon after the spring harvest in May and June. Place them in airtight containers and they will last for months without breaking down. Luckily for us, so far away from China, adding a little more green tea will help when time comes that we get a bit older and in more need of a clean bill of health.


