Title: 
Pride Of The Jamaica Blue Mountains

Word Count:
405

Summary:
Jamaica Blue Mountain coffee has this distinct aroma that is unique.  It is neither strong nor overpowering.  Instead, they taste light and have a delicate aroma, indicating its sweet and smooth finish.


Keywords:
coffee, coffee makers, coffee equipment


Article Body:
Light Jamaican Coffee

Jamaica Blue Mountain coffee has this distinct aroma that is unique.  It is neither strong nor overpowering.  Instead, they taste light and have a delicate aroma, indicating its sweet and smooth finish. 

They are grown with great care in the various estates of the mountainside in this part of Jamaica.  Known for its bluish hue when viewed from afar, these mountain ranges also provide the best soil for planting coffee.  Its rich fertile soil combined with the mild climate and ample altitude serves as a perfect host to the beans that are making a name in the Caribbean and eventually the world over.
 
From what its worth, spending more than the usual price one does for a coffee product does not really matter that much when you know what you are going to drink. The long history of the Jamaica Blue Mountain coffee products has already earned its mark on the market. 

Same Source, Various Tastes 
As reviewed by coffee experts the world over, Jamaica Blue Mountain coffee varieties have excelled at achieving a light aromatic flavor that does not really pull a strong kick. The smoothness rather lingers on one’s taste buds, its nature not so complex.  But there are levels to this lightness. The coffee beans here are graded and some are blended.
1. Grade 1- these are green coffee beans, usually unroasted and given this grade to denote its export quality.
2. Grade 2- these are slightly bigger in size than Grade 1 coffee beans.
3. Grade 3- these are the largest kind of coffee beans among the three types.
4. Triage- a mix of the three graded types of beans. These are blended, roasted and packaged to the market.

One can be assured of the finest coffee beans if the Grade 1 green type is ordered.  Some like the blended type or otherwise known as the Triage since it offers a curiously sweet and light fragrance.  This is the result of the mixture of various coffee types.  The roasting also adds to the note of the flavor. Although not exactly extremely stimulating, its subtlety contributes to its unique texture and taste.  This leads one to ask for more of this unlikely blend of light and rich syrupy twist.

Another added value to the Jamaican Blue Mountain coffee varieties are the fruity quality that is incorporated into every cup that they produce.  It is indeed a pleasant surprise to have these layers of freshness into the coffee.


