Title: 
Regular Bar Stools Are Such a Comfort

Word Count:
389

Summary:
Bar stools come in all shapes, sizes and styles, the standard bar stool height is 30 inches. 30 inches have been deemed the standard height for bar stools, this is for a multitude of reasons.


Keywords:
food, drink, recipe, furniture, stools


Article Body:
Bar stools come in all shapes, sizes and styles, the standard bar stool height is 30 inches. 30 inches have been deemed the standard height for bar stools, this is for a multitude of reasons. When you consider the average person stands at just over 5 and ½ foot, then there is the height of the bar counter, restaurant counter top or a kitchen breakfast bar to keep in mind.

Unless you fall into 1 of the 2 categories of being either very tall or being very short, having a 30 inch bar stool is just about the most comfortable stool you can use. Most bar stools have a foot rail about halfway between the seat and the floor. 

The purpose of this foot rail is to give the person on the bar stool a place to rest their feet and take the pressure of the back of the legs. It’s simply a case of being able to sit for prolonged periods of time and not feel too fatigued when you stand up. This size of bar stool works well for those people who have a standard leg span.

Another reason why the 30 inch bar stool is the standard for all stool height is to match the manufacturing standards required for home kitchen counters. Kitchen counters tend to be around the 40 – 45 inches mark, so having a 30 inch bar stool would fit in perfect when your having a bite to eat or leaning having a chat with a friend over coffee. 

If in your home you have an open plan living room, dining area and kitchen and there is a breakfast bar dividing the areas, they often have overhangs to extend the surface area. This is just another reason why 30 inch stools are very convenient as, most people have around 8-12 inches of thigh on both legs that has to fit in between the bar stool seat and the bottom of the overhang. Having a 30 inch stool is just right for a snug fit that doesn't feel to cramped.

In restaurants and bars they have a few special tables for those customers who wish to eat and drink at the bar. These tabletops are always higher than regular restaurant tables, so they require bar stools or tall chairs. These tables run along the same principals as the kitchen counters regarding height and space to move your legs.


