Title: 
Romantic Meals On A Budget

Word Count:
353

Summary:
Food and romance go hand in hand. But, if you’re on a budget, you don’t need to spend a lot of money to show your sweetie that you love him. You can have a romantic meal at home – for the cost of a regular meal. The food you choose is not nearly as important as the atmosphere you create. You could easily make a very romantic meal from pizza or sandwiches if you take the time to create the perfect ambiance in the room. 

Choose your main dish according to your partner's favo...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Food and romance go hand in hand. But, if you’re on a budget, you don’t need to spend a lot of money to show your sweetie that you love him. You can have a romantic meal at home – for the cost of a regular meal. The food you choose is not nearly as important as the atmosphere you create. You could easily make a very romantic meal from pizza or sandwiches if you take the time to create the perfect ambiance in the room. 

Choose your main dish according to your partner's favorite dishes. There's no point in feeding him something he dislikes. Plus, an upset stomach is not very romantic, so take his food preferences into account when planning. 

Appetizers are a great way to dress up any meal. Some favorite romantic additions include asparagus, artichokes, oysters, black beans, strawberries, and chocolate. 

The presentation of your meal is more important than the foods you serve. Keep things simple and mix flavors and textures, giving the meal contrast and different shapes. Plan ahead and prepare everything you can in advance so that your final meal preparation goes quickly. Romantic foods can include almost anything if you serve the meal with soft candlelight and music. 

Here are some additional tips to plan that perfect romantic meal: 

Decorate your table with tall candles and inexpensive flowers placed in a glass vase. 

Add a pretty tablecloth and cloth napkins to add elegance to your romantic meal. 

Fold your napkins into decorative shapes and use napkin holders made from colorful paper with romantic massages or poetry written on the paper. 

Use your best dishes or simply purchase 2 plates in a discount or thrift store. 

Strawberries dipped in chocolate are not only yummy, but they are very romantic. 

Purchase inexpensive fortune cookies with romantic fortunes inside for a little excitement if you desire. 

Use your imagination instead of your credit cards to create a romantic meal that neither of you will soon forget. You’ll be able to relax and enjoy your romantic meal, knowing that you aren’t going into debt enjoying it.


