Title: 
Senseo Coffee Maker: Making Full Flavored Coffee With Finesse At An Instant

Word Count:
408

Summary:
A new bread of coffee makers has come to take part in the day to day coffee drinking consumers.  Gone are the days of waiting for the coffee maker to heat water and drip unto the coffee for a cup of brewed coffee plus making these where messy.


Keywords:
coffee, coffee makers, coffee equipment


Article Body:
A new bread of coffee makers has come to take part in the day to day coffee drinking consumers.  Gone are the days of waiting for the coffee maker to heat water and drip unto the coffee for a cup of brewed coffee plus making these where messy.  

Here comes the Senseo Coffee maker that could make that household coffee maker look like an ancient artifact from the dinosaur era.  The acceptance of the Senseo coffee maker by the coffee consuming public has been phenomenal since it has been a long awaited design and concept.

Senseo’s Coffee Maker Design
Its sleek and non-traditional coffee maker design could make you give that second look when you happen to see a Senseo coffee maker at appliance stores.  It has a slim and arching main body with two nozzles that resemble a futuristic teapot.  Both nozzles are utilized when brewing two cups at the same time.  It has a round stable base that balances its sleek body to prevent the coffee maker from tipping off.  On the top portion of the Senseo coffee maker is a canopy where the Senseo coffee pod is placed and all you have to do is press the brew button and everything will be ready in less than two minutes. 

The base of the Senseo coffee maker is a heater that keeps the coffee cups warm.  It has three color varieties to choose from including blue, white and black.  

Senseo’s Coffee Maker Concept
The Senseo’s coffee maker mechanism is a cross between an espresso coffee maker and the common drip coffee maker.  An espresso coffee maker uses pressure to squeeze out the coffee’s essential oils and flavors and the drip coffee maker does not use any pressure at all.  The boiler of the Senseo coffee maker heats the water inside its water compartment and induces low pressure to the heated water for it to be injected unto the pre-packed Senseo coffee pods.  In this manner Senseo’s coffee brewing is faster than that of traditional coffee makers.  

The pressure induced by the Senseo coffee machine unto the Senseo coffee pod causes a foam layer on the coffee that resembles the look of an espresso coffee crema.  Though it falls short of the coffee crema that an espresso coffee maker does, the Senseo coffee machine still produces way better and faster coffee than that of the traditional drip coffee maker sans the mess.


