Title: 
Senseo’s Coffee Maker: Perfect Size, Perfect Blend

Word Count:
487

Summary:
Smelling that perfect aroma from a cup of coffee freshly brewed from the coffee maker really sets one’s mind in a relaxed mode.  Enjoying and sipping it on a stormy weather would be one of the things that takes away stress as you enjoy earth’s melody serenading through the rain.  But would it be the same if the excess coffee was left at the thermal carafe to be drunk later.


Keywords:
coffee, coffee makers, coffee equipment


Article Body:
Smelling that perfect aroma from a cup of coffee freshly brewed from the coffee maker really sets one’s mind in a relaxed mode.  Enjoying and sipping it on a stormy weather would be one of the things that takes away stress as you enjoy earth’s melody serenading through the rain.  But would it be the same if the excess coffee was left at the thermal carafe to be drunk later.  Coffee brew left on for hours may have that stale bitter taste that no one would want to drink.

Philips, one of the well known brands for consumer appliances and electronics has made a perfect coffee maker machine just for those coffee enthusiasts that know what good coffee tastes like.  The Senseo coffee maker achieves and exudes the traditional coffee maker by introducing a new process that somewhat combines espresso making and drip coffee maker processes.  

Senseo’s Coffee Maker Edge
Philips has been known to be an innovator as well as a solution provider to common household dilemmas – the Senseo Coffee Maker simply topped everything else.  It is a simple coffee maker to operate.  Simply fill the water reservoir with water up to a marked level, open the coffee pod bay, put a Senseo coffee pod, press the brew button and that’s it – a coffee or two will be served in just a couple of minutes.  The process of applying low pressure to the Senseo coffee pod can form a frothy drink so it would be better to put extra cream and sugar at the mug first before the Senseo coffee maker pours the drink.    

The Senseo coffee maker is paired with a specially packed single serve Senseo coffee pod that is already calculated to mix with the coffee makers water volume output for a perfect aromatic coffee blend.  This leaves out the mess caused by grinding, tampering or even spilling coffee powder all over.  The Senseo coffee maker’s removable parts are all dishwasher safe so cleaning the machine won’t be much of a hassle.

Cost Advantages of Senseo’s Coffee Maker System
The Senseo coffee maker costs around $60 - $70, a price way lower than that of espresso machines (Senseo coffee maker is not an espresso coffee maker) but about $20 - $30 more compared to the ordinary coffee maker.  But with this cost, it makes way better coffee than ordinary coffee makers.  

It has long been a standing complaint for coffee maker owners that getting the ratio for grounded beans to water volume is difficult to master which could lead into filling the pot and the coffee bean container to its full capacity.  Filling the carafe full with coffee with only one or two people drinking would mean lots of coffee and money down the drain at the end of the day.  

With the single serving Senseo coffee pods, you can get freshly brewed coffee anytime of the day within a couple of minutes.


