Title: 
Sepsis Food Poisoning

Word Count:
257

Summary:
Food poisoning is a sepsis(The presence of harmful microorganisms or associated toxins in the blood and tissues), that is caused by consuming foods that are contaminated with pathogenic bacteria, toxins, viruses, prions or parasites. These contaminations are normally as a result of improper handling, storage or preparation of food.


Keywords:
food poisoning, food poisoning symptom, food poisoning treatment, sign of food poisoning, food poisoning remedy, salmonella food poisoning, food poisoning cure, food poisoning and pregnancy, food pois


Article Body:
Food poisoning is a sepsis(The presence of harmful microorganisms or associated toxins in the blood and tissues), that is caused by consuming foods that are contaminated with pathogenic bacteria, toxins, viruses, prions or parasites. These contaminations are normally as a result of improper handling, storage or preparation of food. Pesticides added to food can also add in the likelyhood of consumption of the viruses. Contact that Pests, such as flies and cockroaches have with food, further increases the change of contamination.

Because symptoms often don't occur for several hours after the contaminated food is eaten, it is hard at times to  'pin the tail on the donkey' and figure out exactly where it came from. Initial Food Poisoning symptoms generally include: vomiting, diarrhea, fever, nausea, abdominal pain, headache or tiredness. Typically our body is able to recover by itself from the poisoning, after a short period of time. In rare cases, especially with babies and pregnant women, food poisoning can result in permanent health problems, and in even more extreme cases, death. 

The time that passes between the food consuption and the actual presence of the virus, is known as the incubation period.  During this period microbes are passed through the stomach and into the intestine where they attach the cells that line the intestinal wall. They then being to multiply.

Practicing good hygiene during the three stages of food preparation(before, after, during), can greatly reduce the chance of food poisoning. Be smart about your health and take the necessary precautions when working with food.


