Title: 
Smoked Salmon, Or Tower Of Chocolate, That Is The Question

Word Count:
548

Summary:
Chocolate has long been the favorite for food gifts. But what about those who we know really shouldn’t have it? Shouldn’t we give a gourmet gift that is healthy? Smoked salmon gifts are becoming more popular, not just as a healthy alternative, but because they taste so good too.

Giving gifts is an expression of kindness and regard for those we care about. When choosing a gift, we should think about how it will be received by the person we are giving the gift to. Sometimes ...


Keywords:
Smoked salmon, omega 3, gift box


Article Body:
Chocolate has long been the favorite for food gifts. But what about those who we know really shouldn’t have it? Shouldn’t we give a gourmet gift that is healthy? Smoked salmon gifts are becoming more popular, not just as a healthy alternative, but because they taste so good too.

Giving gifts is an expression of kindness and regard for those we care about. When choosing a gift, we should think about how it will be received by the person we are giving the gift to. Sometimes a gourmet gift may not be appropriate if there are concerns about monitoring levels for blood sugar, cholesterol, or high blood pressure. Before you purchase that “tower of chocolate” or that “heavenly cheesecake,” and send it by UPS, consider Smoked Alaskan Salmon as a healthy alternative gourmet gift. 

Fish such as Alaska sockeye salmon, contain omega-3 fatty acids, or polyunsaturated fats. These important fatty acids aid the body in numerous important functions such as oxygen absorption, blood pressure and cholesterol regulation, prevention of inflammation, prevention of premature aging, and general promotion of the body’s immune system. 

Omega 3 fatty acids are most concentrated in cold water salmon and other fish which have high oil content. The effects of omega 3 fatty acids have been widely studied and the list of potential health benefits is long and varied.

Smoked salmon is not just a fancy hors d’oeuvre or party appetizer. Smoked salmon is increasingly used in gourmet entrees and dishes of many cuisines. Online gift orders of smoked salmon fillets are becoming more popular for gift giving occasions from executive gifts to housewarming parties. Fine Italian restaurants have added numerous pasta dishes which include smoked salmon as the main ingredient. One common denominator of the surging popularity of smoked salmon is the health benefits enjoyed from eating ‘omega 3,’ rich fish.

Smoked Alaskan Salmon is recognized as the number one smoked fish product on the market today. One specific kind of sockeye salmon, from the Copper River watershed area of Alaska, has become world renown, especially among gourmet chefs. Of all the salmon types, the Copper River Sockeye Salmon are most sought after for their exquisite rich flavor and delicate texture. Copper River Sockeye Salmon is beautifully, naturally deep red, known to be the most tender, and "delicate" of the Wild Salmon varieties. Copper River Sockeye salmon looks beautiful on the grill, or as a main course of any gourmet meal. Moreover, this exceptional smoked sockeye salmon is packed in a classic wooden gift box and offered as a fine quality gourmet gift selection. 

In today’s business climate, a smoked salmon gift box as an executive gift, corporate gift, or client gift can be suggested as the perfect gift solution. An exquisite wood gift box with 8 ounces of smoked Copper River Sockeye Salmon inside will be well received. The smoked salmon fillet comes packed in a shelf stable, foil, retort vacuum package, ready to eat. No refrigeration is required until the foil is opened.

A tower of chocolate is a nice gift, but for those of us who have to watch what we eat, smoked salmon is better than a mediocre alternative gourmet gift choice. It not only is healthy, but an enjoyable delicacy we don’t indulge in often enough.


