Title: 
Smoothies

Word Count:
433

Summary:
In this day and age where eating healthy has become so important, so many people do not like to eat fruit and vegetables. Even though they know it is good for them, they still prefer not to eat it.


Keywords:
South African recipes, South Africa, smoothies, fruit drinks


Article Body:
In this day and age where eating healthy has become so important, so many people do not like to eat fruit and vegetables. Even though they know it is good for them, they still prefer not to eat it. It can be very difficult getting used to a healthy lifestyle if all you are used to, is take away fast food. The first change is having to get home and cook. Immediately you loose about halve an hour of your "alone" time. 

What is important thought, is to think of this as an opportunity to spend this time with your children and husband/wife. Make it fun and interesting. Don’t loose your smile when you think that you will have to eat more fruits during the day and evening. There is a very easy solution that will be fun for the whole family. 

I think smoothies are one of the greatest inventions of our time. I know you get a lot of fruit juices and they are truly great, but some of the manufacturers do add a lot of sugar. Try to keep the sugar intake low by making your own. All you need is a blender, or smoothie maker and fruit. It is that simple. Try to play with the flavours. You can add whatever you like. If you do not try it, how will you know if you like it or not?.

My husband and I played around with some flavours the past weekend and I can tell you, it tasted great. You can get recipe books for how to make smoothies, but as I said, make it up as you go along. First we tried mixing banana, strawberries, kiwi fruit, grapes and plain yoghurt. It tasted LOVELY. This is not a sweet combination, so if you have a sweet tooth, maybe you should try our second recipe.

The next one we tried, we used a mango, banana, yellow melon and yoghurt. This was ‘n sweeter option, but the banana was a little strong. Maybe you should try to use only halve a banana or replace it with some other fruit. We thought that next time we will try to replace it with a strawberry or two. Don’t know how it will taste, but we will definitely try. 

Making smoothies is a great time to spend together, learning to listen to each other and compromise on what fruit you want to try and just have GREAT fun! It will definitely tickle your laughing muscles, believe me. 

Go on, try to make your own smoothie and have a great time!


