Title: 
Strawberry - Not Just A Beautiful Fruit

Word Count:
674

Summary:
What’s the first thought that comes to your mind, when you think of strawberry – a mouth-watering dessert of strawberries mixed with fresh cream? To end an interesting evening on sweet note, this is just the right dessert. Strawberries serve more than just fulfilling the sweet tooth. It is packed with hordes of health benefits, making a nutritious fruit for mind and body.

Eat this succulent fruit in its raw form or serve it as jams, syrups, salads, smoothies, wine, juices,...


Keywords:
Skin care tips, Skin care with Strawberries, Strawberry Benefits, Natural skin care recipes.


Article Body:
What’s the first thought that comes to your mind, when you think of strawberry – a mouth-watering dessert of strawberries mixed with fresh cream? To end an interesting evening on sweet note, this is just the right dessert. Strawberries serve more than just fulfilling the sweet tooth. It is packed with hordes of health benefits, making a nutritious fruit for mind and body.

Eat this succulent fruit in its raw form or serve it as jams, syrups, salads, smoothies, wine, juices, and more. Strawberries are full of vitamin C, potassium, sodium and iron as well as being low in calories. Not just delicious, a strawberry is also a great skincare additive, especially due to its mildly astringent properties. Strawberry flesh and juice is recommended mainly for oily skin to improve texture, minimize greasiness and encourage a healthy and more radiant complexion. The ellagic acids in strawberries appear to inhibit the growth of tumors (cancer cells). They are also a good source of salicylic acid that removes dead cells and clean pores.

Strawberry helps in soothing sunburned skin, skin blemishes as well as discolored teeth. An alternative to placing cucumber on the eyes, place a sliced strawberry to reduce the puffiness. They are known to fight heart disease and provide a number of vitamins and minerals that support overall human health. By adding strawberries to your diet, we build a healthy immune system. In addition to various nutrients and minerals, strawberries are an excellent source of vitamin K and manganese, as well as folic acid, riboflavin, vitamin B5, vitamin B6, copper, magnesium, and omega-3 fatty acids. 

Packed with immense health benefits, strawberries when added to beauty recipes for skin exude magic… Try out these homemade recipes made with this luscious fruit as main ingredient.

Kiwi Cucumber Strawberry Facial Cleanser - Blend 5 to 6 strawberries, 1 kiwi, peeled and 1/2 cucumber to a smooth paste, not a runny mixture. If the mixture is slightly runny, add bit of oatmeal until the potion is of proper consistency. Apply to your face and neck area with gentle massage to exfoliate the skin. Let the paste settle on your skin for 10 minutes and then rinse well with warm water. Your skin will feel fresh and clean.

Strawberry Facemask - Combine 2 or 3 ripe strawberries with 2 tbsp of finely grounded oats and 1 drop of lemon essential oil to form a paste. Spread the paste on to the face and neck area with fingertips. Relax for 20 minutes. Rinse off with cool water followed by a toner and moisturizer. The pieces of strawberry seeds aid in the skin treatment process.

Antioxidant mask with Strawberry and Papaya starring - ½ papaya, 4 strawberries, 1 tbsp rolled oats, 1 tsp honey and 1 tsp fresh lemon juice. Grind the oats, blend papayas and strawberries until smooth and warm honey until it is flowing freely. Combine and mix well all the ingredients. Apply this mixture on the face and let it remain for 15 minutes. Rinse with warm water followed with moisturizer. 

For beautiful and radiant skin – mash 1 or 2 strawberries mixing it with water to form a smooth paste. Apply the paste on your face, neck overnight. Rinse it in the morning.

Face Lifting Face Pack - 3 to 4 strawberries, 5-6 grapes, 1/2 pear, 1/2 apple and 1 ounce of orange juice. Before putting this paste on apply a coat of honey which is later on covered with this fruit mixture. Leave it for 30 minutes and then rinse it with lukewarm water. For the final rinse use vinegar to give your face, a perfect lift. 

Strawberry Mask – 4 to 5 strawberries, 1 tbsp. milk and 1 tbsp. cornstarch. Mix all the three ingredients to make a paste to be applied on your face for 20 minutes. Rinse it first with warm water, then cold water. You can better this pack by using a mild astringent and then use a light moisturizer. You can use this pack for week. 

Warning: The reader of this article should exercise all precautions while following instructions on the recipes from this article. Avoid using if you are allergic to something. The responsibility lies with the reader and not with the site or the writer.


