Title: 
The 3 Best Ways To Buy Bar Stools

Word Count:
415

Summary:
Each option has advantages and disadvantages, but one is ultimately your best bet. Here are some of the pros and cons to help you decide which alternative is best for you.


Keywords:
food, drink, alcohol, stool, furniture


Article Body:
When you set out to buy bar stools, you have three options: from a local store or garage sale, from a catalog, or from an online website. Each option has advantages and disadvantages, but one is ultimately your best bet. Here are some of the pros and cons to help you decide which alternative is best for you.

If you live in a big city or town, buying bar stools from a local store is fairly convenient. The biggest advantage is that you can actually see, touch, and sit in the various stools being offered. You get a true sense of the quality, sturdiness, and craftsmanship of each stool before you buy.

But, looking to buy bar stools in person also includes one big disadvantage. You have to take the time to visit the store in person (or spend a day going to garage sales, if used stools are your preference). There's no guarantee, of course, that you'll find a set of stools that appeals to you, so the trip(s) may end up being a huge waste of time. And then there are pushy salespeople, traffic delays, the money spent burning gas, and all the rest.

Another option when shopping for bar stools to buy is to order from a catalog. The advantage with this alternative is convenience. You don't have to leave home, and most catalogs are well organized, so you don't have to wade through page after page just to find choices.

However, catalogs often do not offer the best deals on things like bar stools. You may not find sales or clearance deals on bar stools, as you will if you visit a store in person. Also, if you are looking to buy used bar stools, you won't find any in the big catalogs. It's new or nothing.

This leaves buying bar stools from an online website. This option is, overall, your best choice. You will have no trouble finding a lot of bar stool selections. In fact, you could visit dozens of furniture stores in person and not even scratch the surface of what you can find online. There's so much competition between merchants selling bar stools online that you will usually find amazing bargains on them as well. Also, you can buy bar stools (new and used) from online auction sites like Ebay and walk away with real steals.

Clearly, if you want the most convenient, money-saving way to buy bar stools, stay home and fire up your computer!


