Title: 
The McWorkout

Word Count:
419

Summary:
Another insightful article from Anna Fleet, exploring McDonald's recent efforts to encourage their customers to become more active.


Keywords:
food pyramid, fitness, workout


Article Body:
McDonalds, the most notorious proprietor of French fries, fried burgers and fried, well, just about everything else, has come a long way since the popular film Super Size Me, exposed the horrors of the high-fat diet and forced the Ronald to remove the "super sized" options from his fat-induced menu. 

Ever since the film grossed over $28,548,087 worldwide, the red-haired clown has had a gaping whole is his clogged heart – even though the folks at McDonald’s Corporate deny that the removal of "super size" menu options was in any way a reaction to the film – sure! It’s true, McDonald’s has gone a long, and even possibly broken a sweat in attempts to resurrect its fryer-soaked image. Now they’re attempting to encourage the burger-eating sect by plugging into their gaming systems.

I was really glad to hear about McDonald’s new offering, the new Go Active Happy Meal for Adults. On my site, FitnessGear101.com, I always try to offer my readers realistic healthy fast food options for when they’re on the go. This adult happy meal goes a long way in encouraging McDonald’s clientele - which let’s face it, often leaves something to be desired in the fitness category.

The Go Active Happy Meal for Adults, will be available for PlayStation 2, Xbox and PCs starting on April 25 until May 22, and will feature 1 of 4 exclusive Yourself Fitness DVDs each week, plus a bottle of Dasani water or medium/large beverage, and any of the following premium Mickey D’s salads:

California Cobb Salad (with grilled or crispy chicken) – features plump grape tomatoes, carrots, bleu cheese, smoky bacon and eggs all on a bed of crisp mixed greens. Opt for no cheese, light dressing and grilled chicken for a healthier alternative.

Caesar Salad (with grilled or crispy chicken) – enjoy bust-in-your-mouth grape tomatoes, parmesan cheese, carrot and crunchy croutons on a bed of fresh greens. Again, say no to the cheese, and opt for a light dressing and grilled chicken for a lower fat meal.

Bacon Ranch Salad (with grilled or crispy chicken) – a mêlée of fresh mixed greens, shaved carrot, grape tomatoes, hickory bacon sprinkled with jack and cheddar cheeses. To make this a lower fat meal, ask for no cheese, light dressing and grilled chicken on your salad.

Each 15-minute Yourself Fitness DVD features Maya, a virtual personal trainer, who leads viewers through a one-on-one workout that focuses on one of the following:

•	Relaxing Yoga
•	Calorie-Shedding Cardio
•	Toning Resistance Training
•	Ab-Defining Core Training


