Title: 
The Top Quality Information For Counter Stools And  Bar Stools

Word Count:
398

Summary:
Counter stools will come in 2 different fashions either very basic and practical stools or elaborate and imaginative designs


Keywords:
food, drink, furniture, bar, stool


Article Body:
Counter stools will come in 2 different fashions either very basic and practical stools or elaborate and imaginative designs. Both of these bar stool designs are good in any home kitchen or restaurant counters. What ever style you want comes down to your fondness for that design of bar stool and of course the décor of the surroundings are a vital criteria.

The most basic of bar stools have padded seats with no back rests; they are also made from varnished or unvarnished wood and have 4 legs with 2 sections of interlocking wooden beams for leg support. This basic design has been in circulation for over 500 years and is now used in homes, bars, and restaurants that want a traditional country look.

For those of you who want to find counter stools that have a more elegant and artistic design, there are stacks of options to choose from. These types of bar stools usually have back rests and favour metal over wood. The most popular styles of metal bar stools are wrought iron and brushed aluminium with swivel motion and padded seats.

Counter stools are only ever found to have a height range between 20 and 24 inches. Counter stools are generally smaller that standard bar stool, it is for this reason that counter stools are mostly used in diners, cafes and kitchen counters. Other advantages for these counter stools is that your kids can make use them in a game room, watching TV, or doing homework at the counter or when you have friends over

As with every other type of bar stool out there, you will absolutely no hassles in find many different styles and designs of counter stools. When thinking about shopping for such stools searching online with prove to produce far better results, but you need to find the good sites like marios-bar.com that have the best selection and good prices that give a good description of the product.

If you expect heavy use, one tip is to concentrate on stools that have durable seat materials. Heavy fabric or thick vinyls are good choices. Moreover, you may want to get counter stools that have thick cushions for maximum comfort. It's also a good idea to look for counter stools with legs made of a durable material, like stainless steel or varnished hardwood. You want long-lasting, tough stools that will stand up to abuse over many years.


