Title: 
Tip On Buying Bar Stools

Word Count:
328

Summary:
Swivel bar stools are a brilliant idea for bar furniture and have many unseen advantages for both business and pleasure.


Keywords:
food, drink, furniture, seats, chairs, interior, design


Article Body:
Swivel bar stools are a brilliant idea for bar furniture and have many unseen advantages for both business and pleasure. Swivel bar stools are practical because they have excellent manoeuvrability when being sat in, this allows for extra comfort and convenience for those who are sitting in them. When in the bar or restaurant industries, swivel bar stools are usually affixed to the one spot, this facilitates the look of neatness and a well compacted yet spacious seating area. Most significantly swivel bar stools always look very chic and have an air of prestige about them.

Not only do swivel bar stools come in a variety of different designs and styles, there is also an extensive range of swivel mechanisms. There are 2 different kinds of swivel bar stools; there is the manual and the automatic. The manual swivel bar stool has a knob that must be turned in order to move the seat and then there is the automatic which turns in multiple directions freely due to the gas pressure cylinder. High quality swivel bar stool with memory return swivel mechanisms are the perfect for industrial use. When buying the bar stool take note of the swivel mechanism, make sure that it can handle a good bit of weight.

Prices on swivel bar stools have a very wide range. The bar stools for home uses have a starting price of as little as $25 and steadily increase in price up to about $450, of course you do get what you pay for so the quality of the bar stool does increase exponentially when the price goes up, the style, design, padding, embroidery and even the type of wood or metal used. 

Obtaining the correct size of bar stool is essential. It is important to note that retailer’s measure bar stool height from the floor to the height of the seat. In order for comfort and elegance allow at least nine inches between the seat and the table or counter.


