Title: 
What To Look For When Purchasing A Fruit Basket

Word Count:
607

Summary:
Fruit baskets are excellent gifts for all occasions. Whether you choose to purchase a fruit basket for a birthday, holiday, or any day, the receiver will surely enjoy the beautifully packaged basket of goodies. When looking for a fruit basket for a friend, family member, co-worker, or neighbor, consider the contents carefully, as well as the size and overall appearance.

The first thing to look for when purchasing a fruit basket is the fruit itself. What type of fruit does ...


Keywords:
fruit baskets, holiday baskets, gift baskets, edible gift baskets


Article Body:
Fruit baskets are excellent gifts for all occasions. Whether you choose to purchase a fruit basket for a birthday, holiday, or any day, the receiver will surely enjoy the beautifully packaged basket of goodies. When looking for a fruit basket for a friend, family member, co-worker, or neighbor, consider the contents carefully, as well as the size and overall appearance.

The first thing to look for when purchasing a fruit basket is the fruit itself. What type of fruit does the basket contain? If you are buying a fruit basket for a specific party, keep their preferences in mind. Also, if anyone has an allergy to a specific type of fruit or food, these items should be avoided. Finally, if you are planning to ship the gift basket, consider how well the basket’s contents will handle shipping. Keep in mind, more fragile fruits—especially berries—may not be the best choice, since they can possibly be crushed while the basket is in transit.

Secondly, consider the size of the basket. If you are sending a fruit basket to a large family, then send a large basket. However, if you are sending a basket to an individual, carefully consider the size and the amount of fruit the basket contains. Far too often, lovely fruit baskets are sent to individuals who simply cannot consume the contents of the basket before the fruit spoils. Instead, consider a mixture of fruit with nuts, candies, and other goodies that have a longer shelf life.

Thirdly, look to the recipient to determine his or her tastes. College students are the perfect recipients for fruit baskets, since they are most likely tempted to stray from healthier foods and indulge in junk food. If fruits and other healthier fare is located within arms reach, your student is more likely to consume a better diet. Also, individuals who are just moving to an area or find themselves in a new home appreciate fruit baskets, since the contents can be used to fill the refrigerator or cupboard that was previously empty. The elderly also enjoy fruit baskets, since the gift can be consumed and enjoyed instead of another gift that will serve to clutter or sit in disuse. 

Finally, look at the basket itself. Consider giving a fruit basket that uses a creative container that the recipient can use after the contents have been consumed. More and more these days, traditional baskets are being replaced with clever packaging ideas, like boxes, bags, pots, bowls, or any other lovely container that can be reused with ease. Also, keep in mind the space constraints of the recipient’s office or home. Fruit baskets are a popular gift for college students, especially around examination time, but keep in mind that a large, extravagant fruit basket may very well overwhelm a tiny dormitory room.

For whatever reason, a fruit basket is the perfect gift. Although today’s gift baskets contain a good deal more than the simple apples and oranges of yesterday’s baskets, the thought is still the same. Strive to find baskets with unique contents that will tickle the fancy of the recipient, but will still provide him or her with foods and snacks that are health oriented. The gift of a fruit basket is one that requires a bit more thought than simply sending a gift card or monetary gift, and is guaranteed to be used at the end of the day. If you are in the market for a fruit basket, know that there are endless varieties and options out there, so everyone is sure to find a basket that suits the recipient’s every need.


