Title: 
Why We Love Food Network

Word Count:
417

Summary:
With it's "celebrity chefs", how could we not love it.


Keywords:
food network, food,cooking


Article Body:
Whenever I hear someone say they hate television it amazes me.  My next question is always “what do you watch?”  I never seem to get a straight answer.  With the advent of cable television and satellite tv, there is always something on. 

For food lovers, food network has to be the best thing on television since Julia Child was on the air.  Between the celebrities that do the cooking, and the topics and recipes that they pick, what else could you ask for. It really was an ingenious concept, a food channel that is on 24 hour a day all about food. It is even a better fit than the golf channel, or the history channel or any other channel because everyone eats.

Once you add the personalities of the ”Celebrity Chefs”  to the shows, you can only have a winning formula.  Rachael Ray is definitely my favorite, it seems as if, just like all of the chefs that she is always in a great mood, which is always refreshing. Then there's Emeril, who must be the most popular, has combined an open forum with music and celebrity guests.  For Emeril to be the standout for food network makes perfect sense, his knowledge of food is unbelievable, he is very easy to like for men and women, and he likes to have fun.  It's almost as if  you're in his house while he's cooking

I don't think that I have ever watched Alton Brown's Good Eats, and not learned something.  His information is a lot of did you know, that you probably did not know.  Paula Dean's  southern style is always warm and friendly.  There is a show everyone, which should be the goal of all television networks

Food network was a very welcome addition to cable tv land, with the technology of digital cable and tivo, you can have all your favorite shows ready to watch whenever you want.  Can you imagine back in the day being able to watch Julia Child whenever you want?

Another reason we love food network is their website.  It is very informative and anything you see on television you can get from their website.  Everything from the recipes that you see, to the actual video.  It is pretty easy to navigate and find what you are looking for. Their online store has everything from cookbooks to cooking utensils. With food network becoming more and more popular, we can only hope that it grows and expands to cover more topics and foods.


