Title: 
Wine Tasting What You Need To Know

Word Count:
865

Summary:
Attending a wine tasting can be very entertaining, however there are a vast majority of wanna wine connoisseur's out there who don't like to attend these gatherings as they do not know what they are supposed to do or what way to act when sampling the wine. With wine tasting there is no great mystery, below are just a few things you should keep in mind.


Keywords:
wine, food, drink, alcohol, recipe, wine making


Article Body:
Attending a wine tasting can be very entertaining, however there are a vast majority of wanna wine connoisseur's out there who don't like to attend these gatherings as they do not know what they are supposed to do or what way to act when sampling the wine. With wine tasting there is no great mystery, below are just a few things you should keep in mind. 

To keep proper etiquette, usually the ladies are served before the gents. With some wine tastings there will be bottled water on offer, this is simply for you to rinse your mouth out before each sample of wine you try so your mouth is clear of all the flavours from the previous wine. Plain crackers are also provided at such wine tastings for this very same purpose. When handling a wine glass attention to should given to where you are holding it, always hold the glass by the stem, this will ensure the wine is not affected by the warmth of your hand and thus the flavour is not altered. 

When at a wine tasting try not to smoke as smoking blankets ones sense of taste, also try and steer clear of chewing gum or eating mints as this will distort the taste of the wine as well. Try not to wear a perfume or after shave that is quite strong as this could throw off not only your sense of taste but also your neighbours.

You can tell a lot about a wine just by it appearance. When attending a wine tasting the wine glasses you be crystal clear so you can hold it up to the light and check the body of the wine, also the wine glasses should be set on a white linen table cloth so everything is visible. Do not let the wine category mislead you, for example, white wines are not really white in color, they usually vary in colour from yellow to green and even brown. 

Red wines also vary in color from a light red colour to a deep brownish red and often become lighter with age. One easy way to tell the age of a red wine is by doing a rim test. Tilt the wine towards the rim of the glass and look at the colour of the wine.A younger wine have a purple tint to the wine colour and an older wine will have a more brown shade of red. 

One of the more common actions you see people who know anything about wine doing is swirling the wine in the glass, this is done to release the flavours and aromas of the wine. Remember, these wine may have been bottled anywhere from 1 year to 20 years and some some rarer cases even longer. Swirling the wine in the glass is synonymous with cooking at home and stirring the food to help blend the various flavors. 

The colour of the wine is just one area that should be paid attention to when you attend a wine tasting, you will also need to pay particular attention to the wines aroma. After swirling, sniffing the wine is the next step in the tasting process. You have probably observed this done before and wondered what purpose it served, well your sense of smell is very important in the way we taste different things. When this subject was researched it was determined that over 3/4 of what we can taste is due to are sense of smell and the way we perceive the aromas.

Smelling wine is done in a couple of ways; you can takes a short sniff then a longer 1, or just take a long sniff. After smelling the wine, think about it for a minute and the flavours that are being processed by you nasal receptors. Do not taste the wine straight after smelling the wine, but instead let the aroma hit and think of flavours you are experiencing.

Finally, you will need to know is how to taste the wine properly. Your tongue has many taste buds both front and back. These buds give us a wide variety of flavours from sweet to sour to bitter, some of which are more sensitive than others. There are 2 easy steps in tasting wine, the first is the initial taste which is your first impression of the wine, the second is the aftertaste. 

The wine should awaken your sense to the flavours, after taking the first drink, you should swish the wine around your mouth for a few seconds to let all your taste buds discover the full flavor of the wine. Think about what the wine tastes like. Is it light or heavy? Is the smooth or rough? The aftertaste is the sensation that remains in your mouth after swallowing the wine. How long did it last and was it pleasant? 

Before attending a wine tasting, it may help you feel more confident to read about the different types of wines. This will give you a better idea of what to look for as far as flavor and taste. Next time you are invited to a wine tasting; do not be afraid to go. You may be missing a great experience!


