The Inside of the Recreational Vehicle 

The recreational vehicles and others known as camping cars are becoming very popular.  They are going to be a great tool for anyone looking for a great adventure.  There will be comfort and space for anyone looking for a great camping trip. 

The inside of the recreational vehicle is going to be having a big part in your comfortable stay.  

Having a recreational vehicle is going to have a bed, bathroom, smaller kitchen area, and some storage areas. 

Having a luxurious recreational vehicle is going to have a living room with a table, TV, kitchen and even a microwave.  You can expect a master bedroom as well with a great cozy bed. 

The bathrooms are going to have a spacious shower and the toilets are going to be portable.  You can detach them and clean the area any time you want.  

There are going to be different terms that are involved with the inside of the recreational vehicles.  The toilets are going to have a Black water tank that will hold the waster water. 

The kitchens are going to have recreational vehicles that have Grey water tanks. They are going to be used to store the water from the shower and the kitchen sinks that is waste. 

One of the most important pieces of equipment in the interior of the recreational vehicle is the generators and the converters.  The generators can be petrol, propane, or diesel. 

They will generate AC voltage and will be useful in dry camping and in the middle of the travel.  The converter is going to take the AC voltage from the generator of the campsite hookups and converts it into DC voltage.  The voltage is going to be used by the electrical equipments in the RV. 

House batteries are going to turn out as another source of DC voltage. The batteries have a smaller capacity of 12 volts DC. The vehicle batteries can charge the batteries. 

The inverters will take the DC voltage from the house and convert it into AC.  The equipment that needs to have the AC voltage to run will use this type of voltage. 



