What is a Campervan? 

A campervan is a certain kind of camping car.  This is a class B recreational vehicle that will give your family a home on wheels to stay. 

They are going to be smaller than the motor homes but they will provide great luxury too.  The campervan is going to be called a motor caravan in the United Kingdom. 

The outside of the campervan is going to be just like a regular van.  It is going to have a raised rood with a comfortable compartment.  You will also find that the roofs are called pop ups and they can be adjusted to fit your needs. 

The campervans are going to include a smaller kitchen and there will be a refrigerator and a stove.

The campervan is going to have a water heater, shower, and a portable toilet.  They will also have electric equipment that will operate on a battery or on the van’s battery. 

The equipment will be ran on the AC supply and it can be found at the campsite for your use.

A microwave can be used in the campervan.  The entertainment will consist of a radio, television and music system.  The holidays are going to be great with this type of leisure on the road. 

In the hotter areas, AC can be turned on and in the colder areas, the heater can be used. There are going to be no problems or worries when you are in the camper van.  This will have a small water tank for your convenience too. 

An awning is going to be found on them so that you do not have to face the hot sun. 

The campervan is going to be called a Dormobiles in the United Kingdom as well.  

In Australia they are going to be known as Kombis. 

In the Northern American parts, Roadtrek is the most famous company manufacturing the campervans.  They are going to be bases and will have full sized fans called the Toyota Hiace, Ford Transit, and the Datsun Urvan.  

A Volkswagen will be known as one of the most popular campervan makers.  The company makes the Camper called the historical.  There are also several other types of campervans out there that are going to be made by the same company.  


