Birth Control Options 

Family planning is a must in today's modern society. People are slowly becoming more and more aware of the implications both good and bad of planning the family. Most importantly people are becoming more and more aware of the different options that they have for planning their family. Different kinds of birth control options are now widely accepted as normal and part of everyday life.

Family planning has made enormous waves when it comes to controversy, different anti-family planning groups call it artificial control of what God has given and since most family planning methods involve products that have been manufactured by man and their companies people say that it is also like playing God since we have control over the number of members we want in our family.

Birth control options have been subject to a lot of debate and argument in the past and in the present, but even with all the opposition it gets from different sectors it still remains as the number one option of people who want to take care of how their family. What are the advantages of having birth control options? 

There are a lot of different pros and cons to it but to have a good idea of some of the things that we can benefit from birth control let’s go ahead and take a look into birth control a little more.

Birth control also helps prevent STD’s or sexually transmitted diseases. Yes it’s true, most birth control options if not some of it can help prevent Sexually transmitted diseases. We all know that STD’s infect people through transferring the infection during sexual activities. Since the main function of birth control devices is to prevent contact between two different cells, the damage and the scope of the damage can be minimized in terms of getting the infection. One of the most reliable if not most used form of contraception that helps prevent transmission of STD is the condom. 

It is a type of rolled up barrier protection. 

Condoms can either be male or female types. Most commonly used are the male type condoms. There are a lot of it available at check out counters in various stores, it is easy to use and requires no expert tip or help whatsoever, to use it simply roll it out from the tip of the penis to the base. Make sure that you pinch the air out once it has made contact with the base of your penis. 

The condom is one of the most effective and simple ways that we can use to first prevent Sexually transmitted diseases and second avoid unplanned and unscheduled pregnancies. 

Because of it’s simplicity and effectivity of the condom later on the female condom would be invented. The principle of the female condom is the same with the male condom, and basically has the same effectivity for birth control and protection. The only major difference if the relative difference in sizes.

For those who do not like artificial forms birth control, there are alternatives. One of the alternatives of artificial contraception would be natural family planning or birth control. Natural methods involve a lot of effort and hard work because of the nature of the many methods used for it. 

Birth control options like these help us in planning ahead. We need to be a better country for the future generations.
