Birth control pills and weight gain: setting the scales correct

I cannot say that with this article, the discussion about birth control pills and weight gain will stop. This discussion is pretty much like the epic battle between light and darkness, good and evil, ordinary milk and non-fat milk, it goes on and on and on and on.

Scientifically speaking, there have been no indications in studies and experiments on any direct relationship between birth control pills and weight gain. Given that situation, it is really hard to fathom why most people still think the opposite. 

Well we can think of some reasons why this urban legend continues to proliferate. Birth control pills contain synthetic hormones which go straight to the pituitary glands. Once there, the synthetic hormones block the production of LH and FSH hormones. This prevents the body the natural growth of the egg and ovulation. 

According to some doctors and medical practitioners, birth control pills can also cause an increase of appetite, at least to some women. But studies have shown that this situation is more of an exception rather than the rule. It has also been found out the said increase in appetite is more coincidental and is no different from what happens in the general populace. 

This also brings us to the next point. Some doctors and medical practitioners continue issuing statements that weight gain has been observed or that weight gain is a possible side effect to their patients, adding to the confusion. Oftentimes these statements from doctors are accepted as statements of facts. Instead of clarifying already false information to begin with, they contribute to the continued spread of this myth. 

Another perception of feeling bloated or fat when one is taking the pill is that the body is said to hold more water when it is on pill compared to when it is not. This is another fallacy in a string of rumors, gossips, and misinformation. 

Women are very conscious of their weight. Ask any man who made the wrong move of commenting on a women’s weight. I’m sure it got messy. This consciousness or even subconscious wariness of gaining pounds might contribute to false admittance or observations that birth control pills cause weight gain. Women often fear the added pounds. Because of this fear women don’t take or totally avoid taking birth control pills.

This is detrimental to any birth control program. That’s why it is important to squash the myth of weight gain once and for all. The pill is quite an effective method of birth control after all, when used correctly of course. 

Because of the weight gain issue, women will tend to go for other means of contraception. Although some other methods are quite effective, the pill is still a batter option with 99.7% chance of preventing pregnancies. Women should stop worrying about something that isn’t real or they will really begin to worry about weight gain when they get pregnant and after giving birth. These two situations pack more weight related issues than what they have now with birth control pills. 

Weight gain and weight control is all about balance. A balance diet combined with a balanced body work-out. That’s the ideal way of living. You prevent any significant weight gain by eating healthy and exercising. 

If you gain pounds while you’re in the pill, don’t lash it all out on the little guy for it is all you. Birth control pills and weight gain are not correlated, and that’s that. 
