Birth Control Pill 



The birth control pill is considered as the most popular means of contraceptives in the whole world. Its popularity did not only stem out from its convenience but also from its effectivity. In fact, because it is so easy to use and can be purchased almost everywhere, the birth control pill is also the most used means of family planning out there. 

Today, many women are using the birth control pill to prevent themselves from early pregnancy but it seems that they don’t have sufficient knowledge about it. 

More and more women remain elusive and ignorant about the birth control pill because they do not bother to get information from the experts such as oby gynes and healthcare professionals. In fact, studies show that majority of the women who re using the birth control pill have heard about the medication from other women who used it and not from the authorities who know more about the pros and cons of the birth control pill.



What you need to know about the birth control pill
 
For women who are sexually active, proper information about the birth control pill should be acquired first before they finally decide to use it as a contraceptive. Having enough information on how to use it as well as of its advantages and disadvantages can help women make smart decisions about their lives. 



Commonly called as “the pill,” the birth control pill remains the topmost choice of women to prevent themselves from getting pregnant. Taken daily, the birth control pill is known to contain hormones that affect the way how the woman’s body works. Once taken, there will be hormonal changes in the body that prevents possible pregnancy.

Studies show that the hormones contained in the birth control pill are a combination of various chemicals and substances which manipulate how the organs in the body function. These hormones in a birth control pill specifically target the way a woman’s uterus and ovaries work.



For the birth control pill to work it should contain a combination and of hormones such as progesterone and estrogen that prevents the release of the egg every menstruation or “ovulation”. Once no ovulation takes place, there will also not fertilization of the egg that leads to pregnancy. 

Aside from preventing ovulation, the birth control pill also thickens the mucus around the woman’s cervix to prevent the sperm from entering the uterus and also affects the lining of the uterus which makes it harder for the egg to be attached to the uterus. 

When taking a birth control pill, it is very important to religiously take it daily so you can achieve its effectivity.

To ensure that there will be no pregnancy; women who are taking pills should also use other forms of contraceptives during the first week in case the pill doesn’t work right away. Taking the pills everyday—ideally at the same exact time—is very important to prevent one’s self from getting pregnant. 



Advantages and disadvantages of the birth control pill 
The major advantages of using a birth control pill is that it can prevent a woman from getting into early or unplanned pregnancy. However, improper use of the birth control pill can also lead to possible side effects such as irregular cycle of menstruation, headaches, nausea, dizziness, gaining of weight, tenderness of the breast, emotional fluctuations or being moody, and in rare cases, blood clots.



To avoid any complications from using the birth control pill, it is always best to consult a doctor or healthcare provider before using any contraceptives. 

