Diaphragm Birth Control

There are different types of birth control devices in the market today. Women who don’t want to use pills can use something called a diaphragm. 

A diaphragm is a shallow, dome shaped rubber disk with a flexible rim that fits nicely within the vagina as it is able to cover the cervix which prevents the sperm from every reaching the uterus. It should be inserted prior to intercourse and covered with spermicide. The spermicide works by killing the sperm thus making it impossible to fertilize the egg. 

Women who choose to use the diaphragm may keep it in there for 24 hours. You just have to make sure to insert spermicide every two hours or before engaging in sexual intercourse again. 

The general rule for using this device is that it must be kept in place for the next 6 hours after intercourse before it is removed. 

Before you insert the diaphragm, it is best to empty your bladder and wash your hands with soap and water. The device itself should be checked for leaks by filling it with water or holding up in the light. If everything looks good, this is the time that you apply spermicide on the inner and outer layers of the diaphragm. The most important is around the rim. 

The user will then insert this by standing with one food elevated using a chair or step, while lying down or squatting. The diaphragm must be folded inward towards the middle and inserted into the vagina as far as possible.  

The diaphragm birth control device cannot protect you 100% from getting pregnant. It also cannot protect you from sexually transmitted diseases such as Chlamydia, gonorrhea, herpes or HIV. 

There are advantages and disadvantages of using the diaphragm. 

The advantage of using one is that it is easy to insert and remove and your sexual partner will not even feel it during sex. 

The disadvantage of using it is if the female forgets to remove it after 24 hours, she may experience toxic shock syndrome or TSS. There are also side effects like the user may experience an irritation in the vagina or the surrounding skin and there may be a foul smell.

TSS or toxic shock syndrome is a potentially fatal disease that has been associated with this device and with vaginal tampons. Some of the symptoms include diarrhea, high fever and vomiting. 

Diaphragms come in different sizes so this has to be fitted first before this can be purchased by prescription from the drug store. Some HMO’s may cover the purchase of this device and one example is Medicaid. If you are a member of another, you should inquire if they will pay for it. 

A diaphragm costs around $30 to $50 and must be replaced every 2 years. As for the spermicide, you will have to spend about $.50 to $1.50 per use. 

When you are done using your diaphragm, this has to be washed with soap and water then left to dry. Afterwards, you must dust this with corn starch before you put this back into its container. The diaphragm must be kept in a cool and dry place away from sunlight. You must never wash it with harsh or perfumed soaps or dust it with perfumed powders as this may damage the device. 
