Effectiveness of Birth Control 



Family planning is a necessity in our society today because of the fact that the earth’s resources are becoming less and less every year and in a study it is estimated that there would be 12 million infant births in 2025 alone. From 8 million in 2019 every year there is an increase of 1.004 million births.

Looking into these statistics the effectiveness of birth control as it relates the number of infant births per year is still pretty high. The campaign of different sectors of government has become more and more aggressive in the past few years targeting larger urban areas in big cities. 

Even with the heightened awareness about the importance of family planning and birth control methods the effectiveness of the campaign still remains underwhelming in terms of results. 

Some of the factors that may contribute to the lack of positive results of the campaign on birth control is the fact some people still are not aware of the different methods that are available to them. In the past it has been the problem for some government agencies to make people accept contraception because of the massive disagreement that Catholics showed saying that it is only God that can give and take people’s lives.

Of course these people are talking about abortion which in fact is not a form of contraception nor is it a form of family planning or birth control. 

Abortion is in fact a crime in a lot of countries and most of the states of the US. 

If people protests against birth control because they believe it is a form of abortion then that means they are under informed and that they are ignorant to the concept of Natural birth control. Because of the opposition that contraception received from moralists and religious orders, the concept of Natural birth control was introduced.

Though the confusion of the idea caused people not to believe in it at first, it has been regarded as more favorable by the anti-contraception groups.

Contraception methods are what we call artificial birth control. These methods include condoms (both male and female), hormonal method, birth control pills, Intrauterine device, ligation, spermicide (chemical only), spermicide with sponge, injections (Depo-Provera) and Vasectomy. 

These are just some of the most common methods that include the use of different devices or chemicals to prevent sperms and egg cells from meeting. 

Recently it was known that not only is birth control effective in planning the family but it also effective in preventing sexually transmitted diseases and other infection in people.

Because some of the devices used in birth control prevent contact of skin in the reproductive organs, the chances of catching the infection are minimized if not totally eliminated. So aside for the health department campaigning for married couples to plan their family for the future, young couples are also requested to use protection to prevent the spread of Sexually transmitted diseases and/or early pregnancy(that is also a big issue not only in the United States but all over the world).



The effectiveness of birth control methods greatly rely on the cooperation of people who are directly or indirectly affected by the issue. It may not be enough to just talk about it but more on acting upon it and getting the results that are badly needed by the country and the people of this planet.




