Side Effects of Birth Control

Some people are not ready to have kids. Perhaps because they are still in high school and just want to have sex while others are more career-oriented and want to focus on that first before starting a family. Whatever the reason, you should know that there are potential side effects depending on the type you decide to use. 

The simplest way to prevent unwanted pregnancies is not to do it at all. This is known as abstaining. But if you two lovebirds want to get physical, you just have to find another way to express your love and if you decide to do it without intercourse, you can do so by playing with each other until you reach orgasm. 

Another method which is quite popular is the condom. There are different types out there in the market that cater to both men and women. After intercourse, this should be removed and thrown away. There are also no side effects in using a condom. This should only be opened prior to intercourse and placed in properly to prevent an unwanted pregnancy. 

Spermicides are often used with other birth control devices. Some examples of these include the vaginal ring and the diaphragm. They come in creams, films, gels, suppositories and tablets. The danger or side effect of improperly using them includes a burning or itching sensation and TSS or toxic shock syndrome. The user may also be at risk of bladder and urinary tract infections.

Birth control pills have the most number of side effects. These are namely, breast tenderness, headaches, mood changes, nausea, spotting and weight gain. Some women claim that their migraines have increased in severity as a result of taking them. Aside from those mentioned, you may also experience blood clots, cardiovascular disease, high blood pressure, breast and liver cancer.

There are however newer birth control pills. The latest is called Seasonale that was released in 2003. Studies have shown women who take this have had fewer incidents of blood clots in the legs or lungs, stoppage or rupture of a blood vessel in the heart and other organs, liver tumors and high blood pressure. You may also experience similar symptoms such as breast tenderness, weight gain, vomiting and difficulty wearing contact lenses just like conventional birth control pills. 

The birth control patch is another option for women and you apply this onto your skin. One patch is good for seven days and you have to replace it during the same day each week for the next three weeks in the same area so choose whether to stick this in your abdomen, buttocks, upper arm or torso. On the fourth week, the female is patch free. 

The side effects of using birth control patches include abdominal pain, breast tenderness, fluid retention or raised blood pressure, irregular bleeding, headaches, menstrual cramps and nausea.

Some people also use injectables and you can go to the doctor monthly for this or every three months. The sides effects of using injectables are irregular periods, weight gain and vomiting. The same side effects may also be experienced if you choose to use implants. 

Birth control is the answer for those who don’t want to take on the responsibility of raising a baby. Just so you know, be ready for the side effects which are often experienced by those who have tried it. 
