The Different Types of Birth Control Pills

There are many different types of birth control pills. Women nowadays have a lot of option when it comes to this subject. That is great news. The only downside of it all is how those pills affect a woman's body to accumulate the pounds and gain weight.

Women's Issues
Gaining weight is not something that most women would want to happen on their bodies, especially when they are on the prime of their lives. This is the reason why there are so many diet tips and tricks available wherever you look, whether online or offline. They are mostly targeted for women.

But the weight gain can also be cured. This may require harder work. But who wouldn't want to work extra hard if it's for a slimmer figure.

So if you think that the pills are taking its toll on your body amass, head on to the gym. Burn those fats and sweat it out. 

The Types of Pills
There are many types available in the market. Consult your doctor before deciding on which one will suit you best. They know your body better. 

Among those types, three are most widely used. They are the following.

POP stands for Progestin Only Pills. This mini pill has no estrogen. This is best for mothers who are breastfeeding their babies. Why so? Because estrogen has been said to reduce a woman's ability to produce milk. One must take this type at an exact time every day.

This is ideal in lessening the blood loss during menstruation. In doing so, it also alleviates the cramps and other pains that a woman suffers from when they have their menstrual period. But as a side effect, a woman may suffer from spotting every time period.

Combination Pills
The types that fall under this category are oral contraceptives that contain both estrogen and progestin. It can be in the form of Monophasic, Multiphasic and Continuous Use.

This type is said to reduce a woman's risk from having ovarian cancer as well as endometrial cancer. It also helps prevent the case of ectopic pregnancy. This really has many advantages. But one must be cautious in using such because it can cause hypertension. It can make one feel nauseous and may experience vimitting during the first weeks of use.

ECP stands for Emergency Contraceptive Pills. This must not be used on a regular basis. This was actually designed for women to be used after an unprotected sex happened. This is to prevent the woman from conceiving after such act.

This must be taken within 120 hours after being involved in an unprotected sex or else it won't take effect. This is a prescription drug. So it is better to have a stock of it to be taken whenever needed. 

This can really prevent pregnancy. But it causes a woman to feel dizzy and fatigued. It also causes abdominal pains as well as tenderness of breasts.

You must remember to take note of the advantages and disadvantages of the pills before you even consider taking them. The different types of birth control pills are your guide for this purpose. These pills can be a woman's best friend but can also be their enemy because of the mere fact that most pills cause weight gain.
