The Different Forms of Birth Control

Although there are many different forms of birth control, some women are afraid to take any of each because they are scared of the side effects. The most common that these pills have as an effect relates with the issue of gaining weight.

Ask a woman who is not afraid of getting fat. You will not find so many. But if indeed there is a case wherein a woman chooses to gain more weight for health related issues, they will resort to other means. This is especially true if the person involved is not sexually active and don't have a dependence on birth control pills. 

But if the person who wants to gain weight and has also used the pills, she may just continue doing so for the purpose of adding up more pounds. There is nothing wrong with that especially if she is only doing what she thinks is right.

A woman knows her body better than anybody else. But to get a scientific truth to the claims, she may also opt to see a doctor to ask for advice on what pills to take for the purpose of adding more weight. If that is not what she wants to happen, she may also ask for a suitable birth control that will match her body type.

Other Forms of Birth Control
If you don't want to depend on the pills to avoid getting pregnant, there are other types of contraception that you can choose from. For whatever reasons, may it be because you don't want to add on to your weight or whatever else, here are some of the other types that you can choose to avail.

Implant Contraception
Through this method, a rod will be inserted under a woman's skin. This rod will release small amounts of progestin, a type of hormone, into the bloodstream. This is not so popular because it causes heavy bleeding.

Injected Ones
You can also opt to inject that contraception. This method can be done just once in every three months. Most of this type contains only progestin. This will stop a woman from ovulating and will halt the eggs that have been fertilized to be implanted on the uterine lining.

Condom for Women
This can also be called Fermidom or female condom. This can be likened to a loose pouch that is used to line the vagina. This has flexible rings at its two ends. This can be bought without prescription, but isn't really that popular that is why it is hard to find it in stores.

Condom for Men
This is being used by men during the sexual act itself to avoid his discharges from being transferred into his partner that may later cause pregnancy. This will also help prevent transmission of the diseases caused by sex.

The Natural Family Method
This can be done by religiously looking at your calendars. Women must take note when they last had their menstrual period so that they could avoid making love with their partners on those days when they are fertile. 

The abovementioned are some of the different forms of birth control. Choose the one that fit you best if you don't want to opt for the pills. That way, you will avoid getting pregnant and you will also not be subjected to the pills' main side effect, that is gaining weight.
