One of the best places to get in touch with nature is California. The rugged beauty of the mountains, lakes and canyons make California hiking and backpacking trips a real delight. Whatever the weather, it's good to go prepared. Wearing the correct footwear is important and rainwear is also needed. Sunny conditions demand a hat, sun block and sunglasses. The hiker should also carry a map, compass, food and water bottle.

The Sequoia and Kings Canyon are two parks located in the southern Sierra Nevada, a scenic area of mountains, canyons, caverns and magnificent trees. Visitors on California hiking trips can go on organized nature tours, led by rangers and on Crystal Cave Tours. There are hotels, rustic cabins and several campgrounds. Three campgrounds are open all year and they are Lodgepole, Potwisha and Azelea. The area also has restaurants, a visitor center, market and post office.

Rock Creek Lake in the eastern part of the Sierra Nevada is an area of clear Alpine lakes with plenty opportunities for fishing. There are lots of mountain bike and hiking trails. Hikers of all types of experience like to come here. Comfortable day hikes are suited to the Little Lakes Valley and more challenging backpacking can be done over Mono Pass. The Rock Creek Lakes Resort is for everyone who loves the wilderness and offers ideal accommodation and activities for California hiking, camping and fishing trips. The resort's cabins in the forest are cozy and in a lovely setting. Campers can also find camping grounds in Rock Creek Canyon.

Enjoying all that the outdoors has to offer isn't just for the adults, kids enjoy it too and staying in a summer camp is a way of making new friends and trying new things under supervision. Shaffer's High Sierra Camp is for children aged 9 - 16 years old and is located in the Tahoe National Forest. It's a great introduction to California hiking and backpacking in the fir and pine trees. Other activities are on offer at the nearby Lakes Basin Recreation Area, where the mountainous and lakeside scenery is the backdrop. Kids can have a go at canoeing, kayaking, whitewater rafting, windsurfing and mountain boarding. There are also trails for mountain biking, horseback riding and hiking.

There are several National Parks in the state, providing opportunities for people to enjoy California hiking. City dwellers like to get away from traffic and smog and breathe in the fresh air of Yosemite, Redwood, Joshua Tree and Death Valley National Parks.


