California Vacations

If you’ve never had the opportunity to take a California vacation, put it on your list of places that you must see in the near future. California is simply an entirely different world. There are parts of the state that will absolutely amaze you and you’ll find yourself wondering if you’re even on the same planet. And yet other parts of the state will make you want to head back to your hometown as quickly as possible. California vacations are quite popular for people of all ages. No matter what you’re hoping to do, you can find something in California. 

If you have children, planning your California vacation could have some incredibly fun days for your family. Make a stop for a day or two at Disney and let the kids live a day in the life of their fairytales. They’ll be so happy that they won’t mind what the rest of your vacation will entail. 

Stop in San Francisco to see the legendary island of Alcatraz. After you take the tour of the old jail, you’ll be thankful that you never had to spend time behind the bars. Look across the bay and see the Golden Gate Bridge. Walk around the docks and see the seals basking in the sun. Drive along the coastal lines of San Francisco and enjoy the breathtaking views. 

No California vacation is complete without a visit to the famous city of Los Angeles. Walk down Rodeo Drive and peek in the windows of all of the glamorous stores that are practically unaffordable. Do some research ahead of time and see where the celebrities do their shopping and dine in the evenings. You might just get lucky and have some sightings of someone famous. Get your photo taken in front of your favorite celebrities star on the walk of fame. And of course, you need to buy some cheesy souvenirs in the dozens of little shops. 

California vacations have tons of different sights to choose from. You can head in almost any direction of the state and find something to do. There are so many points of interest simply waiting to be explored. When you’re planning your California vacation, be sure to find some routes from one site to the next that will allow you to either view the coast or the beautiful mountainsides. Of course, finding hotels is always simple with all of the travel sites that are available online. There are some hotels that will have rates within your budget and others that will force you to pick your jaw up off of the floor. Of course, only you know what your budget is for your California vacation, so stay within your means. But, don’t compromise on what you want to see and do. A lot of the sites that you may want to visit are very affordable and will be something you’ll remember for a lifetime.
