Canopy Bed Frames

I have always had a special love for canopy beds. My parents had a wonderful wrought iron bed when I was growing up. It wasn't a canopy bed frame per se, but was tall enough that we could hang a canopy on it. When my parents were gone, we would take a bunch of sheets and blankets and put them on top of the bed frame. We would pretend that it was a fort at home under the covers. Ever since then, I have loved canopy bed frames. I love that sense of being covered and protected from the outside world, safe and snug in bed.

Nowadays, there are many different kinds of canopy bed frames. My personal favorite are the wrought iron bed frames. I think I love the substantial mass of them, their weight and strength. Nonetheless, I have seen some pretty well made and very modern looking wooden bed frames. The advantage of using wood, of course, is that it is lighter, easier on your floors, and harder to hurt yourself on. If you're the kind of person who stumbles getting out of bed or into it a lot, you might consider getting a wooden frame. You shins will thank you sooner or later.

Another thing that you have to consider when you're buying canopy bed frames is the height of the canopy. Different people have different preferences in this area. Some people like to have a canopy as high up as possible. They like the feeling of royalty that a large canopy projecting towards the ceiling provides them. Other people like canopy bed frames with a much lower canopy. They like the feeling of being covered by a close, intimate layer. Personally, I don't like a canopy bed frame that is too low. I find it stifling when not enough air gets inside the bed. Other people do not seem to mind it, however. I say that you should try out a few different designs and see what works for you. After all, there is no substitute for personal choice.

Then again, if you like antique canopy bed frames you might have to just look and see what comes up. People tend to keep their beds forever. I have seen some wrought iron bed frames that have been in families for generations upon generations, and some wooden frames that have been around almost as long. See what you can find at the local antiques store.