When doing my family tree, I noticed that the further I went back in time, the closer families tended to stay. Granted, immigration was always a huge move, and is how most families ended up in the United States, but other than that, many didn’t move far when they married. As time went on though, people began to move further and further from family, and that meant that seeing people they love becomes something that happens only on special occasions. If you are a family with your loved ones living an hour or more away, one great investment would be to have a car DVD system installed for your children.

You may have seen many commercials on television with children in the back seat repeating, “Are we there yet?” Though this is rather cliché, it is also rather true. There may be nothing more trying than bored children in the back of your vehicle. A car DVD system will help put a stop to this in many cases. If your vehicle did not come with such a system, you can find some to have installed, and it might be much easier than you might think.

If you only have one child, your car DVD system only has to have one screen, and there will never be any fighting about what to watch. You can buy a simple system if you want to, or you can even get a portable DVD player that can run on battery or by being plugged into the cigarette lighter of your vehicle. If your car DVD system comes already installed, you may have quite few screens. If you aren’t sure how many kids you may have, this might be the way to go.

If you can find car DVD systems that can be taken out and put in rather easily, this might be a good idea if you are only going to use them on a rare occasion. If you don’t have to travel far to see family, you may not have any use for them at all. However, those with a lot of driving are going to love having them. If you tend to pack a lot of stuff in and out of your vehicle, that might mean you could damage your car DVD system with one wrong move. If you have one that can be taken out and replace rather easily, this won’t be a problem for you.