Cheap clothing can make a trendy wardrobe

When you think of cheap clothing, do the terms 'poorly made' and 'poor quality' come to mind? This is the usual definition. However, this is not necessarily the case. You just need to know where to shop and where not to shop. Without mentioning names, everyone knows the stores where clothing that is poorly constructed of cheap materials can be found in abundance. These clothes don't last long. This article focuses on the other type of cheap clothing, which although it's inexpensive, is well constructed of quality materials.

Upscale second hand shops have flourished here in the U.S. for many years and might even be said to be a virtual cottage industry. Depending on the shop, some are quite persnickety in the clothing items they'll accept, featuring designer clothes, lovely accessories and jewelry from the finest stores. They buy them cheaply from people in the local community and are fair in their markups. You may easily find a beautiful wool suit that looks as though it were never worn, for as little as $20. This is cheap clothing, but only your wallet will know.

Vintage shops specialize in retro fashions and are quite popular with young teen and college aged shoppers. You'll find selections from every decade, some dating back as far as the 19th century. Depending on the decade and its current popularity, you can indeed find cheap clothing that's absolutely cool and trendy for today's woman. Most vintage shops also have shoes, hats, jewelry and other accessories to match for a completely coordinated costume.

If you thought thrift stores are not the place to shop for quality cheap clothing, you ought to browse a few. You can find fabulous bargains at these shops. For example, would you think you could find a high-quality, full length leather coat for $10? Yes, you can. This certainly qualifies as cheap clothing which is actually high end stuff you can proudly wear to a fancy dinner house. Thrift stores also carry jewelry, shoes and accessories, as well as men's clothing. You'll also find new pantyhose and socks to complete your cheap clothing costume. 

Unlike the upscale second hand and vintage shops, thrift stores are good hunting grounds for great bargains on books, bedspreads and even furniture.

Thrift stores get so much stock donated, they get rid of stock which hasn't sold by holding regular tag sales. Price tags are color coded relative to the date the clothing came in to stock. Some shops sell merchandise with a certain color tag for as little as ten cents! You've got to be on top of their sale days for the best selection. Quality designer clothing for ten cents. Cheap clothing doesn't get any better!

So if you want to enhance your wardrobe on a shoestring, go shopping at some of these stores, both online and off.
