Chest Freezer

My grandparents always had a chest freezer in their home. It was never where you would think it would be though. They had two stand up freezers in their back room, but the chest freezer was always under the back set of stairs. I guess this was because that was the only room they had for it, even though they had a huge house. This type of freezer can take up a lot of space, but that is because it holds a lot of stuff. They are quite heavy too, and perhaps this is why they are not as popular as they once were.

My grandparents were farmers, so this explains the chest freezer and the two upright ones. They were diary farmers, but they would butcher a cow on occasion. When they did this they needed somewhere to keep the meat. They kept a lot of stuff in those freezers, and if we ever needed anything we could always go lift the huge lid of the chest freezer to get what we needed. When my single mother was low on cash, she knew she could go get what she needed to keep us fed. This didn’t happen often, but it was there if we needed it.

Many people today who have a chest freezer have it in their garage. My grandparents did not have a garage so perhaps this is why they had to find a different space for it. I don’t think many of the chest freezers that you can buy today are quite as long as they one they had, but they are great no matter what size you get. A good chest freezer can hold just about anything you can imagine, and you can even find smaller versions for smaller homes. They make upright freezers, but these are not as convenient for larger items like frozen turkeys or the like.

If you want to get a chest freezer, expect to pay a good sum for one, but you can expect that if you are freezing things to save money that you are going to get what you pay for. You will save money by freezing meat, especially if you can buy in bulk, and in the long run the cost of the chest freezer will be justified. Think of it as an investment, and remember that you get out of it what you put into it, quite literally. If you have an entire cow or pig butchered and frozen, you are going to save hundreds of dollars on your meat bill. It’ll pay for itself many times over.