There is almost nothing in this world sadder and more soul crushing than the plight of children in need. There are kids in need of everything from the most basic food and water to education or foster parents. The really sad thing is that a lot of these needy kids could easily be helped if people would just take a few minutes out of their day, send a few dollars, or write a couple of letters to their representatives. I'm not saying that the problems are simple – they are anything but simple. What I am saying, however, is that if we all do our part, we can make it a better world for children in need.

When most people think about children in need, they imagine the plight of Third World children that they see on the TV. These are some of the neediest children there are. Some of them don't even have housing, food, or water. In reality, however, there are local children in need as well. No matter where you live, I can almost guarantee that someone is lacking something. Perhaps they are kids that don't have a stable home, live in an unsafe neighborhood, or need extra help on homework which their parents can not give them. Maybe they just need a good mentor, or maybe they need food and water. Whatever the problem, there is probably some way to get involved in your community helping these children in need.

Being a nonprofit volunteer is one of the most rewarding ways to help. Of course it is always appreciated to give money, but one of the great things about volunteering as well is that you get to be involved in helping out directly. It makes you feel part of the community, and it makes you feel good about yourself that you are actually doing something to change the world. Sometimes, you can form really meaningful connections with some of these kids and watch them grow up. You can provide a role model for someone who doesn't have any educated, successful people in his or her life. Some of these kids need a lot. They don't just need tutoring or counseling, they need a father figure or mother. If you can provide that, you can make sure that a life that could have gone wrong goes right instead. I promise you this: there is nothing that will make you feel more proud of yourself.