Childrens Book

Now that my daughter is getting older, the same old childrens book is just not cutting it. She has a few that she loves to hear over and over again, but she has started to read them back to me. She can’t really read yet, but she has heard them so many times that she can recite them back to me word for word. It think it is about time to get her some new books, and I think I will get them one a time until we have a great collection to look forward to. 

I think she is ready for more complex stories. I want to find a childrens book that has a lot of chapters but is geared towards girls her age. I want something that we can read a little of each night before bed, but not something we will finish right away. I want to find a childrens book that has a simple story that she can understand and remember from night to night, but one complex enough to stretch her imagination as we read through it. Reading is very important to me, and I want it to be important to her too.

I will look for her first childrens book at our local bookstore, but I don’t know how hard it will be to find the right one. I remember reading the Trixie Beldon series when I was young, but I’m not sure if she is old enough to handle the length and depth of those stories just yet. Trixie may have to wait a few years, but I do think I will get her that series when she is reading on her own. For right now, perhaps I will find a childrens book that stands on its own and is not part of a series for simplicity sake.

There are many friends who have suggested their favorite childrens book to me, so I am going to take that list and see what I can find. All children like something different, so I will probably go with the childrens book that she seems to be the most interested in. I will simply show her two or three of them and let her make the final choice. I think that way she will be more excited about starting the book. Quite often when children have a choice in the matter they feel more in charge, and they are then more interested. This has helped me in many things, and I think it will work just as well in getting her interested in newer books.

