CHOOSE A HAIR COLOR THAT FLATTERS YOUR SKIN TONES

Unlike men, women have a penchant for changing hair color almost as readily as a man might buy a new shirt. Women, by nature, find fashion, ornamentation and looking good to be irresistible. Women are lucky to have so many choices to ponder and indulge. Poor men! When a woman is seriously looking for a new look, hair color is sure to be on her short list. Choosing a hair color is not for the faint of heart. If your choice doesn't work out, the results can be disastrous and more than a little difficult to fix. Let's look at some important considerations you'll want to keep in mind when you set out to choose a hair color.

Unless you're a teen on a lark, looking for an outrageous statement hair color effect, you need to give some thought to choose a hair color that is compatible with your skin tones. A woman with olive skin tones won't usually be able to pull off a platinum blonde look. The unnatural look causes the appearance of both skin and hair color to suffer. You'll also have trouble with your wardrobe as a result. Clothing colors which are flattering to your natural hair color and skin may look garish, or wash out your lovely complexion. For the most stunning effect, choose a hair color in the brunette shades. Hair colors that tend towards the dark-reddish are beautiful on a woman with olive skin tones.

The woman with a true peaches-and-cream complexion can choose any hair color, including black. However, you may want to give your wardrobe a lookover. Some of your favorite clothes may not show to advantage with a different hair color.

Dark-skinned women, such as African Americans, can add subtle sophistication with hair color choices in the dark-reddish, mahogany tones. Such colors enhance the natural beauty of your skin tone. Violet and rust are excellent clothing colors for you.

If your complexion is sallow, you may choose a hair color like strawberry-blond or one of the lighter reds to brighten up your skin tone. Your wardrobe color choices will likely expand if you go from a medium brown to strawberry blond hair color. If you couldn't wear pastels or olive green before, those colors may become new and complimentary favorites in your closet.

If you just not ready for a complete change of hair color, highlights and streaking are another attractive option. Go to the salon and ask to look at their books of sample highlighting and streaking effects. Find your natural hair color teamed with streaks in various tones and pick!

When you've made your decision, go to a salon for the best results. They are pros and do this every day. Besides, it's fun to have your hair done. No mess or stress and you get it done right the first time. To a more beautiful you!


