It is becoming more and more common for churches to have a large enough congregation to fill a huge room. When this happens, it can be hard for the preacher or minister to be heard in the back of the room. Though some naturally have booming voices that carry well, some do not. When this happens, many like to invest in a church sound system so that the sermon can be heard by everyone in the church with little problem.

I had never been to a church with the need of such a thing until recently. Every church I have ever attended was small, and there was no need to have a voice carry that far. When my husband lost his grandmother recently, the ceremony was in a Catholic church, and the place was quite large. There was a church sound system that they used, even though only a third of the church was filled. The Father seemed to have a voice that was soothing, but didn’t carry very well. The church sound system certainly made it very easy for everyone to understand what he was saying. 

It took me a few minutes to get used to the way the church sound system sounded. The priest had a microphone headset on his head, but I forgot about it within a few minutes into the service. Luckily they had a good church sound system. There was no feedback, and it was set at a very comfortable level. I was a bit startled when a song came though the system and I could not see who was singing, but I guess it makes sense to have some prerecorded music for times when a soloist might not be available. As funerals can happen at any time of the week, it makes a lot of sense to me.

When looking for a church sound system, there are some things to keep in mind. If it is just needed for voices and the occasional song, something simple will do. You do want to get good quality, but it does not have to be a complicated affair. However, if you have live music, like some churches do, you might need something a bit more advanced to handle everything. When the church sound system is used to mike up instruments and singers, you also have to have someone who knows how to run it. If you don’t have anyone in your congregation, someone can learn easily enough.