Shop closeout fabric sales for fantastic savings

If you like to sew, you're probably like many of us sewing freaks in that you like to collect fabric, whether you currently have a purpose for it or not. You see a pretty fabric design and you just know it will come in handy for some project, sooner or later. The fabric soon takes over an entire closet. Here's one way you can collect and save money at the same time. Shop the closeout fabric sales.

You'll find that fabric stores have closeout fabrics continuously. Some of these fabrics may be the last yard or two off the end of a bolt, while others are seasonal, such as polar fleeces that won't sell in the spring. There's usually absolutely nothing wrong with the fabric. If there is a stain or tear in a closeout piece, it's prominently marked and restated on the tag.

There are countless ways to use closeout fabrics. In the case of the end of the bolt pieces, one yard can make a kid's skirt, a cloth purse, a ruffled pillow or pillow sham. It might also become part of a quilt or wall hanging. Two yards is enough for a woman's skirt, four placemats lined with a contrasting fabric or a curtain for a small window. Polar fleece is usually expensive, but your closeout fabric sale piece, purchased in spring can be ready for a gift for your niece in the fall. Experienced seamstresses know that stains or tears are easily worked around in your pattern layout, but with the substantial discount on that lush velvet, how can you resist?

Many quilters haunt the 'fat quarters' baskets at the fabric shop to augment their quilting fabric choices. They're inexpensive, but you can save even more money at the closeout fabric table. You get larger pieces of each design at deep discounts. You can design your own quilt of larger sections and produce a quilt much more quickly. With large pieces and a little iron-on facing fabric, you've got an artsy wall hanging or ad-lib random quilt in no time.

Once you start roaming the closeout fabric tables on a regular basis, you develop an eye for those choice pieces you really shouldn't pass up. You are the one who spots that elegant paisley upholstery fabric, with portions stamped in gold leaf. Yes! It's the perfect piece to recover an ailing chair seat.

As my daughter is fond of telling me, "Ye who ends up with the most fabric wins!" Shopping the closeout fabric sale tables helps you get there.


