The state of California has an excellent educational system, including respected universities and both public and privately run colleges. Deciding to go to college in California brings many opportunities for academic growth, cultural pursuits and sporting achievement. The institutions range from the large to the small and the conventional to the less orthodox. There are specialist establishments for every branch of education and vocational training in the midst of the Californian sunshine and lifestyle.

For those seeking a career in catering, in hotels or restaurants, the California Culinary Academy in San Francisco is an ideal training ground, offering practical and management courses. Expert chefs and managers teach all aspects of the culinary arts in state of the art facilities. Kitchens are fully equipped and include an Asian cooking kitchen with wok stations. Students have gained their qualifications here since 1977 after a comprehensive training. This includes baking and pastry making, butchering, the art of making chocolate and hospitality and restaurant management courses. A restaurant, staffed by students is open to members of the public.  

One of the more unusual educational institutions is to be found in the High Desert of Deep Springs. Deep Springs College is an all men's liberal arts college in California, operating since 1917. Students attend for two years and combine academic study with manual labor. Great emphasis is placed on the students learning self-sufficiency and contributing to their community. Every student is awarded a full scholarship here. The college is situated on a working cattle ranch and alfalfa farm. Students are expected to work on the ranch and farm, performing tasks such as baling hay and milking cows. The faculties on this college in California include Humanities, Natural Sciences, Social Sciences and Mathematics.

One of the most well known educational outlets in the state is the California Institute of Technology in Pasadena. Nicknamed Cal Tech, it has produced an impressive list of alumni and has sponsored pioneering research in the field of science and engineering. This private co-educational college in California has faculties that include Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Biology, Engineering and Applied Science and Physics, Mathematics and Astronomy. 

Many professors here are nobel laureates and the institute is respected all over the world. Applicants are not required to sit an admission interview but they are encouraged to tour the campus. There is also a thriving social life for the students with over 100 clubs, with interests in sport, music, drama and art. 
