COSMETIC PRODUCTS

Modern technology gives today's women a huge advantage over women of our grandmother's time. While cell phone technology gives us instant access to family members, modern fabrics allow for wash and wear convenience. As for our personal appearance, with the cosmetics products now available, there's simply no excuse for not looking your best. There are cosmetic products for every beauty need - wrinkles are diminished and nails made beautiful in just a matter of minutes. Let's take a look and see how some of today's cosmetic products would have been a dream come true for your grandmother.

If you're old enough to remember putting your hair in old-fashioned  rollers which poked your head all night and more often than not, fell out before the morning's brushing, you can appreciate the bevy of hair curling cosmetic products at your disposal today. There are curlers which come in special boxes to steam before placing in the hair. This means your do is perfection in less than twenty minutes. You no longer have to deal with nasty-smelling sprays which make the hair as stiff as a board. Gels and mousses keep every hair in place and have a nice fragrance as well. 

In Grandma's day, all the cosmetic products in the world wouldn't hide  scraggly looking nails. The ordinary woman, with everyday cleaning causing snags and breaks, had to be satisfied with short nails. Press-on nails have hit the cosmetic products scene. You can have gorgeous, sexy nails with multi-color effects, intricate designs and glittery highlights at a moment's notice.

Perhaps one of the greatest cosmetic products to come to the rescue of today's woman is the face cream, with a solution for every type of skin and age group. Today it's possible to keep those telltale wrinkles away. There are cosmetic products developed just for teenage skin, eliminating blemishes while nourishing young skin. There are creams suitable for daytime application as well as rejuvenating creams that work all through the night. Still more are especially for use on delicate under-eye areas.

Cosmetics products designed for cleaning the skin are no longer limited to cold creams. Young or older, you'll find cleansing creams and lotions to nourish and invigorate your skin.

Make-up is light years ahead of Grandma's repertoire. Her foundation was a heavy liquid which never quite looked natural. Now, the number of available shades are many and today's foundation is light and natural,   handily covering minor imperfections.

Any cosmetic products counter, from pricey department stores to the discount drugstore, presents dozens of choices in lip color and eye shadow.

Yes, we should thank our lucky stars for the modern technology that produced the current selection of cosmetic products. Besides the obvious beauty advantages, these products are relatively inexpensive when you consider the life span of a bottle of foundation or box of eyeshadow. A visit to the cosmetics counter can be fun indeed!
