cottage rentals

Going on vacation is always something that people look forward to, even long before they have made their plans. Most think about flights and hotels, but often forget that there are cottage rentals out there that can make for a very relaxing summer vacation. Hotels are nice, and they are essential for many destinations, but if you aren’t sure where you want to go, and you want something peaceful, a little cottage might be just what you need to relax.

Many times there are great cottage rentals near lakes, and sometimes, on the beach. These are often furnished, and some are nicer than others. However, if you are going for a week of fishing, the rustic look might be just what you want to complete the feel of the vacation. Best of all, these cottage rentals often cost much less than a week in a hotel, and are situated right where you want them to be. Finding the right one is often just a matter of deciding where you want to go.

When I was younger, we would do cottage rentals each year on a lake in Canada. We could get enough of them right in a row for the entire family. There was not much too them, but then again, we didn’t spend a lot of time inside. We were outside swimming, boating, and fishing. The lake was the main draw, and the cottage rentals gave us easy access to a relatively private area where our families could get together. Sadly, we don’t do this anymore, but I will always remember those days fondly. Maybe some day I will get to go there again.

You may find cottage rentals through a travel agent, but you can also find them by looking in your local classifieds. Many who have these for rent will advertise in a very wide area. That means the cottage rentals you find in your local paper might be a few hours away, and in a location that will be far enough away from home to feel like a vacation, but close enough where you don’t have to hop a flight to get there. That saves a lot of time and money in your vacation budget, and gives you an experience a little more unique than checking into a hotel room and seeing the sites in any given city. Those are great vacations, but sometimes, you just need something a little different.
