Time away from work is very important for all of us. Americans take less vacation time than Europeans. Part of the reason for this is the way that our labor force has been established over the years. As a young struggling country the United States was eager to run factories to the maximum to produce products. Now that many other developing countries are becoming industrialized, production needs to stay high to compete. This core scheduling effects all over supply and service companies; as a result we continue to have long work weeks and short vacations.

Many companies are slowly beginning to see the benefit to giving their employees more time off. Research has shown that people that are less fatigued and relaxed have fewer accidents and are more productive. Longer paid vacations are becoming more readily available to people so they are looking for new things to do. A popular lower cost alternative to booking a hotel room is looking for cottages to rent. This is a nice alternative for the vacationer and a additional source of into for the owners of the cottages.

There are several ways that you can find cottages to rent. Some private owners of cottages will list their property with travel agents, especially if they are located in a popular vacation destination or have a great deal of amenities.  The listing agent will get a percentage of the rental fee. This is a nice option because the travel agent can do the screening of the renters so the owners of the cottages to rent do not have to deal with the renters at all. Other owners place ads in the news paper or with their local tourism office. They then screen all the calls and book the rentals themselves. This can get to be bothersome if the cottage is only available for short periods of time because an advertisement may generate a great deal of interest, and most tourism offices will give out telephone numbers and locations, however they will not take reservations. 

Cottages to rent are usually less expensive then staying in a hotel and most have cooking facilities so there is not the expensive of eating out for all meals. Also the cottages are more spacious than a hotel room, with all the amenities of a living room, kitchen and private bath. For the owners of a cottage or cabin having some one rent the property for two or three weeks out of the summer can help pay for the property taxes and the upkeep of the property. Next time you are looking for an alternative to staying at a hotel or resort, consider renting a cottage.
