Choosing the right curtain fabric

One of the easiest ways to spruce up a room is to change your window treatments. Maybe spring has sprung and those dark, heavy curtains just don't suit your current mood. It's time for a change. Before you rush out and buy the first thing that strikes your fancy, consider these few simple rules that help you choose the right curtain fabric for the particular room and purpose.

Curtains for your living room and bedroom should be more substantial than curtains for more casual or heavy use areas, such as the kitchen. In spring and summer, although you want a lighter, brighter effect, the curtain fabric should be heavier, both for privacy and good looks. A high thread count fabric is desirable, as the heavier fabric is more in keeping with the furnishings of these rooms. In addition, these heavier fabrics should always be lined so that the curtain holds its shape.

On the other hand, if you have levelors installed and you want to keep them, you can achieve a fresh, warm season look with a simple fishtail swag dressing or pull-back panels of light fiberglass fabric.

Curtain fabric for bathrooms must be mildew-resistant and stand up to frequent laundering, so here a heavy weight fabric is less suitable.  If your bathroom window is visible from the street, you can use a lightweight fabric in a triple or quadruple width relative to the window size. This assures privacy while addressing the often moist environment of the bathroom.

In the kitchen, privacy is generally not a concern. However, kitchen curtains tend to need laundering more often than other rooms, due to kitchen grease from cooking. Lined curtains are not the most practical choice, unless you enjoy ironing or your wallet is up to regular professional cleaning. For practicality and good looks, a lightweight polyester fabric is your best bet. There are plenty of good looking patterned fabrics that will satisfy your aesthetic sensibilities without draining your time in upkeep.

Kids rooms take a beating, and curtains are included! Here, practical is the thought for the day. When eyeing a kid's room for a good curtain, look for stain-resistant, wrinkle-resistant, high thread count and washable curtain fabric. You want a curtain you can toss in the wash, dry on low heat and re-hang immediately.

Choosing the right curtain fabric can save you time and money while giving you a beautiful new look.
