dementia support groups

There are many things that can happen to our grandparents and our parents that leave us feeling frustrated, and many of these things take them further away from us as time goes on. My grandmother has a form of dementia, though I think that term is a little misleading. We think of dementia as something that makes someone crazy, but in reality, it simply means that the memories go, and they may not know who they are. It is somewhat like Alzheimer’s, but it is not exactly the same. If you have a loved one with this condition, you may want to find dementia support groups to help you cope and to give you new ideas.

What you get from dementia support groups will be up to you. You can find support, and you can share your stories with others. You may find help and wisdom in the words of others, or you may find that your story helps someone else. Dementia support groups work much like any other type of group. You may go there feeling lost and clueless, but you may find that you know more than you thought. You might help others when you thought you had no idea what was going on.

You can find dementia support groups online if you want anonymity, or you can find some in your community. These might not be as common as some other types of groups, so you may have to do some searching in order to find dementia support groups. If you can’t find anything in your area, but you really want to have a local group for support, there is nothing stopping you from trying to form your own. You may be surprised to find how many in your town are dealing with the same issues, and they might be looking for support as well.

The most important things you will get from dementia support groups is new information, and the comfort of knowing you are not alone. Though each case is different, there are similarities, and someone in your group may find a way to make life a little easier, and that might mean they have a solution for something you are struggling with on a daily basis. Many times you can find people within your support group that can share what they have learned, and you can all keep up to date on the latest research and medications.