Have you ever spent time worrying about what the future holds for your children? I have to admit that I was very concerned about my daughter. We have a daughter and a son. Our son is the oldest and is a typical oldest child. He is an over achiever academically and in sports. From the time he was in elementary school he talked about wanting to go to college. Our daughter thought it was more important to have friends and know what the latest fashion trends were to get her school work done. She would do her assignments, but only after many threats as well as phone privileges suspended. She never seemed to have any direction for her life.

Our son completed college and went on to law school. Our daughter took some general education courses in community college, but did not know what she wanted to specialize in. She liked interior design and was quite talented with sewing. She had changed her room so many times growing up that I never knew what motif it would be from one day to the next. When she decided to work at retail sale for a while and move in with a girlfriend I was concerned. I did not want her to be in a low paying job market for her entire life, however my husband advised me to give her some space as well as some time to grow. She called me a few weeks after she moved into her apartment and asked me to come over for lunch and to go shopping. She had arranged her apartment very well and was still working on her room. She would not let me see it until it was done. We went shopping to find things for her bedroom. The main thing she was looking for was a denim bed skirt.

When she told me that this is what we would be shopping for I told her that I had never seen a denim bed skirt. She told me she had seen one in one of her favorite designing channels on cable. She loved the room they had created and she was trying to duplicate parts of it as well as come up with some of her own designs. She had looked on the shows website and they had listed what brands carry denim bed skirts. After looking in several department stores we were unable to find what she wanted. I suggested that she would be able to sew a denim bed skirt without a great deal of trouble. She sews well and the main issue with a bed skirt is to try to get the gathering even on all sides. I told her that she could sew the denim onto a sheet to lay over the box spring. She thought this was a great idea. We bought the supplies and next week I get to see the finished room. She is now considering going into interior design.
