Doing special things for one’s children seems to be a common theme for most parents. We want to provide our children with the best education we can afford as well as activities to make them happy. To me a big part of a child’s education happens outside of the classroom. The life lessons that they learn through spending time with grandparents and other relatives as well as traveling create memories that make them more interesting people and also well-rounded adults. Participation in community-based organizations is also important to insure the child realizes the importance of being involved in the lives of others.
 
My husband and I would take many camping trips with our children during the summer months. We also saved money so we could do a large vacation trip every other year. When our children were ten and twelve we decided that we should make a trip to Disney World Orlando. My husband and I had been there together shortly after we were married. On that trip we noticed many people pushing strollers or having small children clinging to them or crying because they were too small to go on some of the attractions. We commented at that time on why parents would put themselves through this. The children were not at an age that they would remember that they had been at Disney World Orlando accept through photographs that they would see. Also having to put up with the unhappy children all day was not a good experience for the parents. On that trip we agreed that if we had children we would wait until they were old enough to remember the trip and to participate in the different rides and other attractions that had a height restriction.
 
When we told our sons that we were going to Disney World Orlando they were very excited. Several of their friends had gone so they had heard about the different things to see and do. We wanted to make sure that we were not rushing through each of the theme parks to see them so we saved enough money and vacation time to spend eight days. The theme parks are so wonderful that you could spend eight days in one park alone, but we did manage to go to each park and then on the last day we had a do over day, where each of the boys could pick one ride or adventure that they wanted to redo. We had a wonderful time. The boys were at the perfect age to enjoy the trip. They were young enough that they stayed with us and did not want to venture off by themselves; and they were old enough to have patience for waiting in line for the attractions. We had a great trip to Disney World Orlando.
 

