There seem to be more children’s shows on television than every before. There are two stations that devote much of their daytime programming to these shows. When I was young, there wasn’t much from which to choose, except for Saturday morning cartoons and public television programs. We didn’t want a lot of television though, and I don’t like my daughter to be stuck to the television anyway, however, there are a few that I trust. The Wiggles are number one with her, but she also like Dora the Explorer.

I think what I like the most about Dora the Explorer is that she is teaching children some basic Spanish. My daughter’s grandmother speaks Spanish as her first language, but you would never know it with how well she speaks English. She is teaching her some simple Spanish, and I know that Dora the Explorer is backing up what she is learning. In this day and age, knowing a second language is always a great idea, and it is never too early to learn that.

I also like the Dora the Explorer goes on a lot of adventures. What is life if not a series of adventures? We all live through twists and turns and we never know where we are going to end up. Dora tries to make these adventures fun, while having a great lesson behind each and every single one of them. They are often not complicated adventures, but they serve their purpose rather well. My daughter loves to play with her map and pretend she is going on an adventure with Dora. There are characters that either help with the problem or are part of the problem, and that is an accurate reflection on how things are going to be as children grow up. We would like to think that everyone is helpful, but we all know that is not the case.

Lastly, Dora the Explorer also teaches about logic and problems solving in a way that children can understand. They have to help Dora make the right choices, and to think about what to do next. Those are great things for any child to learn. They can learn those things on their own most certainly, and should learn that from parents, but the extra push from Dora the Explorer certainly can’t hurt. While some children’s shows are questionable in the quality, this is one that I am sure is great for her to watch, and has taught her some things that will prove to be invaluable later in life.