East Coast Lighthouses

When I was a kid, east coast lighthouses used to be the highlight of every vacation. Nearly every single year, we would go to a different easy coast destination, exploring the sights and sounds of the area. We would take walks down by the docks, explore quaint little seaside towns, and even go sea kayaking out on the open ocean.

My favorite part of the vacation, however, was walking out to the east coast lighthouses and checking them out. Lighthouses on the east coast are pretty well known all over the world to be some of the most beautiful there are. When I think of a classical lighthouse, the tall, spartan tower surrounded by rocks and wild water, I picture something that comes very close to the ones I used to see in Cape Cod, Bar Harbor, and towns like that along the east coast of the US. They really are well built tools to illuminate lonely and dangerous stretches of rocky coast. There is nothing quite like them.

Nowadays, my busy schedule stops me from seeing all of the east coast lighthouses that I would like to see. As a matter of fact, I only am able to take a nice, long summer vacation about once every other year on average. I have to admit that I miss the east coast lighthouse walks that I used to take with my dad, and from time to time I catch myself gazing out of the window and just daydreaming about the vacations I used to take.

Still, I do find little ways so enjoy the look of east coast lighthouses even if I can not go and see them in person. As I am writing this, there is actually an east coast lighthouse calendar up on my wall. There are quite a few that I have seen in it, of course, but also a number that I have not had that chance to look at yet.

I also got a lighthouse jigsaw puzzle the other year from one of my nephews. I have received a lot of jigsaws over the year, but this one is the very first that I have actually liked. It is amazing what a difference it makes to get a puzzle based on one of your interests. I was almost disappointed when I had finished putting it together, to tell you the truth. Anyway, one way or another, I will find some way to keep myself busy until my next vacation.