Easter Crafts

With the spring coming, it is time to think about bunnies, eggs, flowers, and chicken salad. I am talking about Easter, of course. In my family, Easter crafts are one of our favorite traditions. After all, what kids do not like painting, hiding, and then eating Easter eggs. Even my youngest daughter – the one who hates to eat eggs – still likes Easter eggs. Of course, it does not hurt matters that we hide a few chocolate eggs along with all of the decorated ones.

The most classic Easter craft is, of course, decorating Easter eggs. There must be a hundred different ways to do this, and every year we try to do something a little different. For the little kids, the easiest thing to do is to use food coloring and water to decorate your eggs. Although this does not result in the most sophisticated Easter crafts, it does make the eggs look bright and even a bit pretty. Even better, it is something that your kids can do without making a big mess. Who does not like that?

One of my favorite Easter crafts is making Easter baskets. In my house, every year we make baskets for the old folks in the retirement home down the road. They are always so happy to get our presents. We use ribbons, Easter lilies, decorated Easter eggs, and chocolates of all descriptions. We make them little cards, and wrap the whole thing in colored cellophane. It can bring a lot of cheer to some otherwise lonely souls, and that is a nice thing to be able to do.

When it comes to Easter crafts, you do not have to just simply stick to the traditional ones. Making Easter cards is every bit as fun as decorating eggs. In our family, we collect a lot of stencils, rubber stamps, and things like that. When Easter roles around, we put all of them together and dump them in the middle of the table. Then we just go at our stationary, decorating it in whatever way we choose. The results of our Easter crafts are not always that attractive, but we have fun making them. At the end, we exchange cards and have a nice dinner. Can you think of a nicer way to spend a family afternoon than that? Making things together somehow really brings people together in a way that nothing else does.