Easy Centerpieces

People can spend a fortune buying elaborate floral centerpieces or other decorations for their swanky parties. Although the professionals often give you the best results, it is not always necessary to buy your own dinner centerpieces. By learning to make easy centerpieces on your own, you can express yourself and earn the admiration of your dinner guests.

There are plenty of easy to make centerpieces. The most obvious one, of course, is the floral bouquet. These are especially easy centerpieces to make during the springtime. All you really have to do is walk around your neighborhood and see what is in bloom. Most areas have wildflowers, sprigs of decorative grass,  and other lovely wild things growing here and there. Trust your own eye. Pick a long enough stem so that you can fit the flowers comfortably into your vase. Then, take them home and arrange. Voilà, you have an easy centerpiece perfect for any spring dining experience.

Of course, just because spring is the time when there are the most wild flowers in bloom doesn't mean that it is the only season of the year when you can easy make centerpieces out of growing things. I love to make fall harvest baskets for my autumnal dinner parties. These are some of the best easy centerpiece is to make. Simply go down to the local grocery store and buy a few squashes. Stick them in a wicker basket along with Halloween decorations, candies, or whatever else strikes your fancy. That's all there is to it!

Some people like to make more avant-garde centerpieces. There are plenty of easy centerpieces you can make out of common household items – particularly toys. One of my friends made a centerpiece out of the dolls she had had since childhood at her annual fall equinox party a few months ago. They were all in their party dresses, lounging around a decorative column which she had bought at an art museum somewhere. 

It certainly wasn't a traditional centerpiece fit for a fancy dinner party, but her friends thought it was absolutely hilarious. Easy centerpieces – Like anything else that goes into making a dinner party a success – require that you really get to know your audience. For some parties, silk flowers make the best table decorations. For others, strange found objects will make a great impression. Think about what you want your décor to say about you, then say it!