The old five-o-clock shadow. It's there on a daily basis whether we men like it or not. For some it even comes earlier. Gees, does the process of shaving ever end? Well, of course not. Cleaning up those cheeks and chins is a routine that's here to stay. The best thing you can do is make the most of it. Of course I realize that a few men are thinking HUH. How can we make the most of a tedious ritual like shaving? It's not that difficult really. The first thing you need to focus on is acquiring the right equipment. For some men this will consist of brushes and blades, and for others it will come down to the top electric razors. But first, make sure you give both methods a shot in order to see which you really prefer. 

I used to be an electric razor man. From the first day I shaved my chin and upper lip at the tender age of fourteen, I was taking advantage of electric razors. It just seemed like the cool route to take. I certainly didn't want to walk around with tiny pieces of toilet paper on my face. So anyway, the first one I tried was a Norelco. It worked okay, but I wasn't so impressed by the triple-blade system. This couldn't be all there was. Then down the road I put down my father's electric shaver and tried out a Braun foil shaver. AHH, this was much better. It shaved closer, and there was no irritation. I assumed back then that everyone preferred electric razors, except maybe for a few old geezers. Man was I ever wrong. At the age of 22 I tried a traditional Gillette Sensor. NICE! This baby cut closer than the electric razors I was previously used to. Of course there were a few minor nicks at first, but nothing major. I then converted to the cartridge razors, and now enjoy the Mach 3. 

Finding the right razor for you may take some trial and error. One thing is for certain; if you never want to deal with nicks or cuts, electric razors are right for you. Go for the newest Braun model with the integrated trimming system and self-cleaner. These are awesome shaving machines that won't disappoint. Moreover, I recommend picking up an electric shaving solution that's offered by Lab Series and a few other men's shaving lines. These make the process go much smoother in the morning when you're still groggy. 