flea market

I have always wanted to go to a flea market, but I have yet to talk anyone into going with me. Perhaps I need new friends, I don’t know. My mom would probably love to go with me, but she lives about an hour away. Though I could go to see her to get to one, there are none near where she lives. She can not travel very far without being in pain, so her coming to me to go to one of the many ones near my house is also not an option. Everyone else is always too busy or just won’t go.

I can’t even get my husband to go to a flea market with me, but I think I am going to have to insist that we go at least once. I do a lot of things that I don’t like just because he wants to do them, so I don’t see why he can’t do the same for me once in a while. It’s not like I am trying to get him to go to the ballet or something, which I know he would freak out about. The flea market should be rather benign in comparison I would think. Maybe I have to insist on the ballet, and then negotiate down to get what I want. Sneaky, I know.

I have heard a lot of stories about people finding expensive things for pennies at a flea market, and I find that quite intriguing. I don’t expect that this will happen to me, but I do hope that I might find a few really great things to add to my home. You never know what you are going to find when you visit a flea market, and I would love to go just once. I guess I could go on my own, but I can’t imagine that this would be much fun for me. Besides, bargaining for a lower price is not one of my strongest points, but my husband is really good at it. 

Anyone interested in a flea market like I am can usually find one near where they live. You can look online and in your local paper for more information about ones that may be near you. They are usually something that happen once a week or last all weekend. Some are special events. If you don’t have any near you, you may have to settle for browsing through local yard sales. You may find some great things that way too, even though it might be a bit harder that way. Estate sales are always great, but they don’t come around very often.