Florida Vacation Packages

Although my family has always loved to go to Florida in the summer, we never went on Florida package vacations while I was a kid. Our approach to family vacations in Florida was pretty simple and pretty old school. We would simply drive until we found a motel that looked good, check in, and take it from there. Sometimes, we would find a place with reasonable rent and location and have a good time there. But just as often, we would be stuck in some flea bag motel, miles and miles from the beach with nothing to do.

That is why, as an adult, I am so careful to travel smart and plan everything out. By finding the best Florida vacation packages, I can ensure that I get the most bang for my buck. Florida vacation villas and rental properties that I had thought would be beyond my means are actually quite reasonably priced for the flexible traveler. Of course, it can mean making some sacrifices, such as traveling on the off season or being willing to go without a lot of notice. Even so, it still makes more sense than staying in a motor inn.

There are a lot of different ways to go about finding a Florida vacation package. One of the most popular nowadays is to go on the Internet and see what comes up on Google. This is a good approach, and often you can find some excellent vacation deals. Just as often, however, it makes sense to go out and talk to a travel agent. Travel agencies are still alive and well, and a lot of them have the best connections. Sometimes, a new Florida resort hotel which does not have a lot of business yet will start to hand out special deals through an agency. Other times, an off-season place will have a lot of rooms to get rid of for cut rate prices. You never know what Florida vacation packages are going to come your way. You just have to look and see what is there.

One of the best Florida vacation packages I ever had was last year. I had never gone to Disneyworld, and had always sort of wanted to go. Now that I have a daughter of my own, I thought it was time to try it out as a destination. It was an absolute blast – for me as much as for her. When she gets a little bit older, we are definitely going to go back there again.