Florida Vacation Rental By Owner

Last year, we decided to get a Florida vacation rental by owner for the first time. Our family is getting big, and just staying in a hotel or a little condo seemed a little bit too crowded . With all of the Orlando vacation homes out there, it seemed like finding a place to stay was going to be pretty easy. As it turns out, we were not disappointed – we found our perfect home almost right away.

There are a lot of different Florida vacation rentals by owner, and the prices vary pretty widely, so you have to look carefully. Some owners like to rent their houses through a vacation lease agency that handles everything for them, while others prefer to do all of the work themselves. Some Florida vacation rental by owner houses are marketed to the locals via newspapers, while others are well publicized on the Internet or through vacation travel agencies so that everyone can look at them.

In our case, we actually sort of stumbled across the Florida vacation rental by owner. You see, he was sort of a friend of a family friend, and we happened to hear about him at a dinner party. It was one of those strange coincidences where you find out something just when you need it. We called him the very next day, and inquired about the place.

He was a pretty savvy, wired sort of guy. He already had pictures of his Florida vacation home up on the Internet to look at, so there was no problem check it out. It looked very good, and we had a family friend to vouch for the place. Before the week was even over, we had our own destination for our summer vacation. 

Unless you know what you are getting in for, you should be cautious about a Florida vacation rental by owner that you have not seen personally. It is actually possible to hire an agent to go down and check the place out for you to see if it is in good shape. It can cost quite a bit of money for an hour of work, but I still would recommend it. Pictures do not always show everything. Sometimes, if you do not have someone there to check things out for you, you will not see mold problems, chipping paint, or other flaws with a house. Still, most of the Florida vacation homes are pretty reputable, so you are likely to get a good deal.