Making Your Flower Garden Ideas A Reality

Coming up with the right flower garden ideas is a difficult balancing act. On the one hand, you want your flower garden to be innovative. You don't want the same bed of pink roses, low shrub border, and small fountain with a stone figure kneeling angel that your neighbor has. You want something that will show that you are unique and different, something that expresses your individuality. After all, why else would you spend so much time planting a garden?

On the other hand, your flower garden ideas can't be too outlandish. Let's face it – the most innovative, adventurous flower garden ideas tend to never get realized. Either they are too much work to finish in one planting season, or else they are too exotic to meet with the approval of a spouse or other family member. It's a right to daydream, but once you start up on a project you should be reasonably certain that you can carry it through to fruition.

That is why, when it comes to flower garden design ideas, less is more. Don't get me wrong – after you have been doing it for a few years, you will have a better grasp of what you can and can't accomplish in the planting season. Still, when you're first starting off, you should keep your flower garden idea pretty small and compact. It is very difficult to express yourself through a more elaborate, more extravagant, and more beautiful display than your neighbors. Instead, try using a sparse design. Don't plants huge banks of flowers – plant a few flowers here and there, combined with some ornamental pieces. That way, people will be struck by your elegance.

When I'm talking to new gardeners, I usually have a pretty simple rule of thumb for them involving flower planting ideas: figure out how much time you have, then, come up with a plan that should take about half that long. Everything always takes longer than you think it would – particularly if you are new to something – so by saving a lot of extra time just in case, you can ensure that your garden is completed while it is still early spring. Once you have accomplished that, you can add on some more flower garden ideas in the extra week or two you have remaining. After all, you don't have to plan it all out at once. Just make sure that you can get something done, and that what you get done is something you can be proud of.