Food Portion Sizes

When dieting, so many fail to realize that eating the right foods is not all that you have to worry about. Eating too much of the right stuff will still leave you at your current size, and might lead you to believe that there is no diet out there that will work. When you choose good foods, you are half way to where you want to be, but you also have to remember that the food portion sizes are just as important as getting what is good for your diet. That, along with exercise, will truly be the keys you need to get those pounds off of your frame and to make you feel better and better each day.

In fact, if you talk with a doctor, they may tell you that food portion sizes are the biggest problems that face dieters. When you go to a restaurant, you may find healthy options on the menu, and those are a great idea when ordering. However, what you may not realize is that the food portion sizes are often way too big, and you are packing on more calories than you think. You are putting less in your body than you would with some of the other entrees, but you are not getting too far ahead. When dining out, cut the size of your portions down to a good size and take the rest home.

You also have to watch your food portion sizes when eating lower fat or lower calories foods. Many think that because the food is lower in calories that they can eat more. They end up eating the same amount of calories they would have if they had gotten the regular version of the food. This happens most often with reduced calorie or fat free ice creams and cookies. If you want to have these in your diet, look for portion size information on the side of the package so you know what you are truly getting when you eat. If you can’t stick with the size recommended, skip them all together.

The best way to be sure you are getting the correct food portion sizes, you have to look them up online. For the most part, a portion of meat is the size of a deck of cards. If you think about it, that is about the size of a smallish pork chop. Chances are good you are eating bigger food portion sizes than that. Look around and make sure you are sure of all sizes for many common foods, and then find good ways to measure. If you have to get a scale to weigh your portions, that is far better than guessing. It might seem like a pain at first, but once your start feeling and looking better, you are going to be thankful that you did it.