The Ford Modeling Agency 

Anyone who's ever been serious about modeling has heard of the Ford Modeling Agency. This is about as big as they get. When it comes to the fashion world, there are a few top modeling agencies that stand out above all the rest. Other than the Ford Modeling Agency, there's also Elite, Next, IMG, Boss, Wilhelmina and Click. So if you have intentions of tackling the modeling industry, these are all major modeling agencies that you should keep in mind. Furthermore, it's imperative to remember that different agencies prefer different looks. While one may love your look, another may not. 

A great starting point for aspiring models is actually online websites. Now days virtually every major modeling company such as the Ford Modeling Agency offers an official website. These are simple to navigate for aspiring models and clients alike. So take a moment to access the Ford Modeling Agency website and see what their list of male and female models look like. This can give you an idea of whether or not you have a great look for them or not. It's important to keep in mind that a modeling agency like Ford sees fresh faces on a daily basis; therefore they don't have a great deal of time to devote to you personally. However, there's nothing wrong with going in for an open-call or emailing them a few pics by following the submission guidelines via their official website. The Ford Modeling Agency claims they only choose about 1 in 20,000 individuals to actually hire as a model. Yikes! That's a lot of aspiring models who get turned down. 

Never simply assume that you have no chance with an agency like Ford. It's tough to know until you've actually tried. However, it's prudent to keep in mind general guidelines like height, build and physical features. Most of us already understand that models are tall (women 5'8" and up, men 5'11" and up); we know that they're in great physical condition; and we also know that great complexions, nice smiles, beautiful hair and symmetrical features play a role in the profession of modeling. If you think you have what it takes to walk the runways and pose for the camera, then check out the Ford Modeling Agency online now! 