Online Freelance Writing Opportunities 

Whether you knew it or not, there are quite a few freelance writers out there these days. Many people fail to realize this simply because it's a field you don't hear much about and many individuals assume that you can't make a living freelance writing. This is utterly false. There are a number of freelance writing opportunities in cyberspace. Therefore if you aim to become a successful freelance writer, then one tool you'll surely need is a computer with Internet access. This is more crucial than pen and paper now days! 

Where does a freelance writer get started and what sort of education is required for this field? These are excellent questions. In regards to degrees, if you're attending college to become a writer, some ideal majors are English, Journalism, Creative Writing or any other writing degrees. You don't necessarily need these degrees to become a successful freelance writer, but they can definitely help you get your resume noticed by potential employers. In this day and age everyone prefers to see a college degree. On top of that, when it comes to great freelance writing opportunities, expect potential employers to request writing samples. This just goes with the territory. Since everyone has a different writing style to some extent, folks will want to know what yours is prior to hiring you for a contract writing position. 

Okay, so obviously as a freelance writer, you'll want to know where all the ideal freelance writing opportunities are found. Your Internet access will come in handy at this point. Search the web for allsorts of freelance writing gigs and jobs. Helpful websites to take a look at are freelancewriting.com, freelance-writing.net and craigslist.com. This is an awesome place to begin your freelance writing career once you've completed college, or simply any time you choose to tackle the writing profession. With so many freelance writing jobs located solely online these days, it's certainly feasible to have a great writing career from the comfort of your home. 