Friends Season 10

It's not often that a comedy program becomes a cultural icon but Friends ruled the roost from 1994-2004, making its six stars household names. It wasn't just a show of snappy one-liners because the audience cared for the characters as if they were members of their own family. We had followed the New York friends through the ups and downs of their personal and work lives but something had to be faced. Friends Season 10 would be the last one of all. The very last episode drew a record breaking audience and was even shown on outdoor big screens.

The final episodes picked up all the loose threads from the ninth series and tied them together to bring plotlines to a satisfactory conclusion. Everyone wanted Ross and Rachel to get together and they finally did after a decade of on and off romance. Mike and Phoebe get married in a lovely ceremony in the snow outside Central Perk. Chandler and Monica are expecting surrogate mother Erica to give birth and get surprise twins! The boy is named Jack after Monica's Dad and the girl is called Erica. Only Joey remains free and single, a practical outcome as Matt LeBlanc would go on to film the spin off Joey after Friends Season 10, where he moves out to Hollywood to make it as a big star.

The final moments are very poignant on Friends Season 10 and were tearful for the cast. Chandler and Monica move out of the apartment to live in a house in the suburbs and the last season shows the friends gathered together in the apartment for the last time. They each give in their key and look round at the room with all its memories. We know that a chapter of their lives is over and nothing will ever be the same again. Friends was filmed in front of a live audience and the cast have spoken about how emotional the experience of wrapping up the series was.

All the Friends fans have now for consolation is the re-runs and the DVDs of the show. The Friends Season 10 box set DVD was released in 2005 and contains four discs. In addition to all the episodes, there are bonus features, which include interviews with the cast and producers. There is also outtakes and never before seen footage. The producers, Kevin S.Bright, Marta Kaufmann and David Crane give a commentary and there is a music video by Matt LeBlanc.


