Good Luck Charms

Most of us have had good luck charms at one point or another in our lives. This might not be something you do or have as an adult, but many children have them at one time or another. There are common ones that most believe bring good luck, but some of the best ones are lucky not because of what they are, but because of what they represent. You may be surprised at what some consider to be lucky, and even some of the most serious people you know may have a whimsical side that includes them owning a good luck charm or two.

You may think of the rabbit’s foot or a four leafed clover when you think of good luck charms. Those are common, but they are far from the only things that can bring good luck. You can think the charm is good luck, or that just the thought of it brings you good luck, but that really is up to you. If it is something you like to have, there is no reason why you shouldn’t. In fact, anything that you want can be good luck charms as long as they have a special meaning or event connected with them.

I was never one to believe in good luck charms, but something happened to change that for me. After my sister in law died, a few of her things came to me. I hung one of her necklaces around the mirror in my car, and it has been there since I got it. One day, while my husband was driving home from work, he fell asleep driving the car. The moment he did so, that necklace unwound from the mirror and fell, making a loud clunking noise. This woke him up and saved his life. From that day forward I have believed in good luck charms and that necklace remains my favorite.

You may find, like me, that you find good luck charms in the very same way. Some athletes have clothing they wore during a big win that they consider to be lucky. Some have a lucky interview outfit, or they have a pair of shoes that they wear when they think they need more good luck. Good luck charms can be just about anything you can imagine and you don’t have to explain them to anyone. In fact, if you are wearing your lucky underwear, you are the only one that has to know. As long as you believe any item will bring you good luck, you may just find that they do just that.