Gourmet Restaurants

If it takes more than the average food offering to keep your taste buds tempted, then indulge your palate in some of the best gourmet restaurants in the world. Located from coast to coast in the United States, and in popular and little- known locales across the globe. If you enjoy traveling and fine food, consider Relais & Chateaux, featuring a collection of the most beautiful restaurants and luxury hotels located around the world in over fifty countries. Savor the acclaimed cuisine at any one of 456 restaurants and hotels on five continents. Visit their informative website, www.relaischateaux.com to order or download the 2007 guide to Relais & Chateaux luxury hotels and gourmet restaurants featuring Google Earth. This company boasts the most prestigious restaurants synonymous with haute cuisine for fifty years, located in France, Europe, Morocco, South Africa, North America, Asia, and the Middle East.

You know what they say about “when in Rome . . .”? Well that applies to when in Vegas as well. Unless you live or work there, you’re probably not exposed to all that Sin City has to offer anywhere else in the world. Las Vegas has more than just great resorts/casinos and top-rated entertainment. Bring you wallet and your appetite to experience luxury gourmet restaurant Charlie Palmer’s Aureole a Manhattan, located inside Mandalay Bay, where cat-suited wine angels rappel up and down a forty-two foot tall wine tower, or Aureole’s Swan Court, touted to be one of the most romantic places to enjoy indulgent specialties in all of Las Vegas. Take some time out of all your fun having to sit back and truly enjoy a gourmet dining experience. The philosophy of gastronomy is that different parts of the palate and digestive system are satisfied by different taste sensations, which you will gain knowledge of first hand.  

Many gourmet restaurants are located throughout the country, not just in far away corners of the globe. Just take a look online to see what gourmet offerings are available in a particular area. For instance, The Mandarin Gourmet, located in Cupertino, California, features some of the best Chinese cuisine in the area, and offers an elegant environment with an attentive staff for a truly unique ambiance. This is just one of many gourmet restaurants in California, and across the country. Indulge your palate every chance you get, where ever you are, or when your pocketbook allows you the chance! Expect to spend at least $1000+ for two at trendier restaurants, and don’t forget the tip! Bon Appetit! 
 
 
 
 
