Growing Vegetables

Vegetable growing is something that has appealed to me since I was very little. My parents were never into growing vegetables. They had a lot of money and grew up in a very crowded area. As a result, instead of growing organic vegetables in pots, They would simply buy them from some expensive gourmet food store. Although they taught me a love good food that I keep to this day, they didn't teach me how to make it. When I got on my own, I felt sort of at a loss. That is why I decide to grow a vegetable garden last year.

I had a friend who has been into growing vegetables in pots for years. He told me that the key is to start off slowly. The first time that you grow vegetables, you should start with a few easy strains. Growing tomatoes – provided that you have adequate room for them – is fairly easy. They require full sunlight and moderate water. If you provide them with that, they will grow big and juicy. Other easy growing vegetables include carrots, onions, sugar snap peas, and basically any form of tuber. Growing lettuce is also very easy, but getting a very good yield out of it and stopping pests from consuming it is pretty difficult. If you really want to, you can also grow your own potatoes, but I wouldn't recommend it. Potatoes are so cheap and take up so much room to grow that you would be better off growing something a little bit more valuable.

If you time things right, you can have several different growing seasons in your house. The way I like to do it is to start an herb garden early in the spring. By the time the vegetables are growing, I have plenty of herbs to flavor dishes with. I have fresh basil, parsley, cilantro, and a few other ones. I can cook up carrots, greens, and my delicious tomatoes in a fresh herbal dish. 

The big point of growing vegetables is to have good food to eat. As such, you should be careful not to waste the vegetables you grow. Once you have them ripe and ready the plant, research some good recipes. Really put your time into it. After all, if it is worth doing, it is worth doing right. You'll be surprised at how wonderful your results are. The meals that you make yourself are the best meals you can have.