Uses For Hat Boxes

Most of us no longer have a need for hat boxes, at least, not to carry around hats. They were originally made when women tended to wear a lot of hats, and these hats would be rather large. Putting those hats in with regular luggage would do nothing but destroy the hats, so there had to be a better way. The boxes for hats were rather bulky and hard to manage, but they did get the job done. Some still use them for carrying hats when traveling, but most people have found other uses for them, and you can still find them in many stores.

The reason that hat boxes are still around is because they are so interesting. Most of them have a great design on them, and they can be a great addition to home décor. Some buy them in different sizes and stack them up for a simple way to fill in a space that needs some color or some movement. You can search around, but you will probably not have a hard time finding hat boxes that have something to match your décor. You can leave them empty, or you can use them to store things that you need, but don’t want laying around in plain sight.

Storage of items is indeed one of the most common uses for hat boxes today. They don’t have to be displayed to be great for this use. Some keep them under their beds or in closets, or use them as a way to keep things neat on their desk at home. You can put almost anything in them, and because they are not as large as storage bins, the hat boxes are much easier to use for things you may need quite often. Some use them for letters and bills, and others use them for their intimate clothing items. You can store pretty much anything in them without having the box take up too much room.

These hat boxes will vary in sizes, and they will also be something that won’t cost you too much money. When you think about how many things you can use them for, and how easy they are to find, you can understand why they are still around. You probably won’t put hats in them, but if you find a few that you love, I would bet you find a use for them soon enough. They are even great for children, as they are a great way to store small collections, or even art supplies. 