High heel shoes: the essential woman's fashion accessory

Women are big fans of the fashion industry. Putting together a costume is just plain fun. With accessories, such as scarves, jewelry, hand bags, hats and shoes, one garment can be made into several outfits that are suited to day wear, evening wear or a day at the beach. One of our favorite accessories are shoes. The number and variety of shoe styles in your closet can make a lean wardrobe rich in fashion possibilities. In particular, high heels are beloved. Although men find high heel shoes quite eye-catching, women also love their high heels for purely selfish reasons.

Most women like the fact that high heel shoes make them look taller, slimmer and emphasize a curvy calf. A perfectly cute dress can look dowdy, worn with flats, whereas the very same dress takes on a vampy appearance when worn with high heels. If you're going to the beach, a casual sandal with roping on a platform base and ribbon ties winding up the leg is the high heel shoe to wear with a summery dress. A pair of flip flop sandals or sneakers just doesn't make the head-turning fashion statement. Remember the song by Credence Clearwater? "Put on your high heeled sneakers, 'cause we're goin' out tonight ..." There you go.

Most men do think that women buy high heel shoes to please them. This is true, up to a point. It's also true that women wear high heels to show off their legs as well as their costume when other women glance at them to see if they look as good. Women compete with other women for the men's attention.

Spikes are the epitome of high heel shoes. Men love spikes and women do wear these just to please their man. It's amazing that women are willing to endure the pain caused by wearing them. No one would go for a walk in the park in such a shoe. Spikes are part of what keeps podiatrists in business, squishing the ball of the foot into an anatomical nightmare position. Worn regularly over a period of years, these good lookers can send you to surgery to correct the damage!

Nonetheless, women will continue to wear high heel shoes, all for the sake of vanity. We all want to look good, so what's a girl to do? High heels are an essential accessory in our closets. Remember Imelda Marcos? She had over six hundred pairs.

