Why You May Be Having Hot Flashes

When most people think of hot flashes, they automatically think of menopause. Though this is why may women get them, there are other sources. If you are in your thirties and you suddenly  find that you are throwing off the covers in the middle of the night, even though it is barely sixty degrees in your bedroom, you don’t have to panic thinking you are going into early menopause. You will probably find that there is something else going on, and that it is not something you should worry about too much.

Most of the time, unexplained hot flashes can be explained by thinking about new medications that you may be taking. This is often the cause when menopause is not happening. One type of medication that will give hot flashes is Clomid, or many of the other types of fertility drugs out there. These drugs are working on your hormones, and that means that hot flashes are a possibility. Not everyone taking fertility drugs will have this side effect, but if you are taking something, and you experience flashes or sweating at odd times, you can feel better when you realize it is just the medication.

Another type of medication that can produce hot flashes is antidepressants. Not all of them do it, but some are known for it. Most of the time, this is actually something your doctor may refer to as the night sweats. You may find that you wake up at night sweating and feeling the hot flashes. Most of the time this is a short lived episode, and you won’t have them for very long. If they are frequent, and the hot flashes and night sweats are interrupting your sleep too often, talk with your doctor about the problem and the possibility of trying something else.

Most of the time, there is little you can do about hot flashes except to wait for them to go away. No matter what the source, you will find they will be short lived for the most part. Find a way to cool off when they happen during the day, and sleep without the blankets for a bit if they are affecting your sleep. You may find that wearing pajamas that are made of a material that is light, but that will also whisk away sweat may help you stay asleep when the night sweats happen. When this starts to affect your life, take steps to be more comfortable and talk with your doctor about what is going on.