Recently, my husband started putting hot sauce on many of the things he was eating. I began to wonder if my cooking was really that bad. He told me that it had nothing to do with my cooking, but rather, that he was going through a phase in which he wants everything to have a bite to it. I’m not sure if I believe that, but I guess that might very well be true. I’ve seen him do the same thing in restaurants, and even at him mother’s house. 

Whatever the case, the hot sauce now comes out more and more often. He has taken so much of an interest in it that he has gone out and purchased a few different brands of sauce so he can see which ones he likes best. We always have the standard Franks Hot Sauce in our home, but he has found a few others that he likes as well. We normally only used Frank’s on our wings, but now it seems to go with just about everything that he eats.

If you really think about it, hot sauce can be a great addition to any kitchen, though you won’t catch me using it as often as my husband does. There are some dishes that are spicy, but might lack a certain kick that only hot sauce can deliver. You don’t have to settle for one level of hotness either. There are many different kinds ranging from very mild to some that seem to burn your skin off just from the smell. Each person has a different tolerance for this type of spice, and each likes a different level of hot.

You may not think that you like hot sauce that much, but you might want to get some for your kitchen. You might want to look up a few recipes that use it, even if just a little bit, to see if you and your family like it. No everyone will love hot sauce, but it does open the door for some new recipes and types of foods to try. Goodness knows that we often get bored with the same old things all the time, and we are always looking for something new to add to our shopping list. The sauce is just one of many different things to try, but it is certainly a simple and easy place to start. If you are scared of the hot, you can always start with the mildest form you can find and then go from there.