Who doesn't love a great vacation? It's that rare time when you and the ones you love can get away from it all. And by "it all" I mean chaos, stress, work, and the general hectic aspects of life as we know it. It's no big secret that we all prefer to ditch this mess as much as possible. Our bodies and minds truly appreciate the break. Now, let's ponder the crucial aspects of vacations. First and foremost, I'm going to have to go with the lodging experience. There's no doubt that hotels and motels are a major part of venturing off away from our homes. We obviously need a place to sleep when our personal beds are out of reach. Not to worry; the World-Wide-Web is on your side. 

I hate to say it, but when it comes to fine hotels and motels, you can't always depend on the name itself. Let me offer a quick example. I stayed at a Hilton in North Carolina at one point and I didn't see the finer qualities to say the least. This hotel was certainly nothing special. Then on a separate occasion I stopped overnight at a simple Sleep Inn in Tennessee, and was shocked at how nice it was. The rates of these two hotels are very different, yet the less expensive one was nicer and offered finer accommodations. Go figure! I guess it's safe to say that hotels and motels vary in different areas. 

Turn to the web for answers. There are infinite websites regarding upper and lower scale hotels and motels. What are you looking to spend and where are you planning to stay? Pinpoint your particular destination and start from there. If Chapel Hill, North Carolina is where you're headed, then pull up websites like hotels.com and see what hotels and motels run in that area at the certain time of year you're interested in. As you probably already know, rates can definitely change with the season. Vacation times like spring break can prove pretty pricey. I recommend acquiring hotels and motels in advance. So if you know you're vacationing six months from now in a specific town/city, scour the web and book that ideal lodging. You can even take advantage of online deals and coupons to reduce the bill. 