As children, we relish the idea of staying in a hotel. There's just something about that miniature home away from home. I suppose it's the simple fact that it's different from what we're used to. Kids have no qualms about tossing their sleeping bag to the floor and getting cozy just as they would in their own bedroom. However, our perspectives change as we grow into mature adults. Suddenly motels, hotels and other forms of lodging don't seem so wonderful and cozy. We complain about the cleanliness and the lumpy beds, but deal with the fact that we sometimes need hotels if we want to travel or take a vacation. No worries! There are great lodgings out there if you do your research. You can pinpoint a wonderful hotel at a reasonable rate if you truly search for it. Not all hotel rates are ridiculous. You just have to know how to get online. 

You've probably been in the position where you waited to book a room. Finally you arrive at your desired location and pull up to the first hotel you spot. Unfortunately they tell you that all the rooms are currently booked. Yikes! This could be bad. Especially if you came a long way. What will you do if they're all full? Well, there's no reason anyone should ever have such issues with hotel booking anymore. These days we simply rely on easy-to-navigate websites like hotels.com and orbitz.com to supply us with the best available hotel rates and rooms. Simply log onto one of these handy websites and browse through what's available in the area of your choice. Let's say you're headed to Houston, Texas. Punch in this specific city and take a gander at all results. Or, you can narrow down your hotel rates by price ranges. If you aren't interested in spending more than 100 dollars a night, then specify this. This way only the hotels and motels with current rates of $100 or less with show up in the search results. Choose the one that tickles your fancy. 

One key to acquiring the right lodging and taking advantage of the best hotel rates is searching early. If you know you're headed on vacation three months from now, go ahead and seek out your lodging. It's likely you'll find a decent rate this early on. You may wish to avoid spring break and summer hotspots during the primary seasons. Many hotel rates will typically be high around that time of year. But that's just common knowledge. 