Using Inmate Searches

There is a big boom in people finding sites and resources online. This leads many people to search for others that they may not have thought of in a long time. They may not have even thought to search until they saw the resources that allow them to do so. There are some people that are rather easy to find and contact, but there are just as many more that seems to have vanished into thin air. When your relentless searching seems to come up with nothing, you may have to think about using inmate searches to find your missing person.

No one wants to find an old friend or even a relative through inmate searches, but it is something that happens. Even good people find themselves on the wrong side of the law at times. It doesn’t mean they are bad, it just means they made a bad choice at one point or another. If someone you are searching for is currently or recently incarcerated, you can find them through inmate searches in most states. Not all states allow you to search for this information, but many of them do, and some of them are free.

What you want to think about when doing an inmate search is where you think the person last lived. Most of these searches for inmates are run by the state, and that means you aren’t going to find them very easily if you have no idea where they live. You should start with the state you last knew them to reside in, and then search in surrounding states as well. This doesn’t always work, but in many cases people don’t roam too far from home. 

Remember that inmate searches are generally only good for those that are currently in prison or in jail. Some many have listings for those that have been recently released, but after that, you may not find someone through these even when they have been incarcerated for a while. You may find that nothing comes up, and that is actually good news for the person you are searching for. This is just one resource in the list of many you can use to find someone, so don’t give up just because you don’t find them right away. Most people end up being found after a while. It might take a while, and even an investment of money, but they are out there somewhere.