Don't jump to judgement on introverted children!

We all worry about our children. There are an abundance of problems in society that produce a number of sociological disorders, as well as physical conditions which we are all at a loss to understand or explain. With the prevalence of autism, ADHD and child abuse, it is easy to fear the worst when we see a child behaving in what appears to be an abnormal way. However, introverted children may be so naturally and an introverted perspective may be part of their innate charm.

In order to make a fair assessment and reach a rational conclusion, we must allow for natural personality factors, characteristics that a child is born with, before jumping to an erroneous and perhaps damaging conclusion.

This is not to say that all aspects of the environment should not be examined. No parent would wish to ignore a factor that may indicate a serious situation requiring attention. On the other hand, we don't want to magnify a purely natural condition out of proportion. Doing so without reason can only serve to put a misplaced and negative emphasis on a child's natural personality.

Introverted children are aspected by several personality characteristics. They may be uncomfortable in the limelight, they may prefer to watch rather than show or simply delight in being in the background. There may be nothing unhealthy in these desires and so we should not attribute a negative diagnosis to this little wallflower.

Psychological studies have shown that introverted children are often  geniuses, gathering information about the world around them before expressing themselves to others, including their parents and siblings. Many famous artists were introverted children, just waiting and watching for their time to bloom. 

While introverted children can be a sign of a troubled environment, don't jump the gun. Take all the factors into consideration. If you know, or are the parent of an introverted child, consider first that this child is a natural observer, one who wishes to take it all in before commenting. Such children may be the most astute among us. Try hard not to discount introverted children as victims of society. Instead, see them as children looking for a way to open up, to you and the world at large.

While you keep your eyes peeled for evidence of disease or abuse, don't make so much of it where it isn't warranted. Introverted children may just be born that way. Shy and timid, humble and unpresuming, these children are delightful. Cherish this naturally introverted child.

