The art of investing money while in college - on a shoestring!

The typical college student lives on a shoestring budget. With tight class schedules and even tighter budgets, most students never consider investing money while in college. Wouldn't it be nice to have an income - that exceeds that part time job - rolling in while you pursue your degree? Your investment capital needn't be huge. There are lots of low budget investment possibilities for you to consider and which you can attend to in hours convenient for you! Let's take a look at a few ideas to get you started.

Tutoring can be done on a casual basis, producing income with no cash investment. What most students fail to realize is that, over time, tutoring can become a full-fledged small business. For example, you begin tutoring one language student. Your satisfied student customer recommends you to a friend. A professor recommends you to another student. You find your appointment book filling up quickly, with your work hours scheduled in time slots convenient to your class schedule. When you've established a following, it's time to form your business entity.  Get a business license, a business bank account and business cards. You're ready to hang out your official shingle! Branch out with additional services. Target the general public as well as students. Offer translation and proofreading or editing services. This strategy for investing money while in college can provide a lucrative income before you're out of school.

TESL (Teaching English as a Second Language) certification is not too pricey and this skill is much in demand all over the world. Advertising is cheap or free. Go online with an ad on craigslist.org, put flyers up at the student union and on local community bulletin boards. You'll get customers! Again, you schedule lessons that fit your schedule. Investing money while in college is a wise decision that earns you credibility and income. The experience also looks good on a resume.

Use your imagination. Make use of your strengths. Graphic design students can put up a website for next to nothing, offering logo, book cover and menu design services, along with brochures and business cards. The English major's website can offer proofreading, editing and writing services. Make the most of your skills and build a business that grows with you. Consider forming a consortium with other students to combine skills to your mutual benefit.

You can see how investing money while in college can be accomplished on a small budget. You name your own hours and receive a good return on your investment. Your business moves right into the future with you. You'll have a sizable portfolio in a few years. If you choose not to keep your business, you can sell it!
