Ipod Car Adapters

I spend well over two hours per day driving to and from school. Since I can't afford to live on campus, there's really nothing else I can do to shorten my commute. I've pretty much resigned myself to this routine, so at this point I'm just looking for a way to make my time in the car more productive. When I brought this up to a friend of mine, he gave me a fantastic idea: I should review my class lectures while sitting in traffic. 

I record all my class lectures on my iPod, so all I'd need to do is buy an iPod car adapter in order to listen to these recordings as I'm driving to school. This would definitely be a great use of the time, and would help me get in some extra preparation for quizzes and exams. 

I actually wanted to buy an iPod car adapter a long time ago, but was kind of put off by the expense. My only income is from a work-study job on campus, and it doesn't pay that much at all. But my friend told me not to give up because there are a few different ways of getting iPod car adapters for less than retail price. For example, I could always buy used instead of new. All I'd have to do is check an online auction website or maybe put up a notice on the school's bulletin boards to see if anyone has one they want to sell. 

Another option would be to look around for a website that sells iPod car adapters and accessories at discount prices. I know there are lots of reputable online retailers that sell electronic goods for far less than Best Buy or Circuit City, so it shouldn't really be a problem finding a good deal on this particular product.

Once I get my iPod car adapter, I'll be able to do more than just listen to class lectures. I'll also be able to listen to audiobooks, podcasts, memos to myself (such as shopping lists and other reminders), and of course, my entire music library. My two-hour commute will fly by, and I'll be more productive than ever.

I've got a paycheck coming at the end of next week, so hopefully I'll have a line on cheap iPod car adapters by then. It's hard to believe I've gone this long without one; fortunately, that will all change soon enough!





