kids easter baskets

Each year we celebrate Easter, but I worry about putting together kids Easter baskets for my daughter. Though I only get her one, I know that my mother is going to get her one as well, and I have to tell her what I want her to get so she does not fill the entire thing with candy. I allow my daughter to have a little candy, but there is a limit. Most of the candy she gets will end up in the trash, so there is no sense in buying a lot when something else might be more useful.

The problem I have with kids Easter baskets is the candy. Candy is great, we all know that, but we also know that there is no need to have a lot of it. Not only is it empty calories, some children are nuts when given too much sugar, and one of those children is mine. When I go out to buy her kids Easter baskets, I made sure I know what is in it, and what I can get out of it before I give it to her. Some years I have had to make my own because I haven’t found anything that I like.

If you want less candy in your kids Easter baskets, you can make your own like I did, or look for ones that have different things in them. You can get a lot of great springtime items to put in the basket. As long as they find at least some candy in their baskets they are going to be fine with the rest being missing. If they don’t know, they certainly aren’t going to complain. If you think about what is coming with springtime, you can come up with some great ideas to make your own kids Easter baskets.

Last year, I filled up a huge basket for my daughter. I put in a chocolate bunny for her because I think no basket is complete without one. I also got her some jelly beans, but that was all of the candy that I added. I also got some sidewalk chalk, a kite, bubbles, and some sidewalk paint. We then added some flip flops and some sunglasses, along with a blow up toy for the summer time. She was pleased with what she got, and she got great use out of each of the items. If you want to make kids Easter baskets with less candy, you can use the same items. They are guaranteed to be hits.