It’s estimated that the average person spends about a third of their life sleeping. This means that all of us need a comfortable place to lay our heads each night. For couples the sleep issue can prove a challenge, as stolen covers and elbows in backs are common occurrences in both double and queen size beds. With a king size mattress set, both individuals have ample room to stretch out and get the best sleep possible.

Beds are generally priced according to size. A twin size bed is obviously going to be the least expensive choice. These are ideal for children and for college kids, but you’d be hard pressed to find a couple who would even consider such a tiny bed for two. A double bed is one step up, but again it’s generally not that much bigger than a twin. With a queen size, two average adults can certainly sleep together, but for many couples it still feels just a bit too cramped. A king size mattress set is really the best choice and if you have a large enough bedroom, it’s something to seriously consider.

Most furniture retailers will have a wide selection of beds. They’ll not only have a great selection of traditional beds including king size mattress sets, but they’ll also have futon beds, and sofa beds. When you go out to buy a bed, it’s really important that you have a price range in mind. Most of the salespeople who work in retail furniture stores are paid on commission, so the more you spend, the more they make. 

Don’t even consider trying to get a large bed like this home on your own. Even though the box spring for a king size bed consists of two pieces, the mattress itself is very large. Most stores will offer delivery for a charge, if you are fortunate, they may include the delivery price in the cost of the bed so there’s no extra expense involved for you. 

It’s a really good idea to consider buying the headboard at the same time. The reason is that you’ll want to have it all assembled at once, instead of having to devote time to setting up the king size mattress set and then additional time, later on, to attaching the headboard. It’s also structurally better to have a headboard attached to a bed frame. 

Once you do get your bed home, you’ll need to think about bedding for it. Although the sheet sets for a king size mattress are relatively expensive, consider that if you buy a good quality set you’ll have it for years. The same is true of a king size bed skirt and comforter. If you take great care of them, they will look fantastic and stay in good condition for many years.


