My mother used to have a rather odd saying. It is a good thing we all like different things otherwise there would not be enough of me to go around. When I would hear her say this when I was young I did not understand what she meant, but as I matured I realized she was trying to teach us about accepting other’s differences. I agree with my mother that life would be rather dull if we all liked the same things.

I am reminded about everyone having their own tastes every time I go shopping. This is true for clothing as well as home interiors and exteriors. Last year my husband and I were remodeling our kitchen. I could not believe the number of kitchen cabinet designs we had to choose from. I guess I had never thought about this much prior to looking for a new kitchen cabinet design. We ended up doing a great deal of looking and changing our minds before we could make a decision. The entire room centers on the kitchen cabinet designs. We were striving for an open airy feeling in our kitchen area. The area is small and the existing cabinets were stained very dark. The cabinets themselves were in good shape, but the dark stain made the kitchen appear even smaller. One clerk suggested painting the cabinets a light color. She said that it we did not like them we could always replace them, but if they were in good shape, painting them would save us a great deal of money. She showed us the steps needed to prepare the wood for the paint. We decided that it was worth a try. We picked an almond color to match the appliances.

We washed down the cabinets with the solution that she sold us to get any grease and dirt off the cabinets and to de-gloss the previous finish. We then put on a primary that we to stop the stain from bleeding through the paint. Finally we painted them with two coats of a semi-gloss paint. We finished them off with new hinges and handles. The results were amazing. The room looked completely different. Anyone that came into the house told us that they loved our choice in kitchen cabinet designs. They were very surprised when we would tell them that they were the same cabinet design that we there originally, just with a fresh coat of paint. We were so pleased that we saved the money and time of putting in all new kitchen cabinet designs. As the years go by we may decide to replace the cupboards, but for now the painted finish meets our needs.
