The Lemonade Cleansing Diet Works

Fad diets come and go, but there are some approaches to weight loss that seem to stick around. One of those is the lemonade cleansing diet. It’s also called the Master Cleanse and it’s been in the news quite a bit lately, thanks to a slim celebrity. Beyonce announced during an appearance of Oprah that she lost twenty pounds in just two weeks doing the lemonade diet. Although she may be in the limelight, you don’t need to be a superstar to reap all the benefits of this health craze. 

At first glance it can seem a bit disconcerting to imagine a diet that consists solely of lemonade for a number of days. The Master Cleanse was actually first designed as a way to rid the body of toxins. This is one of the most beneficial things about following the diet. Your body has a chance to take a break from food and all its additives, and instead focus on cleaning itself up. Many people who complete the lemonade cleansing diet say they never felt better. They have clear skin, an incredible amount of energy and they sleep like a baby. Even if you have just a few pounds to lose, or you’re already at your target weight, this citrus based health plan is for you.

The most important thing to remember when you are doing the Cleanse is that it’s a one day at a time endeavor. The first three days are said to be the worse. This is when you may be tempted to go look for some chocolate chip cookies in the pantry or a pint of vanilla ice cream in the freezer. Try your best to avoid falling off your diet wagon. Once those initial hunger pangs pass, you’ll start feeling vibrant and alive. You won’t even be hungry anymore. In fact, many people who plan on following the lemonade cleansing diet for ten days end up going longer, because they simply don’t crave food anymore.

Don’t worry that once you take your first bite of real food again that your hips will expand and your tummy will pop out. This isn’t the case at all. You should see the lemonade cleansing diet as a stepping stone to a healthier way of life. Once you’ve completed the Master Cleanse you’ll slowly introduce solids again, and it’s then that you want to make the right choices.

This is an eating plan that you can complete every few months. You’ll find that if you continue to do the Cleanse that your skin will stay blemish free and the scale will hover right where you want it. There’s nothing wrong with steering clear of food for a few days in pursuit of a healthier, stronger body. The lemonade diet can help you not only look your best but feel your best too. 



