My mother has always said that I was born with a green thong, and looking around me I can't help but agree. My entire property is covered with lush plants. And while some of them shouldn't grow very well in this climate, my tender care ensures that they flourish and prosper. Some of them are decorative and ornamental, some of them are good for food, and some of them have herbal medicinal purposes. My favorite one of all, however, is my lemon tree.

I have always had a weakness for citrus trees of all kinds. When I was growing up in Florida, we had a grove of orange trees growing wild in the backyard of our property. We had some gorgeous land – former farmland gone fallow, but still quite fertile – but we never did anything with it. My parents preferred to let it do what it wanted until I was 15. It was then that I asked for a plot of my own to cultivate some plants. My parents agreed, and soon I had a great hobby. Until I grew my first lemon trees, however, I hadn't realized my true passion.

People do not realize how many neat and interesting things you can do with a lemon tree. It is definitely good for more than lemonade! Western cuisine often ignores many of the uses of citrus, but a lot of the best dishes are made much better by fresh lemon oil. You can cook Mediterranean grape leaves without adding lemon pepper, but they're nowhere near as good. Similarly, a bit of lemon rind in your tea in the morning adds a refreshing and zesty tang to an otherwise bland cup.

One of the best things about lemon tree plants is how easy they are to grow. Sprouting a new tree can be tough, but once you have it going, it basically takes care of itself. All you have to do is remember to weed the area around it from time to time and ensure that it has enough water. Fruit trees in general are great projects. Usually, they are hearty enough for beginners to care for, And the reward of growing one is obvious.   In just a couple years, your lemon tree will start to bloom with fresh citrus fruit all season long. You will have more lemons than you know what to do with! Best of all, you can give those lemons away as presents. No matter what the fruit, people love it if you grew yourself!