Locks of Love

Prior to a year ago, I had hair that hung to the middle of my back. I loved it. Everyone else loved it. Then, one evening when I was flipping through the television stations, I happened to see some children without hair. Out of curiosity, I paused in the midst of my channel surfing to see what the show was all about. After about thirty minutes, I was sitting on my living room floor unaware of the fact that tears were streaming down my cheeks. I had not been too familiar with the Locks of Love program prior to that evening. Suddenly, I knew that I needed to get my hair cut and donate it to someone who was in need. 

Locks of Love is a non-profit organization that provides hairpieces to children who are suffering from a long term illness or hair loss and are not in a financial situation to afford to alter the situation. Locks of Love caters to children who are under the age of eighteen. A large majority of the recipients of hairpieces are suffering from alopecia areata, a condition that causes hair loss and has absolutely no cure. In fact, doctors aren’t even quite sure as to what causes this medical condition. 

The television show featured two teenagers – male and female, who were completely without hair. Neither one of them was a day older than sixteen years old. Both teens were embarrassed by their medical conditions. The female cried as she described refusing to go to school and see her friends anymore. Her mother had to quit her job in order to homeschool her and help her continue her education. Finally, Locks of Love provided these two teens with the confidence that they needed to feel comfortable about themselves. They received hairpieces. Watching those two teens talk about how much their lives changed when they received the simple gift of hair, I just knew that I wanted to help someone. I made an appointment at my favorite salon for the next day and had exactly ten inches cut off to donate. I missed my hair at first, but I knew that someone else would appreciate it a lot more than what I ever have. Besides, I had the ability to grow it back. If I can help someone who cannot do that, then that is the best 
gift I could ever imagine giving to someone.

Donating your hair to Locks of Love can be one of the most selfless and rewarding feelings you might ever experience. You can find out all of the guidelines and restrictions on their website, locksoflove.org. If you want to make a difference and perhaps get a brand new look for yourself as well, donating to Locks of Love just may change your life – in more ways than you could ever imagine. 
