Choosing a scent that is right for you can pose some real challenges. Women want to find fragrances that have personality and charm. They also look for a scent that is noticeable but not overwhelming. Lucky You perfume is a real fortunate find for many different women. There are some reasons why you might want to take a whiff of this enchanting scent.

Lucky You perfume is a soft, gentle fragrance that offers great flair for personality as well as a clean scent. This is a rare find as many women know. Many other perfumes offer a spark of personality but unfortunately the personality is more like a raging mother-in-law than a young, chic woman. 

Don’t let the youthful personality of this fragrance fool you. The Lucky You perfume brand is ideal for women of all ages. This scent is light and airy but it also offers a touch of sparkle that almost reminds me of a fine glass of Champagne. There is a hint of floral undertones with a fun, flirty but grown up presence that offers the perfect balance.

I used to keep different fragrances for different seasons. However, Lucky You perfume is perfect for any time of year. The scent if subtle and you can be sure that the fragrance will not overwhelm you even if you put a little more on than you intended. I think that this makes the scent perfect for just about any occasion.

When I wear Lucky You perfume I make sure to carry the fragrance in my purse, especially when I am going to be out for the entire day. The scent is subtle to begin with and the fragrance lightens up as the hours pass. This is an appealing aspect of the Lucky You perfume because the scent is never overpowering in spite of its vibrant personality.

There is no question that the personality of this fragrance is light, fun and youthful. Lucky You perfume comes in a pink bottle that has a rubber stopper. The stopper is a feature that you don’t come across every day. The pink bottle is cute and young while the stopper is a throwback from perfumes from generations past. 

I have encountered many different fragrances in my perfume-wearing career. I rarely come across a scent that offers undertones of citrus, flowers and musk in one package. The amazing thing about Lucky You perfume is that it offers all of this personality in a beautifully subtle way.
