Martial Arts Supplies

I recently signed up for a jujitsu class to help me get in shape. I'm not the kind of person who can go to the gym and mindlessly work out on a treadmill or Stairmaster for an hour, so I figured jujitsu would be a fun way to stay active. The first session is just a couple of weeks away, which doesn't give me much time to find the martial arts supplies I need.

The 12-week beginner class that I'm in will just cover basic fighting techniques, so for right now, I think I'll be able to get by with only a uniform and maybe some gloves. I'll also need some headgear and a mouthpiece as well, because I don't want to lose a tooth from an errant kick or something! 

Since I'm just starting out, I want to limit my purchases in case I find that I don't like jujitsu very much after all. Towards that end, I'm going to buy my gear from an online store that specializes in martial arts supplies. There are lots of these types of websites out there, and the selection of products they offer is amazing. They have gear, uniforms, weapons, and miscellaneous martial arts supplies for every discipline, and they stock a wide range of sizes too, which is good because I'm a bit on the small side. I've already seen several sweet jujitsu uniforms at great prices, so now all I have to do is decide which one I like best.

If it turns out that I do like this jujitsu class, I'll continue on to the next level. There's an advanced weapons class that I think would be awesome to attend, so hopefully my skills will develop to the point where I can enroll in that one. Of course, I'd have to get even more martial arts supplies if that happens, but I don't mind. Even with the cost of the classes and the equipment, I'm still saving money over a yearly gym membership. Plus, I'm learning to defend myself in the process, which might come in handy someday. 

I know that jujitsu (or karate, or tae kwon do, etc.) isn't for everyone, but if you're looking for a way to lose weight or tone up your muscles, you might want to consider signing up for one of these classes. If nothing else, you'll at least have an excuse to buy all sorts of cool martial arts supplies and weapons!



