Buying a new bedroom set is a really exciting venture that many of us would love to do. Even the notion of a brand new sleeping surface is appealing. However, getting rid of the old set can pose some challenges. Mattress disposal is never easy but there are ways to remove this sizable object from your home. 

You don’t really need to worry about the bed frame, headboard and baseboard. There are plenty of people who would love to purchase these items for a good price. You may want to pass them down to relatives or simply donate them to your favorite charity. Mattress disposal is an entirely different story.

Getting rid of this large piece of bedding can be really daunting as many of us already know. We have seen many different ways that people try to get rid of this item that aren’t really appropriate. Mattress disposal is tough but if you plan ahead a little bit you may find that there are viable options available.

Passing a used mattress down to friends and relatives does no one a real favor. Remember that this sleeping surface actually gets heavier because of all the dirt, debris (including shedding skin) and general sleep waste. Using friends and family as mattress disposal receptacles isn’t very nice, no matter what your original intentions were. It’s just plain unsanitary.

Illegal dumping isn’t a viable option, either. Why risk the hefty fines associated with getting caught making your local creek a mattress disposal unit. You may be dying to get rid of the bulk item but you really need to think things through before engaging in this, well, illegal activity.

Burning may be a better option than passing an old mattress down or illegally dumping the item but it’s still not ideal. I can attest that this approach leaves quite a mess, especially when the person burns the box spring as well as the mattress. There are so many springs and wires left behind, that burning is not a good mattress disposal plan at all. 

So how do you get rid of that old, useless sleeping surface? Try being upfront with the company selling you your new set. This organization may offer mattress disposal at no charge. If there is a fee, it should be minimal. This is the ideal approach.

However, many companies don’t offer this helpful mattress disposal service. The next best option is to contact your local garbage collector and find out what your options are. 
Either way, you may pay a little bit for the mattress disposal but it beats the other alternatives.
