Picking Out A Memory Foam Mattress

First of all, let me say I absolutely love memory foam mattresses. I have been using a memory foam mattress for the past two years, and in those two years I have slept better than I have ever slept before in my life. My opinion, however, doesn't represent everyone who has slept on memory foam. The commercials will try to tell you that this type of mattress or that type is perfect for everyone, but it isn't the case. Some people love firm mattresses, have always loved firm mattresses, and always will love firm mattresses. You can give them all the pillow top mattress pads you you want to, and they still will not be able to sleep on them. Other people can't sleep on any mattress unless it is soft. The same thing goes with memory foam mattresses. Some people find them ideal, while other people find them all but intolerable.

If you aren't sure which category you fit into, the most obvious thing to do is to go to a bed store and try lying down on a memory foam mattress. When you first do, it seems a little odd. They sort of sink under your weight in a way that most mattresses don't. Give it a few minutes and see how it feels to you. Sleep on it so to speak.

A lot of people advise getting a memory foam mattress topper before you invest in a full mattress. I think that this is a good idea. As a matter of fact, some people do better with memory foam mattress toppers than with the actual mattresses. With the mattress topper, you get the support of a conventional mattress with the malleability of memory foam. A lot of people think that this is the best combination possible.

In our house, we couldn't quite decide at first whether we wanted to give up our old mattress in favor of this new technology. what we ended up doing was getting a memory foam futon mattress. We needed a new futon anyway, and I figured this would be a great opportunity to try it out and see if we liked memory foam. Let me tell you, it was quite a hit in the house. For the first few weeks, we barely slept on our own mattress at all. Finally, we decided that we had to stop holding out and actually invest in our own memory foam bed. I'm quite happy we did. It was a good investment.