Picking out a motor home can be one of the most difficult decisions of your life, but if you do it right it can also be one of the most rewarding ones. Full-sized vans, Recreational vehicles, and motor homes give you a luxury that few people have. A good motor home is nearly as comfortable as a house, and it has the added advantage of being portable. I know some people who could afford to fly first class all over the country, but still prefer to take their motor homes with them. After all, there is no substitute for the comfort of home, even when you're on the road.

The problem is that it can be pretty hard to pick out the motor home with the best value. motorhome values are notoriously difficult to calculate. Kelly blue book is a great place to start, but it is by no means the only resource you have to consult. You see, buying a used motorhome can be much more difficult than buying a used car. There are few mechanics out there who are qualified to service motor homes, so be sure that you find someone who you can trust to look at any used vehicle you are thinking about purchasing.

One of the things that many buyers never realize is that the engine of a motorhome is much more important than the inside. Although cosmetic damage can greatly decrease motorhome values, if you buy a used one you can always fix it up. If, on the other hand, if there are serious problems with the engine, you might be out of luck. Making serious repairs to the motor home engine is extremely expensive. Therefore, even if it might have smaller motorhome value, the camper with cosmetic damage is always preferable to one with mechanical problems.

Of course, calculating the personal motorhome values can be more difficult. It all really depends on what sort of trips you want to take. If, for example, if you plan on traveling mostly through flat terrain, you would probably do better to purchase a camper trailer rather than a motor home or RV. If, on the other hand, you want to take a trip up into the mountains, you need a vehicle that will be able to handle the road. Keep in mind that, with gas prices as they are, the bigger and more powerful vehicle is not always the better one. Motorhome values are, ultimately, a very subjective thing.