New Zealand Motels

If you’re planning a trip to New Zealand, you’ll be glad to know that most towns have a good range of motel and motor lodge accommodations in a variety of price ranges. Most New Zealand motels are owner operated and of high quality and service. A comprehensive listing of motel accommodations can be found on the official website of the Motel Association of New Zealand at www.manz.co.nz, which features over one thousand self contained motels and apartments throughout New Zealand. This country is twelve hours ahead of Greenwich Mean Time (GMT), so it’s the first country in the world to see the dawn of each new day. Summer takes place from December to March and winter is between June and September, just the reverse of the northern hemisphere, complete with hot and arid temperatures to snow and cold.

New Zealand motels are located strategically throughout the country in major cities and in the quaint countryside, all of which can be easily located on the New Zealand Tourism site at www.tourism.net.nz. Locate motels and motor lodge web site listings by clicking on the map and browsing through all the listings available, from cheap, discount motel accommodations, to luxurious five-star motels. You may want to consider staying in Queenstown, the tourist mecca of New Zealand, many lodgings offering stunning views of the beautiful surroundings combined with modern contemporary elegance and the latest business technology to ensure your stay far exceeds your expectations. If you want a bit assistance planning your trip or finding New Zealand motels, you may want to contact AA Travel of New Zealand at www.aatravel.co.nz, featuring 101 must “do’s”, travel deals and packages, sightseeing guides, road trips, interactive map, travel rewards, and much more.  

Visit www.travelplanner.co.nz to choose accommodations by type and region. A Chalet in the Ferns offers a traditional bed and breakfast or private self-contained guest chalets set in an exotic rain forest location. Lake Rotoroa Lodge continues to be recognized as one of the leading fly fishing lodges in the world, or if it's golf you're after, check out Terrace Downs High Country Resort, an 18-hole international golf resort touting luxurious accommodations situated near the Rakaia Gorge and Mt. Hutt. Smaller, more private lodging is also available for people that truly want to take a break from the world and reality in general. Whether you’re traveling for business or pleasure, you’re sure to find New Zealand motels and motor lodge accommodations to meet your needs.      
