If you’re someone who enjoys spending time outdoors, hiking or camping, or even watching your youngster playing football or soccer you already recognize how important the right clothing is. You want to wear things that are not only durable, and comfortable but long lasting too. This is particularly true if you spend considerable time outside during the spring and fall when the temperature dips in the late afternoons and evenings. One great clothing item that is ideal for everyone in the family is North Face jackets. These outer wear pieces by this well-known name in clothing are made for active people.

One of the drawbacks to purchasing a warm jacket to wear while camping or hiking is that they are often quite bulky. This quickly becomes uncomfortable and can actually lead to the person forgoing the jacket just because it’s too heavy or awkward. That’s not the case with North Face jackets. They are thin and at the same time will keep you very warm. They are very lightweight and come in sizes that accommodate children and adults.

Fleece is a great fabric because it not only helps retain body heat but it looks great too. It can be worn by virtually anyone and it allows for ease of mobility. You can sit comfortably at a campsite or go for a long, leisurely walk while wearing one of the North Face jackets made of fleece. You’ll never complain of it being stiff or abrasive on the skin.

Kids love being outdoors too and parents are often looking for a quality jacket that the child can wear to school. North Face jackets are ideal for youngsters. The fleece jackets can be worn throughout the beginning days of school and a North Face vest can be added when the leaves start to fall. There are also North Face jackets that are designed for winter wear, so if you live in a colder climate this is a great investment. If you have more than one child in the family, consider buying a jacket in a neutral color so it can be passed from one child to the next as they grow. The quality of these jackets is so exceptional that they will last through two and sometimes even three kids.

Color wise there’s an abundance of choices. Naturally they come in the expected shades of pink and blue as well as silver and red too. This premier clothing line also includes hats, gloves and mittens so kids and adults can have an entire ensemble of North Face outerwear to keep them toasty warm right through the coldest days of January and February. 





