Imagine what it would be like living with someone who had OCD. I have trouble pondering such an affliction. Life is difficult enough as it is. I certainly don't need more problems on top of the typical stuff. Nevertheless, many people across the globe grapple with obsessive compulsive disorder on a daily basis. To get an idea what that is like, all you have to do is view the television series, "Monk." the lead character of this show suffers from OCD, along with numerous phobias and mental afflictions. Although it's made into something comedic on this show, you can rest assured that it's not a laughing matter to those who have it. 

I can honestly say that I've never had a family member, friend or acquaintance that suffered from obsessive compulsive disorder. And if they did, I sure didn't know about it. It's a mystery where it derives from. Sometimes it appears genetic, and others times it's learned. MTV aired a special exposing the lives of three people afflicted with OCD. It was completely bizarre watching how they go about their daily routine. One girl, who was in college and living on her own, had to follow specific rituals such as touching the upper corner of the door frame when entering a room. When confronted with a psychiatrist, she informed him that she felt her mother would die if she didn't do these rituals. It sounds ridiculous to us, but clearly not to her. Then I watched as a man had to perfect certain rituals before he could go about his day. Simple thinks like kissing his wife goodbye were crucial. If the kiss didn't feel right to him, he had to repeat it until it did, or he couldn't leave his apartment. And finally there was a teenager with obsessive compulsive disorder. Her mother refused to give into her ways, which was the correct response. Professionals say that you shouldn't bend to those who suffer from OCD. It only makes things worse. 

If you have someone in your life who suffers with OCD, the best thing you can do for them is get them professional help. Never give into their requests and do not encourage their odd behavior. It only prolongs the affliction. 