Any human being who's done the "cubicle thing" can relate to this film. That's why you should own or at least watch the Office Space DVD a few times. It's one of those flicks you simply won't tire of. You can pop it in on any random occasion and laugh your butt off. The truly funny aspect of this cult classis is the fact that it's so realistic. Hey, they always say that fact is better than fiction. This film definitely makes a good argument for that statement. So what about those darn TPS reports? 

I first watched the Office Space DVD with my wife when it came out back in 1999. Although I found the humor of the film gut-busting, she could certainly relate more. I have never had the pleasure, or should I say displeasure of working in a cubicle amongst many others. She could relate to almost everything in this hilarious comedy. When I made a comment about the printer they all loathed so viciously, she said it was just like at her work. Apparently major companies invest in faulty equipment. Not that it's a big surprise. Anything to save a buck, I'm sure. Then there were the TPS reports. The lead character was approached by several managers/supervisors regarding one simple issue. My wife stated that this is completely realistic, and she gets the same grief at her place of employment. Not to mention plenty of other issues they didn't cover in the Office Space DVD. After hearing all that, I have no plans of ever pursuing an office job. Especially not one where you sit in a mess of cubicles. 

Now you know what makes this movie such a hit. The Office Space DVD resonates with white collar employees all over the world. We love entertainment we can relate to. The kind that mocks and pokes fun at the crap we have to deal with daily. For me that movie is "Clerks." I can relate to this particular comedy since I spent over 8 years in customer service. And if you ever waited tables for a living, you might want to check out the film "Waiting." This is another like the "Clerks" and Office Space DVD that rings true. Or better yet, pick up all three and get the full scoop on reality. You'll surely get one heck of a laugh. 