On Screen Keyboard

One of the things that surprised me about my new laptop was that it came with the on-screen keyboard. I did not know such a thing existed, and when my husband first found it within my programs, he wondered if it was a touch screen control. It was not, but that did not mean it was not very cool. I realize this type of program was not made for me, and I can see where it might be convenient for those who have problems typing, and other problems with mobility.

I found the on-screen keyboard under my accessories menu. If I remember correctly, it was one of the many accessibility features of my laptop. Quite honestly, I had never thought about the difficulties in those who have mobility problems my face when using a computer. You always think about them parking, driving, and making their way around their home, but sometimes you forget that some of the things we take for granted may be hard for them. The on-screen keyboard is just one of the many accessibility features my computer has.

The on-screen keyboard on my laptop seems to be easy enough to use. I tried it out for a short time before I shut it down. A small keyboard appeared at the bottom of my screen, and I could then use my mouse to type the letters as if I were typing with my fingers. The on-screen keyboard definitely does not work as fast as the regular keyboard, but if you have problems typing, this is definitely something that will make your life a whole lot easier. Perhaps the only thing easier would be voice recognition software, but even that has its problems.

Though I am not sure, I think you may be able to get software for an on-screen keyboard even if it does not come with your computer. Though I think most new computers to come with this program, if you have an older one, you should call your computer manufacturer to see if they have any of these programs available. If they do, they may offer to you for no charge. When the time comes for you to get a new computer, make sure you request one that has an on-screen keyboard. This is just one of the many things computer manufacturers are now including with most new models to help make everyone’s life a little easier.