online map

The online map has become very valuable for travel, though the new GPS technology is making it easier to find where you are going without any map of any type. However, if you don’t have GPS, you do need to know where you are going. Paper maps are good, but they can be cumbersome and it is hard to read them at times. They also don’t tell you about some of the roads, and you have to plan your own route without knowing where the highways are and what areas might be trouble.

I like to use the online map to find my way wherever I am going. I use the online driving directions that come with a map, and that makes sure I have a back up when I seem to be lost or am not quite sure where I am going. The online map seems to be updated more quickly than other maps. I have always had good luck with them, and if something was wrong with the directions, it was always something extremely minor that didn’t get me too far off track. I was able to get back on track within minutes.

I did have a problem with the online map for Google, which was surprising to me since their maps are very good. I got directions somewhere, but when I emailed the link to my husband to print, the directions somehow changed. I’m not sure how that happened, but I almost took the wrong directions with me. This could happen with any online map, as links are not always perfect. When you do this, make sure the directions are as you need them before you print them, or you could be headed in the wrong direction thinking you have the right directions.

When you print out an online map, make sure it is large enough to see while you are in the car. You should pull over to look, but if you need glance while driving, you want it to be large enough so you don’t have veer off the road to see the small print. If you are going a long way, you should split up the online map onto different pages so that they are large enough to view. Flipping to the next page is much easier than straining your eyes to see something on a map that is just too tiny for your eyes or is hard to see in the dark.
