Have you ever noticed that when you are vacationing you have a much different experience based on how you are with? My girlfriend and I love to go to Las Vegas together. We have taking this trip many times together over the years. When we do we are never approached by vendors as we are walking on the strip. In fact I did not know that vendors approached people on the strip until I took a trip to Vegas with my husband. The very first evening we were walking from our hotel to go out for dinner we were approached by a man who asked up if we wanted free tickets to one of four shows. He said all we needed to do was sit through a ninety minute no obligation presentation about vacation properties. We decided we could use a break from gambling and the show tickets were worth quite a bit of money.

We went to the presentation which featured different vacation weeks and sights to purchase. The one that seemed the most interesting to us was the Orlando time shares. We liked going there and new that this would be an easy place to trade. We had looked at different Orlando time shares on the internet when we were looking to book a vacation last year. They looked like they were nice accommodations and also were a great location to visit the theme parks from. Based on the presentation we went to we were willing to book a vacation at the Orlando time shares for a week in February. By booking the trip we received not only the show tickets for one of the best shows in Vegas but we were also given a complimentary week as a different time share of our choice for four people that needed to be used in an eighteen month period. This complimentary vacation could be booked in Vegas, Mexico or several other popular destinations. The trip would be staying at a time share so that you would know what the time share in this other location looked like. We did not have to make any decisions on when or where we would take this complementary trip. We thought it would be fun to talk to one couple that we enjoy traveling with to see if they would be interested in joining us and where they would like to go.

The Orlando time shares were absolutely beautiful. The room was more like a small apartment featuring a wonderful soak tub next to the bed and a spacious living room area as well as a bar and kitchenette. My husband and I laughed that this timeshare space was actually bigger than our first apartment had been. We are still deciding if we want to purchase the timeshare. The investment is not that much and there are many places that you can trade for.
