Orlando Disney World

Come and enjoy the magic of the Walt Disney World Resort in Orlando, Florida, a popular vacation destination for families and kids of all ages. Even if you don’t have a lot of time to spend, a trip to Orlando Disney World is a vacation in itself, as it offers seven different unique attractions in the Orlando area, which are best experienced with the usage of a Disney multi-day pass that can be purchased online or at the main entrance. In addition to Epcot Center, Magic Kingdom, and MGM Studios, Blizzard Beach, Typhoon Lagoon, Pleasure Island, River Country and Discovery Island, are also popular attractions that can be found at the Walt Disney World Resort, which also features a wide selection of hotels and spas too. 

There are plenty of sites you can visit for Orlando Disney World information including park hours and prices, and more at www.disneyworld.disney.go.com. This Disney website features information on Disney hotels and resorts with unique benefits that suit your style and budget. Explore Disney World’s four magical theme parks complete with fun filled attractions and entertainment, and discover exciting shopping, recreation activities, and nightlife too. Disney’s not just for kids you know; this resort definitely has something for everyone. And don’t forget Disney’s water parks for a wet and wild time. Check out this site and find out how affordable this vacation can be. You can plan and prepare your vacation online, buy packages, tickets and passes, and retrieve reservation information online. Just request your free vacation planning DVD and be on your way to having fun! 

Another great resource is the Fodor’s Orlando Disney World travel guide featuring recommendations for the best of the Magic Kingdom and all four theme parks, in addition to other great Orlando attractions. TripAdvisor.com is another site to visit that offers reviews of Walt Disney World and the area’s non-stop night life. You can also find huge savings with Disney vacation packages on this site. Start planning your family vacation and create memories of a life time at Orlando Disney World. If you don’t have any kids, don’t let that stop you, especially if you’ve never been to a Disney theme park or resort. It’s as easy as it is fun, and it’ll really get you in the mood and excited about your trip. So go on now, and remember, NO FUN HAVING!! Okay, just kidding!!
