Ovulation Chart

If you are one of the lucky ones, you may never have to worry about ovulation and conceiving. This is because you seem to have no troubles when it comes to getting pregnant, and you may have the family that you want. However, some like to know about when they are ovulating so that they can up the odds of getting pregnant on any given cycle. Some with fertility issues must know what is going on when they are taking drugs to get pregnant. In the case when you must have a good idea about when you are most fertile, an ovulation chart might be your best friend.

Many women are under the assumption that they are ovulating on day 14 of their cycle, and this is because that is what they were taught. Quite honestly, though some do ovulate on that day, there are many women who do not. Because they aren’t aware that they are ovulating later or even earlier than that, they plan lovemaking at the wrong time, and they have no idea why they are not getting pregnant. A good ovulation chart can easily clear up this problem for them. 

An ovulation chart is done by charting your temperature each day. You can’t just take any temp though, it has to be your basal temp. This is what you will get when you wake up in the morning. You should take your temp before you get up, go to the bathroom, or do anything else. You put this temperature on your ovulation chart and then see what happens throughout your cycle. This works best when you remember to do it each day, but you can still get a good idea of what is going on if you miss one or two days. 

What you will find with your ovulation chart is that your temps will rise after ovulation. When you temp goes up four days in a row, you can be sure you have released an egg. The last day of low temps is the day of ovulation. If you do this a few months in a row, you will get a general idea of when is the best time to have sex for conceiving. It may change each month, but you will have a general idea of your cycle by then, and you can choose the best times. If you find that your temp stays up at least 20 days after your ovulation date, you may need to go out and get a pregnancy test. Charts to track ovulation can tell you many things, and those are just two of them.