Bay County in Florida is the place to go for white beaches and turquoise ocean. One of the most popular tourist areas is Panama City Beach Florida. It's very busy during the summer season with people coming south to catch a bit of sunshine. It's most popular however, during Spring Break when college and high school students come to enjoy the nightlife and the beach lifestyle. A wealth of attractions awaits visitors, including water parks, amusement parks and activities such as bungee jumping.

A lot of construction has taken place in recent years, especially in the luxury home market. This has been done to keep up with demand and also to rejuvenate areas that had been damaged by hurricanes. The tourism economy is doing well, especially the boating companies that organize sightseeing tours and pontoon boat rentals. There are trips to take people to swim with dolphins and to go snorkeling. For a fun way to get around, there are electric cars and moped for hire.

Most young people, who come for a vacation, head for the Club La Vela, said to be the largest nightclub in the United States. The club in Panama City Beach Florida often features in television programs about dance music culture. In addition to the dance floors, there are bars and swimming pools. Dancing areas are split into different genres, consisting of techno, house, rock and hip hop. Nights for under age kids are organized too without any alcohol for sale.

The natural world is on show at Zoo World and Botanical Park. More than 350 animals are resident, some of which are endangered. The park contains 250 different species of trees and plants. The zoo has operated a successful breeding program and several endangered species have been born here. The most popular exhibits include monkeys, alligators, exotic birds, camels, bears, lions, tigers and various kinds of reptiles.

The Gulf World Marine Park is a terrific day out for all the family in Panama City Beach Florida. There is a chance to swim with dolphins and watch sharks being fed. Animals on display include American alligators, iguanas, snakes, tortoises, turtles and flamingos. Live animal shows are popular attractions and performers include sea lions, dolphins and parrots.

The city takes part in a qualifying heat every November for the Ironman World Triathlon championship. The race takes place in Hawaii and is one of the toughest of its kind. Contestants run, cycle and swim to be the best and the event is televised. The outstanding athletes receive a lot of support from the Panama City Beach Florida crowd.
