Pellet Stove Fireplace

Last winter as I was griping about my heating bill, I saw an advertisement on television for a pellet stove fireplace. I had never heard of these before, and I was quite intrigued by the idea. These stoves use small pellets to heat your home, and apparently do so very effectively. If I were to believe the ads, it would seem that one medium-sized pellet stove would heat my entire apartment for under $500 a season. Considering that I spend almost that much a month on natural gas, it sure seemed like a good idea.

I never got a pellet stove fireplace, and that is because I am a renter. I am not sure how my landlord would have felt about it, but I did not even bother to ask her. I was not going to spend a lot of money on a pellet stove fireplace only to move out a few months later. I know that I could have taken the stove with me, but it may not have been something I wanted to use in a new place. All I know is that I wish she would have had the idea to buy a pellet stove fireplace so that are natural gas bill would be cut down to almost nothing. I would have no problem buying the pellets when I needed them if it saved me that much money on my winter heating bill.

For the most part, a pellet stove fireplace can be installed in almost any home. They say that they do not need any ventilation, but I cannot imagine that this is the truth. Because the pellets are burned within a pellet stove fireplace, you can assume that there will be some sort of exhaust needed. It should be simple enough to install however, as a contractor can probably do this for you rather cheaply. From what I have heard, you can find out if you need to buy one, two, or three different stoves to heat your home by figuring out your square footage. I have a two-bedroom apartment, and it would seem that I would only need one pellet fireplace to heat the entire place completely.

If you want to get a pellet stove fireplace, make sure you look into the details before you buy. If you are a renter, you will need to discuss this with your landlord. Also remember that you will have to be able to buy the pellets in order to heat your home. In some cases, some communities have run out of pellets rather quickly. I remember last year when I first heard about the pellet stove fireplace that there was a report on the news that all local suppliers were out. Perhaps they were so popular that the supply did not keep up with the demand.