The state of Pennsylvania contains plenty terrain to satisfy fishing and hunting enthusiasts, as well as people who like to hike or have fun on the water. There are 121 State Parks and the best way to enjoy the scenery and outdoor pursuits is to indulge in Pennsylvanian camping. There are lots of sites to choose from, catering for everything from the big rigs to the smallest tent and many of the sites are family run.

Camp Wilhelm at Clarks Mills is surrounded by woodland and is a great spot for campers with young children. There are organized activities for the kids, a playground and a volleyball court. This Pennsylvanian camping site is suitable for hook ups and pull throughs in addition to tents. There is a snack bar, game room and swimming pool and there is restricted permission to take pets. Fishing and boat rentals are close by.

Mirror Lake RV Camping and Fishing is situated at New Florence in the Laurel Highlands. It is an ideal spot for those wanting a tranquil area and it's possible to camp right next to a stream. The large lake is well stocked with fish and campers can fish, go boating, hiking or biking. Swimming is also allowed in the lake or pond and creek. There is a game room and swimming pool. The site caters for hook ups and tents and there are also some primitive style cabins. Nearby attractions include Idlewild Park and there is a golf course just five miles away.

Riverside Campground at Montgomery sits by the Susquehanna River, amongst lovely maple trees. Big rigs can be accommodated and there are facilities for hook ups and pull throughs. This Pennsylvanian camping ground also contains tents and cabins and there is a 50 amp service available. The site contains a game room, swimming pool, miniature golf course, snack bar and laundry room. Campers can go fishing on site or travel close by for game fishing. They can also hire a boat or travel a short distance to a full golf course. Other nearby attractions include the Hiawatha Paddlewheel Riverboat and the Tabor Museum.

Lickdale Campground at Jonestown is suitable for RVs or tents and there are also cabins for rent. The Pennsylvanian camping site contains a recreation hall and swimming is allowed in the lake, pond or Swatara Creek, where campers also can go canoeing, kayaking or tubing. Other activities include fishing, boating and there is a nearby golf course. Hikers and bikers can make use of the trails in the Swatara State Park. Nearby attractions include Chocolate World, the Hershey Gardens, the Pennsylvanian National Race Course and the Sleepy Hollow MX Park.
