Playa del Carmen Resorts

You can stay at Playa del Carmen resorts and hotels on a budget if that's what you're looking for, just as there are big and luxurious accommodations at several resorts throughout the town. Playa, as it is commonly known, is located at the vibrant heart of the Riviera Maya, home of idyllic beaches, exciting nightlife, and relaxed ambience. The deep turquoise waters of the Caribbean ocean between Playa del Carmen and Cozumel are ideal for scuba diving and sport fishing, and home to many mysterious and fascinating places along the shore. Tourists can also visit one of the most beautiful ecological parks in Mexico, Xcaret, or Xel-Ha, the biggest natural aquarium in the world. The jungle is also home to mystifying Mayan ruins and astonishing archaeological sites. 

Find Playa del Carmen resorts and hotels at www.cancun.com or popular travel sites like Expedia.com or TripAdvisor.com, which provides unbiased reviews, articles, recommendations, and opinions on Playa hotels and resorts. According to Trip Advisor’s traveler popularity recommendations and ratings, Secrets Capri Riviera Cancun is the number one hotel in Playa del Carmen for romance. This hotel is located on the Caribbean near the Mayan ruins, nestled in seventy-one tropical acres and surrounded by endless white beaches. Reasonably close to the airport, Secrets is an all-inclusive resort with the majority of amenities and activities included (meals and snacks, unlimited alcoholic and non-alcoholic drinks including premium and imported beverages, beach and pool waiter service food and drink, in-room mini bar with water, beer, and soft drinks restocked daily, 24 hour room service food and drink, activities, gratuities, and use of land and water sports equipment, pool scuba diving demonstration, use of freshwater swimming pool/spa/beach, and pool lounge chairs and towel service.) 

Iberostar Tucan Hotel is another one of many great Playa del Carmen resorts for families and couples alike. The hotel is decorated throughout with ancient Mayan depictions and artifacts from the old culture. This hotel received the 2006 Travelers' Choice Award as the most popular all-inclusive resort for families. Accommodations are nestled across twenty-eight acres of lush jungle with a spectacular beachfront and artistic flair. The hotel’s restaurants are placed on raised platforms peering over lagoons filled with tropical goldfish to keep you entertained as you and your family enjoys a number of local gourmet specialties. This is only a sampling, of course, of what Playa del Carmen resorts have to offer, definitely something for everyone, from couples to families, everyone is sure to have a great time! 

