Playa del Carmen Vacations

Playa del Carmen, or “Playa”, is a living vibrant part of the Maya world located on the pristine Caribbean coast of Mexico’s Riviera Maya, some forty miles south of Cancun. The beach at Playa is one of the prettiest on the coast, with lots of white sand and the clear turquoise waters of the Caribbean Ocean. The coral reef offshore is almost as spectacular here as in Cozumel, and there are scores of professional scuba diving operations nearby to choose from. The entire town is quite compact with various Calles that run parallel to the beaches and can be easily covered on foot, so there’s no real need for a rental car to enjoy Playa del Carmen vacations. Day excursions can be taken by bus or van tours to destinations along the Cancun/Tulum corridor, and when you’re done site seeing for the day, Playa del Carmen is also host to the best nightlife on Riviera Maya. 
 
According to www.travel.yahoo.com, Playa was once a small fishing village, but in recent years has grown so much that it has obtained the dubious distinction of being the world's fastest growing town by the Guinness Book of Records. The majority of the hotels and resorts in town run parallel to the beach and are either on the beach or just a close walk away. Playa del Carmen is expensive and overcrowded, so this site recommends that visitors plan on sharing Playa with thousands of day trippers from Cancun and passing Caribbean cruise ships. The type of climate to expect on Playa del Carmen vacations is semi-tropical with average temperatures of 80 degrees that can rise to 97 degrees in the summer months. During the months of November to April, blue skies and cool northern winds blow, and the highest temperatures and most abundant rains occur during the months of April and May, and from September through January.

Playa del Carmen is the perfect base from which to explore the fascinating sites along the Mayan Riviera. Playa is blessed with miles of unspoiled white sandy beaches and crystal clear Caribbean waters that's proving harder and harder to find. Go online and check out Playa del Carmen vacations and packages, and don’t forget all-inclusive resorts that include meals, beverages, entertainment, activities, non-motorized motor sports, taxes, and tips. Remember that the higher the resort rating, the higher the quality of food and liquor served, so plan ahead, save money, and enjoy! Discover the European charm of Playa del Carmen vacations, and find great summer specials, discounts and cheap deals at hotels and resorts in Playa del Carmen, Mexico.
 
