MAKE POSITIVE THINKING A LIFELONG HABIT FOR GOOD HEALTH

We hear so much about eating healthy, exercising regularly and avoiding lifestyle choices like smoking. While this is certainly good advice, we don't hear as much about our patterns of thinking and attitude towards life. However, it's a fact that your psychological outlook can have a dramatic effect on your overall health and longevity. Have you ever noticed that people who perceive the proverbial glass as being half full seem to enjoy life more than their neighbor who sees it consistently half empty?

The power of positive thinking cannot be underrated. Remember Eeyore, the famously depressed and negative-thinking character in the Winnie the Pooh stories? Poor Eeyore always saw the worst case of any situation. When faced with the possibility of a negative outcome, Eeyore would immediately embrace that negative outcome as the only possible result.

If you instead embrace positive thinking and a good result, you'll be surprised to find how often that becomes the case. It has been argued in medical circles that up to 90% of disease has psychological origins. A famous medical study in the 1940s found that women who were depressed were much more likely to be diagnosed with cancer at some point. This is food for thought for all of us.

People who actively practice positive thinking are far less likely to become ill and are generally happier than those who make it their habit to find and cultivate the bad news in any situation.

Next time you feel as though you've caught a chill and are headed for a bad cold, try this positive thinking exercise. First, assess your facts. You were out in the cold and got damp and chilled. Sneezes ensued. OK, but it doesn't necessarily follow that you're doomed to a week of blowing your nose and feeling miserable. What can you do to ward off the bad effects of your chill? You can get warm and cozy, take a big dose of vitamin C and settle back with a cup of herbal tea and a good book. Don't even think about coming down with the inevitable cold. Take care of yourself, stay warm and mentally give that cold the brushoff. You'll be astonished to find how effective a remedy positive thinking is.

Positive thinking habits assume the best, not the worst. Let's say you're interviewing for a new job. Don't be like Eeyore. Your negative attitude will show. The prospective employer will see your lack of confidence and your no-can-do posture as a negative communication. How will such a person fare when faced with a challenging deadline or major decision? Eeyore won't get the job.

Forming the habit of thinking positively is one of the best actions you can take to improve your overall health. Your mind is a powerful ingredient in the recipe for good health!


