Some people were just born to be in medicine. They are compassionate, empathetic and love knowing they are making a difference in the life of someone who isn’t feeling well. It’s difficult to imagine what the world would be like without doctors and nurses to provide medical care. They aren’t the only ones crucial to quality patient care though. Licensed practical nurses are the unsung heroes of the medical profession. If you’ve ever spent anytime in a hospital or visited a long term care facility, you’ve likely seen a LPN in action. This is a great job for anyone who has the inclination to enter the medical profession without the drive to attend school for many years. A practical school of nursing offers classes to those who want to pursue this lucrative career.

Every state has its own set of credentials that have to be met in order to qualify as a LPN. If this is something that you are serious about pursuing you should do some research to determine when classes start. Most technical and trade schools offer this program and some even offer distance practical nursing school. Studying from home at your own pace can be beneficial as long as you are committed to the coursework. You have to set aside time each day to complete your studies if you are serious about succeeding.

Students can expect to be studying for approximately eleven months. They also must complete a field component while they are attending their practical school of nursing classes. This is often the most anticipated part of the course as it allows the students the chance to get some hands-on training.

When the training is done, the student is ready to get their feet wet in the work force. They’ll find that completing their practical school of nursing education opens up many different career opportunities for them. Many LPNs work in doctors’ offices, while others find working in a private clinic more rewarding. They’ll be under the supervision of a registered nurse and will help them in various ways.

Many kids right out of high school pursue this career because it is so lucrative. Some use their practical school of nursing education as a springboard to a career as a registered nurse or a doctor later in life. Others find it completely rewarding to provide daily care to patients as a LPN. 

Even if you graduated from the twelfth grade decades ago, you shouldn’t consider yourself too old to become a LPN. This position is really in high demand and if you take a year out of your life to complete your practical nursing schooling, you’ll be rewarded with an exciting career that you can enjoy until you retire. 




