I'm about to tell you a story. It's about a woman I know and a spooky night at her office building. It happened last spring and it goes like this. Tammy was finishing up with some last minute paper work. She shoved her personal belongings into a shoulder bag with her laptop, snatched her purse from her desk and head out. Up the elevator she went, to the top of a parking garage. She always had to park up top because it was all that was left when she arrived each day. The elevator chimed and she stepped off. The sun was falling in the background as she proceeded toward her car. There were plenty of other vehicles parked about, but no people in sight. That's when she spotted a strange man. He was standing near a van in a far corner, and appeared to be watching her. She proceeded with haste to her car. As she pulled out a set of keys from her purse, she noticed the man moving toward her out of the corner of her eye. This is when she stopped. She turned and stared at the man for a moment to let him know she knew. Now the man paused. Tammy hit the self start button on her keypad and resumed her stride, reaching the car. The man then retreated. She entered her car and drove off with a great sigh of relief. 

Tammy's story is a great one because it's minor in a way, but real as ever. She didn't scream at the top of her lungs, pull out a gun or set off a raging Python alarm, but she did make an intrepid gesture. She stood her ground and sent a message to a potential attacker. The message said I'm aware of your presence and I'm not frightened. Typically assailants don't like this attitude and awareness. They go for the meek ones who scare easily. Now, let's talk about alarms. Personal alarms or a Python alarm for your car; both can be effective. In fact, Tammy had a Python alarm installed in her Pacifica not long after that. She wants to be sure no one can sneak inside when she at work. That would be an awful surprise. But a Python alarm is also good for other things like causing a ruckus when you feel threatened. There's nothing like a loud screaming alarm system to draw some attention. This is where personal alarms can come in handy as well. 

Take advantage of these devices! Have a Python alarm system installed in your vehicle for a little extra security. And don't be afraid to make eye contact with someone if they're following you. Let your presence be known and keep your head high. 