register to vote

One thing I hope my daughter does when she is old enough to do so is to register to vote. Though registering does not mean someone will vote, it is a great step in the right direction. I would hope that more and more people get fed up with what is going on with our government and register. When I was younger I didn’t care enough to vote, but now it is something that I very strongly believe everyone should do. Though there is no way to make someone vote, you can encourage them to register to vote so that if they feel the urge, they can run out and vote.

There are a lot of people who are complaining about our government, but they have not taken the time to register to vote let alone taking the time to actually vote in elections. When I was young, my mother always told me to quit complaining about things and to get up to do something about them. I grew up believing that if you don’t try to change a situation you have no right to complain. You might fail, but at least you tried. Yes, there are things you may not be able to do, but voting is something anyone of voting age can do. There are exceptions, but the majority can vote.

There are many serious issues going on right now, and there are more and more people sitting up and taking notice. I can almost understand that some do not register to vote because they are fine with how things are going. This is rapidly changing through, and the war in Iraq is one of the biggest reasons. What was supposed to be a short invasion has turned into somewhat of a quagmire. This issue is making more and more people take notice of what is going on, and I hope this is encouraging them to go out and register to vote so that they might have a say in who leads our country.

Not everyone who registers will vote, but it is a great step towards getting more people out to vote. The problem still lies within the youngest generation. Though there are some that are passionate about voting and making their voice heard, there are many others that are completely apathetic. There are many programs to encourage the youngest generation to vote, and they do seem to be working some, but we have a long way to go.