Remedies For Gas

Perhaps one of the most embarrassing things that can happen to you when you’re on a date is to have an attack of gas. Even though this may not be a problem if you get to know someone, the first few times it happens in front of someone new many people wish they could crawl into the woodwork after it happens. There are many remedies for gas that can help you with this problem, but probably the best remedy is prevention. As the years go by, you have probably already begun to figure out what gives you gas, and what foods are safe to eat.

Sometimes remedies for gas are more important than just trying to be presentable in front of another person. Sometimes if gas gets caught within your system to can be quite painful. There are special remedies for gas that are made just for this purpose. I know that it is not something that is easy to talk about, but you can go to the store to buy something just for this. When this happened to my husband a few weeks ago, he was too embarrassed to go to store himself. I went out and bought the medication for him, and within 24 hours he was right as rain.

There are also remedies for gas stop the problem before it begins. Some people like to take Bean-o to prevent gas before begins. Many people who love to eat vegetables like broccoli, or other vegetables that are known to cause gas, like to eat Bean-o before they eat. This will stop the gas from forming. Though these remedies for gas don’t always work completely, they will offer you some relief. If you know you’re going to have a meal high in gas producing foods, you may want to try to take this before you eat.  

The best remedies for gas are ones that are completely preventative. If you know that broccoli or baked beans will give you gas, do not eat these within a day or two of a special event. I know that when I drink a lot of soda I have problems for days afterwards. This is why you will rarely catch me drinking soda, and that is one of the many reasons why I have switched to coffee. If you want to use this type of remedies for gas, make note of what you had to eat when you feel an attack of gas coming on. The longer you pay attention to what you are eating and what it does to your body, the easier it will become for you to avoid the foods that cause gas.