All of us go through many changes in our lives. Some of them are changes that make us happy and improve our way of life. Other changes may make us sad with grief and loss and bring about depression and sorrow. No matter how we live our lives we cannot avoid the fact that things change and we need to cope and deal with the changes to continue in our life journey. How we deal with change and make adjustments for it determines for happy we are.

My girl friend recently was divorced. This has been a difficult time for her. She knows that the divorce is the best thing for her and her husband, but she is also grieving the losses that ending her marriage relationship has brought about. She asked me if I would be willing to spend some of my vacation time to go on a trip with her. She wanted to take some time to get away and relax. We have taken other vacations together and have found that we travel easily together. We decided that for this trip we would look into a resort and spa. My friend loves to drive and she did not want the hassle of flying, especially since all of her new identification from her recent name change was not yet available. We contacted our travel agent and asked her to find a resort and spa that would be within a six hour drive from our area. We thought six hours would be enough distance to give up a change of scenery and close enough to make the trip bearable.

The travel agent came up with several resort and spa locations. Some were in a retreat type setting that included groups and seminars. Although some of the topics sounded quite interesting, we were not looking for this type of vacation. Some of the other offerings were more geared towards families. We both enjoy children, but we did not want to be in a family centered spot. There was another list that concentrated on weight-loss, but this did not fit our needs either. She finally located a resort and spa that was located seven hours from us. It was in a beautiful recreation area and also close to a large American Indian casino. There were several restaurants in the area as well as shopping and night life. This seemed like the perfect destination. The spa featured mud baths, pedicures, manicures, body wraps and many message options. The resort featured a large swimming pool, tennis courts rental bikes and trails to ride them on as well as nightly entertainment and three restaurant choices. This was a great trip for both of us. We had our travel time to talk, we had alone time to relax during our spa treatments and we had fun gambling and dancing in the evenings. We agreed that this is a trip we will repeat in the years to come.
