When I was a kid, going to the circus was a tradition among our family. It was one of our favorite things to do. In most families, the parents amuse the children by taking them to the circus, but in our family things were different. You see, my parents had both been circus performers when they were younger. My mom had been a trapeze artist, and my dad had been a juggler, clown, and mime. As a matter of fact, they were involved in a circus arts group, and still occasionally did charity events in the community.

Every time the circus would come to town, we would go see it. We bought Ringling Brothers Circus tickets whenever we had a chance. Although there are more cutting-edge circuses than Ringling Brothers Barnum and Bailey, there aren't any ones that are more classic. To many families across America and the world, buying Ringling Bros Circus tickets is the only way to go to the circus. They go all over the place, to both big and small towns. Long before Cirque du Soleil and other new, artsy circuses, they were already putting on a great show.

Back then, we would not get just any Ringling Brothers Circus tickets. My father and mother both have connections in the circus community, and we could get exclusive tickets. Even if the show was sold out, they could usually get Ringling Brothers Circus tickets for one of the best seats in the house. It depended on where we were going. If we were seeing them downtown, we would want to be near the front row. If we were seeing them in a smaller place, however, sometimes it was better to be up in the balcony. It really depended on the venue, but every time my dad and mom would manage to get us the best Ringling Brothers Circus tickets. It was pretty uncanny.

Back then, Ringling Brothers Circus tickets were pretty spendy. Nowadays, however, it appears that they have fallen on hard times. Last time I went and bought a Ringling Brothers circus ticket, it was cheaper than it had been several years ago. They even had free passes for taking your kids along. I think that next time the circus comes to town, that is exactly what I will do. The kids are just getting to the age when they will appreciate it, and I know they will love it as much as I did.