Self Watering Planters Give Everyone a Green Thumb

In the lazy days of summer, you can often see bright and beautiful flowers in yards everywhere. It’s at this time of year, that people put their green thumbs to good use. Many people want a lush floral look in their landscaping designs, but they can’t be bothered with the daily watering of the plants. There’s an easy and effective solution to this problem that allows anyone to plant flowers and then just water and fertilize them periodically. Self watering planters can help turn anyone’s thumb green.

Most annual and perennials rely heavily on two things. Sunlight is essential to the growth of most flowers and flowering bushes, as is water. Placing the plants in an area of your yard where they can soak up some rays daily is highly recommended. If your home can accommodate them, window box planters are ideal. They not only brighten up the landscaping, but they also add a dynamic element to the look of your home. Deck planters do the same and one of the advantages of them, is that they are often portable, which means you can create a new look just by moving them to a different spot. Both varieties of planters can be purchased with the self watering feature.

If you are taking off for a summer vacation, normally you’d have to enlist someone to tend to your gardening. This holds true whether you’ve got a bright and brilliant arrangement of flowers or if you’ve decided to grow a few red, juicy tomatoes or peppers. If you place them in self watering planters, you can actually keep them moist the entire time you are away. Just fill up the self watering container before you leave, and ensure they’re in a spot where they’ll catch some sun each afternoon or morning. This takes one task away from the person who will be mowing your lawn in your absence.

Styles and designs on these gardening aids run the gamut. Many people still lean towards the traditional, pedestal, white planters. These are convenient and really inexpensive. You can get self watering planters like this and just add water with a little fertilizer mixed in once a week or so. If a concrete look is more appealing to you, you’ll have several to choose from that also give you the luxury of less watering.

Be sure to enjoy your flowers by picking them and placing them inside from time to time. Flowers can add a bright spark to just about any room in the home and it’s always a little more rewarding to look at an arrangement that you grew yourself. With so many self watering planters available, there’s no excuse not to grow your own. 



