I might be strange, but I never seem to use the top sheet that come with each of the sheet sets that I buy. For some reason though, I always buy the sets rather than just buying a fitted sheet. I guess I always think that I should be using them, and I think if I buy them, I will. When I sleep at a hotel, I always use one, but I never bother to put one on my bed at home. I sleep under my comforter and that is usually all that I need.

I suspect I might not be alone, though when I worked as a maid I noticed that most people did use them. My mother always had one on my bed when I was growing up, and I was always comfortable with using both of the pieces in sheet sets back then. Perhaps I have just gotten lazier in my older age. I don’t tend to put both pieces of a sheet set on my daughter’s bed either. Maybe when she gets a bigger bed I’ll remember to put one on for her so she can decide what she prefers while she sleeps.

If you are like me, you don’t have to think that half of your sheet sets are going to go to waste. There are all sorts of things that you can do with the sheet if you don’t end up using it on your bed. The spares are always great when you have company, especially if it is hot in your home. They may prefer to sleep with just sheets, even though that might not be how you have a bed made up for them. They are great for children too, as they can use them for pretend picnics, or even as a cape when they play.

Those extra pieces from sheet sets can also be used as a drop cloth for many activies in the home. When my daughter wants to do art, I have to have something on the floor to catch the paint and whatever else it is that she drops. Though sheet sets will not be useable again if they have paint on them, that won’t matter if you don’t use them much. They can then be used again for crafts, or even for a drop cloth if you want to paint rooms in your home. Even better, if you are only using part of your sheet sets, you can always donate the unused part to a charity. Someone out there can use them, and will appreciated what you don’t particularly need.