I have always loved short stories, ever since I was very young. Of course, when I was a kid the short tales that I read were mostly fantasy. I loved folklore, mythology ,and anything else that involved fantastic creatures or other worlds. It seems that my tastes have changed a lot over the years, and there are many things that I enjoy now that I wouldn't have liked very much even as a young adult. Even so, fantasy and science fiction stories still have a special place in my heart.

When I was a kid, of course, my favorite thing was to be read short stories by my mother or father. They were both good readers, and were always able to pick out the very best short story collections for kids. They, like me, had been raised on tales of the fantastic, and so they knew just what short stories would hold my interest. They also really loved to read out loud, and I think that it gave them a great deal of pleasure to see me so entranced by the stories that they themselves had grown up on.

Of course, now that I am older, I do not have anyone to read to me. That is why I enjoy audio books so much. You can find most of the most famous or popular novels in audio book form, but with short stories it is a little more hit or miss. A lot of the best stories out there have never been recorded. Still, you would be surprised at the number of things that you can find if you are willing to really do a search for them. There are quite a number of gems out there just waiting to be discovered!

If you are a real short story fan, the best place to read them is in new fiction magazines. There are literally thousands of amazing authors out there, each one of them churning out amazing tales for your reading pleasure. Few of them ever get widely known, so if you really want to keep up with the times, you have to read some short story collections and periodicals. They are quite affordable, and will give you a great idea of what is going on in the world of writing at the moment. They will also give you hours of reading pleasure that you can take with you anywhere.