I've always enjoyed renting cabins in the Smoky Mountains. You see, I used to spend a lot of time there as a kid. My mother and father were both from Tennessee and, although they had left years before, they still missed it from time to time. They actually owned a Smoky Mountain cabin together with my father's brother. It was a rustic little place with only two bedrooms and a small kitchen, but it was home away from home for us. The view was out of this world, and the solitude and quiet was something that we did not get to experience during the rest of the year in the city where we lived.

Eventually, we had to part with that smoky mountain cabin.  It was just too difficult to accommodate two families in the same two room cabin, and besides the whole thing was kind of rustic and falling apart. I was a little worried when my parents finally sold off the smoky mountain cabin. I figured that would be the end of our vacations. In reality, it was more like the beginning.

Every year after that we would rent smoky mountain cabins. It was really nice, because they were in much better condition than the little rustic shed that we had stayed in formerly. We got to try out different areas of the Smoky Mountains, so every year was a new adventure. In some ways I missed having a place I could come back to year after year, but I have to admit it was nice to always have fresh terrain to explore!

Having kids of my own, I have not had the chance to take many vacations recently, but that has finally changed. My daughter is just getting to the age where she can take a Smoky Mountain cabin vacation. This year, we are pulling out all the stops. We are renting a pretty luxurious cabin for a whole week in the Smoky Mountains. I can't wait. I'm thinking that if it is as much fun as I remember, we might actually buy cabin of our own now. My wife and I have been saving up for a vacation home for a while, and a Smoky Mountain log cabin seems like the perfect investment. After all, buying real estate is almost always a win-win situation. Whether you hang onto it and rent it, or sell it off for a profit, you will still do well.