Spanish Lessons

I have recently thought about taking Spanish lessons. I took some Spanish in high school, but I guess I didn’t learn as much as I should. I think I took about nine weeks, but in the end I could only count to seven and say hello and thank you in that language. That’s not the worst of it though. I took two years of French and I remember even less of it than that. I have considered taking Spanish lessons as of late because I have a daughter who, at age five, has surpassed my knowledge of the language.

My daughter’s grandmother speaks Spanish as her first language, though you would never know it by listening to how well she speaks English. She can speak both fluently, and she has given my daughter mini Spanish lessons. They say that this is the best time for a child to learn another language, and she is indeed picking up what she has been taught rather quickly. I don’t know what she is saying to me half of the time when she speaks Spanish and I can see where this could be a problem in the future.

I don’t know if I have the time to take Spanish lessons right now, but the thought of speaking a different language appeals to me more now than it did when I was in high school. Back then, it was more of a fleeting thought, and I took the classes because I was required to do so. If I were to take Spanish lessons now, I think I would be more successful because I truly have an interest in learning it now.

I have not yet started taking Spanish lessons, but I have looked into it a little bit. I have found that I can go somewhere to take a class, though that is out of the question, or I can get a DVD or CD to help me in this endeavor. Because of time restraints, I will most likely take Spanish lessons on DVD because this is most convenient to my life. This means that I can take on a lesson when I have the time, and I can learn at my own pace. Perhaps I will further enhance what my daughter is learning by sharing the Spanish lessons I will be taking with her as I go. Maybe then she can surprise her grandmother with some new words.