There comes a season that every college student across America looks forward to. It's when the climate warms up, the flowers start to bloom and the trees fill out. Clearly I'm talking about spring. So, why do college students get so excited about Mother Nature's work? That's an easy on. Spring is also a time when students have a solid nine days off. This means rest, relaxation, and of course oodles of partying. Are you up to date on the finest spring break locations? If not, don't give it a second thought. I'm about to fill you in. 

While California is known for it's wealth of sunny weather and mild temperatures, it's not as big as other areas when it comes down to spring break locations. Think more along the lines of Cabo San Lucas and Cancun, Mexico. These are two of the favorite hot spots for spring breakers living on the West Coast. It only makes sense that they trudge down into Mexico, which is not far away in the first place. Just make certain you have your passport ready prior to heading out. While foreign lands can be great for vacations and downtime, you'll surely want to get back home without any trouble when you R&R is through. As for the East Coast, spring break locations tend to vary. Being a North Carolina native myself, I can personally state that college spring breakers flock to Myrtle Beach on a yearly basis. This has been a major spring break destination for years and is continuing its reign as one of the champions. I reckon college students just love the touristy feel and easy access to the ocean. The Grand Strand is where it all goes down in this popular beach town. 

For those seeking out the most posh spring break locations, you'll likely want to check out Miami and South Beach, Florida. These two sunny paradises rank high on the ideal spring break locations list. There are beaches and club scenes galore all over Miami. Just be sure you bring enough cash to afford the hotel rooms and cover charges. As you probably already guessed, Miami is not exactly a cheap city to party in. Regardless of what spring break locations tickle your fancy, who you're with will always make the difference. Just remember to have a safe and exciting spring break this year. 