spring water

There are many that say buying bottled water is a waste of time, and I agree somewhat. Most tap water is just fine, and the water is just as good as any other water. However, there are some differences and this is why people like to buy it, and I am one of those people. I don’t have to have it all of the time, but there are many times when I prefer to have a fresh bottle of spring water with me, and there are times when nothing else will do. 

There are many types of bottled water, but spring water is my favorite. Everyone seems to have their favorite, and that is why there are so many types. I honestly can’t tell the difference between many of them, but I do tend to buy the spring water before anything else. I usually buy it in large cases so that I can have it in my refrigerator. The only problem I have with this is that it seems to be a lot of bottles and I think I might have to buy a reusable bottle and then buy my water in gallons rather than the smaller bottles.

When I do buy the spring water in cases, I like that it is cold and waiting for me in the fridge. I don’t have to add ice, which is a problem for me. The water in my town is okay, but it is not great once frozen. There is an aftertaste to the ice that is most notable when it is added to water. It doesn’t seem to matter in other beverages, but I can taste it in the water. I try to buy ice from the store because of this problem, but because I have a small freezer, I can’t always do that.

The spring water cases I buy are mostly for convenience and so that I have something to take with me when I run out the door. I don’t drink soda or juices, so it is much cheaper to have bottled spring water in my fridge. They cost less this way anyway. When I drink them at home, I have a bottle of the water and then refill it a few times with tap water as the day goes on to cut down on the amount of bottles that I am using up in a day. I am aware now, more than ever, that my choices affect the world. I’m not perfect, but I am trying to make small changes that can add up to big results.
