Are you tired of the snow and ice yet? Do you feel like strangling the meteorologist if he mentions one more wintery mix? Hey, I understand what you're going through. After a few months of sub-zero weather and slick roads, you tend to get sick of the winter season. You start to wonder when those spring flowers will pop up and the lawns will be green again. Let me reassure you that it will happen, and it won't be long now. There's nothing quite like the switch from winter to spring. It's like everything was dead and then suddenly all is full of life once more. What a beautiful site to see. 

My wife gets so ecstatic when it comes to spring time. She's sort of like those cliche cheesy moms from a 50s television show. You know, the whole spiel about the spring flowers blooming, the sun shining, and the grass growing. But I totally accept the fact that she's corny. It can be a cool trait at times. Anyway, what about your scene? How's the yard going to look this spring? Let me tell you that a few spring flowers can make all the difference. If you're not sure where to begin, you can always have a landscaper come out and toss you some ideas. They can give you advice on how to spruce up you lot and make it the best it can be. Even if you don't care much for rich green lawns, aged trees and spring flowers, other people do. In fact, they seriously prefer it. What I'm getting at is your home and property value. The more you groom and take great care of your house, the more it will sell for in the future. You also have to consider neighborhood home values. Each house on the bock has to do their part so that the suburb will be desirable to live in. 

There is so much to choose from when it comes to spring flowers and landscaping additions. Check out your local nursery and see what's available. I truly believe that there are plants and flowers for everyone. You may not go gaga over roses, but maybe a Japanese maple will do the trick. Ponder ways to spruce-up your home with spring flowers, trees and bushes. Your neighbors will love you for it. 