Spring Break Cabo San Lucas

Spring break comes but once a year, usually occurring the third or fourth week of March, or the first week of April. This is the time of year when all those living things (including us!), dormant through winter months, begin to rejuvenate from increased sunlight and warmer temperatures. This is a time for everyone, not just students, to take a break away from their normal responsibilities and have fun! Some even go so far as to lose all their inhibitions (we’ve all seen those “Girls Gone Wild” ads!)!! Spring break is really a time to get outside again, to let the wind blow in your face, to re-energize you body and spirit with life again! What better place is there than spring break Cabo San Lucas?  

When it comes to spring break, there are many Mexican destinations to choose from, but Cabo San Lucas is one that’s at the top of the list. Visited by many tourists throughout the year, Cabo San Lucas is especially popular during the spring break season. This Mexican resort community is located at the very southern tip of the Baja California Sur peninsula, at the end of the eighteen mile stretch of coastline along the tourist corridor beginning at San Jose del Cabo. The peninsula is bordered by the Pacific Ocean on the west and the Sea of Cortez on the east. Spring break Cabo San Lucas is the destination for deep sea fishing, snorkeling, scuba diving, and whale watching. Experience fine dining and luxurious ambiance on ocean side patios, where gourmet chefs prepare seafood dishes with a Mexican flare. Good food and drink is in abundance at popular venues and resorts throughout the corridor. 

Cabo San Lucas is a world-class resort destination, known for its fun atmosphere and unparalleled local beauty. Spring break Cabo San Lucas also has some of the hottest night life in the western hemisphere too. The online spring break resource, www.mexicospringbreak.com, features some of the more popular night spots including Squid Roe, the Giggling Marlin, Carlos and Charlie’s, and the world famous Cabo Wabo. The entire bar scene is packed into a four square block strip making it easy to hop from club to club. Also be sure to check out www.loscabosguide.com for spring break Cabo San Lucas general information, including beaches, luxury resorts, golf courses, and what to in Cabo San Lucas, San Jose del Cabo, and other surrounding areas in Baja California Sur, Mexico.
