Enjoying the wonder of nature is something most of us don’t do enough of. If you are fortunate enough to live in an area where birds, chipmunks and squirrels abound, it’s lovely to sit out in the backyard and just absorb all that nature has to offer by watching the wildlife. Having a feeder filled with seeds is wonderful for the area birds, but can become a haven for the squirrels that frequent the neighborhood. With a squirrel proof bird feeder you can provide feed for the birds without having to worry about the squirrels interfering.

The first thing you are likely to notice when you go shopping for one of these for your backyard is how wide the selection is. This is particularly true in the spring and summer months when everyone is out buying outdoor accessories for their homes. Most gardening or hardware stores will have different feeders including a squirrel proof bird feeder or two to choose from. The type you buy will depend on several factors including price and where you will be mounting or hanging it.

Home handymen might want to take on a project like this. Building small items is a fun and interesting hobby for both men and women and after a long week in an office, getting the chance to make something with their own hands is very rewarding and relaxing. Making a squirrel proof bird feeder is a bit of a challenge but if you’ve got the skill and the patience, it most certainly can be done.

Once you’ve taken on the task and completed one for your own backyard don’t be surprised if neighbors or visitors ask where you got the squirrel proof bird feeder. It’s rare for a skilled handyman not to have compliments on his or her work. You may even find yourself building a feeder for others as well.

Mounting them isn’t difficult at all. You first must decide on a spot to put the feeder. Depending on the size and shape of it, hanging it from a tree might be the best idea. Others find it better if they attach the squirrel proof bird feeder to the fence. Just be sure you pick a spot that is easily accessible for the birds.

Regardless of where you do put it be prepared to watch the squirrels try with all their might to get to the feed. They are persistent little creatures and it will take them awhile before they finally realize that it’s a futile endeavor. Don’t worry about them going hungry though because those resourceful little animals always find something to eat. 


