Stainless Steel Cookware

I just signed the lease on my very first apartment, and will be moving in next month. I got a pretty good deal on a truly fantastic place, and am very excited about everything right now! To make things even better, my parents are giving me a bunch of their old living room furniture and have agreed to let me take my bedroom set, so I don't have to worry about spending money on those things. In fact, all I have left to do is outfit my kitchen with dishes, silverware, a coffee maker, and some pots and pans.

I figure the pots and pans will leave the biggest dent in my wallet because I plan on purchasing stainless steel cookware instead of the cheaper stuff. This might not seem like a sound decision for me to make, especially since money is tight right now. But I know that stainless steel cookware is tougher and lasts longer than coated aluminum products, so I will actually end up saving money. I would rather just buy one quality set now than have to go through two or three cheaper sets in the same time frame.

I've already started shopping for stainless steel cookware online, and have found that I have a lot of different options to choose from. For example, I can go with a basic cooking set that consists of just a few pieces or I can spring for a professional set that contains every type of pot and pan that I would ever need. In addition, I can choose from name-brand stainless steel cookware, or go with a relatively obscure manufacturer in order to save a few bucks.

Either way, there are plenty of websites that offer discount stainless steel cookware for both commercial and personal use. I've seen some incredibly good deals out there, and am sure that I'll be able to find something to my liking. I might even be able to buy All-Clad stainless steel cookware, which most people agree is the absolute best on the market today. The regular retail price for All-Clad certainly reflects its elite status, but I've seen it listed for 75% off at some websites.

Anyway, I still have a month left to make my final decision on which set of stainless steel cookware I should buy, so I'm not in too much of a hurry here. For now, I'm just happy to have a better idea of what's out there and how much money I'll need to save up for my purchase.