It is hard for me to admit this, but since the movie “The fast and The Furious,” I have been addicted to street racing videos. I have seen them all – commercial drag racing videos, illegal street car racing videos – you name it, I have a copy of it. It is really a guilty pleasure of mine. Not only do I consider a street car racing video to be kind of tacky, but often very bad things happen in them. It seems like an awful thing to be entertained by an event for someone gets hurt, yet in many of the street racing videos this is exactly what happens.

You see, the laws are written so that it is easy to sell an underground street racing video. There is some legal liability, but unless the person who films the street racing clip was directly involved in organizing the racing, they are probably off the hook. There are even motorcycle racing videos, featuring import motorcycles zooming between traffic at extremely high speeds. Not only is this dangerous for the motorcycle drivers, but it is dangerous for the other cars as well. I have even seen street racing videos that show innocent bystanders swerving out of the way to avoid the racers!

Nonetheless, there is something about the street racing videos that makes it very hard for me to look away. I have tried, and I cannot put them down. At one point, I even lent all of my street racing videos to a friend who lives about six hours away. I figured that would be the end of it until I saw him again in a couple months, but to my surprise I found myself driving over there in the middle of the night to get my movies back. I even almost got into a street drag race the other day with some jerk who was revving his engine me. Although I know it is not wise to mimic the street racing videos, there is something about it that makes it hard to resist. It is so compelling, so dangerous, and so flashy.

If you have never looked at street racing videos, I would recommend that you continue to stay away from them. Perhaps it is just me – maybe there is nothing that is really all that addictive about them. Even so, it probably isn't worth the risk. They will definitely leave you with a sick feeling, even if they are thrilling to watch.