table manners

I have tried my hardest, but it seems that I can’t teach my child table manners. She is resistant to the point where I wonder if someone is un-training her when I am not looking. We work really hard to get her to say ‘please’ and ‘thank you’ but even after years of this, we have to keep reminding her. She doesn’t seem to get the concept of eating over her plate so the food does not go all over her, and even though we tell her about this very single meal, she doesn’t get it. I don’t know what to do.

It’s funny, because she watches a few children’s shows that promote table manners, among many other wonderful things. I know she knows what to do, but for some reason, she just won’t do it. I guess I shouldn’t be surprised. She’s a rebel and I know that I am in for some major battles when she gets older. However, I wonder what I am going to do if I can’t even get her to learn or at least try to use her table manners. What must other moms think of me?

I know they probably don’t think much about it. I know that I am not the only one with a child who couldn’t care less about their table manners. It is almost comforting when I see other children who are my daughter’s age eating just like she does, and I see the looks of horror on their mothers’ faces and I know it’s not just me. Most of us are trying, but there seems to be some revolt against learning table manners.

Now that I think about it, I think it’s revolt in general. I think it’s just childhood, but since I can’t remember that time in life very well, I would think that I probably did it too. I know that rebelling and trying to find things out on your own are a part of childhood, and is a great way for kids to learn about the world and about who they are going to be. However, if I had just one wish for this moment in time, it would be that she would use her table manners once in a while. I know she has them and knows them, but she just won’t use them. There are bigger battles I suppose, but I for one am glad that this is my biggest worry with her at the moment.