If you know anyone in law enforcement, they can definitely tell you how important each piece of their equipment is. As any fool can see, they wear a lot of items. I used to call my father's work belt, the Bat belt, because it looked like a belt full of gadgets and weapons like Batman straps on. Makes perfect sense though. These men and women face all sorts of things each and every day on the job. It's better to have something if you should need it. One of the main items that law enforcement officers carry is a firearm. This weapon is mounted on their side in a tactical holster. Now days holsters are much cooler than they were back in the Wild West, and much faster to draw from as well. 

The very first tactical holster I saw was of course my father's. It was constructed of black leather and had spring steel clamps in the front. I know it's probably difficult to picture. Basically how it worked was; the Glock rested in it like any other tactical holster, but when you needed to draw your weapon, you simply pressed the handgun through the front of the tactical holster. It spread apart, then clamped back together. It was very fast! Probably one of the cooler handgun holsters around in the 80s. One thing I noticed about law enforcement officers is that they wore their firearm with the hammer cocked, and the holster strap blocking it from firing. It's about being as prepared as you can for anything. 

Even civilians get certified and wear tactical holster rigs. You too can get a license to carry a concealed firearm as long as you're of age and haven't been convicted of a crime. These days there are quite a few to select from. My eldest brother is an avid firearm carrier. He has the most bizarre tactical holster for his handgun that's rigged in a pair of rubber underwear. Now that's devotion to toting around a weapon for self-defense. Also tactical holsters don't have to be solely for firearms. They can also be purchased for expandable batons, tazers, stun guns, pepper spray and knives. Explore the world of possibilities when it comes to self defense weapons and carrying them quietly on your person. 