You want to know what really stinks? It's needing a device, but you don't have it on you. This can have some serious consequences. Imagine you were stranded somewhere in the dead of winter, because your car broke down, and you lacked a cell phone, emergency blankets, and even a lighter or some matches. This situation could get pretty hairy. It certainly wouldn't be the first time it's occurred. This is why at a young age, my father always told me to pack emergency supplies in my vehicle. These consist of a heavy blanket, snow boots, gloves, a few tactical lights, matches, and a couple MRE packs. If you're not hip with the MRE lingo, it stands for meals ready to eat. Military folks know all about them. Naturally you shouldn't have to use these supplies on a regular basis, or even once a year. Hopefully you won't need them at all. They're in your vehicle just in case. On the other hand, you may carry a few handy devices on your person that you use daily. I know I do. What are yours? 

Ever since I can remember, I've loved knives and tactical lights. And I know I'm not alone. I can always spot an individual who's carrying a folder or tactical flashlight in his/her pocket. These are simple tools that take care of plenty. I never leave home without them. My folding knife comes into play virtually every day for something, whether big or small. With tactical lights, you may not use them quite as often, depending on what you do for a living. My buddy who's an electrician has his tactical flashlight in-hand for most of the day. I use mine for more routine tasks around the home. But, that's not all modern tactical lights are good for. Take Surefire for example. Most law enforcement officers carry these now days. They've been known for stopping bullets. One officer in particular was fired upon and the bullet hit his Surefire flashlight. The compact device stopped the bullet and allowed him to safely subdue the suspect. And the flashlight still worked afterwards. AWESOME. Today's tactical lights are great for self-defense. Since many are made from T-6 aluminum, they're perfect for striking an assailant. Plus the light beam is so powerful, it can temporarily blind an attacker, allowing you to flee. 

The prices vary with modern tactical lights. You can spend anywhere from 30 bucks to 3 or 400 dollars. It all depends on what you're looking for. I highly recommend the Surefire Defender for personal carry. 