I have always loved tents camping. Every time I see a sign that says “tents for sale,” I practically have to stop in. I can't help it. I've been camping in tents since I was about six years old, and many of my fondest memories occurred in the great outdoors. I was tent camping with my dad the first time I saw the Milky Way. I was on a camping trip when I had my first crush. My first serious relationship started up during a canoe trip. I even took a tent camping honeymoon. So as you can imagine, I've got quite a few positive associations with camping trips.

Of course, being with good friends and in a beautiful location is not enough to guarantee that you will have a good time. Your camping supplies, in fact, make all the difference. It is amazing how few people really bother to think about necessary equipment before they go tent camping. I have seen many different parties  who buy inadequate tents for sale and try to take them into harsh environments. They buy a lightweight, cotton sleeping bag, a two-person tent, and think they are ready for camping in Michigan in the spring! The bottom line is, if you don't have the right supplies you are not going to have a good time.

Obviously, camping supplies start with finding the right tents for sale. There is one thing that many people don't realize until they have already purchased their first tent: the people-per-tent rating is almost always wrong. A tent that says it can sleep four, for example, will only be good for sleeping four if they have no gear with them and are content to lie against each other, packed in like sardines. Usually, your tent should be rated for at least one to two people more than you're taking with you.

The tents for sale you buy should depend on what climate you intend to go in, and how serious of a camping trip you are going to be taking. If you are just going to a roadside pull off campsite and the weather is good, you want to buy a big, lightweight tent. If you are going to camp in cold or wet weather, you need to find tents for sale designed to take it! They should be small to preserve body heat, and should have a lot of different layers to keep wind and rain out.