Types Of Cancer

As I get older it seems that I find out that there are more and more types of cancer than I ever knew. Just recently my father-in-law went through a bout with colon cancer, as well as the threat of liver cancer. Though cancer does not run in my family, I do know that my great grandfather died from bone cancer. There are also many different types of cancer that only women get. The most common of these are breast and cervical cancer. Though cancer is a scary word and a scary thought, it is good to know that the number of deaths due to cancer is going down.

Perhaps the reason that cancer survivors are greater number than they used to be is because that we are beginning to understand more and more about the different types of cancer. A good example of this is cervical cancer. Just recently it was discovered that this cancer is actually cause a virus. This is great news for women all around the world. Young girls and women can now be vaccinated against this type of cancer, and the rates of deaths from this types of cancer should go down dramatically. Though there have not been other breakthroughs for other cancers like this, you never know what another may occur.

Some types of cancer are easier to deal with than others. There are many factors that go into this, and early detection is one of the best things that can happen for anyone. If you have a history of cancer in your family, you may already know that your risks for developing many types of cancer is higher. However, even if there is not a history of cancer in your family, you can still get cancer at any time. Though this is  something we think might happen when we get older, there are many children who will tell you that this is not necessarily true for everyone.

As we learn more and more about the different types of cancer, we learn more and more how to treat it. Though there is not a cure for any type of cancer, and more people are surviving thanks to early detection and proper treatment. Going through chemotherapy and radiation may not be the most comfortable thing in the world, but it has become more and more successful as the years go along. The more you understand about the different types of cancer, the better your chances of survival are as well. If you know what to look for, you will know when you should go to see your doctor to get checked out.
