Ukraine travel

Many people look for more unusual places to go on vacation these days and countries from the former Soviet block are increasingly popular. The Ukraine is recommended for people with a sense of adventure who enjoy beautiful scenery and interesting cities. Ukraine travel offers mountains, coastal resorts, a fascinating history and friendly people. Visas are not usually required for people from most countries going on vacation purposes. Foreign languages are not widely spoken, with the exception of some Hungarian, so it's a good idea to take a Ukraine phrase book. 

Part of the fun of embarking on Ukraine travel is trying out the local dishes, which have a reputation for being very tasty. Menus are not usually translated and so be prepared for some surprises! Traditional dishes include Borsch Soup, which is made from beetroot. Other specialties include potato pancakes and dumplings with various fillings. The local drink is vodka or brandy, particularly the local Horika, which is vodka flavored with pepper. It is important to by alcoholic beverages from supermarkets or liquor stores as some dangerous fake drinks are sold elsewhere.

The capital city of Kiev is an ancient city with many historic attractions. The Boryspil International Airport is a busy landing place for tourists and the city is easy to explore by taxi, bus, metro or tram. There is also a funicular ride that gives spectacular views. Visitors can take a boat cruise to the Black Sea during the summer. 

Khreschatyk Street is the main thoroughfare in the city center and has a vibrant atmosphere with several street entertainers performing for the crowds. The oldest surviving church is St. Sophia's Cathedral, some of which dates back to the 11th century. The Pecherska Lavra is also well worth a visit on a Ukraine travel itinerary. This 11th century cave housed a monastery and underground church. Today, it caters for tourists and contains a museum, detailing the history of the cave and its inhabitants.

Odessa is another city, popular with tourists. It is one of the largest ports, serving the Black Sea and has a charming Old Town. It is a favorite resort amongst Ukrainian people as well as foreigners on Ukraine travel. There are many museums, galleries and parks. One of the most notable buildings in the city is the old opera house.

The Crimea, in the southern district of the Ukraine offers beach resorts and beautiful coastal, mountainous areas. Accommodation is inexpensive on the coast and the mountains are popular with backpackers, attracted to the many hiking trails. There are only a few camping sites however, so trips in this region must be well planned.
