Looking for unique Mother's Day gift ideas?

Mothers Day is coming and we all like to honor our Mother in a special way. Too often, we wait until the last minute, thinking we can certainly find something special if only we go out shopping in early May. Mom always loves a bouquet of her favorite flowers, but those should be purchased just the day before! However, if you're looking for unique Mothers Day gift ideas, it takes a little more time and thought. So now's the time to put on your thinking cap and be sure you have sufficient time to make your arrangements. Here are a few ideas to get those creative juices flowing.

Here's one that is surely a unique Mothers Day gift idea. A Mothers journal, filled with questions about your Mom's life, ideas, hopes and aspirations is a lovely and unique type of autobiography. Looking  through such a journal makes you realize how much you don't know about Mom. For example, do you know what your Mom's favorite childhood book was? Do you know what was her favorite subject in school? How about her first date? How about fashion trends when she was a teen? Kids tend to think of Mom as just Mom, as you've known her since your childhood. She will love to fill out this journal, all the more so because she knows her life has meaning to you beyond her adult years as your Mom.

Such unique Mothers Day gift ideas often requires some preparation. You've heard of newspaper clippings that can be compiled relating what happened on the day you were born. How about one for your Mom? You'll be amazed how extraordinary was the day that your Mom was born. Buy a nice photo album and have it embossed by a printer with a title, such as 'The Extraordinary Day my Mom was Born'.

This idea qualifies as a unique Mothers Day gift idea, but might be a bit pricey. Here, all her kids may need to chip in, but she will treasure it. Have a jeweler make a custom bracelet or necklace which contains her birthstone as well as that of each child. If you're an only child, have a ring made with both your birthstones side by side, surrounded by diamonds.

Sometimes, the element of surprise forms the basis of unique Mothers Day gift ideas. One she'd never expect. Does she love the theatre or ballet? Get tickets for her favorite theatre group or show. Perhaps her idea of a day in heaven is a day at a spa, being pampered mercilessly, but which she'd never buy for herself. Get it for her!

So here you have a start. Show Mom how much you love her with one of these ideas, or with one of your own unique Mothers Day gift ideas.
