University Courses Online

Although I have a pretty good job with decent pay, I know my career prospects are limited because of the fact that I don't have a college degree. Experience and know-how will only get me so far in the corporate world; at some point I'm going to need the academic credentials to prove that I'm qualified for a promotion. While I don't necessarily agree that this is the way things should be, there's no question that that's how the system currently works.

So in order to get ahead in my field, I'm going to start taking university courses online. By doing this, I can earn a Bachelor's degree in just a few years, and I won't even have to quit my job or travel to attend classes on campus. That's exactly the kind of situation I want, because then I'll actually be able to continue earning an income and pay for my university courses without having to take out student loans.

I have to admit that I was a bit worried about how online university courses are perceived compared to traditional classes. In other words, I wanted to make sure that my company would accept my degree as legitimate and regard it in the same way as one earned by sitting through lectures on campus. After all, I didn't want to spend thousands of dollars only to have my Human Resources department tell me that my degree was worthless. Fortunately, I found out that as long the university courses come from an accredited institution, I would be fine.

With that detail out of the way, I was able to start looking around for business university courses that I would be interested in taking. I was pretty much open to anything, so long as the classes were useful, applied towards a degree, and allowed me to do all the required work at my own pace. I soon found that there are so many online university courses available these days that I could choose from several excellent ones that would be perfect for me. The classes I want are offered through a very well known college, so I signed up and am looking forward to starting in the next couple of weeks.

At 36 years old, there's no way I would be comfortable sitting in a classroom with kids half my age, so I'm really happy that an alternative exists. By taking university courses online, I can get the same quality education that traditional students have access to without having to put the rest of my life on hold. I can't wait to finally earn my degree and move forward with my career!