Cleaning the home is never a simple task but there are many products designed to make the process much easier. One of the most difficult aspects of house cleaning is windows. However, if you find the right window cleaners to do the job, you will find that this is one of the most rewarding jobs there is.

Dirty glass is an eyesore and there is nothing you can really do to hide the grime on this most unforgiving surface. The right window cleaners will leave your glass shining and clear. In some cases, the glass will look invisible, as promised by some trendy commercials that you come across on the television.

So how do you determine which window cleaners will work?  To be honest, there are just too many options to choose just one. There are plenty of products that will do the job fine. Others do the job well and a handful of cleaning products for glass that really leave things gleaming with pride. Finding window cleaners for your home is a process.

Part of the process is figuring out what your preferences are. I personally like to use a squeegee for my windows. I am guaranteed a streak-free shine that is truly rewarding to see. The tool is inexpensive and I find that it saves me a lot of time in the window washing task. 

However, there are weekly touchups that are just too miniscule to bother with a window washing tool like a squeegee. Window cleaners that are designed for maintenance between springtime and fall cleaning come in many different forms. The ideal one for you depends on your personal preferences. 

You can always make your own window cleaners. The ingredients that are commonly used for these concoctions are really inexpensive. Vinegar, water and a dash of soap is all that it takes to leave windows sparkling. This do-it-yourself approach is great but it isn’t always convenient.

Aerosol window cleaners are wonderful and they are great to work with for a few reasons. They leave foam on the glass that is easy to see so you know what spots you have covered and what needs attention in a glance. The aerosol foam also never runs.

While the aerosol products are terrific, nothing but the traditional blue spray will do for some of us. I love these window cleaners because they are easy to use, clean and I find that other products just don’t stand up to this kind of cleaner. 
