Title: 
8 Great Gift Ideas For Your Boss This New Year

Word Count:
835

Summary:
The New Year is a Festive time - and its time for loving, sharing and celebrating. Gifts, by far are the best way to express one's feelings and intent and a thoughtful gift is always well reciprocated. When it comes to picking a New Year gift for your boss, people usually find themselves in a state of perplexity.


Keywords:
gift ideas, gifts


Article Body:
The New Year is a Festive time - and its time for loving, sharing and celebrating. Gifts, by far are the best way to express one's feelings and intent and a thoughtful gift is always well reciprocated. When it comes to picking a New Year gift for your boss, people usually find themselves in a state of perplexity; especially if they are running low on funds or perhaps if they are not sure about their bosses likes and dislikes. With a few helpful tips and ideas; you will be able to pick the right gift for your boss and a well intended gift is bound to be treasured for a lifetime and is usually well reciprocated. 

A Desk Calendar/Planner

A desk calendar or planner would not only fit within your budget; but also proves to be an ideal New Year gift for your “busy as always” boss. If your budget allows you to be a bit flexible; you could even think of gifting a set of matching desk calendar and planner. This way, your boss would have easy access to his appointment schedules and each time he/she picks up that planner; he’s going to be reminded of your thoughtful gesture; no matter where he is. Pick a calendar or planner that goes well with your boss’s personality and taste. 

Gift Baskets

With a gift-basket; you have the advantage of picking a custom-made gift basket; which can perfectly fit within your budget and gives you the flexibility of choosing individual items for the basket. If you are facing a paucity of time or if your budget allows; you can even opt for a pre-made gift basket. Choose from stationary items to luxury chocolates to expensive pen sets, cuff links or perhaps some mini electronic gizmo. Stuff that basket with gifts that you think will complement your boss’s personality and can be put to good use. 

A Pen and Pencil Set

Although this may seem as a banal gift idea; an elegant and well crafted pen set is usually well accepted and reciprocated and makes for an ideal New Year gift for your boss; be it male or female. You could even consider upgrading the pen and pencil set by getting it engraved by your Boss’s initials or perhaps his company name. Just exercise your imagination well; and then decide on how you want to have it engraved. A wide variety of pen sets are available in wood as well as metal. If you don’t have the time to go shopping to a physical novelty store; consider buying it online. That way; you are subjected to a wider variety of options and many online stores offer decent discounts during festive season. 

Tickets to a show, Concert or Game

This gift sure sounds like fun. Gift two or more tickets to your boss for a concert, game/sport or perhaps a show or performance. It’s the best way to remind him that he too like everyone else needs to snap out of his busy schedule and enjoy a nice night out at his favorite venue. Before you buy that ticket for him, it is a good idea to find out about his favorite sport, music band or performer. After all, you do not want to put him/her through an endurance test! If you are still unsure; take the advice of your colleagues or associates. 

Gift Certificates

With a gift certificate; you not only get the flexibility with your budget but also on the type of gift. You could pick a gift certificate for his favorite restaurant or store; depending upon his preference and your budget. Gift certificates could range any where between $20 to $100 or perhaps more. Gift certificates are also available for online shopping and this way your boss has an option to pick an item that best suits his/her requirement. Remember; with a gift certificate you could never go wrong especially if you are unsure of your boss’s likes and dislikes. 

Treat your Boss to a Lunch at his favorite Restaurant

Let your Boss indulge in some epicurean delights. Find out about his favorite cuisine and restaurants in town and make sure you book a special table in advance as festive time is usually chock-a-block. This way; you also get to spend quality time with him and talk shop while treating him/her to his favorite cuisine. 

You can never go wrong with a Bottle of Wine

Well, consider this option only if your boss is not a complete abstainer. However, the bottle will definitely be popped open on New Year’s Eve and make it a perfect New Year’s gift for your boss. Choose between expensive or inexpensive and red or white wine depending on your budget and your boss’s preferences. 

Golf Gifts

Find out if your boss is an avid golfer or even a beginner golfer. There are various golfing gifts available online to choose from that would fit your budget as well.


