Title: 
A Fashionista's Dream: Luxurious Eyewear Without The Added Cost

Word Count:
952

Summary:
Be a quirkier fashionista whatever the weather! Know the latest trends in eyewear that fits your personality!


Keywords:
fashionable eyewear


Article Body:
Be a quirkier fashionista whatever the weather! Know the latest trends in eyewear that fits your personality!

Everybody has wanted a taste of luxury but unfortunately for most people, it's either too hard or too expensive to achieve. The closest to luxury one can ever taste is through wearing the latest trends in fashion, adorning themselves with the latest accessories, strutting in the latest in shoes, and carrying the latest in handbags along. Sad to say, these can come quite expensive, too. 

Perhaps the greatest accessory that is sure to get you noticed is the ever trendy eyewear! Yes, even the latest in eyewear hasn't pushed past the expensive mark as yet. Sunglasses are just as important as all the outfits you put together; it gives a better overall impression. Not to mention, it gives you an air of mystique. No wonder people have been purchasing glasses here and there. The decision to buy is not just random; it has to be calculated even to the last detail. 

So what can you fashionistas get in as little cost as possible? Numerous! Whether you wish to purchase designer brands or those that don’t have brands at all, if you know what there is to know about eyewear, and then nobody will ever notice the difference!

There are a lot of designs that have been coming out from the fashion industry with regards to the latest in eyewear. Let's start with the shape. The latest fashion in eyewear that are in the rave right now are your oversized shades. Fashionistas anywhere in the world have a preference for these glasses as it shields enough of the eyes and face without hampering your appearance. You should choose wisely, for some of these oversized shades can be heavy and can rest on your cheeks if they don’t have the proper ear supports and nasal rims. Oversized shades that have these qualities can be a nuisance and should be avoided as possible. 

Another trend that has evolved is the quality of the lenses. Contrary to the fad in the past, lenses now offer the best protection packed in one single pair of glasses. Lenses now are polarized and can offer ultraviolet protection to varying degrees depending on your preference. Eyewear lenses have now been creatively produced to meet your varying needs. In sports for instance, tennis players now make use of specialized lenses that have yellow enhancement capabilities. This is important in tennis as the sunglasses not only shields your eyes from the glare of the sun but also makes the tennis ball more yellow to aid you in following its every direction. In snow sports the same technology has been maximized but rather than yellow enhancements, these sunglasses have amber lenses or rose lenses that can help you mark the slopes in the snow. This is crucial, again because it shields from the glare of the sun that might hamper your vision, it would also allow you to perform at your peak capacity that does not oversee the rule of safety. For everyday casual wear, you can choose from a variety of dark tinted glasses or those glasses that have no tint at all. However, dark tinted glasses are more often purchased in the market. Or you can even settle for no lenses at all! Yes, the latest and craziest trend in eyewear has just released a new line of sunglasses that have no lenses at all. These type of glasses used to be a fad in the later centuries and now they are back to make a statement. You would have to go to a specialty optic store for these babies however, because these are usually custom-made. 

If you are hard of vision and are either myopic or hyperopic and you just can't withstand the routine of contact lenses, then eyeglasses may be prescribed for you. Be the fashionista that you are. You probably don’t want to wear those tacky round-rimmed glasses that don’t do wonders for your appearance. These won’t be a problem for long. Optical stores are now offering you the choice of frames, that can be branded or not, to go with your prescribed lenses. Never has wearing prescription glasses been any trendier!

The last factor that is perhaps the most crucial factor that could make or break a fashionista's decision to buy her eyewear is the frame. These frames come in a myriad of colors, materials, and embellishments. Go crazy! With the rising popularity of eyewear there have never been more options to choose from. Frame colors usually come in available choices of classic black, plain brown, brown and gold combinations, silver, gold, pink, white, and the list is endless. If you don’t have the color you want available but have the money, then you can settle for custom made frames. These frames can be made from the colors, design, and embellishments that you prefer. Aside from the color, frames can also come in different types of materials. You have the cheapest of all the plastic and the latest of which are materials made from titanium and the like that offer the best style in a lightweight fashion. 

Your facial structure and personality should always be considered when you choose your eyewear. The type of eyewear that you should decide on purchasing should also be able to afford you the most function in the best design available. 

You will be having no more troubles choosing the right eyewear for you. Budget won't also be a factor anymore as more and more manufacturing companies in eyewear has been releasing a number of products in as much variety as possible that would please the fashionista in you.


