Title: 
Appearing Girlish By Dressing In A Girlish Style

Word Count:
651

Summary:
It is not really startling that the fields of dermatology and cosmetic surgery are really lucrative, especially these days.  It is not astonishing either that products such as Botox have gained popularity among so many kinsfolk, both women and men.


Keywords:
womens dress


Article Body:
People want to remain looking youthful for as long as they can, and they would do anything to attain it at whatever price they can afford.  A lot of them do not acknowledge that sometimes, all it takes is rethinking one's wardrobe and dressing young.

As we women reach our 30s, some of us start to see signs of ageing, especially on our skin.  The fine lines, wrinkles and crows' feet begin to appear.  If we have had a child already and we have not really focused on taking care of our bodies, we would notice a certain thickness around the middle, not to mention a few sags already forming here and there.  Plastic surgery may be the answer you need to get your youthfulness back, but sometimes, just dressing young cuts it far enough.

Dressing young does not mean following current fashion trends too closely.  No matter how trendy or fashion-forward we are, we would all reach a certain age where some fashion trends just do not suit us anymore.  Dressing young is not an excuse either to pull out whatever remnants of the wardrobe we had as teenagers from storage and start wearing them again.

When we say "dressing young", what it means is updating our wardrobe with a few select items to keep us fashion-forward and adding a bit of spice to them, but without disturbing our own signature style.  Because that is what we should do when we start reaching middle age.  We should start adopting a signature style instead of being conscious about fashion.  In more ways than one, this is the "dressing young" that we need to keep doing.  Our signature style should show in our choice of outfits, but we should nonetheless keep moving forward with our choices.

Dressing Young with Jeans

Jeans are the staples when it comes to dressing young.  Unfortunately, jeans are also the most unforgiving to a figure that has been thickened by age and perhaps maternity.  If your jeans do not fit you, they will show every curve that must be hidden rather than revealed.

There is a trick to dressing young with jeans, however. If your middle has already thickened and your waistline is no longer as slender as it used to be, what you can do is to look for a pair of jeans that flatter your figure rather than stick to the old styles that you used to wear.

A pair of jeans with a bootleg cut will balance out the thickness in your body and will make you look voluptuous rather than dumpy.  Pair it with a top that drapes and flows about you, and you would be good to go.

Pastels for Dressing Young

Perhaps nothing beats aging more than by dressing in light colors.  When we were younger, we were compelled to wear darker colors like navy, black, maroon or chocolate brown because we wanted to be taken more seriously as we begin our careers.  As we ride through middle age, however, we should start dressing young by lightening up.

You do not have to give up your dark-hued suits for this, however.  Perhaps all you need to do is to pair them with a pastel-colored blouse with a few frills.  Perhaps a few choice and colorful accessories would do it.  Take care not to overdo it, however.  You still want to look sedate and competent in your corporate duds rather than bubbly and flashy.

On casual days and on weekends, however, when you can shed off your suits, an awesome way of dressing young is to wear a pastel dress in light fabric, especially during summer.  Tie back your hair in a ponytail and forget about putting on makeup for a day, except for a little face powder and shiny lip gloss.  This is the best and most inexpensive way of beating aging, and you do not even need Botox for that.


