Title: 
Black is still in for the Winter of 2006

Word Count:
356

Summary:
Black is back and bigger than ever and are appearing a darker and more elegant versions of the spring and summer fashion styles. Thicker fabrics abound with wool replacing gauze and sleeveless fashions becoming full blouses.


Keywords:



Article Body:
Black is back and bigger than ever and are appearing a darker and more elegant versions of the spring and summer fashion styles. Thicker fabrics abound with wool replacing gauze and sleeveless fashions becoming full blouses.

Denim is still as popular as ever and available in an infinite number of styles and sizes and there are many other styles brand new for this year.

Black has been brought back by designers renewing the statement that black remains chic and calling for tall boots with no showing of skin in freezing weather. Black is being seen in many fashions this fall from dresses to handbags and other accessories. The New Black offers much more choices in fabrics and styling to escape the basic black of the past.

Mix and match different fashion trends to personalize your look and add jewelry, color, and layering to create your own style.

For colors, the azures and turquoise pastels have evolved to deep teals and deep browns and rusts with burnt orange and ginger accents are must haves along with other nature colors.

A trend has begun back to the romantic era with lots of sheer blouses combined with lace, ribbon and large puffy sleeves in black, white and prints, looking perfect under fitted velvet jackets.

Full skirts have a completely new look this season combined with a fitted jacket and tall boots for a sexy romantic look.

Remember this fashion hint; combine a full item with something slim so that you don’t look sloppy.

The sexy, tall knee high boots are back this fall and are the footwear of choice with everything from skirts to gauchos. Flat heels are in this season as well.

Big oversized bags are very popular this year and are another must have for this fall season. There are many luggage sized bags, but the best is just a bit larger than normal.
Especially hot are large bags with flashy materials such as gold lame’.

Some other must haves this season are big ethnic jewelry and bold cuff bracelets, cropped pants, and military style jackets and coats as well as animal prints and fur trims.


