Title: 
Chanel Perfume; Classy and Elegant

Word Count:
558

Summary:
One of the most distinguished brand name in the perfume business that almost everyone knows about it and is familiar with its unique logo, and surely Chanel perfume is the very last name in quality as well as style making it amongst the most highly regarded of all perfumes.


Keywords:
chanel perfume,Coco Chanel,Chanel 5 perfume,woman perfume,Ernest Beaux,Chanel gardenia perfume,Discount chanel perfume


Article Body:
Chanel Perfume; Classy and Elegant

One of the most distinguished brand name in the perfume business that almost everyone knows about it and is familiar with its unique logo, and surely Chanel perfume is the very last name in quality as well as style making it amongst the most highly regarded of all perfumes. Moreover, there are of course imitations particularly in the third world countries where brand names are not as strictly protected as in the West.

Coco Chanel’s vision

What makes Chanel perfume so special is and why women cannot do without it, and the answer is simply in the vision of its founder Coco Chanel who wished for women to wear perfumes that gave them a sense of independence and of belonging to an important part of culture. Despite the fact that she probably would not realize that how well her vision became reality, these days there is no doubt that Chanel perfumes are the very archetype of perfumes.
As a result, today many celebrities in the world including the Hollywood beauties are all sporting Chanel perfume, all of which contributes to the fame and glamour connected with such a trade name of which Chanel Number 5 is a good example. Such complimentary advertising and also the effect of celebrities supporting Chanel perfume has made millions of women want to own a bottle of such perfume for them, thus contributing to the success of this brand even more.

So, with hundred years of experience in selling its brand, it is no accident that today everyone wants to own Chanel perfume and all that a woman needs today is to walk into a department store where there are sure to be shelves filled with Chanel perfume bottles of different sizes, fragrances and shapes.

Chanel 5 perfume

The most popular Chanel No. 5 that was the idea of Ernest Beaux contains ylang-ylang and also neroli and blends of jasmine as well as rose makes for a very alluring perfume indeed. Although nobody (outside of the company) actually knows the exact formula, there is no doubting its popularity and it is believed that a bottle of Chanel No. 5 is sold once every thirty seconds. So, this product is certainly filling the coffers of its maker while proving it a huge success with the public as well.

Chanel gardenia perfume

Ernest Beaux created in 1925; Gardenia is a stunning illustration of his talent in creating shining floral compositions. The stylishness of this fragrance is outstanding,

Gardenia was reformulated in the 1980s, in company with Bois des Iles and Cuir de Russie. The new version stands far less similarity to the original aldehydic bouquet than do the other reissues to their vintage equivalents. Gardenia is to some extent of a misnomer, because the effect here is chiefly of orange blossom and jasmine, with the entire arrangement dominated by sweet tuberose. Gardenia is sold in the EDT and perfume. The EDT is bordering on cloyingly sweet, while the perfume is richer and better balanced.

Discount chanel perfume

Despite chanel perfume is being quite expensive you can always find better deals on net.Strawberrynet, Love-scentcom, Scentedmonkey and PerfumesAmericacom are just few of the web sites offer good value and quality service. Be sure to check all of them before making final decision they may have seasonal campaigns and prices may differ from time to time.


