Title: 
Choosing The Perfect Bridal Gown

Word Count:
848

Summary:
It is not unusual for a bride to be quite picky when it comes to choosing the bridal gown to wear at her wedding.  As cynical as the world may get when it comes to weddings, the truth is that a woman becomes a bride only once in her life. Her wedding day is the day when a woman should appear to be at her absolute best.


Keywords:
bridal gown


Article Body:
It is not unusual for a bride to be quite picky when it comes to choosing the bridal gown to wear at her wedding.  As cynical as the world may get when it comes to weddings, the truth is that a woman becomes a bride only once in her life. Her wedding day is the day when a woman should appear to be at her absolute best.  To achieve that, she must wear a bridal gown that is just perfect for her.

The emotional strings that a bridal gown holds for a woman sometimes make the task of finding the perfect one a very daunting task.  Many brides get frazzled with the number of decisions they need to make just with choosing what bridal gown to wear, let alone the other details that she must attend to in arranging her wedding.  Thankfully, some carefully planning can turn the difficult task of finding the perfect bridal gown into a very enjoyable one.

If you are in the market for a bridal gown, then you should start looking for the right dress at least six months before your wedding day.  It takes time to choose a bridal gown that will suit you the best from among hundreds and hundreds of styles and designs available to you.  Moreover, getting a bridal gown specially made for you can take four to six months to accomplish, and you need to allow a little more time for possible alterations.

You can start your search by compiling pictures of bridal gowns that you like.  You can download these pictures from the Internet or cut them out from bridal magazines. If you fancy the bridal gown that your mother, your sister, your friend or even your grandmother wore to her wedding, get a picture of it.  Put all the pictures you have collected in a file so you can have something to consult when choosing the style of your own bridal gown.

When choosing the style of your bridal gown, there are a couple of things that you need to consider.  First is that the theme and formality of your wedding ceremony, as well as where the ceremony shall be held.  Goodness knows how uncomfortable and out of place you would be at your own wedding if you are wearing a heavy bridal gown with a long veil and train and the wedding is held at a beach.

If your wedding is a formal evening affair, your bridal gown should be a floor-length gown with a train.  You may also need to wear gloves.  If it is a semi-formal event, whether it is to be held in the evening or during the daytime, your bridal gown should be something that reaches your ankles.  You can have a veil with that gown, but no train.  If your wedding is going to be a day affair, or if it is your second wedding, you can wear a long dress or a short dress without a veil.  You can also wear a suit with a skirt and dress it up with a smart-looking hat.

The second thing that you must consider when choosing the style of your bridal gown is that your gown must flatter the shape of your body, embellishing its finer points and hiding or camouflaging its not-so-fine points.  It should also be something that you are comfortable wearing.  Here are a few suggestions on what style could flatter your body:

1. If you are tall and if you have a slim figure, there is no need to worry.  You can wear a bridal gown of just about any style.

2. If you have an hourglass figure, meaning your bust and your hips are in proportion and you have a defined waist, you could go for a V-neck bridal gown with an A-line skirt.  The V-neck of your bodice can accentuate the fullness of your bust while an A-line skirt can look poofy enough without making your hips look too wide.

3. If you have a pear-shaped figure, meaning your body is bottom-heavy and your hips are wide, you should wear a bridal gown with a few extra details on the bodice and an A-line skirt.  The detailing on your bodice, be it beadings or embroidery, will draw the eyes to your bust while de-emphasizing your hips.  An empire-style gown with a draping skirt would look nice too.

4. If you are short and with a very slight figure, you need a bridal gown that will create the illusion of a fuller figure.  You could go with an off-shoulder dress with a shawl-like collar and a skirt that flares out from below the middle of your thighs.

As much as you need to take your time when choosing the perfect bridal gown for you, if you fall in love with a specific dress and know that it is the one for you, end your search and buy the dress without hesitation.  If you leave the store without buying that bridal gown, some other bride will find it and any bridal gown you choose later on will only be a poor second.


