Title: 
Choosing The Right Handbag For Your Body Type

Word Count:
439

Summary:
Believe it or not trying on a purse is just as important as trying on clothes. Even though a purse is just an accessory, wearing the wrong style, size or shape can really ruin your look. The part of the body that the handbag rests on will be the part of the body that the eye will be drawn to. The right choice of handbag can actually accentuate your positive attributes. Before you order one of the seasons hot, new bags, learn how to choose the right bag for your body type.

...


Keywords:
hobo purses , clutch handbags,bags,handbags,shoulder bags, messanger bags, purses


Article Body:
Believe it or not trying on a purse is just as important as trying on clothes. Even though a purse is just an accessory, wearing the wrong style, size or shape can really ruin your look. The part of the body that the handbag rests on will be the part of the body that the eye will be drawn to. The right choice of handbag can actually accentuate your positive attributes. Before you order one of the seasons hot, new bags, learn how to choose the right bag for your body type.

Things to consider before purchasing a purse online

If you are slim and tall -

You are lucky! Being tall and slim allows you to get away with most purse styles. Oversize bags, shoulder bags and clutch bags will all look great. The only thing you really need to watch is the size of the handbag you choose. Small bags should be avoided as they will make you look bigger. Mid size, large, floppy or bulky handbags are best. Bright colors, prints and patterns are okay, too.

If you are short and petite –

The most important thing to watch for as a petite girl is the size of the bag you choose. A good rule of thumb is to remember proportion. Small bags work well for small girls. Choose small bags and wear them close to your body.

If your hips are large -

If you wish to draw attention away from the hip area try a shoulder bag. Choose one with a short strap. The purse can be tucked easily under the arm. The best look for you is a shoulder bag or a hobo bag that hangs slightly but ends well above the hip line.

If you are top heavy - 

If you are generously endowed on the upper half of your body you will probably want to draw attention away from your bosom or waist. A messenger bag or a handbag is a good choice for your body type. If you really want a shoulder bag try one that has a long strap and is fairly large in size. 

If you have great curves - 

A shoulder bag that ends just above the waist is the most flattering style for you. The only type of bags that you will want to avoid are ones that are either really big or really small.

If you are a plus size -

Any style of bag that is wider in width like a Hobo bag suit you best. Stay away from bags that are small. A small bag will make you look larger. Go for bags with short to medium length straps.


