Title: 
Color and You and Your Wardrobe

Word Count:
549

Summary:
Wearing the right colors for you, can build your confidence to where you may feel you can take on the world.  Find your power color to get nail that interview and get your dream job.  You need to know your colors, especially when you are sewing your own wardrobe.


Keywords:



Article Body:
When you are sewing for yourself, selecting fabric is so important and selecting the colors to suit you is even more important.

Not all of us can afford to have our colors done, but you can experiment with this.

When in a fabric store, take a bolt of fabric to a mirror, put it up to your face, more across at your shoulder. take note of how it affects your skin tone and take particular note of your eyes.

If it is your color, your skin should look a very good color, you wil look healthy and your eyes bright and alive. If it is not your color, the the 'color' will drain from your face and your eyes will look tired and dull.

You can do this with what you have in your wardrobe right now.

All colors have undertones, and the color experts have classified them for fashion as "warm" and "cool" or the latest "silver" and "gold"

To determine if you are a silver or a gold, place the metals one at a time against your skin and see which is the brightest, that brightest one will be you.

If you like a particular color and you don't think it fall into your colors, this may not be true, you may still be able to wear it.

Most colors have an undertone, these undertones are what determines whether the color is "yours" or not.

Colors have a warm undertone or a cool undertone. If you want to wear that color you love, then find the fabric that has your "undertone" and this you will see by "laying" the fabric on you, by that I mean, draping across you and seeing the result, if your skin takes on a healthy glow, then that is for you, if it makes your skin look sallow and dull, then leave it where it is.

You will have a "power" color too.  The power colors are mainly  black, navy, grey and brown.  One of these colors will suit you better than the others, The one you always feel good in, and makes your skin tone and eyes bright and healthy.  Many people think black is the all powerful color, not so, if it doesn't suit you it will have the opposite effect.

So try navy or brown, once again if the color drains from your face, don't wear it.

Once you have established your power color, when you really want to make a statement, go for that job interview, wear POWER.

If you can afford to have your colors done, then I would suggest you do just that.  Knowing you are wearing what suits you, will give you confidence beyond anything you have known before.

I'm not sure if they are still doing it, but Gract Cosmetics have fully trained color consultants and while this is not a plug for Grace Cosmetics, I do know they used to do party plan makeovers.  Not sure but you could check out your phone book to see if you have a Grace consultant in your area. A party like that can be a lot of fun too, for you and your friends,

The color consultants are listed in the yellow pages too.

Have some fun finding your colors, watch your confidence grow.


© CTBaird 2006 SewMoreForU


