Title: 
Designer Purse

Word Count:
333

Summary:
Fashion has been an integral part of mankind ever since the first civilizations started dressing in their traditional attire. Over the years, fashion accessories have developed to add the extra bit of glamour and style to our lives. Of these, purses have been the most popular ones.


Keywords:
Purses, Designer Purse, Wholesale Purses, Sequin Purses


Article Body:
Fashion has been an integral part of mankind ever since the first civilizations started dressing in their traditional attire. Over the years, fashion accessories have developed to add the extra bit of glamour and style to our lives. Of these, purses have been the most popular ones. 

A purse is a small bag usually used to carry money, keys, makeup and other essential items. The concept of a purse has evolved over the years. The first purses were restricted to being utility oriented carrying pouches. As the years progressed, these handy bags combined fashion with utility. With a variety of shapes, sizes, colors and designs, purses became a standard part of a lady’s attire, whether casual, workday wear or a formal, elegant evening gown. 

Today designer purses are in vogue. These items are some of the most sought after accessories by fashion conscious women around the world. These bags add that extra zing to ones wardrobe as against a common handbag. Purses come in a wide variety and tend to compliment almost every type of attire. Designer purses are primarily characterized by a famous brand name. DKNY, Ralph Lauren, Gucci and Burberry are some famous brands that make designer purses. Apart from an upscale brand name, these purses are noted for their quality and design. Designer purses are durable and long lasting in nature. Their designs can feature anything from different colors and hues to sequins, beads, embroidery or even jewelry. Regardless of the selection of design, these purses offer elegant styles that fit every occasion. 

Unarguably, the most distinctive feature of all designer purses is their price. The style and glamour comes at a price, hence most of these purses are beyond the reach of a common woman. Moreover, many would consider spending such huge amounts on a purse as impractical. When picking a designer purse, one should also consider the functionality aspect. Despite their high price, designer purses attract thousands of buyers each year, making it a very lucrative industry.


