Title: 
Did You Know Of Hairstyle Appreciation Day?

Word Count:
346

Summary:
April 30th is the day to appreciate hairstyles. In some places it is called Hairstylist appreciation Day. Either way this is something unique.


Keywords:
hairstyle,hair dressing,makeup,cosmetics,aging,beauty,appreciation,life


Article Body:
April 30th is the day to appreciate hairstyles. In some places it is called Hairstylist appreciation Day. Either way this is something unique. If this is the way to celebrate days, we will begin having appreciate the grass day, appreciate the cities day and so on. But thinking about it, hairstylists do play a big part in making us feel good.

In the modern days, appearances make a difference, sometimes a very big difference. The multi billion dollar anti-aging industry depends on that desire to look good. So do fashion designers and makeup industry. It is no more aging as you do or look as nature made you or wear simple clothing with the main objective of covering oneself. It is all very different now.

The first wrinkle makes people rush to their dermatologists. Nobody wants to look aged. People want to look as if years made no difference to their looks. It is the age of plastic surgery to look younger, and buying the latest cream or lotion that promises youth. 

The clothes are no longer plain clothes to make you cover your body, but to make a fashion statement. Latest designer wear that may look bizarre at times is in vogue. People are in search of the unique look that desires envy. Similary makeup is no longer a plain foundation or a simple lipstick. It is a big opportunity for the cosmetic industry to sell concoctions that will make a eighty year look look like one of sixteen. It is all strange but true. We are all getting mass mesmerized by the big corporates in acting as they want us to do. Why not hair stylists then?

After all hair style also makes a statement. You can have a hair style that makes you look like a thinker or one that gives you a sporty look. It is no more cutting the hair and styling them, but it is more of giving you a look that will make you feel different. Are we all not losing the real essence of life in all this?


