Title: 
Effortless Fashions With Head-Turning Flair

Word Count:
405

Summary:
This season there's no need to fret over seemingly impossible-to-achieve styles. The key is to make your look appear low-maintenance.


Keywords:
Effortless Fashions With Head-Turning Flair


Article Body:
This season there's no need to fret over seemingly impossible-to-achieve styles. The key is to make your look appear low-maintenance. A comfortable outfit with stylish trimmings, if done correctly, can be your best look yet.

"This season's look is relaxed, feminine and flattering on just about everyone," says Jennifer DeBarge-Goonan, Marshalls' style expert. "The goal is to make your style look effortless by mixing and matching the season's hottest trends." She offers this stress-free guide to looking fabulous this season:

&#8226; A Perfect Fit-To look your best, only wear properly-fitting clothes. Whether you're a size 2 or a 22, buy what fits and ignore the "number" size. Remember, just because you can button it, doesn't mean it fits.

&#8226; Room To Breathe-This season is about flowing fabric and soft movement. No super-tight styles here. To avoid looking frumpy, pair a full, flowing skirt with a top that features straight, tailored lines. Make sure you can't fit two people in your tunic, but a little bit of room-that's just perfect.

&#8226; Short Shorts-Who wears short shorts? Gals that are super fit or supermodels. Luckily, for the rest of us, gauchos and Bermuda shorts are once again a warm-weather favorite. "Shorts" that meet the knee are popping up everywhere. Dress 'em up with a sexy heel or dress them down with cute flip-flops&#8230;either way, they're hot. 

&#8226; Color Me Beautiful-Earthy tones are everywhere: beige, cream, yellow. To stay ultrahip, lace your favorite frock with brown accents. Keep it earthy, keep it cool. 

&#8226; A Feminine Flair-A delicate ruffle here? An embroidered flower there? Lace? White crochet? Yes! Chances are that deep down, every woman has a touch of a "girly-girl" sitting pretty inside of her. Subtle reminders of femininity can be found on everything from thick belts to bohemian skirts. 

&#8226; Can't Forget The Accessories -The fastest way to turn a boring, old outfit into something fab is to pair it with some fun shoes and a big ol' handbag. This season's shoes? Heels with a peekaboo toe or funky wedge sandals. The bag? As long as it's big, it's ideal. Protect your eyes with oversized sunglasses.

&#8226; For The Boys-Okay, ladies, it may not be all about us. The men in your life should be looking fabulous, too. This season, suggest preppy polo shirts and plaid shorts. If you've got a "guy's guy" on your hands, get him vintage T-shirts or leather flip-flops. Because after all, the better he looks, the better we look!


