Title: 
Fashion Jewelry Exporter

Word Count:
285

Summary:
From fashion accessories to furniture and other home decors, EDET was organized to bring to each life both individual and home enhancements to showcase what life holds for these designs in your personal adornment and in the care and value you bring to your homes.


Keywords:
fashion jewelry exporter, fashion jewelry, fashion accessories, beads, shells, beaded jewelry


Article Body:
ExtremeDesign Export Trading is a Fashion Jewelry Export Company based in Cebu City, Philippines. We manufacture, produce, and assemble fashion jewelries, gift items, windchimes and any kind of handicrafts Extreme Design and home decorative items made of indigenous materials such as sea-shells, wood, coco, bone, horn, stone, buri, bamboo and other natural materials.

We've been in this business since 1998 as a supplier in our local area and now expanding the business of EXPORTING HIGH QUALITY Philippine Handicrafts and Fashion Accessories that are EXTREMELY DESIGNED and suited to all styles and fashions worldwide.

We are rendering the best and unique designs of today's market and have very competitive prices that will be offered specially for VOLUME ORDERS or WHOLESALERS. We strictly observe QUALITY CONTROL on our finished products to serve the best and gain more satisfaction to our foriegn buyers. We also customize designs exclusively for you. Just send us pictures of your designs and specification for quotation.

ExtremeDesign Export Trading (EDET) is for life, the better to savor and appreciate it.  ImageThrough the lens of social equality, ImageEDET brings together human resources in design conceptualization, production, and marketing to meet with others whose appreciation and valuing of these designs provide the needed opportunities for natural and human resources to come together for each other.

From fashion accessories to furniture and other home decors, EDET was organized to bring to each life both individual and home enhancements to showcase what life holds for these designs in your personal adornment and in the care and value you bring to your homes.

Thus, when designs meet both functionality and beauty, personal care does not only enhance one’s identity but also a house gets transformed into a home!


