Title: 
Fashion Tips For Plus Size Ladies Over 50

Word Count:
660

Summary:
Women are just like fine wine. As they get older, more mature, and more beautiful, their inner woman seems to gain a sense of assured confidence, brought on by the years of experience in life. I have always admired women over 50 who carry their age with a sense of pride, style and class.

As women get older their sense of fashion seems to mature along with them. What is trendy and ‘in fashion’ might not necessarily be the apparel of choice any longer. Why does this happen? ...


Keywords:
plus size clothing, plus size, plus-size, plus size fashion, plus-sizes, plus sizes, plussize


Article Body:
Women are just like fine wine. As they get older, more mature, and more beautiful, their inner woman seems to gain a sense of assured confidence, brought on by the years of experience in life. I have always admired women over 50 who carry their age with a sense of pride, style and class.

As women get older their sense of fashion seems to mature along with them. What is trendy and ‘in fashion’ might not necessarily be the apparel of choice any longer. Why does this happen? Probably as women get busier and have more responsibilities they seem to opt for items which are comfortable to work in not necessarily stylish.

However I think women should not give up their sense of style, just because their day got busier and a few gray hairs are showing up here and there. On the other hand as women get older they should adjust to their age, by choosing items of clothing which enhance their beauty and their figure.

Plus size women who are over 50 have every reason to dress in a stylish manner. Stores which cater for their needs might not necessarily be easily available, that is true. However that is no reason to compromise. Especially with the Internet being so widely available these days, a multitude of store are suddenly available to cater for a mature plus size woman’s needs. For instance store like Ulla Popken and Junonia have a great selection of plus size clothing available which is great for the mature woman’s needs. Prices are reasonable and sizes are vast.

Mature plus size ladies should be careful to choose items which make the most of their curves, and also their age. Some tips to abide by are the following –

1. Be careful to choose the right size to fit your body. Don’t go for items which fit too tightly, the idea if for clothing to hug your body so that is gives it definition and enhances the curves. Choosing items which are too tight will not look too classy. At the same times items which are too baggy should also be avoided. Your dress of choice does not have to look like a tent! Just because you’re plus size, does not mean you have to hide your body. Show off those beautiful curves in a classy and chic manner.

2. Avoid fussy prints. Fussy fabrics have the tendency to make plus size women look even bigger. While we are proud of our curves, the clothing we choose should make the most of our full figures, enhancing them instead of giving them wrong definition.

3. Stick to classic designs and clean cuts. Just as fussy printed fabrics make us look a little bit bigger, so do fussy designs. For example avoid too much frill and things of the sort. Such clothing does not help define a full figured body to the best of it’s shape. Instead stick clean cuts and classic designs which work best for our curves.

4. Try and avoid wearing anything that is too short. If you have beautiful legs, be proud of them and by all mean show them off whenever you get a chance however, do this with taste, style and moderation. Do wear skirts and shorts. However avoid anything that is too short.

5. As we get older, some parts of our body tend to lose some of that useful gravity. This is nothing to worry about, as when choosing clothes and underwear with good support, things can be kept up to the necessary heights at all times. However I would suggest not to exposure the arms too much.

Being over 50 does not mean women have to give up on having a sense of style. Especially not plus size women! On the other hand women should make the most of this time in their life. With the right clothes any plus size lady who is over 50 can look and feel like a million dollars!


