Title: 
Fears behind FALSE FASHION

Word Count:
543

Summary:
How to save money money by designing your own label. Designer gear is about keeping up with the Jones's.


Keywords:
fashion,style and trend, expensive,cost,designer labels,own designs, imagination ideas,second hand shop.


Article Body:
False Fashion is it for you? What you have to bear in mind when keeping up with all the newest trend is, that never once were you in the designer/s thoughts when putting his/her creation together. 

How many times have you cringed at styles knowing at the back of your mind how hideous you would look dressed in what was designed for the catwalk?


Top designer labels do not come cheap and can be quite expensive leaving you broke because you want to keep up with the Jones's
Ever felt stupid when attired up to nines to stop the jibes from your friends,  keeping up with fashion is all well and good, but if you are not comfortable with your appearance then do something about it. Start by ignoring nasty remarks, true friends do not pass judgement unless in your favour.


It  makes sense to put your own fashion ideas to use and into the bargain  cost effective. Design your own label? Who knows may be your friends will want a piece of the action. Top designers started this way.


When out shopping; find a shop selling quality gear for half the price of what it would cost to dress in designer gear. You will find similar or duplicated designs to the latest craze in most stores.  Is the content of your wallet/purse holding you back from making a purchase. Then get yourself to the local second hand shop and pick up a bargain. 

Stick with the trend by wearing the colours in fashion. Charity shops donate to good causes, so as well as looking a million dollars you help the starving people of the world.

 Uneasy with the new boob tube where the bare fleshy stomach is on full view, then narrow it down to a glimpse for the onlooker, add a little lace tassels or beads. 

Belts do not do down well for the pleasantly plump, okay so we find an alternative. Gather leather strips, braid/plait them together then  hang the twisted menagerie loosely around the waist add a little glitter to spice it up, this will not only look effective but complement your size.

How to get away with no boots if money is tight

Buy a closed in shoe then get a matching pair of coloured knee/ankle length socks and hey presto  from a distance a pair of boots How good is that?



What is the point of expensive designer labels when the only person that gets to see that new outfit is you?  all because the bank balance states 0.00 where you do not get to party till your next payday,  and by then with the fashion industry as it is, the oufit may well be past its sell by date.

False fashion is what it is. Your height, weight, skin type was never taken into account by the designer unlike the rich stars. How on earth can you look your best by other folks choices? Think about it if anyone knows what will suit you? is you.

http://www.allaboutonlineeducation.com is a great place to start if you were thinking about dressmaking or looking for information on teaching yourself the in's and out's of getting on in this life.


