Title: 
Festina Men's Quartz Calendar Deployment Bracelet

Word Count:
266

Summary:
Festina is known as the official watch company for the Tour De France bicycle race.  Besides keeping professional bicyclists up to the minute, Festina also has a wonderful men’s line.  Their men’s watches showcase many great features.  The Festina men’s quartz calendar deployment bracelet is one such watch.  This watch is a great representation of what the Festina watch company has to offer.


Keywords:
wholesale watches, closeout watches


Article Body:
Festina is known as the official watch company for the Tour De France bicycle race.  Besides keeping professional bicyclists up to the minute, Festina also has a wonderful men’s line.  Their men’s watches showcase many great features.  The Festina men’s quartz calendar deployment bracelet is one such watch.  This watch is a great representation of what the Festina watch company has to offer.

The Festina men’s quartz calendar deployment bracelet has a polished look that will suit any man.  This mid sized quartz men’s watch has a bluish grey dial set in a rectangle face.  There is a calendar at the six o’clock position with silver hands and markers.  The watch features stainless steel construction.  The bracelet is also stainless steel that is polished with a hidden deployment clasp for easy wear.  The Festina men’s quartz calendar deployment bracelet is also water resistant to 30 miles which makes it perfect to wear when bathing or swimming.  It comes in a nice gift box with a one year warranty.  Festina also offer the consumer the chance to extend the warranty by another year by sending in the warranty card that comes with the watch.  This is offered free of charge on every Festina watch.

Festina offers stylish men’s watches that have all the features consumers look for.  The Festina men’s quartz calendar deployment bracelet is a great representation of the type of watches Festina has to offer.  The Festina men’s line offers a combination of durability and function in a variety of styles that suit any mans taste.


