Title: 
Fitted Hats - More than a Fashion Statement

Word Count:
516

Summary:
The urban clothing scene isn't complete without a collection of fitted hats.  Fitted hats also known as a "fitted" are baseball caps that have no size adjustment.  They fit snuggly on your head and have a much better appearance as there are no straps in the back.


Keywords:
fitted hats, fitted baseball hats


Article Body:
The urban clothing scene isn't complete without a collection of fitted hats.  Fitted hats also known as a "fitted" are baseball caps that have no size adjustment.  They fit snuggly on your head and have a much better appearance as there are no straps in the back.  These hats are very popular among the young crowd and in urban fashion.  They come in hundreds of styles and colors.  Many urban outfits aren't considered complete without the wearing of a fitted.

Fitted hats come in various sizes but will still fit snug when you choose the appropriate size for you.  The most popular hats are those displaying the logo of a favorite baseball team.  Many times the team represents more of the location rather than the team itself.  For example, the Boston Red Sox and NY Yankees are popular among those living in those cities.  For those who do not live in the same city, the selected team hat is more a representation of a favorite team or favorite colors.  Fitted hats are made by various manufacturers and one of the top ones is New Era.

You can find fitted hats in almost every shopping mall in America as well as specialized online shops.  While many sporting fans still purchase these hats, they are still most popular for fashion more than anything else.  The hats range in price, however, you have to beware of hats that are too low in price as there is a high chance of it being a knock-off.  Knock-off hats are also made of poor quality and are likely to fade easily or fall apart.

It is not uncommon for someone who is into urban fashion to own several fitteds.  They are also collectors items as some fitteds are produced in limited quantities or for special events.  Some people own as many fitted hats as they do shoes.  They are one of the top accessories for street wear and make as much of an impact to one's outfit as the right shoes do.

If you come across a limited edition fitted hat, it is wise to purchase two.  One to wear and one to keep in your collection.  Many times, rare and hard to find fitted hats can go for quite a bit of money on popular auction sites such as eBay.  Fitted hats are also not limited to men and boys.  Women and girls are also getting into the fashion trend by wearing fitted hats with their casual outfits.

You can visit many urban fashion forums and see exactly which fitted hats make the cut.  These forums often have users post their photos wearing fitted with their favorite outfits.  Other forum members rate the overall outfit and usually comment on the fitted hat as well.  Fitted hats work for any age.  You don't have to be a teenager to wear one and be in style.  If you want to save money on a fitted hat, you can find very good deals on the internet.  There is so much competition online that many online shops will lower their prices or have closeout sales.


