Title: 
Hairstyle and Eyewear Secrets

Word Count:
1392

Summary:
If you've ever struggled with trying to find the right hairstyle, then this article could be the most important thing you read all day. You will learn how to determine the style that's EXACTLY right for you, with no guesswork involved. Stop wishing for a hairstyle you love. Now it's easier than you think.


Keywords:
hairstyle makeover, hairstyles, makeover,image makeover,new hairstyle,finding a hairstyle,image consultant,best hairstyles,new hairstyles,eyewear makeover,choosing eyewear,flattering eyewear,flattering hairstyles,easy hairstyles,choosing a hairstyle


Article Body:
Copyright 2006 Donna Lewczuk

The following information is an excerpt from the DVD series Love My Image.

Hairstyle and Eyewear Secrets

If you’ve ever struggled with trying to find the right hairstyle (and I think most women have at some point in their lives), you’re about to discover how easy it really can be!  If you’ve given up on your hair you’re about to read some encouraging information.  You see, just like choosing the right style of glasses, the right hairstyle is based on one key principle:  the shape of your face.  That’s it.

Now that you know that, all you need to do is learn the basic “rules” that go with your particular face shape.  First though, let’s talk about the different face shapes & the characteristics of each.

1. The Round Face:  this is a full-looking face with a round hairline and chin.  The cheeks/ears tend to be the widest point.

2. The Square Face:  this face shape has a strong, square jaw line and usually a square hairline.

3. The Oval Face:  the oval shape has a gently rounded hairline and is only slightly narrower at the jaw than at the temples.  Very balanced.

4. The Diamond Face:  the widest point on this face is at the cheekbones, and is equally narrow at the jaw line & forehead.

5. The Oblong Face:  this face is long and slender.  The area just below the cheekbones and the forehead are about the same width.  Could have a high forehead or a narrow chin.

6. The Triangular Face:  has a dominant jaw line and narrows at the cheekbones and temples.

7. The Heart Shaped Face:  the face is widest at the hairline and temples and narrows to a small chin.  The opposite of the triangular face.

Now that we’ve covered the characteristics of the different face shapes…

Let’s Get Started!

As we discuss this further we'll  talk about some do’s and don’ts for hairstyling and picking out the proper eye wear.

The Round Face:  The goal of the person with the round face is to lengthen it.  This can be done by adding height and fullness at the crown.  Layering will help to achieve this.  An off centre part will help to make the face appear longer.  The rest of the cut should stay close to the side of the head to avoid adding more fullness.

Length:  A round face can wear a shorter cut but hair should be swept back.  Or a cut longer than the chin will also work.

Avoid:  Hair that’s chin length with a rounded line, like a bob.  This will only make the face appear even more round.  Bangs cut straight across the forehead and short crops.  Also avoid a centre part.  It tends to accentuate the roundness.

GLASSES:  The best shaped frame for the round face is a rectangular one.  This frame contrasts the round face, making it appear thinner and longer.  Frames with clear bridges make close-set eyes appear further apart. Frames with higher, coloured temples will lengthen the appearance of the round face.

The Square Face:  The goal of the person with a square face is to soften it.  Hair with lots of waves and roundness will help to achieve this.  If your hair is straight you may want to consider a soft perm to offset the straight lines of your face.  Layers and wispy bangs work well.  Off centre parts and height at the crown will help to elongate the face.

Length:  Short to medium length hair works best for this shaped face.  Long hair, straight bangs and centre parts tend to emphasize the square features.  Just make sure your cut ends just above or a little below your chin.

Avoid:  Centre parts and hairstyles ending at the jaw line.

GLASSES:  Look for frames where the lower part is curved with some weight on top as well.  Centred temples are desirable.  Look for a frame wider than the widest part of the face.  This will soften the angular appearance of the square face.  Stay away from rectangular frames.

The Oval Face:  Most any hairstyle looks good on an oval face.  The goal is not to hide your features.  Slicked back styles also work very well.                  Length:  You can wear short, medium or longer styles.

Avoid:  Remember not to cover up your balanced features with your hair.

GLASSES:  Look for frames that will maintain the balance of your oval face.  Frames should be as least as wide as the broadest part of your face.  You can wear round, square or rectangular shapes.  Avoid frames with low or “dropped” temples.  This will detract from your face’s natural features.

The Diamond Face:  You also have balanced features so you can wear a variety of styles.  If you are going with a shorter style make sure you have weight in the nape area to help balance your high cheekbones and delicate chin.

Length:  You can wear short, medium or longer styles.

Avoid:  Hiding your features with your hair.

GLASSES:  Select a frame that will accent the forehead and jaw and draw attention away from the temple.  Choose frames that are decorated along the top.  Rimless frames are also nice.  You can wear glasses with geometric or oval shapes to minimize the distance between your temples.

The Oblong Face:  The person with the oblong/rectangular face wants to make it appear fuller.  Try to create fullness at the sides of your face.  Layers will help to achieve this and to add softness to the lines of your face.  Try off centre parts and wispy bangs to shorten the appearance of length.

Length:  Short to medium lengths work best.

Avoid:  Longer styles tend to drag the oblong face down, making it appear longer.  Also avoid straight hairstyles and centre parts.

GLASSES:  Choose frames with equal top to bottom depth and decorative or contrasting temples.  Avoid frames that have too much weight on the bottom.  They tend to make the face appear even longer. Round or square frames work well but make sure they don’t extend beyond the widest part of the face.

The Triangular Face:  Choose styles that are fuller at the temples and taper at the jaw.  Lots of layers will help you to achieve this.  This style will help to balance your prominent jaw.  Off centre parts work best for you.  Also hair can be tucked behind ears, still working to achieve the fullness at the temple area.

Length:  Shorter hair works best to help balance the prominent jaw line.  If wearing long hair, make sure it’s pulled back at the nape.

Avoid:  Centre parts, longer hairstyles that have fullness at the jaw- gives the appearance of extra weight in the face.

GLASSES:  Look for a frame that is slightly top heavy.  Decorative accents on top of the frame will draw attention away from the wide jaw line.  A frame that has no lower rim is an excellent choice.

The Heart Shaped Face:  Chin length styles work best.  This creates a more balanced look, adding fullness where you need it most.  An off-centre part is a good choice.  Wispy bangs and soft layers swept forward work well.  If you have a dramatic heart shaped face (high cheekbones) make sure you have weight in the nape area to help balance the look of the dramatic cheekbones and delicate chin.

Length:  Chin length works best.

Avoid:  Short, full styles-they emphasize the upper face, making the chin look even narrower.  Height at the crown- makes the chin look narrower and longer. Avoid severe looks.

GLASSES:  An excellent choice is light coloured or rimless frames with low temples.  Frames that are wider at the bottom will also help to balance the face by drawing the eye away from the wider temple area.

Now that we’ve covered off what hairstyles and glasses work best for each particular face shape, don’t be afraid to make some changes to your image.  If you’re not sure where to start, start small.  Maybe start by styling your hair differently or changing your frames.

If you’re ready to make some big changes, talk to your stylist about what kind of cut you want.  You’ve got the right information now.  Don’t rely on your stylist to choose the appropriate style for you. Good luck and have fun!


