Title: 
How to solve the problem of large size women’s shoes

Word Count:
432

Summary:
American women spend more than $3 billion dollars every year on surgical foot repair and due to women cramming their feet into smaller shoes, 80% of all foot ailments like bunions, corns, hammertoes, and calluses, are caused by ill-fitting shoes.


Keywords:
beauty,fashion,woman,large,size,shoes


Article Body:
American women spend more than $3 billion dollars every year on surgical foot repair and due to women cramming their feet into smaller shoes, 80% of all foot ailments like bunions, corns, hammertoes, and calluses, are caused by ill-fitting shoes.

Large size women’s shoes used to be extremely difficult to find. Many women would have to locate specialist stores and wait on orders for their size. However, Larger feet are no longer considered to be abnormal as they once were. The average women’s shoe size is now around a US size 9 [UK size 7] compared to a US size 6 or 7 [UK size 4 or 5] in the sixties and seventies.

Nowadays large size women shoes are widely available like never before. Whether you want a dressy pump or a comfortable athletic trainer, retailers and manufacturers are figuring out that there is an ever-growing market in large size women shoes. The fact is women's feet are getting bigger. While women over the age of 35 have an average shoe size of seven and a half, their younger counterparts average a shoe size of eight and a half.

Twenty years ago, a woman with big feet had very limited options in shoes, felt embarrassed and singled out for having larger feet. The only styles available to them were boring, plain and frankly quite old fashioned. Fortunately, designers and manufacturers have finally introduced large size women’s shoes into their ranges and Now, she can choose from a vast array of business, casual, and even golfing shoes.

Here are some tips that you should keep I mind while buying a shoes, if you are a woman with big, glorious feet:

* Make sure that you have both of your feet sized every time you buy shoes.
* Take the measurement standing up and sitting down.
* Ask the salesperson for suggestions on shoe brands that might work with your foot size and shape.
* If you are trying to minimize the size of your feet, look for shoes with rounded toes and moderate heels.
* Stay away from pointy pumps, ballerina flats, and t-straps that can lengthen the appearance of your feet
* It is better to stick to neutral tones or colors that blend well with hose or pants.

The old saying big is beautiful has never been more prevalent than now and if you do need to look for large size women’s shoes shopping for them online will take away the hassle and get you just what you need. This is a welcome relief for the many women who have bought shoes in a too-small size because there was no other option.


