Title: 
Know Your Own Scent.

Word Count:
509

Summary:
The body and skin of each person has a peculiar smell - similar to a fingerprint, voice check or a model of your chromosome. It is very important for everyone to understand your own scent (or "smell"), it is really good to realize and recognize how your body smells as it will affect the type of perfume or fragrance you choose, or amount of particular perfume oil you add while making your own perfume.


Keywords:
Fragrance, Perfume, cologne, women perfume, men fragrance, women fragrance, designer perfume, body scent, body smell, perfume gift set, buy fragrance, cheap perfume,   


Article Body:
It may sound funny to you, but it is really essential to understand your own scent (or "smell"), it is really good to realize and recognize how your body smells as it will affect the type of perfume you choose, or amount of particular perfume oil you add while making your own perfume.

The body and skin of each person has a peculiar smell - similar to a fingerprint, voice check or a model of your chromosome. It is scientifically proven that our doubts, hopes, requirements, our nutritional preferences, our fitness, our ability to believe and liberate, are highly influenced by the smell of our body. There are many interesting stories about how detectives and spies were able to trace out the thieves by their body odor. It has also been stated by different researchers that the smell of our body has a deep impact upon our brain. When we go out to purchase a perfume, or select any perfume oils, we knowingly or unknowingly prefer those fragrances which are acceptable and can easy assimilate with the smell of our skin. The oil or perfume you put on your skin mixes with the smell your body and skin and creates a new fragrance.

It is also said that if you understand the smell of your body correctly, and purchase and use perfumes properly, it will have a positive effect in your personal and professional life. You will be more energetic and optimist in your life.

The best way to determine your own smell character is to not take a shower following your workout and don't rinse your hair or spritz on body spray. Give yourself at least two hours and write down what you felt about your own smell, then again after taking a bath to "feel" the smell, and to see the difference in smell. This will help you in determining the exact smell of your body. Once you ignore all the artificial smells you put on your body, you will sense the exact smell of your body.

Once you recognize the smell of your body, switch over to the fragrance of different perfumes, try them one by one or select any one at random, and use it to see how your body responds to it; if both the smell of skin and the perfume is blending properly then this perfume is correct for your skin. It is also good if you take three to four different fragrances, before selecting the best, as it may help you in making your final decision.

You should not forget that your presence is important for you as well as others. You should not forget that it is really important to smell good and smell correct. Once you know about the nature of the smell of your body, you should go for the smell of the perfume accordingly, as it not only affects your mind and nature, but also affect other's mode as well. So in order to have right perfume, you should rightly learn how you smell.


Content copyright © 2006 by Fran Loudas.


