Title: 
Latest Top 6 Womens Watches To Hit The Market

Word Count:
790

Summary:
Women's watches are exciting to watch and to wear. The latest top watches to arrive on the market are found on the internet. Access to the internet means you don't have to live in a large population center in order to have the latest and best fashion accessories and jewelry.


Keywords:
ladies timepieces, ladies watches


Article Body:
Women's watches are exciting to watch and to wear. The latest top watches to arrive on the market are found on the internet. Access to the internet means you don't have to live in a large population center in order to have the latest and best fashion accessories and jewelry. The exciting thing about the new watches is that they come in every possible style and color to appeal to every woman's lifestyle.  

Pierre Nicol Floral Collection

Even in the depths of winter, fashion watches from the series can make you think of spring. The women's watches feature a bezel design enamel silver case in a charming floral motif.  The vibrant color of the flowers and vines that surround the face of the watch matches the color of the extra large easy to read dial. Choices of color include Hot Pink, Pumpkin, pale blue, and five other fashion hues. The movement is precise quartz and the band is wide, solid bracelet style with decorative floral matching the face. This is a watch that is a fashion statement as well as a time piece and any woman in a lighthearted mood would be thrilled to own it. Look for Pierre Nicol PN188-1251 in your favorite color.

Swiss Legend

The Swiss Legend Eleganza for women features a black leather strap with a crocodile finish. The fastener has push button deployment. The stainless steel case is set with 116 white diamonds in a full cut. These diamonds weigh in at 2.64 carats with excellent clarity and a color grade H. The movement is Swiss quartz. The dial is textured black with silver hands. The numerals are in an Arabesque style. The diamonds are set in a bezel style with a double row along each side of the face and a single row at top and bottom of the face. For a classy design to wear at the most fashion conscious occasions, choose this bold, yet elegant watch.

Accutron

The accuracy of this brand continues to be popular among men and women alike. The Versailles Gold-tone stainless steel women's watch features a Swiss quartz movement with a sapphire crystal. The bracelet style of the band makes it dressy enough to wear with a business ensemble yet functional enough to wear to a coach your child's Little League team. The face of the watch is made of white mother of pearl. The hands and the numeral and stick markers are of gold tone. The watch is water resistant which can be important to anyone who loves water sports. Of course the accuracy of this brand name is built into the name itself. 

Technomarine

For a truly unusual watch, you must see the women's Maori Diamond Black Rubber timepiece.  The watch face is an offset triangle in a bezel setting. The watch face is silver and features the Maori tattoo. The tattoo is repeated in the black rubber band.  56 white diamonds accent the case with a combined diamond weight of 1.19 carats. Swiss made quartz movement with a sapphire crystal guarantees accuracy and dependability.

This is not a watch to be hidden under a long sleeve. It deserves to be flaunted both for its beauty and its unique design. 

Cartier

A Cartier timepiece is a luxury item. It is a recognized status symbol for every women who owns one. An example is the Cartier Women's Tankissime Solid 18 K Gold watch. It is a slightly rectangular watch with roman numerals on a silver grained dial. The bold links in the bracelet are the same width as the case and are fastened by a hidden clasp. There is nothing retiring about the 18 carat gold, yet the design is so clean and understated that the watch would make a lovely accessory to almost any classical style garment. 

Rolex

The Rolex Oyster Perpetual Lady Datejust 18kt Gold Ladies Watch speaks with quiet elegance.  The case and bracelet are made of 18 carat yellow gold. The watch face is set in a fluted gold bezel design. The champagne dial is marked with Roman numerals. Quality is built into the 31 jeweled synthetic sapphire crystals. The bracelet is formed in the style known as President. The watch is a Rolex which almost speaks for itself in name recognition. The classic lines of this and other Rolex watches can be a welcome accessory with almost any type of ensemble from tennis dress to riding habit.  

No matter what type of lifestyle you lead, choosing a women's timepiece that appeals to you is easy when you use the internet to narrow the selections. Think beyond the mundane and have fun with a new women's watch in one of the latest styles. You can expand your horizons in style by choosing something that's new and different from your usual look.


