Title: 
Men's Neckties

Word Count:
351

Summary:
In one form or another men's neckties have been around for centuries. What started out with Chinese warriors and Roman soldiers has through history become the necktie of today. Cravats worn by European gentleman in the 1700's are closely linked to today's ties. 

Today's modern neckties are attributed to Jesse Langsdorf who patented the all-weather wrinkle-free tie in 1920. After World War II men began to take an interest in their fashion. Ties were being introduced in bold...


Keywords:



Article Body:
In one form or another men's neckties have been around for centuries. What started out with Chinese warriors and Roman soldiers has through history become the necktie of today. Cravats worn by European gentleman in the 1700's are closely linked to today's ties. 

Today's modern neckties are attributed to Jesse Langsdorf who patented the all-weather wrinkle-free tie in 1920. After World War II men began to take an interest in their fashion. Ties were being introduced in bold geometric designs using silk and rayon fabrics. Ties of this time were worn at up to a five inch width. In the 50's ties started to thin down somewhat and were called Slim-Jim ties by some, with some of these being nothing more than bootlaces worn as ties. In the 60's the tie became again wider sometimes seen in widths of 5 or 6 inches and in psychedelic designs. 

Today a gentleman has a large variety of ties to choose from. From novelty ties to custom silk ties. Anything goes as far as novelty neckties, from a hula dancer, to a picture of your pet, from your favorite sports team logo to a Christmas tree. Most of these designs of ties are priced between $20.00 and $30.00. 

Custom silk neck ties are very popular. There are numerous companies here in the United States and in Europe who specialize in custom made silk ties. These tie manufacturers use only the finest pure silk fabrics and linings and each and every tie is handmade. Did you know that the lining of the tie can affect it's weight and the size knot it will make? I didn't, but don't worry. These high end tie manufacturers will suggest the proper lining to be used. 

Today there are many designer ties to choose from in department and men's clothing stores. Many of today's top men's fashion designers such as Furmagalli, Gucci, Valentino, Arami, and Zegna have silk neck ties in their collections. These ties can run anywhere from $75.00 to $150.00. You can find many good deals on these types of ties doing an online search.


