Title: 
New York City Savors Couture Fashion Week

Word Count:
600

Summary:
Couture Fashion Week, an extravaganza of luxurious runway fashion shows held in New York City, September 7-9, 2005, culminated with the presentation of the 2005 International Fashion Designer of the Year award to Jamil Khansa of Lebanon.


Keywords:
fashion week, couture fashion week, fashion week new york, fashion shownew york fashion, Dah-veese, Lilia Berzon, Routa, Jamil Khansa, Payal Jain Indian designers, russian designers, fashion, lebanon,


Article Body:
Event producer Andres Aquino presented the prestigious award to Mr. Khansa on the evening of September 9 before an audience of international press and enthusiastic fashionistas. The presentation followed the designer’s fashion show which presented his latest collection of breathtaking couture designs done in opulent fabrics with lavish embellishments, each piece more dazzling than the last.

Tani Keller of Germany was named “Most Innovative Fashion Designer” in recognition of her fine leather couture collection for Spring 2006 entitled "Garden of Eden.” Each piece was an original couture creation, a feast for the eyes.

The 3-day event showed the latest collections of a select group of international as well as American designers, many presenting in New York for the first time. For a number of designers for whom English is not their first language, challenges included not only the hectic pace of putting on a fashion show, but also dealing with cultural differences and the use of interpreters. Once the makeup was in place, hair tousled just so, gowns slipped on, and models lined up, the music began to pulse, the lights went up, and the first model strode onto the catwalk. Excitement built as
the cameras began to click and the designers’ creations emerged. Couture had
landed in New York with a splash from many foreign lands.

The collections had names reflecting the creative philosophies and moods of the designers. 

From Latvia Anna Osmushkina presented “Heaven”, weightless designs in natural fabrics hand-woven using an original technology. Embellishments in Swarovski and Kornelius precious stones, ostrich feathers, and natural furs give added dimension and luxury. Anna’s color palette is as airy as the dawn in shades of gold, bronze, rose, sky blue and white. Handcrafted shawls and capes completed a number of the graceful feminine ensembles

Galina Dacheva from Bulgaria showed her “Timeless Fashion Collection” based on the ancient craft of knitting but jazzed revved up to a modern sensibility. The collection is an amalgam of both fashion and history.

The stunning collection from Payal Jain of India was entitled simply “Blanc”, designs fit for a princess. Payal was inspired by the mysterious weaves of the East and the structure of the West. A seemingly simple yet actually complex texturization. Exotic silk weaves are sculpted into flowing
silhouettes with tone on tone treatments.

Lourdes Libman presented her “Unequally Blue” collection, a combination of
tropical flavor from her native Dominican Republic and sophisticated European flair.

The Russian designer contingent presented strong collections from three gifted designers:
- Galit Couture, coming to New York from Russia via Israel, showed a group of beautiful fairy-tale bridal gowns. These dream-like creations are for the bride who wants to be the “Belle of the Ball” making an unforgettable entrance on her special day.
- Routa’s designs are visual poetry brought to life with a unique perspective on fabric and style.
- Lilia Berzon presented a group of sensuous evening designs characterized by an innovative use of fabrics and structural elements.

Among the American designers taking part in Couture Fashion Week was Philadelphia-based Dah-veese whose striking “urban couture” collection features the juxtaposition of signature denim with unexpected fabric combinations: fine silk organza, silk dupioni, silk taffeta, silk linen and cotton with an emphasis on angles, dimension, depth and texture.

“We have already received a large number of requests from designers around the world as well as sponsors interested in participating in next season’s fashion shows”, notes producer Andres Aquino. “So we expect this event to continue to grow at a fast pace and to continue to serve as the most important platform to present couture fashion in New York.”


