Title: 
Polarized Sunglasses - What’s The Big Deal?

Word Count:
380

Summary:
Polarized sunglasses ARE a big deal, but so many people don’t know why.


Keywords:
Polarized sunglasses, Polarized sun glasses, polarised sunglasses, polarised sun glasses


Article Body:
When you see sunglasses advertised as polarized sunglasses you may not realize what this means. You probably think that ordinary sunglasses are just as good, so why bother paying the extra cost to have polarised lenses in sunglasses. The fact is that polarized sunglasses are better for your eyes and do help you to have clearer vision when you are out in the sun.

If you spend any amount of time outdoors in direct sunlight, then you can really benefit from polarized sunglasses. Those who are involved in sports, such as golf, surfing, biking and even snow sports, rely on the protection that polarised sun glasses provides them from UV rays. You always hear about wearing lots of sunscreen to protect your skin, but there is very little said about wearing polarized lenses in sunglasses to protect your eyes. 

Polarized sunglasses utilize special technology that helps to neutralize the glare you get when the sun reflects off flat surfaces. While this might involve scientific terms, the bottom line is that when you wear polarised sunglasses, you no longer have to squint when you look into direct sunlight. The polarized lenses in the sunglasses neutralize the horizontal rays with vertical polarizers making it possible for you to see clearly.

Although most of the designers of sunglasses advertise their products geared towards certain groups of people, such as those looking for fishing or baseball sunglasses, anyone can wear polarized sunglasses and reap their benefits. Getting the ultimate in protection from UV rays and still maintaining true color when you look at objects is the goal behind the designer sunglasses containing polarised lenses. 

Check out the designs of all the major lines of sunglasses. You will find that almost all of them have polarized sunglasses. The polarised sunglasses on the market come in all different colors of lenses and in very fashionable designs. Oakley, Hobie, Arnette, Costs del Mar – all of these famous companies produce sun glasses with polarised lenses. 

When you plan a day at the beach, along with your sunscreen and towels, don’t forget to pack your polarized sunglasses. You do need to protect your vision, and wearing polarised sunglasses is the best way to go. 

Polarized sunglasses ARE a big deal, but so many people don’t know why.


