Title: 
Stylish Eyewear Of Today

Word Count:
825

Summary:
The right choice of accessories can make or break your whole outfit. It can turn drab clothes into fashionably stylish. Conversely, it can also ruin a trendy get-up.


Keywords:
eyewear, fashion sunglasses


Article Body:
Eyewear is now classified as a fashion accessory aside from being a necessity for many people. Styles are being updated every season to cater to the varied tastes of its consumers. For those that couldn’t help but wear glasses, the least they could do is to get a style and frame that will bring out their best facial features. 

The trend

These days, sunglasses and various types of eyewear are more than just necessities to protect the eyes from the sun or other elements. They are fashion statements in their own right. Sunglasses can easily make you look glamorous even when you’re only wearing basic jeans and shirt.
It's interesting how a certain piece of eyewear can define the individual personality of the one wearing it. This is basically why many people spend a lot of time carefully choosing the right sunglasses or corrective lenses. There are even those who collect different types of eyewear to use in various occasions. 
Originally, sunglasses were associated with celebrities who need to maintain anonymity when they walk down the streets. Nowadays, people who want to look trendy and chic have also taken to adopting the same fashion trend and donned their own shades. 


What's in style

Shopping for eyewear can be quite daunting because the styles have gone beyond the basic frames. Black will always be in style as far as frames are concerned. It’s actually a classic color that will span all style genres. It’s a good idea to invest in a black frame that will complement the shape of your face. You can wear this style to the office for a more confident look. 
If you're feeling adventurous, this season brings futuristic designs and bolder colors. The Spring 2008 runway features glasses in acid colors such as fluorescent turquoise and really bright orange. You’ll find these colors either as peek-a-boo details on the temples or as the actual color for the frame. Plastic and metallic frames are still in style for this season. Crisp and seamless designs define the eyewear style trend today. These frames can easily update your wardrobe and put some color into your daily getup.


Bigger frames

Bigger frames are still in style today. Square-shaped and aviator glasses are quite a hit. However, larger eyewear can be quite tricky as this style doesn’t necessarily work with most facial shapes. The idea is to carefully select a frame that wouldn’t swallow your whole face. These styles are great for exuding that aura of anonymity and for adding glamour to an ordinary outfit. Wrap styles are quite popular among women. They also make for wise choices in eyewear as these designs offer optimum sun protection. 
For corrective eyewear, black is still a good choice but brown, grey and silver are also in season. Wire glasses will go quite well with any outfit. Plastic is also a good material to use as it’s lighter. 


Color

Layered and colored effects are popular among the younger crowd. Plastic frames in two-color combinations are still in style. Red and black or red-and-white combinations offer a classic look that will go well with practically any type of style personality but bolder colors will work just as well.
For lens colors, black is still a classic shade that will never go out of style. Other hues to try are grey and brown. It’s best to stay away from neon shades such as pink and blue for the moment as they take a backseat in lieu of classic colors. 


More than just basics

Before, eyewear is just that – a pair of glasses mounted on a plain frame. These days, however, shopping for glasses is much more fun with the wide array of designs to choose from. Bejeweled eyewear is quite a hit. Swarovski crystals on the temple part create a more luxurious effect to the basic sunglasses. Basic metal and plastic frames have also been replaced by other materials like leather, crocodile and horn. 


Selecting the right eyewear

As earlier mentioned, the right choice of eyewear can easily turn your whole outfit from drab to fashionably chic so it’s important to be careful in your selection. You will want to go for frames that will accentuate your best facial features and flatter the shape of your face. For instance, if it is round-shaped, it’s best to wear frames that are square-shaped to make your face look narrow. If you have a small face, it’s best to stay away from oversized glasses and opt for smaller versions that wouldn’t hide your face. 
While it’s more practical to have just one pair of corrective eyewear for all your needs, it’s also a good idea to invest in a spare one that you can wear on formal or casual occasions. And finally, don’t rely too much on the latest trend. Your priority should still be comfort and optimum eye protection.


