Title: 
Tips When Buying Ladies Handbags

Word Count:
538

Summary:
Aside from shoes, bags are definitely the Achilles’ heel of every female homo sapien. Women go gaga over any kind of bag, and they even take pains in matching their bags with their shoes.

Buying a bag can be a major decision for every woman even though she may already have a dozen or more in her closet. Women can never have enough of bags.

Those who have money to spend are lucky because they can splurge their money on bags of all shapes, colors and sizes. However, for t...


Keywords:
handbag, purse,


Article Body:
Aside from shoes, bags are definitely the Achilles’ heel of every female homo sapien. Women go gaga over any kind of bag, and they even take pains in matching their bags with their shoes.

Buying a bag can be a major decision for every woman even though she may already have a dozen or more in her closet. Women can never have enough of bags.

Those who have money to spend are lucky because they can splurge their money on bags of all shapes, colors and sizes. However, for the budget conscious who are nevertheless smitten with bags, it is wise to decide which bag would fit an already existing wardrobe.

When buying bags, consider where it is going to be used so that you will not be easily swayed into buying any bag that catches your fancy. Ask yourself whether the bag will fit into your existing wardrobe. A wise dressed will always know how to mix and match her wardrobe with her bags, shoes and accessories to make her wardrobe more cost effective. Bags and shoes, when mixed and matched with different dressed, will give a new set of wardrobe to the wise dresser.

Be able to put a ceiling or a price range for your target bag so you will not be tempted into buying anything that costs more than you budget. Except of if the price is already a bargain and it can be mixed and matched to several clothing wear. This characteristic will of course make the price of the bag more cost effective in the long term.

Fashion victims would always look at magazines and follow the newest craze in bag designs and colors. Wise and elegant dressers will always go for the classic look. Going with a classic look will mean your bag will outlast the newest craze and it can be worn anywhere and anytime, for any occasion.

There are however a few rules that would have to be followed by a woman before buying a bag. A petite woman should avoid very big bags as this will tend to make her look more petite than she already is. Bags can also hide body imperfections so be sure to know which body parts you want understated before choosing a bag. If you want to avoid getting attention on your big hips then choose a shoulder bag. If you have big breasts or broad shoulders then a waste bag is for you.

Bags can come in all types like pouch bags, shoulder bags, tote bags, flap bags, evening bags and many others. It can also come in various materials like leather, satin, velvet, denim or nylon. There are as many bag designs and materials depending on the creativity of bag makers.

Bags are welcome gifts for every female. However, being able to buy the right bag for the right person can be difficult considering that each person has different tastes in bags. When doing this, it would be better to ask the person about her preferences in bags. If the person is close to you, then you would have more knowledge about her fashion style and occupation. This way, your gift would not end up at the bottom of her closet.


