Title: 
Tips to treat acne

Word Count:
543

Summary:
Acne is a broad term, which includes blemishes, blackheads, and whiteheads. Acne can strike at any age. Effective acne treatments are sometimes difficult to find, and understanding acne and prevention can be frustrating. Here are some acne treatment tips that have worked for many.


Keywords:
beauty    


Article Body:
Acne is a broad term, which includes blemishes, blackheads, and whiteheads. Acne can strike at any age. Effective acne treatments are sometimes difficult to find, and understanding acne and prevention can be frustrating. Here are some acne treatment tips that have worked for many. 

Although acne is not life threatening it can be uncomfortable and hard on your ego. There has always been a debate about the actual cause of acne. The actual cause is not as important as finding a cure. 

So is there a cure for acne. Well yes and no. There are many products available and for some they are a cure, for others they do not help. A cure is only a cure when you find a product that works for you. 

Most acne treatments will take time to work. It usually takes around 8 weeks before you see any significant improvement so you are going to have to be patient. Once you have got your acne cleared up it is important to continue with the treatment that is working so it does not return. 

If you have serious acne, it is best to consult a dermatologist. However, in milder cases you will often be able to get it under control by yourself just by persevering. Try these tips to conquer your acne. 

Exercise 
Regular exercise helps keep your whole body in shape. It builds your immune system and helps eliminate toxins from the body. It is a great start to fighting acne. 

Diet 
You need to eat at least 5 servings of fresh fruit and vegetables each day. Fresh fruit and vegetables are full of nutrients that your body needs. They boost the immune system and are good antioxidants. They can work towards helping you get rid of the acne. Try to avoid refined sugars and fatty foods which have are not good for you or your skin. You also need to drink at least 8 glasses of water a day to flush your system of toxins. 

Cosmetics 
Choose cosmetics that are water based and hypo-allergenic. Avoid oil free products, coal tar derivatives, and heavy creams. Make sure you wash your skin thoroughly every night to remove makeup residue. 

Hormones 
Hormones can play a role in acne flare ups and they can be used to reduce outbreaks. Your doctor may decide to use HRT to eliminate or reduce your acne outbreaks. 

Clean Skin 
You need to avoid harsh scrubbing of your face but you also need to thoroughly clean your skin nightly. Use a mild cleaning regime every night. Once or twice a week you should also, use an exfoliator to gently remove damaged skin and unplug pores. 

Shaving 
Is actually a great exfoliating treatment the removes dead skin. However, you should never shave an area that is infected or inflamed. Always use a shaving cream if your skin is sensitive. 

Stress 
Can be a contributing factor to acne so try to relax and unwind. Emotions trigger chemical reactions in the body, which can cause an outbreak. 

You can help control your acne outbreaks by following these simple steps. What are you waiting for? 

Did you find this article useful?  For more useful tips, hints, points to ponder and keep in mind,
do please browse for more information at our websites.


