Title: 
Tips On Choosing A Good Watch

Word Count:
829

Summary:
A Watch is the single most important accessory that is worn by any person. The watch stands for a whole lot of things. It represents the person's, character, personality, taste, interest area, and last but not the least, gives a fair idea of his/her financial status.


Keywords:
mens watch, womens watch, timepiece


Article Body:
A Watch is the single most important accessory that is worn by any person. The watch stands for a whole lot of things. It represents the person's, character, personality, taste, interest area, and last but not the least, gives a fair idea of his/her financial status. 

The contemporary watch

The design of contemporary watches can range from the ultra-modern to the classic and from fun to chic, and everything in between. It comes as no surprise that there is a watch for every occasion. Moreover, more and more companies are coming out with watches that suit the different moods of a person.

There are special watches that can be used while embarking on a particular activity, like deep sea diving, mountain climbing etc. On the whole there is an innumerable choice out there which specifically caters to the different and continuously changing tastes of the people. 

Difficulty in choosing

Choosing a watch for your needs is a difficult process, so imagine what choosing a watch for somebody else might mean. It's a pleasant headache if not anything else, as what you select might not be the choice of the person whom you select if for. 

Your choice is after all your own choice, and will have no bearing on the personal taste of another. So what is the right watch for you? How do you select a good watch? Here are a few tips that might just help you decide. Read on.

The need 

You must thoroughly analyze what you need the watch for. Answer questions like: Do I need the watch for regular use? Do I want it for a special activity? Do I want one for special occasions? Where and when am I going to use it? Etc.

This is the first factor that would dictate your choice of the watch. 

The purpose

The purpose of the watch is of paramount importance. You might be surprised with this tip, but the fact of the matter is that people, these days, don't just buy a watch to keep track of the time. 

They use it like an accessory and a thing of beauty. For them, time is just one aspect, but more importance is given to the fact, whether the watch will complement their attire or appearance.

The features

So what are the definitive features that you are looking for in the watch? Is it a great design? Do you want a luminous dial or a simple one? Do you want a watch, where a date is shown as well as time? Do you want it to show, specialized features like altitude height, depth etc.

All watches have certain key features, which are common across all watches. However, if you want some exclusive features, then your can pick those that have a certain amount of style, and have a classic, romantic, or a futuristic range of features. 

The watch face

It’s the face of the watch, which is the deciding factor, when you buy a watch. The face of the watch must be such that, its size is commensurate with the wrist size of the person who is going to wear it.

For e.g. if your hand has a big wrist, and you select a watch with a small face, it will look ungainly and supremely inelegant. 

The safest bet for males is a big watch face, while for females it is a small watch face. 

The strap

Many a times, people don't put too much of an importance on the strap of the watch. However, it might be a good idea to give due thought to the strap. Some straps don't gel together with the watch, or might not complement the overall skin tone and color. They look out of place.

The best bet has always been a stainless steep strap. It is durable and looks good. Another option is a leather strap; however, it's not suitable for all occasions.

The price

Watches come in a whole dynamic range of prices. They can suit the constraints of each and every pocket. Exclusive watches are expensive, and there is quite a lot of snob value attached to them.

It’s advisable not to go overboard, when you buy a watch and you must spend well within your means. Some watches have a good re-sale value. Make a bee-line for such watches as even if you want to change them after a couple of years, you can sell them at a fair price.

Resistance to water

Almost all watches, these days, are water resistant. This is really an important consideration, as there will be numerous instances of your watch being brought into contact with water. 

Make sure to ask the vendor, about the degree of resistance to water. For many watch makers, the term "water-resistant" means different things.

You won't go wrong if you consider the above tips, while buying a watch. A word of caution here: Steer clear of impulse buying, while buying a watch.


