Title: 
Trendy Eyewear For The Fashion Conscious

Word Count:
883

Summary:
Long been flaunted as the "must-have" accessories of superstars and celebrities, eyewear has finally gained world-wide acceptance. A piece of eyewear today does more than just protect your eyes from the harmful Ultra Violet (UV) rays of the sun. What you wear on your eyes is also seen as a reflection of your personality and individual style quotient. The right pair of eyewear can add that touch of style, hint of mystique and truly announce to the world that you have finally arrived!


Keywords:
eyewear, sunglasses, fashion


Article Body:
Long been flaunted as the "must-have" accessories of superstars and celebrities, eyewear has finally gained world-wide acceptance. A piece of eyewear today does more than just protect your eyes from the harmful Ultra Violet (UV) rays of the sun. What you wear on your eyes is also seen as a reflection of your personality and individual style quotient. The right pair of eyewear can add that touch of style, hint of mystique and truly announce to the world that you have finally arrived!

Planet Eyewear!
The range of eyewear available today is mind-boggling. With numerous brands, big and small, choosing the right eyewear can be tricky and daunting. From sports eyewear to formal eyewear to casual, the range is wide and prices suitable for most people. 

Whether you want to flaunt trendy eyewear models such as Oakley and Oxydo or other designer models, sometimes also referred to as “jewelry items” such as Gucci, Ferrari, and Bvlgari, the constantly evolving eyewear design trends, colors, and shapes are defining pointers for what your look will be fashioned on. 
	
Don’t just buy sunglasses to protect eyes. Pay special attention that the eyewear flatters your face as well. Choose from the latest styles; you can pick from wraps, shields, aviators, clip-ons, oversized Jackie O frames, or the really cool futuristic shapes that have flooded the markets. 

From New York to Shanghai, various brands of sunglasses have made their way into the market, so must be aware of counterfeits. Stay away from cheap and bad quality plastic lens; these can harm your eyes rather than protecting them. Buy from a reputable store or then shop online at known websites such as www.fuzing.com

Current eyewear trends
According to eyewear fashion experts, large shapes, especially the square shaped frames and the aviators (usually unisex) are currently in vogue. Lens colors or shades that compliment these eyewear shapes are brown, grey and black. So what about blue and pink shades? Well, these colors are completely out and people only want dark tones. Black and grey have also been the most popular choice forever! 

Having discussed the shape and color, it’s time to find out what materials are in demand. Consider this: the young crowd is drawn to plastic frames and those that show-off different layered and colored effects to the hilt. Want a sure shot tip on which color frames to choose? Try red and black and/or red and white. You can’t ever go wrong with these two combinations. Don’t like colored effects? No problem. The very chic and fashionable tortoise shell effect is just what will make you look like your favorite celebrity!

Here’s a tip: Try to buy a frame that has a more classic silhouette, rather than a bulky and loud frame. Aim for the timeless look by sticking with sleek materials. Dark colors such as black, brown, grey, or silver and plastic or wire help you stay in style even in the flood of trends!
	
Style Statements for Women and Men
The emerging trend in eyewear is now gearing towards color coordination. For women it means choosing a pair of sunglasses or eyewear that is based on the color of their hair and complexion. The oversized sunglasses with double shades and a perfectly well displayed logo gleaming on the sides, which can also double-up as a hair bands are extremely popular and a huge style statement. 

Men can make style statements by flashing the aviator or other distinct-looks in metallic, rimless, or wire frames. It’s fairly common knowledge now that most people who are splurging on expensive branded eyewear, usually have more then a couple of pairs at least. They are on the look out for a particular piece that is distinct and unique for that specific moment. 

Designer Eyewear for the Fashion Conscious
If you are looking for a range of eyewear styles from the conventional to the contemporary then look no further than the style guru – Tommy Hilfiger. Tommy’s new Fall 2007 fashion eyewear collection comes with a new twist, which makes the traditional and classical sunglasses and spectacles look vibrant, unique and chic but not ostentatiously so. This juxtaposition of the old with the new, conventional with the urban hip in this new collection, is suitable for any wardrobe and any event. 

But if you rather invest in a futuristic or ultra contemporary look then Bvlgari is the brand for you. Hip shapes that are further aesthetically enhanced with the Bvlgari motifs add a streak of glamour to this collection. The different styles available are Quadrato, Parentesi, Astrale and Cicladi, in light and refined metal, acetate frames and Swarovski crystals.

Burberry collection is all about being retro. The vintage, retro look in different styles like the wide square shape, or the slightly rounder shapes is in vogue. Classified as the Runaway Collection, these eyewear pieces are studded with semi-precious stones on the sides. 

Getting the Right Look!
Yes, getting the right look is not easy at all. And the best way to find a suitable frame for your face does involve the need for a trial effort. Spend as much time as you can on trying different frames, styles, lens shapes before buying the perfect and trendy pair of eyewear. After all, you deserve it!


