Title: 
Trends And Statements To "Di"

Word Count:
363

Summary:
As a lifestyle columnist, Di Petroff is always looking for chic lifestyle and fashion statements.


Keywords:
Trends And Statements To "Di"


Article Body:
As a lifestyle columnist, I'm always looking for chic lifestyle and fashion statements.

Nothing makes more of a statement than having a sophisticated "idea resource" at my fingertips for days at the beach, nights on the town and dinner parties at home.

One of my favorites is the Spiegel catalog, which offers inspiration on entertaining, decorating and even a fabulous cocktail dress. 

At your next get-together, unleash your inner fashionista. When the party heats up, bear your shoulders with a silk halter dress in vivid green. And bejewel yourself with a green and gold jeweled brocade bag that won't set your budget back, but will spring your inner princess forward.

Accessories are the DNA of lasting glamour, so who wants to be seen in something a million other women already own? Opt instead for a brass cameo bracelet by Michael Negrin, who creates vintage-inspired jewels made to help you feel like a Victorian queen. Or add a dazzling yet delicate multistrand pearl necklace to your gem collection. Wear it the way I do-with a cocktail dress-and you'll be the envy of all the "gem setters" at the party.

I'm forever collecting shoes. Shoes for meetings, shoes for the beach and shoes for parties. That's why I'm excited about the metallic snake-embossed sandal-a chain of jewels adds a touch of elegance, taking me seamlessly from day into night.

Glamour doesn't start and end with fashion. It extends to every aspect of life (it does for me, at least). A party is the perfect excuse to decorate, redecorate or simply add a few glam accents to your divine temple. 

With The Spiegel Signature Home Collection, you can dive into anything from Asian-inspired embroidered decorative shams to a crystal candelabra with antique flair.

Entertaining at home is an exceptional craft and I've discovered a new culinary goddess-Donatella Arpaia, of the famed Bellini, David Burke & Donatella, and Ama restaurants in New York City. She's my favorite authority on entertaining. 

Elements of Ama's celebrated Italian-style entertaining, such as the Essential Sauce made with pure tomatoes and extra virgin Fruttato Olive Oil, are now available, so you can provide gourmet dining for your guests without the five-star price tag.


