Title: 
Wearing Red Has Never Been So Stylish-Or Such A Healthy Idea

Word Count:
404

Summary:
Wearing red--the color of life and love--can do more than help you stop traffic. It could help save lives.


Keywords:
Wearing Red Has Never Been So Stylish-Or Such A Healthy Idea


Article Body:
Wearing red-the color of life and love-can do more than help you stop traffic. It could help save lives. 

As part of the American Heart Association's Go Red For Women movement, millions of women are wearing this joyful color to celebrate their commitment to keeping their hearts healthy. 

The movement has helped revive interest in making the color red even more fashionable. Wearing this vibrant color offers women a chance to stand out and make a statement. 

"Color is an easy and affordable way to express yourself through what you wear," says style and beauty expert Andy Paige. "Red is an empowering color. Once you feel the lift this color gives your spirits and see the attention it attracts, you may decide to make it a mainstay of your wardrobe all year." 

According to Paige, there are as many ways to wear red as there are good reasons to do it. 

Go Red from head to toe or accent an outfit with red accessories. Carry a fabulous red handbag or kick up your heels in red stilettos. Red isn't just for women, either; men can Go Red by wearing a red shirt, tie or socks. 

Try these tips from Paige: 

Pick the perfect red. If your coloring is warm, try a rich tomato or pomegranate. If it's cool, think cherry or scarlet. 

Worried about looking washed out? Fill in the neckline of a red blouse or sweater with a scarf in a softer shade or wear red away from your face-in a skirt, pants or boots. 

Put a new spin on it. Wear red accessories, like the ones at ShopGoRed.com, in offbeat ways. Substitute two tiny red-dress pins (the Go Red For Women symbol) for cufflinks on a French-cuffed shirt; tie a red-dress logo scarf around your wrist or use it as a watchband. 

Don't forget your lips, tips and locks. Glossy red lipstick and nail polish are classic ways to add a touch of glamour. Take it a step further and color your hair red-any shade from strawberry blonde to burgundy will do. 

Be Bold, Be Noticed and Be Heart Healthy 

Regardless of the shade or the accessory you choose, wearing red can also be a fashion statement that says, "I am taking a stand for my heart health." 

Paige advises, "Incorporating red into your wardrobe serves as a visual reminder to love your heart and Go Red in your own fashion."


