Title: 
What To Look For When Choosing Discount Sun Glasses

Word Count:
662

Summary:
The right pair of sunglasses can add that touch of style, that hint of mystique and make a statement that you have truly arrived. 

But is that all a pair of sunglasses does, make you look chic? Your Eyewear does much more than that; they go a long way more than making just a fashion statement; they protect your eyes from harmful UV rays.


Keywords:
Discount Sun Glasses, Aviator Sun Glasses, Oakley sunglasses, Sun glasses,  Fashion eyewear n sunglass,sunglasses, frames


Article Body:
The right pair of sunglasses can add that touch of style, that hint of mystique and make a statement that you have truly arrived. 

But is that all a pair of sunglasses does, make you look chic? Your Eye ware does much more than that; they go a long way more than making just a fashion statement; they protect your eyes from harmful UV rays. 

Sunglass lenses are made of glass or plastic that undergoes special hi-tech treatments. The colour and degree of darkness of the lens is an important factor when deciding the Uv Protection factor. So before you buy your favourite Gucci, Oakley, Ray-Ban or prescription or designer eyewear, check out whether they block at least 99 % of harmful UV rays. A simple way is to check is via the label. 

Flatter your face and protect your eyes, with the latest styles. Sunglass trends are inspired from retro looks to street fashion. It is for you to decide whether you like aviators and oversized Jackie O frames, or the latest futuristic shield shapes, that have flooded the markets, recently. 

Trendy tints are available, a dime a dozen. So, take your pick - wraps, shields, aviators, clip-ons, phew! The list just goes on and on. With the booming global economy, various brands of sunglasses have flooded the market, so it is always advised, that you are aware of counterfeits. Right from the street fashion of New York to the bustling markets of Shaghai, you can find the right choice, if you choose your pair of shades carefully, with a little bit of thought. Go ahead and pick the right pair for you today. 

Frames form an integral part of any eyewear. Choose a pair of shades that suit the shape of your face. For example, a round face can carry off geometric shapes and ovals. An angular face looks better in rounder frames and the lucky oval faces can carry off, well almost any style. 

Now we come to that important question, how much does one spend for a pair of dream shades? Well it all depends on you whether you want to go for branded fashion eye wear or not. It is always recommended that you go for a branded pair of sunglasses that are safer to use. Sunglasses make much more than a fashion statement they protect perhaps the most precious gift of all, your eyes. Always check for the UV rating of any brand. Also check for the right kind of lens color and frame. Your friendly optometrist will be able to help you out with your choice. Costly shades need not necessarily mean better shades. Search on the net, Splurge a little over $200 and you can get a designer name. Between $500 - $1000 you get into the really rarified zone of celebs. Even prescription sunglasses are available in designer labels. Go to the nearest Christian Dior, Oakley, Gucci, Gabbana, D & D, Polo or OKNY outlet and loosen those strings in your purse or wallet. You even have the option of online shopping for your favorite sunglasses and eyewear. Better still read those exhaustive product reviews on the net or in your favourite fashion magazine, before making your choice. 

Over the years the eyewear industry has grown exponentially, literally exploding with a host of brands and designs. Whether it is prescription eyewear, designer eyewear or sunglasses, the styles have become better and the looks are getting ever more sophisticated. From being mere polarized glasses, fashion eyewear n sunglasses have become fashion accessories.

Do you know, we have spent from a few dollars to several hundreds of dollars for that right look?

So getting a right and bright look is not an easy task. Increasing globalization and competition has made the brands better by the day. Sunglasses are not mere fashion statements any more. They are proven protectors of vision. Isn't it time you looked yourself straight in the mirror and said to yourself, go get the latest in eyewear. You deserve it!


