Title: 
Who Can Resist A Bargain?

Word Count:
715

Summary:
Shopping is one of the top five activities people do when visiting a new country, so we've put together a selection of destination to consider if shopping is your passion.


Keywords:
shopping, fashion, designer clothing, menswear, womenswear, bargains, sample sales, warehouse sales, spending spree, shopping holidays, spend money, currency converter, personal tours, Tourists


Article Body:
Tip: Try to visit countries with a weaker currency. If your currency is stronger, you can get more for your money when changing to a different currency. 

The Far East's Treasure Trove
Singapore records strong numbers for their national shopping festival. Now in its 13th year, the Great Singapore Sale continues to draw increasing numbers of visitors from the Middle East, according to senior Singapore tourism chiefs.
 
Running up until 23 July, the event sees malls, shopping centres and shopping districts offer huge discounts – some as much as 70 per cent – on a variety of goods including fashion, electronics, jewellery, watches, gifts and household items.

This year the Great Singapore Sale has hit a record high with a total of 30 neighbourhood centres taking part. Hundreds of shops in town centres and shopping malls will be offering discounts on a wide array of products and services.
 
The festival offers visitors as wide a range of discounts throughout Singapore. Highly popular late night shopping hours are extended even more to accommodate the demand and a higher volume of enticing promotions and exciting offers come into a class of their own so visitors can shop to their hearts’ content.

Flights to Singapore rapidly sell out during this summer high season, with a significant portion of visitors taking advantage of the great shopping arriving from the Middle East. 
 
Shopping is a key component of Singapore’s tourism industry and is already one of the main reasons visitors travel to Singapore. Foreign visitors shopping in Singapore has become a major contributor to the country's economy. Over £1.6 billion annually, with approximately one-fifth, or £357 million was spent during the Great Singapore Sale in 2005. 

Tip: If there is something in particular you are after, it's a good idea to find out how much it cost in the country you live in so you have a price for comparison, that way you'll know when you've bagged yourself a real bargain abroad. 

London – UK
Born to shop? Discover how to make your money go further by buying direct from the designer at sample sales and showrooms, saving you up to 90 per cent off the retail price.

Could this be why such rarely publicised sales are frequented by celebs, trend setters, stylists and those in the know? For information visit http:www.information-i.org.uk/secret_sales.html 

Chicago – US
When thinking about enjoying a shopping spree in America the first destination that naturally springs to mind is New York. But this big city is by no means the be all and end all of what America has to offer as Chicago has quickly become an international shopping destination. Head to Chicago Premium Outlets for an unparalleled collection of 120 designer and name brand stores offering savings of up to 65 per cent every day! Stroll through this Prairie style outdoor centre featuring famous brands such as Ralph Lauren, Giorgio Armani, Versace, Calvin Klein, Diesel and much more. 

Los Angeles – US
Because of its location and mix of well-known stores and trend setting unique boutiques, the Beverly Centre in Los Angeles is a favourite shopping destination for Hollywood stylists and celebrities.

Bologna – Italy
Need a break from the cultural, historical and religious side of Bologna? A little retail therapy may be in order. Pick up an Italian luxury leather bag at Furla, shoes by Sergio Rossi or update your wardrobe with the latest collection by Pollini, the shopping opportunities are endless in Italy. 

Florence – Italy
The real bargain hunters prepare to head to such designer outlets as Prada and Gucci, which have become a shopper's paradise. Get ready to buy another suitcase to take your bargains home with Gucci and Prada at 30 to 50 per cent off the retail price, you are sure to need a little more luggage space. If you love a bargain, head to The Mall which has become a shopper's paradise with designer outlets such as Burberry and Armani. As if that's not enough, treat yourself to the Fendi and Dolce and Gabbana collections as well. 

Milan – Italy
Discover the latest trends and newest designers with a personalised shopping and fashion tour of Milan. Go off the beaten track to discover the next big thing in international fashion. 

For inspiration or more information on International bargain shopping trips visit http://www.affiliate.viator.com/welcome.jsp?AUID=4597


