Title: 
Wholesale Hip Hop Fashion and Clothing

Word Count:
521

Summary:
Beginning in the 1970s Hip Hop fashion has gone from a fringe cultural group a fast moving fashion trend, particularly in the United States. The greatest popularity of such fashions tends to be along the coasts and in the larger cities.  Hip Hop fashion is traced to the African American community but has quickly spread into being a universal clothing style for people of many ethnicities and genders and a mainstay of Hip Hop culture.


Keywords:
Hip Hop Clothing  Wholesale Hip Hop clothing and other accessories


Article Body:
Generally Hip Hop clothing, retail or wholesale, is broken into two groups, classic and modern styles.  The classic styles are those that were popularized in the 1970s to late 1980s.  Modern styles come from the very late eighties, nineties and after 2000.

Classic Hip Hop clothing includes large glasses and sunglasses, multi-finger rings, multiple gold necklaces, and various brand tennis shoes with oversized laces.  Hairstyles at this time took on a strong African American influence.  These styles included tight jheri curls and dreadlocks as well as closer cut and shaped styles.  Red-black-and-green was a common color pallet, sizing towards being baggy and overlarge, which continued into more modern Hip Hop styles.  This time period was one of establishing the Hip Hop movement and modern Hip Hop clothing and culture owes its success to these roots.

The more modern style Hip Hop was much affected by musical artists and actors who made popular the wearing of brilliant colors, often neon, and wearing usual clothing items, baseball hats and even condoms, in unusual ways.  Some went as far as to wear their clothing backwards.  As the year 2000 dawned, and highly influenced by the remake of Scarface Hip Hop clothing styles took on an influence from street thugs and prison inmates.  These styles included over sized clothing, large pocketed pants without a belt and military accents in shoes and jackets.  Other marks of this change of trend were flannel over shirts, hoodies and gold teeth, or at least gold fixtures.

Currently many places exist where Hip Hop clothing can be acquired.  Some of the simplest pieces may come from the corner thrift shop or flea market, but as the Hip Hop style has progressed in complexity these pieces have been picked up by many big markets, charging a big dollar and opening a huge marketplace for wholesale Hip Hop clothing options.  In order to push back against this trend online websites such as urbanhotlist.com have sprung up, offering discounted brands and a places to fill many needs at once.

Many advantages and disadvantages exist when it comes to working with an online sales site, like urbanhotlist.com.  Very often there is access to a much broader base of merchandise.  The ability for bulk ordering allows the prices of wholesale Hip Hop clothing to be kept very reasonable even after adding the extra charges for shipping and handling.  

For those above-mentioned reasons websites like urbanhotlist.com have become rather popular and continue to grow with each month.  This is particularly of concern when the merchandise in question is something that requires sizing, such as the clothing lines that have been spoken about here.  Fortunately many wholesale Hip Hop styles aren’t fitted, preferring an oversized fit, which addresses many of the sizing concerns, but make sure that any place you are purchasing such items has a returns policy if something arrives damaged or in the wrong size.

No matter whether you prefer the early Hip Hop clothing or more modern choices there are many options for getting the wholesale clothing pieces you want.  One thing, however, is for sure.  Hip Hop is here to stay.


