Title: 
You Don’t Have To Plug Electric Sunglasses Into An Outlet

Word Count:
369

Summary:
Electric sunglasses, great sunglasses at a great price, and fashionable too.


Keywords:
Electric sunglasses, Electric sun glasses, Electric Vol sunglasses, Electric Vol sun glasses


Article Body:
Electric sunglasses is the name of a design of skateboarding sunglasses. They come in many great designs such as Electric EC/DC, Electric VOL and Electric Maxwell. You can have electric sunglasses with or without polarized lenses – whatever you prefer in designer sunglasses. They are very fashionable and a little less costly than other designer sun glasses.

Well known personalities in the world of snow sports and skateboarding have endorsed Electric sunglasses. They come in nine different styles, including Electric Vol sunglasses and at the reasonable price of $60 to $95 per pair, they are well worth the money. Compared to other designer sun glasses that sell for over $200 a pair because of the polarized lenses, you know you are getting a bargain when you buy Electric.

All the frames for the Electric sunglasses, except for the Flux aviator style in the Electric line, are made from grylamide. This is a nylon material so that the sunglasses, even the Electric Vol sunglasses, are lightweight and fit snugly to your face. When you are flying through the air, you don’t want the sunglasses to slip and distract you. This is why there are rubber grips on the nosepiece that stick even tighter when they get wet. 

The lenses in Electric sunglasses are made from polycarbonate – a shatterproof material. These sunglasses go through stringent testing before they go to market to make sure they meet the shatterproof test. The nylon frame comes in a wraparound design so that no UV rays cane get around the sides and you can keep the sunglasses firmly in place.

Electric Vol sunglasses do not have polarized lenses. These sunglasses have thin frames and large lenses. The style seems reminiscent of the sunglasses of the 1940’s and the Vol sunglasses are designed for fashion. You also have a choice in the color or lens you want, such as oyster/bronze, lavender or white gloss. Some of the Electric sunglasses, such as the Electric Maxwell and Electric Noise, do contain these lenses. If you can get polarized sunglasses for such a low price, why pay the high prices for biker sunglasses when these work just as well? 

Electric sunglasses, great sunglasses at a great price, and fashionable too.


