Title: 
10 POWERFUL Reasons WHY 'Articles' Remain The Internets #1 Marketing Strategy

Word Count:
984

Summary:
This article explains the Top 10 reasons why 'Articles' remain the Internets #1 marketing strategy.


Keywords:
articles,article writing,internet marketing,traffic generation,web promotion,online marketing tactic,online marketing,list building,


Article Body:
We've all heard it... "Content IS King" and for good reason because it IS as far as the Internet is concerned.

And when it comes to web surfers, they come online for two reasons, One is to check there email and reason number Two is to search the web for "Information".

How do you think the Internet received the reputation as the "Information Super-Highway"?

Because thats what its primary purpose was before they decided to commercialize it to what it is today.

And... what do 'Articles' contain?

The answer is quite simple... "Information".

So, what does this have to do with you?

Be the one who supplies it.

It's that simple.

Now, for the rest of this article I'm going to give you 10 POWERFUL reasons WHY you should and/or need to get started using 'Articles' as one of your online marketing strategies so you too can reap the benefits.

With that said, lets move on to reason #1.

Reason #1. Search Engines LOVE them.

It's no secret that Search Engines LOVE content, so if you supply it on a regular basis your giving them a great reason to stop on by to take a look around.

Once there they'll spider and index your website which is just what you want.

Reason #2. Website and Newsletter owners always need them.

I touched base on this earlier about why web surfers come online.

Website owners need fresh content to keep there visitors and/or subscribers coming back, where as newsletter publishers also need fresh content for there "email" newsletters that they publish and send to there subscriber base.

Remember the two reasons I discussed earlier about WHY web surfers come online. BINGO!

Reason #3. They generate Life Long residual Traffic.

Articles produce Life Long residual traffic because website owners, newsletter publishers and article directories archive them for there visitors to read and search through.

And since you have a 'Resource Box' located at the end of every article you produce with your website info and URL you'll receive traffic.

Reason #4. Great way to get One-Way HIGH PR links.

This is probably one of the best reasons because when you offer your free information with 'Reprint Rights' and the website owner decides to archive your article within there article directory and their website happens to have a High PR(popularity ranking) ranking, guess what?

You'll be able to 'Piggy Back' off there PR giving your website a PR boost because at the end of every article you produce your able to leave your 'Resource Box' with all your websites info and most important of all, your URL.

Reason #5. They're VIRAL.

This is yet another great reason to start using articles as one of your online marketing strategies simple because your going to offer 'Reprint Rights' with all the articles you produce giving Website and Newsletter owners permission to publish them causing a VIRAL explosion and Traffic surge to your website.

Reason #6. You can syndicate them via RSS.

If your up to speed on the latest marketing technology called RSS(Real Simple Syndication) and you write 'Articles' on a regular basis you can set-up an RSS feed that web surfers and/or website owners can 'Opt-In' to and syndicate your 'Articles' via RSS to them, plus, you can also submit your RSS feed(s) to RSS search engines and directories.

Depending on how many 'Opt-In' this is yet another great reason to get started with 'Articles' and another way to generate LOTS of Free targeted traffic.

Reason #7. Bloggers with BLOGS need "Information" to.

Bloggers with BLOGS or Web-Logs need information to.

If you provide quality information related to a specific Blog that blog owner just might post your article on his/her blog for their audiences/readership to read giving you again more FREE exposure for your business.

It gets better. Blogs also use RSS(Real Simple Syndication) to syndicate there content to various search engines, RSS search engines and directories giving you again more FREE exposure through there feed.

Reason #8. Info-Product developers need it to.

Ever receive a free ebook of some sort in your Inbox with related articles inside it from other authors?

When you offer your articles with 'Reprint Rights' and someone decides to include your article in there ebook for a Viral marketing campaign they're working on, guess what?

More FREE targeted traffic for YOU as that particular ebook circulates across the Internet.

Reason #9. Post them to related Forums and Newsgroups.

Remember, the Internet is all about numbers and Forums and Newsgroups contain numbers to and are yet another avenue for you to gain some extra exposure for FREE for your online business through your articles.

Just make sure you read there 'Terms' before you start posting because you don't want to receive any 'Flames' in your Inbox.(They can be Nasty.)

Reason #10. You gain INSTANT credibility as an Expert.

The best way to gain the trust of your potential customers online is to supply them with quality "Information".

By doing this your stepping up and telling them that you know what your talking about within the industry your in giving them a reason to look into what you have to offer further by following the link you provided within your 'Resource Box' at the end of your article.

WoW! Are those 10 POWERFUL reasons to get started with 'Articles' or what?

You get all those benefits by just producing ONE article.

The more you produce the more you'll benefit.

Do you see how powerful 'Articles' are now and how they can take your online business to the next level?

I certainly hope so.

In conclusion: "Content IS King" online and will remain King for as long as the Internet exists.

It's now up to you to step up to the plate and decide whether or not You want to tap into this 'Proven Internet Marketing Strategy' yourself and reap all the benefits I just finished explaining above.


