Title: 
7 Reasons You Need to Market with Articles Now

Word Count:
576

Summary:
Looking for a simple way to get an edge on your competition?  Article marketing is a proven tactic that addresses some key marketing strategies. Here are 7 exceptional reasons why you need to market with articles now!


Keywords:
Dean Mercado, Internet marketing, marketing strategies, article marketing, search engines


Article Body:
Looking for a simple way to get an edge on your competition?
Successful businesses who are in it for the long haul continually apply innovative marketing strategies and tactics to differentiate themselves and get that edge.  Two such killer marketing strategies are positioning and relationship building.  And guess what?  Article marketing is a proven tactic that just happens to address both of those marketing strategies.  Is it the “be all, end all” of positioning and relationship building?  Absolutely not.  However, it is an excellent step in the right direction.  And on top of that, there’s probably a good chance that your competition is not using this tactic.  Face it.  It takes some time, skill, and effort to write and effectively use articles, that’s why the masses don’t do it however, those looking for an edge do.
So why choose article marketing as one of you marketing tactics?  Here are 7 exceptional reasons:
1.  It is quite simple.  People love to buy from and deal with the best.  Writing and effectively marketing your articles helps you position yourself as the expert in your field.

2.  Let's take this first concept a step further for reason #2.  Let’s be blunt here, as an expert, you can justifiably increase your rates and charge more for your products.

3.  If your articles are good and distributed properly, they can spread like wildfire and literally cause a viral marketing frenzy.  Ultimately driving business your way.

4.  A big part of Internet marketing has to do with the Search Engines like Google, Yahoo, MSN, etc.  It’s critical that we play their game.  That being said, Search Engines love content such as articles!  Many Internet marketers try the latest fad to trick Search Engines into getting a better ranking.  If you have a lot of time and/or money on your hands to keep up with the latest trends and the ever changing Search Engine rules, then do what you feel is right.  However, one tactic still holds true with improving Search Engine ranking, and that’s article marketing.

5.  People love to be and feel well informed – It helps them make better decisions.  Your articles can serve as the source for the input they seek.  And who better to buy from then the source that provided the information in the first place.

6.  Talk about getting major bang for the buck, articles can easily be repurposed in a variety of ways.  For example:
     ==> They can become content for your or someone else's newsletter;
     ==> Used as free giveaways to prospects/clients, in seminars, at networking events, etc;
     ==> Used to spark conversation in a blog or an online networking group such as Ryze;
     ==> Combine multiple articles into an eBook, book or info-product that can be sold or given away in exchange for contact information;
     ==> Become the basis for a live seminar or teleseminar;
     ==> And we can go on and on and on.

7.  Articles when distributed properly are a great way to stay in touch with clients and prospects.  Studies have shown that on average it takes around 7 touches before a prospect buys.  Why not use articles as some of those touches?  This will help continually boost your prospect’s perception of you as someone who consistently adds value.

We live in an age where information is king.  We all know something others would be interested in knowing.  Share your knowledge and like a magnet you’ll draw your prospects towards you.

© 2006 Online Marketing Muscle -- All Rights Reserved.


