Title: 
A Simple Procedure In Leaflet Designing

Word Count:
600

Summary:
Leaflet is a way of showing your ideas as well as emotions in terms of words, pictures and then graphics. The way you present your ideas in the leaflet will determine or will influence the perception of your readers in terms of the messages conveyed in your leaflet.


Keywords:
printing services, printing company


Article Body:
Leaflet is a way of showing your ideas as well as emotions in terms of words, pictures and then graphics. The way you present your ideas in the leaflet will determine or will influence the perception of your readers in terms of the messages conveyed in your leaflet. The information in your leaflets will enable your customers to decide whether your information has relevance to them or is just a waste of their time. 

The design of the leaflet must be created in such a way wherein the whole point you want to discuss in the leaflet are conveyed in a direct and concise manner that is effective enough in encouraging comments as well as action from the readers. In terms of the text to be used it must possess the following characteristics: persuasiveness, must be interesting, noteworthy and helpful. Create your text in such a way that it will leave a mark in the minds of its readers.  And then be sure to use only short paragraphs and then make sure you mark them with headings.  For sequential ideas make use of bullets since it is must easier to read. Also, for those information which you may want to give emphasis on you may highlight or make use of a different font and then bold the texts. 

The picture design is also important in the leaflet since it will help you to convey your message more effectively. The pictures to be use for the leaflets will depend on the subject or the theme of your leaflet.  The layout process entails for careful planning and this would require team work since you will be deciding on the type of text and pictures to be used for your leaflets.  Layouting would require for initial sketches that would show where you want your text to be placed, where the headings will be placed, where the pictures will go, what colors are best for texts and for the background. 

After the layout process will then commence the printing. The design would now be uploaded in the computer. The typing and the formatting of texts will need a word processing program such as MS Word. But for those expert computer users they may prefer to use QuarkXpress or Adobe Photoshop especially for the designing process.  But for those who doesn't have computers and don't know how to use one there are professional printers out there where you may take your leaflet project. And if ever you find it a tedious task to visit every local print shop in your place you can always surf on the net for professional printers that offer affordable prices for your leaflet project. It is much easier and convenient searching online.

Things to remember to instruct your printers- the usual things that happen especially when you take your leaflet project to a printer is that they commonly cut the leaflet to size and so you must never forget to instruct them to leave a bleed margin. The bleed margin is usually a space of 2mm around the edge of the design which is commonly lost during the cutting process.  Another thing, images should be saved as 300 dpi and stored in as JPG or TIF files. But if ever the quality of the image is too low then there is the possibility of its corners to go jagged. The paper to be use should also be given great consideration since papers that are too thin tend to blot when colors are applied. 


For comments and suggestions kindly visit <a href="http://www.rushprintingservices.com">Color Printing Services</a>


