Title: 
Additional Methods of Getting Articles Without Writing

Word Count:
296

Summary:
There are several ways to producing articles without having to write them yourself. Using a ghostwriter is one way, using  private label rights articles you have bought is another option and doing an expert interview is yet a third way to compile article information.


Keywords:
internet business plan, small business advertising, business newsletter, business location, business competitors, business website, search engine optimization, pay-per-click marketing, business marketing tips


Article Body:
There are several ways to producing articles without having to write them yourself. Using a ghostwriter is one way, using  private label rights articles you have bought is another option and doing an expert interview is yet a third way to compile article information. 

Borrowing another writer's article for use is yet another way to provide content for readers. Give the original author credit within the body of your article and fill in the rest with quotes from that author's article.

This is a can't lose situation for everyone. You don't need to do the writing of your article, the writer who wrote the original article gets free publicity, and the reader gets the information that they want or need. Everybody wins.

Using public domain articles that are related to your subject is yet another way. Permission from the author to use their work isn't necessary, but letting your reader know where the content originated will keep their trust.  Don't try to pass the words off as your own.

Use survey results from a self-conducted survey as an article. This does mean you'll have to write a little, but compiling the results and turning it into a fast article isn't very hard or time-consuming. You can create surveys through Survey Monkey at www.surveymonkey.com .

Use government provided information. Articles written by United States Government Authors are automatically in the public domain. The government is a prolific writer - on a wide variety of topics. Visit any United States Government website, and you will be greatly surprised with the amount of information that is free for the taking. 

As you have seen, providing quality articles without writing a single word, or with just a bit of writing is possible.  The information and means is there, use them.


