Title: 
Anatomy Of An Article Submission

Word Count:
499

Summary:
Join an article submission expert as she takes you through an article submission project step-by-step.


Keywords:
writing,writers,article,submission,syndication,publishers,editors,marketing,promotion,advertising,market,promote,advertise,directories,newsgroups,directory


Article Body:
Writing and submitting articles to publishers in order to promote your business, services and products is a wise choice for any entrepreneur.  The only cost for this kind of marketing project is your time and, if you want the maximum benefits, the amount you pay your proofreader/editor.   

Many people are overwhelmed by the submission process and don't know where to begin.  I have outlined below the ten steps I take with each article submission project.  Having a process in place makes organizing submissions so much easier and removes the confusion of where of what to do first.

1.	Start by having your article proofread and then add it to your website.  Make sure you have a catchy title and a by-line that compels readers to take action.

2.	Use a text to html tool to format your by-line so that your URL will appear live when your article is posted on a site.  I recommend you use the tool at http://thephantomwriters.com/link-builder.pl

3.	Collect the information you'll need for most submission sites including:  title, author name, address, phone number, e-mail, website URL, topic, two line summary of the article, word count, line count, article URL, auto responder address (if available), document file names and 10-15 keywords.

4.	Make a list of the type of submission sites appropriate for your article.  I use EzineAnnouncer to collect and keep track of my submission list and I always write down the categories that are a match for my article.  My latest submission qualified for more than 400 sites but your success depends upon your article topic.

5.	Begin submitting to sites that accept articles by e-mail. Never send an attachment unless asked.  Incorporate the entire article into the e-mail and include an option for the recipient to opt-out of your list.

6.	Your next step should be to sign-up for all new submission sites on your list that require registration.  Typically, you have to wait for a confirmation e-mail before submitting.  You can move on to the next step while you wait.

7.	Submit to all sites you have registered for and to all sites not needing registration but offering a submission form.

8.	Check your e-mail, confirm your new accounts and visit those sites to add your article.  Keep track of your login and password for each site.

9.	Update your submission list by removing or correcting bounced e-mail addresses and URL errors.  You will also need to add your new submission sites to your list.

10.	Create a report to keep on your computer with the name and URL of the sites you used for submission.  Update this list when you submit your older articles to newly discovered sites.

Create your own submission process by building on the steps I have provided and you will find your submissions taking less time while helping you to become more organized.  

(c) 2005.  Davis Virtual Assistance.  All rights reserved. Permission to publish online or in print granted provided the article and byline are kept intact with links are made live.


