Title: 
Article Marketing: How To Get Tons Of Highly Targeted Visitors To Your Site For Years To Come

Word Count:
305

Summary:
I have read a lot of ebooks about internet marketing and I have tried many traffic schemes. I have spent a little fortune to get visitors to my site. I have waisted a lot of time trying to optimise my sites…for search engines, but nothing really got the results I was waiting for. Until I discovered a new method to get highly targeted visitors: Writing articles and submitting to article Directories. It is easy to do - but there are some important things you have to consider:
...


Keywords:
article marketing, submit article, free content


Article Body:
I have read a lot of ebooks about internet marketing and I have tried many traffic schemes. I have spent a little fortune to get visitors to my site. I have waisted a lot of time trying to optimise my sites…for search engines, but nothing really got the results I was waiting for. Until I discovered a new method to get highly targeted visitors: Writing articles and submitting to article Directories. It is easy to do - but there are some important things you have to consider:

1. Come up with a keyword rich headline that attracts attention. Honestly, I see a lot of articles a day, but I really read the ones with an interesting and exciting headline. 

2. Write high quality articles about your site but do not offer your service or product directly because people don’t like to get sold.

3. Provide useful and high-quality content. Write about one topic and offer as much useful information as possible. Remember that most of the people looking for information about a topic or to find a solution for a specific problem they have. 

4. Add some target keywords into your body of your article.

5. Spell check your article with a software or give a friend for proof reading.

6. Submit your articles to as many article directories as possible. That sounds hard but it is easier than you think. You can use automatic software or you can choose online submission services. 

Then wait for the visitors … it’s simple and easy. But don’t wait too long …you could use your time writing another article and do the same thing again. If you have time to write one article a week and submit your article to the most important article directories you will have a steady flow of highly targeted visitors to your site for years to come.


