Title: 
Article Marketing Just Got Easier For Content Publishers Thanks To RSS Syndication Technology

Word Count:
741

Summary:
This article explains how RSS Syndication combined with Article Marketing can send you thousands of FREE targeted visitors to website of choice.


Keywords:
article marketing,rss syndication,content publishers


Article Body:
Copyright 2006 The IWE, LLC. All Rights Reserved.

RSS(Real Simple Syndication) is the BIG... Buzz around the Internet these days because of its Powerful ability to syndicate content Effortlessly and Instantly across the Internet to any website and/or subscriber who subscribed to that particular RSS Feed with a 100% GUARANTEED delivery.

What other technology online can guarantee you that?

Email? I don't think so.

RSS is it... Period!

And the crazy thing is, everybody who publishes content on their website on a regular basis is quickly adapting because of the many benefits RSS offers because lets face it, updating content manually on any given website is a very time consuming task, especially when you have to do it on a Day In and Day Out basis.

But, by having an RSS enabled website, not only do you get high quality content INSTANTLY delivered, you can now give your audience more content with less work on your part leaving you more time to focus on other important tasks you might have sitting on the back burner when you have time.

This is the main benefit RSS Syndication gives the website owner and/or valued subscriber.

Now that you have some idea of how RSS can simplify updating content on any given website, what does this have to do with Article Marketing and how does it benefit the content publisher who writes the articles?

Well... lets talk about it.

We all know that content is the life blood of the Internet and is why most people come online... right?

We also know that RSS syndicates content to whatever website that is RSS enabled and/or subscriber who uses an RSS aggregator.

The BIG question that's probably floating around in your head is... how do Article Publishers who write the articles benefit from RSS Syndication?

The answer is simple really.

Ever heard the phrase... "The Internet Is Nothing More Then A Numbers Game"?

If not, now you have and that is exactly what RSS Syndication will do for anybody who does or is just starting out can expect to benefit from by joining the Article Marketing game.

Let's talk about this a little more so it's clear in your mind.

Let's say you write your first article and your manage to locate, lets say... 20 Article Directories that offer FREE Article Submissions and offer RSS Feeds to website owners and to the general public to use.

And lets say that those 20 Article Directories collected all their RSS Feeds and submitted them to all the TOP RSS Directories on the web so that website owners and/or people with RSS Aggregators can locate those RSS Feeds so they can subscribe to them.

You with me so far?

Now, you go and submit your article to all 20 Article Directories and wait for their reply to see if your article got accepted.

You check your Inbox and find that all 20 article directories accepted your article into their database and would be syndicating it within the next 24 hours.

Notice I said the word "syndicating". That's because once your article is approved by that article directory and because these article directories use RSS technology to syndicate NEW content to whoever is subscribed, guess what happens to your article?

It gets syndicated to whoever is subscribed to that RSS Feed. So if you submitted to all 20 article directories under whatever category, and there were 200 subscribers per article directory subscribed to that RSS Feed, guess how many potential customers you will possibly come in contact with through your articles Resource Box?

Lets do the math... how's 4000 potential subscribers, which means you have a potential of receiving 4000 potential visitors to your website of choice... Absolutely FREE!

That's the power of RSS Syndication and is WHY article marketing is becoming one of the #1 ways to promote ANY website online.

I wrote this article just as a quick example of what RSS Technology can do for anyone using it on their websites and for those who use articles as part of their website promotion strategy so you can see how RSS will get your articles more exposure with NO extra work on your part.

I truly hope you see the benefits I outlined within this article and hope you take the neccessary steps to getting started with writing your own articles, if your not already, so you too can benefit from RSS Syndication like everyone else.

So... with that said, what are you waiting for?


