Title: 
Article Marketing - Learn How To Use It And Boost Your Sales And Serps

Word Count:
428

Summary:
Article marketing is about much more than just writing articles, submitting them, and hoping for traffic - learn about the big picture, why it all works, right here, right now!


Keywords:
article writting, seo, search engine optimisation, affiliate, serps


Article Body:
Understanding the Big Picture

My guess is that by now, you are starting to see the big picture with article marketing. Whether you are attempting to increase your search engine rankings by submitting to multiple directories, or you are looking to increase you direct traffic, article marketing is powerful.

Even if you are not focusing on search engine rankings, generally you should find that as you article market, your websites will become more popular. They will naturally receive more backlinks and traffic, and generally your search engine ranking will go up, even without any special emphasis on it.

One of the powerful things about article marketing, especially if you are building a list, is that subscribers who come to you after reading one of your articles tend to buy more than subscribers who come to you from many other traffic sources. Generally, when someone subscribes to your list after reading one or several of your articles, they already are beginning to trust you, and might buy from you sooner than someone who needs to read several emails from you and perhaps communicate online before they will purchase. Article writing simply provides a unique opportunity for you too attract subscribers to your list who have a prequalified interest and trust in you.

Maintaining Patience as it All Comes Together

When you first get started with article marketing, things will probably move slowly for you. One of the things that happen with article marketing is an exponential effect. When you have only 3 articles written, you are not going to have a flood of traffic. But if you write and submit a few articles a day for several weeks or months, you will begin to experience an incredible effect, and it will all become worthwhile. Remember, you will continue to receive the effects of articles you have written for as long as they are online and published. So when you have 10 articles or 100 articles online, you will have 10 times or 100 times the traffic that you will receive after the first article.

It is easy to become discouraged when you have written just a few articles, and your revenue is not consistent with the time you put into article writing and submission.

In fact, I will go so far as to say, if you are only going to write a few articles and then quit, you might as well not write or submit any articles. Article marketing is extremely powerful, but it is most powerful when there is a cumulative effect, and that cumulative effect takes time and multiple articles and submissions.


