Title: 
Article Writing for the Nervous

Word Count:
714

Summary:
Article Marketing is the hottest way of marketing your web sites, but writing does not come naturally to many people. We'll show you an easier way to start your writing career.


Keywords:
internet marketing, article writing, article marketing, marketing, business marketing, write an article


Article Body:
Article Marketing is the hottest way of marketing your web sites, but writing does not come naturally to many people. We'll show you an easier way to start your writing career. 
All through school and then maybe college or university, even as the writing became more detailed and longer.  No matter how many times you have done it, writing is probably a task that many of your have continuously avoided. Now at a time when writing articles could help your job or work, facing the job at hand can be daunting.

I'm one of those strange people that enjoy writing, but even I get stumped some times and while there are a great number of people who do like writing, there are still those who would rather walk on hot coals than write an article. So for those people and the ones who like writing and would prefer to be more prepared here are some hints and methods that might help you.

Step 1: Prepare an outline or template first.
One of the best pieces of advice that I was given, many years ago, and which I still use in my consultancy is:
“Tell them what you are going to tell them.  Tell them. Tell them why you told them."
Roughly translated into an outline this is:
•	Pick a subject
•	Introduce it
•	Go into your detail
•	Conclude as to why this was important.
Another template to think of - and one that gets published often is: 
"Ten Reasons Why", "Top Ten Ideas", "Seven Solutions"
Well you get the idea.
Step 2: Pick your topic
Pick something you know about and start jotting down ideas. I find it easy to pick a temporary title sometimes other times I work on the subject and then the title just comes along on it's on.
The Top Ten is always the easiest and as it is a popular one with ezine publishers maybe you should make this your first one.
 Maybe it is something for dog lovers so you could have:
•	Top 10 best ways to make sure your dog gets its walk.
•	Top 10 ways to meet other dog walkers
•	Top 10 best ways to raise pups
Well you get the idea.
Step 3: Headings and Summaries

The first sentence for your article, should immediately grab the attention of your reader and introduce the subject of your article.
 Many article sites ask for a summary of the article as well.  The summary is used in two places: 
•	On the article site as a part of the search process
•	On the search engine entry that links to where the article is on the article site
So you can see that this is the place to pique the imagination of the potential reader as well as get you well placed in the search engines.
Step 4: Add the Content

You should now be in full writing mode and able to jot down the rest of the article, remembering the conclusion.  Read it through several times - but don't expect perfection.  
The more interesting the article is, the more people will read and remember it. 
The best ezine articles are between 300 and 750 words long. I have written longer articles of 1,000 to 1,250 words, and had them featured on web sites, but long articles don't fare well in ezines.  So pick your market and try to get the right length for your choice of publication.

Step 5: The Resource Box
This is the reason for writing.  The resource box is the 4 -7 lines that sits on the end of the article.  The format should be as:
•	Your Copyrights
•	2-4 lines about your expertise. You can usually include up to 3 hyperlinks.  Affiliate links are generally not allowed - so give your web site address.
•	The terms of using your article - the expression “You may print this article without charge, provided this resource box remains intact."
Now that is it.

-------------------------------------------------
© Copyright 2006 Biz Guru LLC
Lee Lister writes as The Biz Guru, for a number of web sites including her own www.BizGuru.us and www.clikks.com where she sells her informational products. With over 20 year’s management and business consultancy experience with businesses large and small as well as being a serial entrepreneur, she now helps others set up, develop and market their businesses.  

This article may be freely distributed if this resource box stays attached. 
-------------------------------------------------


