Title: 
Article Marketing Part 1 - Content Is Still King

Word Count:
429

Summary:
Since the beginning, you've been told that "Content Is King" but there are so many website owners - who have been trying to win the search engine battles - ignore the rules and try to be 'smart'. They used software and tools to trick the search engines to get their websites indexed highly but only to find out that their websites were banned a month later. 

Don't get me wrong! There are actually some legitimate tools that can help you get your websites ranked higher. People...


Keywords:
submit articles, find articles, article directory, article search, article marketing, internet


Article Body:
Since the beginning, you've been told that "Content Is King" but there are so many website owners - who have been trying to win the search engine battles - ignore the rules and try to be 'smart'. They used software and tools to trick the search engines to get their websites indexed highly but only to find out that their websites were banned a month later. 

Don't get me wrong! There are actually some legitimate tools that can help you get your websites ranked higher. People pay a hundred dollars or more just to own them. That is fine as long as it works and does not violate the criteria search engines are looking for on a website. 

But why are they doing it? 

For an obvious reason, I guess - to get as much traffic possible to their websites, which in turn produces more revenue to the website owners. 

And then, there are really smart marketers who go by the "Content Is King" rules and are really winning the search engine games day by day. These marketers use words to turn into traffic. With a single 500-word article, within time, they can create hundreds of backlinks to their websites – resulting in more web traffic, more sales, and more profits. Then, they write one more article, and some more. 

That's right – we call them article marketers. You can see their names when you search a keyword and their articles appear on the main page of the search engine. You click on the links and their articles come up. 

Now let me tell you a little secret. These marketers don't write these articles and post them only on their websites. 

First, they write these articles and at the same time allow others to reprint them for free. That makes you able to forward these articles to other people and these other people can also forward to more people provided the content of the articles are not changed or modified. In short, these articles are viral. 

Second, they submit these articles to various article directories and online publishers to get maximum exposure. The more publishers they can find, the more audience they can reach. Thus, the more sales they can make. 

Think about it. If the pros are doing it and they are getting tons of traffic and sales, then you too can have the same privilege - only if you follow their steps. 

Wouldn't you want to generate sales without having to pay a single red cent? 

If the answer is a resounding 'yes', then consider article marketing seriously.


