Title: 
Article Writing And Article Marketing Basics

Word Count:
703

Summary:
Want to know how to increase publicity for your website, in a sure and steady way? You may not realize it but many website operators use the same trick to generate traffic for virtually nothing.

Which is? Write content-rich and focused articles and submit to directory sites, other people's sites and ezines. This process is called article writing and article marketing.

Now, why would an ezine publisher or website owner want to post your targeted articles on their website...


Keywords:
article marketing, article writing


Article Body:
Want to know how to increase publicity for your website, in a sure and steady way? You may not realize it but many website operators use the same trick to generate traffic for virtually nothing.

Which is? Write content-rich and focused articles and submit to directory sites, other people's sites and ezines. This process is called article writing and article marketing.

Now, why would an ezine publisher or website owner want to post your targeted articles on their websites or use your articles for their mailing lists? The answer is that not many can produce tons of content that is specific and focused. And tons of high quality content helps to build traffic to their sites and loyal subscribers to their mailing lists.

Here is where your article comes in. In exchange for a byline and a link to your site (called a "resource box"), you allow website owners to use your content as it is. No one is allowed to make any changes to your article without your permission.

Here are some other advantages for article writing and article marketing:

* Gain "Expert" Status when you share your knowledge and expertise. Just look at the people who write newspaper columns. You get to appear like an expert when your articles are posted in a couple of article directory websites and when you write on a variety of topics pertaining to the same niche area.

* You can do some nifty preselling. This is especially if your article appeals to a niche audience hungry for some specific information. That way, you've already presold yourself, when they click over to your site.

* You get more links to your site. Then, you'd be able to enhance your search engine positioning just by your "link popularity". Once your article is posted on another person's website or an article directory, it is likely that it will stay there for a long time.

* You are providing an excellent tool to help your affiliates. Your affiliates are likely to promote you more often and more effectively compared to those who don't provide such help.

* It is also excellent for building an opt-in email list. Statistics show that on average, a prospect visits your website seven times before clicking a buy order. A constant stream of emails (with his/her permission) at regular intervals can help break down "defences" and build relationships. In addition, once the relationship is build, back end sales or sales of other products and services become easier.

So, do you need to have a flair for writing in order for you to write? Absolutely not. You just need to remember just two simple rules:

* Put down your thoughts naturally. Just like how you would explain to a friend about this subject over a cup of tea.

* Write simply. Bad grammer does not help. Complicated sentences and sentences that go on and on forever may not help you get your message across. So make your article an easy read.

Now, what is an easy way to get started on writing? Think of key problems that your audience is likely to have and then write an article that provides the solution. A few key examples here should help kick-start your writing:

10 ways to help you.....
5 extremely useful resource tips that you should know about....
7 time saving tips to....
1 breakthrough tip that.....

You can organize your article in this manner: an introduction (you can identify the problems that your readers are facing and your own short story or experiences), the list of points (the "solution") and a concluding paragraph (asking your readers to take some action).

After you finished writing, get someone to vet through your article. Alternatively, you can wait some time later and take a look at your article again. Improve it and check for grammer and spelling.

Then, it's time for article marketing. Submit your article to article announcement lists and article directories like http://www.ArticleMap.com. In your submission, make sure your articles comply with specific guidelines required by the publisher.

Article marketing can generate visitor traffic to your website as your articles get published and syndicated across the world. As you write and submit more articles, traffic to your site will definitely pick up speed!


