Title: 
Article Submissions

Word Count:
427

Summary:
learn an explosive secret to free traffic and Search Engine Optimization when you submit articles


Keywords:
article submission, article submissions, autosubmit articles, ezine articles submissions, ezine articles, marketing article submission


Article Body:
If you are not submitting articles to article directories you should start now.
I had been online for several years and always heard that you needed to submit articles. Of course I never did for the fact that I didn’t have a clue about search engine optimizations and since I didn’t, I really had no need to submit articles.

Boy was I wrong! In fact I don’t know if I have ever been so wrong in my life :)   To this day I don’t know much about search engines but I don’t really need to. I get close to 1200 hits a day just from articles that I have submitted to numerous directories.

Submitting an article is just as easy as it sounds, write an article and submit it.
However if you don’t find the effort rewarding like I did you would never start. So I am going to try to do my best to convince you otherwise.

A good strategy that I have come up with is everytime I write an article and add it to my website I also submit it to the numerous article directories that I have found and added to my notepad. I have 47 article directories saved in my notepad it only takes about an hour to submit one article to all of them.

On average I send around 3 articles a week to those 47 directories and on average I net 15-25 sales a week on various programs. If you think about it 1 hour a day is nothing compared to the rewards.

I  have also started to use Isnare to auto submit my article to hundreds of ezine publishers a day which is a steal for only $2 bucks I spend a day.
Ezine announcer isn’t to shabby either. Remember that I don’t know much about search engines and I get around 100 unique visitors a day to my blog from google.

When you start submitting articles at a rapid pace as I do you will see outstanding results. You probably won’t believe your eyes as I did when sales start flooding your inbox. Something this simple should not be overlooked by any marketer and I hope this article shows you why.

I have compiled a short few directories that should get you started on your path to happy submitting.

http://ezinearticles.com
http://isnare.com
http://www.puredirectory.com
http://searchwarp.com
http://www.articlesbase.com
http://www.articlewell.com
http://www.articlevillage.com
http://www.articlepublication.com

Read the full article with active links at my blog!


