Title: 
Article Marketing is a Digital Cash Cow

Word Count:
881

Summary:
One of the newest ways to draw traffic to a website is by an internet marketing technique known as Article Marketing.

There are three things that assist a website in being successful, popularity, navigation, and content. Navigation is in the

hands of the Webmaster. Whereas popularity and content is the responsibility of the website owner. Article marketing helps

these last to two to excel. The internet is controlled by search engines and they are information junkies. And like any

junkie they are forever in pursuit of a new fix. Knowing how to take an article and distribute it to your advantage

is a present day necessity. Because when a search engine gets high on some content it rewards its owner by promoting a 

websites ranking which generates the ever welcome organic (free) traffic. And traffic is the life supporting blood of 

internet prosperity.


Keywords:
Article Marketing


Article Body:
One of the newest ways to draw traffic to a website is by an internet marketing technique known as Article Marketing.

There are three things that assist a website in being successful, popularity, navigation, and content. Navigation is in the

hands of the Webmaster. Whereas popularity and content is the responsibility of the website owner. Article marketing helps

these last to two to excel. The internet is controlled by search engines and they are information junkies. And like any

junkie they are forever in pursuit of a new fix. Knowing how to take an article and distribute it to your advantage

is a present day necessity. Because when a search engine gets high on some content it rewards its owner by promoting a 

websites ranking which generates the ever welcome organic (free) traffic. And traffic is the life supporting blood of 

internet prosperity.


   Article marketing needs obviously articles to operate. Unlike articles one might find in newsstands and magazines internet

content has specific requirements to have any real value. Since search engines locate information requests from internet 

users by using a system utilizing keywords internet articles must incorporate keywords into the body of written content. 

Understanding how to create articles with the proper amount of keyword density is not accidental. If one has not taken the

time to research this needed article marketing requirement they should seriously consider hiring professional writers to 

accumulate needed content. Placing articles void of this keyword density necessity on their websites or to Article 

directory's do so in vain. 


    One key components of article marketing is the submitting of content to Article Directories. There are hundreds if not

thousands of these type of directories on the internet. These directories act as a source for website owners to find fresh

content for their own websites or newsletter. The more directories one submits there articles to the more exposure a website

gets. Search engines favor large sites when indexing. By having an article in directories the search engines will visit 

your website more frequently. And if the content pleases the expectations of the search engines it will improve where you

rank with other websites promoting the same services or products. 


    When submitting to Article Directory's each article is usually allowed to include an author’s resource box. This resource

box is another important area to understand to make article marketing meaningful. The resource box allows the reader to 

know who wrote the article and how to find them if so desired. Because of copy write laws it must be included anywhere the 

article is placed on the internet. In this resource box an anchor texted URL is placed in it which not only makes it easy

for the reader to click to your site but when placed on another website creates a back link. As the article is used more 

and more on the internet these back links start to increase the popularity of a website. At least thats how the search 

engines will register these numerous locations. When submitting articles to directories be sure to use different formats. 

Experiment to see which type of format is generating clicks. Good article marketing requires intelligent labor.


    To run a successful article marketing campaign one must be consistent and quality conscious. When you first start a 

campaign consider submitting at least one article a day. This will quickly increase back links. After the first month

you can slow down a bit but never stop. Article marketing succeeds because of its creating a viral effect. It behaves like

the well known pyramid game. An article once it spreads starts to create back links in an ongoing exponential fashion. 

However, the more it appears the less value it has with the search engines. Nevertheless even though its value for improving

search engine ranking diminishes it still grows in value for generating traffic. Another thing to be sure to do is proof 

read the articles before submitting them. Good article marketing needs good grammar too. The better your article appears the

more credibility it will get. And the more credible the more readers will trust the source. 


     Article marketing can be very time consuming because you will want to spread your articles to as many article directories

as possible this will suck up a lot of time. This dilemma can be resolved a couple of ways. One way is to engage the services

of businesses that specialize in doing this for you. This will save you time but many of these services ,the better ones, can

be pricey. Another way is to purchase software that is designed to submit articles. Normally they have hundreds of 

directories catalogued in there application. Many directories have automated receiving plug-ins that will automatically except

submissions. However, many don't allow automatic submission from software devices. So mix it up. Submit your articles to the 

major directories personally then use the software to contact the rest. Regardless of how you decide to run your article

marketing efforts be sure you do it. Article marketing is a time proven benefit to engage in if you wish to increase traffic

to a website. And we all know another word for traffic is Money. The more traffic your article marketing generates is the more

money you'll be stuffing in your virtual pockets.


