Title: 
Article Marketing - General Facts

Word Count:
360

Summary:
Article marketing is the process of writing articles for the main purpose of including anchor links to your website and is one of the easiest and most effective link building strategies in existence.


Keywords:
article marketing


Article Body:
Article marketing is one of the proven traffic producing strategies. Article marketing also is and always has been one of the best ways a business owner can use to promote their website. If done properly Article marketing can be a fast and safe method to attract new customers to your websites. Article marketing allows you to post your content with an anchor text link to your site, on other webmasters sites, gaining your site valuable one way links.

Writing articles yourself isn’t necessarily difficult and they can vary in length and quality, depending on the article directories guidelines. You can write articles to share information on a subject or just to help in gaining links to your sites. Articles allow you to appear as a professional to an audience who are interested in the topic, but they also can help build high quality back links from content filled pages on other sites. Articles are separated in categories and sub-categories in order to easily find certain information the readers are looking for.

Writing and submitting articles to directories that have large amounts of traffic can generate increased traffic to your website, usually in a short amount of time. Writing your own articles and publishing them can be free or you can use a service to write and submit for you. The more articles you write and submit, means more website traffic and back links you will get. Other publishers and webmasters will start adding your article to their blogs and websites that can generate even more website traffic for you. The quality of the articles that you use will determine just how effective your marketing efforts will be in generating both links back to your web site and traffic.

Article marketing is the process of writing articles for the main purpose of including "anchor" links to your website. Article marketing is one of the easiest and most effective link building strategies in existence and is one of the most accepted ways to optimize your web site for the search engines. Article marketing can be a very powerful way to build your business and earn money on the World Wide Web.


