Title: 
Article Submission Sites for Online Marketing

Word Count:
661

Summary:
Would you like to get hundreds or even thousands of high-quality inbound links to your website? Do you wish your online marketing campaigns brought more visitors to your website? Would you like to establish yourself as a respected and well-known expert in your niche? How is this possible? By writing and submitting articles to article submission sites. Here is how it works...


Keywords:
article submission sites,article submission,online marketing


Article Body:
Copyright 2006 Mike Adams

Would you like to get hundreds or even thousands of high-quality inbound links to your website?  Do you wish your online marketing campaigns brought more visitors to your website?  Would you like to establish yourself as a respected and well-known expert in your niche?

How is this possible?  By writing and submitting articles to article submission sites.

Here's how it works:

You write articles on topics related to your website's niche.  At the end of the articles, the standard and accepted practice is for writers to include a resource box - a short biography with a link to your website.  Keep this brief and to the point, no more than two or three sentences plus your link.  Just be sure to arouse enough interest in your articles and your resource box that readers will click through to your website.

Now it is time to submit your article to article submission sites.  You can start by submitting your article to my site, ElectricText.  You will find a link in my resource box at the bottom of this article.  Next, go to your favorite search engine and type in keywords like "article submission sites" or "article submission."  You will find hundreds of article submission sites.

Article submission sites accept article submissions from writers.  Just click over to ElectricText and the other article submission sites you've found and create accounts at each.  Generally you just choose a username and password and maybe a pen name for each of the article submission sites, and then you can submit your article.  If your article submission is accepted, each will publish it in their article directory for others to republish.

Webmasters and newsletter publishers are always looking for content for their online marketing campaigns.  They visit article submission sites to find articles to publish on their websites or in their email newsletters (ezines).  One good article posted to a large number of article submission sites can literally be republished on hundreds of websites.

Because of the link in your resource box, all of those websites will now link back to your website.  Imagine thousands of copies of your articles with links to your website scattered all over the Internet.  The people that read your articles and click through to your website will be people already interested in your niche.  And the fact that they clicked through tells you that they already liked what you have to say.  In other words, they are open and receptive to your message.  Can you think of any other online marketing method that would produce better, more targeted traffic?

But that's just the obvious benefit.  The less obvious but equally important benefit for your online marketing is Search Engine Optimization (SEO).  All of the major search engines compete for business by trying to return the most relevant results.  Most search engines, especially Google, consider inbound links as one of the most important measures of the relevance of a website.  Links from web pages about the same topic as your website, and where the link also contains keywords appropriate for your topic, are all the better.

You don't have to be a rocket scientist to realize that if you write articles about the topic of your website, with links to your website in the resource boxes, this is exactly what you are providing for the search engines.  So not only do you get traffic directly from people reading your articles and clicking your links, you also get ranked higher in the search engines for your keywords.  Plus, you are building your reputation.  People start seeing your articles all over, and start seeing your website everywhere in the search engine results.  You have now become an authority on your niche!  And the more you become an authority, the easier your online marketing efforts become.

Put all this together and it's easy to see the value of article submission sites in your online marketing campaigns.  Time to start writing and submitting those articles!


