Title: 
Article Submitters are Incredible

Word Count:
482

Summary:
There are many article submitters out there and most of them are trash. However, when you find a good Article submitter, you will rule the article marketing world. So, read this; find out the truth, the myths and everything you need to know. A good Article submitter will blow bottom line through the roof and blow your mind. When I found one, it sure blew mine.


Keywords:
Article Submitters


Article Body:
When you use Article Submitters to speed up your submissions to directories, get more visitors to your site and generate targeted leads, there are many variables that make or break your system. There solution to that problem. This is one of the big ones.

First, let’s point out what to avoid. These are traits of poor quality Article submitters that you will not want to buy:

The article submitter does not enter the correct information to the directories.
You can not accurately select the category when you submit your article.
Your articles will not look “natural” in appearance when you submit them
Hyperlinks in the body of your article are not possible to use.
Article submitter is 100% automated so it will SPAM the directories

Let’s talk about GOOD article submitters do, exactly what to look for and what to buy.

This is the key thing to look for. Make sure the submitter works live and allows you to actually see each directory as you sign up with, and or, submit to each one. This wipes out all of the problems listed above.

A good article submitter will have a list of quality directories and let you input new ones into the list. First you write and save a copy of your article in the submitter. It will also save other articles write.
Then sign up with and submit directories in seconds the first time you go to a new one in less than one minute. You just trough the list, pick the directories you like and signing up. The submitter will insert you sign up information and you just verify it at a glance. Then you know your information is correct. The submitter will have you user name and password available to log you in the next time you go to the directory at the click of mouse. You will also be able to pick the correct category, make any changes to your article, insert links and know that your article meets the directories editorial guidelines perfectly.

So, lets imagine you have set up you article submitter to work with 30 directories. You write an article in 15 minutes. Then you go through your list. This is what it’s like:

Select the directories you want. Let’s say you use ten. Ten seconds later you go the first directory and in one click you’re logged in. Then you hit submit, look over your perfectly formatted article, summery, bio box and key words. Two more seconds. You decide to but in a text link buy hand in your article’s body text. Twenty more seconds. Preview your article. Five seconds. Submit your article in one click. One second. You just submitted your article in thirty-eight seconds. So, over the next five minutes you finish up. Ten articles out in five minutes.

They are 100% accurate and save you incredible amounts of time.


