Title: 
Article Submission - Google PR

Word Count:
352

Summary:
While there is some debate among SEO experts, most agree that article submission will help gain a higher Google PR.


Keywords:
article submission, google pr


Article Body:
Article submission can help to make more web site sales, generate more traffic, increase your Google PR and even boost your Alexa rating. If done frequently and correctly, article submissions can help you to gain higher rankings on Google, Yahoo, and MSN. That will help drive more targeted visitors to your web site. Article Submission is a powerful search engine optimization tactic of gaining quality one way links to your sites. While there is some debate among SEO experts, most agree that article submission is among the best free methods of building free one way links.

Article submission can save hours of your time in getting one way links to your web site. Article submission is one proven link building strategy. Articles usually shouldn't have more than two links in the Author Bio section and html is not allowed in the body, for the best approval results. Article writing and submission can give you high quality one way links and can result in a higher page rank in comparison to other SEO techniques.

These links will often help to increase your Google PR and move up your relevance in the search engine results. As you are probably aware, the PR of a web site that is pointing to yours plays a role in determining the value of your own web site in Google PR calculations, there by increasing your chances of gaining ground in the Search Engine Ranking Pages. The smaller directories with low page rank can also help to improve your Google PR. Articles are usually crawled very quickly and in most cases can be found in the SE's in just a few days.

With submission software, you have to manage the submissions based on a list in the software, which may need to be updated occasionally. A good rule is to put the more comprehensive writing on your own web site and make a shorter version for submissions to other websites. Article submission software is one of the best internet marketing tools. There are many software solutions out there that can help to cut down the time for article submissions.


