Title: 
Article Marketing - A Powerful Tool

Word Count:
338

Summary:
Article marketing has become a proven strategy for raising your link popularity.  It can also be a cheap way to compete with larger companies in your field.


Keywords:
article marketing


Article Body:
Article marketing has many benefits which may include establishing yourself as an Author, lead generation, more traffic to your web site, improved search engine position and is becoming a necessary tool for doing business on the World Wide Web.  Article marketing has become a proven strategy for raising your link popularity.  It can also be a cheap way to compete with larger companies in your field.

It's best to write on topics that are closely related to your business type, while making sure that the article provides good content for the reader, no one wants to read a sales page.  Every article that you write will need a resource box section that will contain your sales info including an (anchor text) link or two pointing to your Web site.  You could have a terrific product and a wonderful sales strategy, but without the targeted traffic your online business could be going no-where.

You can take advantage of a ton of free article submission sites on the internet, where you can submit your articles for free, some also offer software and services to help in the process.  Once approved, the sites will make your articles available for distribution and publication to ezines, webmasters etc...  Now there is no more need to beg for reciprocal link exchanges, pay for text links, or spend hours posting free ads to link farms that no one will read anyway.  Articles, written yourself, are becoming the fastest and cheapest way to see results from your efforts.

When done properly, article marketing can be a very powerful tool to drive loads of targeted traffic to your web site.  Whether your business is brand  new or you have been in business for a while, you can gain new customers from marketing your own articles.  To be the most effective, article marketing should just be part of a larger, more comprehensive SEO strategy.  Remember, the goal of successful marketing is increased business and most importantly profit and this can be achieved with the help of article marketing.


