Title: 
Article Marketing and Blog Marketing Essentials

Word Count:
629

Summary:
Putting everything in perspective, grouping a bunch of words to make up a sensible article or content to be viewed by millions of people over the web has somewhat deteriorated, mostly because people are after revenue rather than knowledge.


Keywords:
article marketing, marketing, content writing, blog, adsense, pay per click, affiliate marketing


Article Body:
Putting everything in perspective, grouping a bunch of words to make up a sensible article or content to be viewed by millions of people over the web has somewhat deteriorated, mostly because people are after revenue rather than knowledge. This has been the practice that has governed a large part of the money making practices that people can expect when they are able to share with other people the gathered information and knowledge that they have accumulated for the past couple of years. 

Blogging and content writing has become evidently in demand, but the true sensible things for topics up for consideration that will aid most information hungry people has been totally forgotten. Driving traffic, the proper selection of keywords that people will type in their search engine browsers such as Google and Yahoo, has become the main concern for most Internet accessing individuals. In one of the newsletters that were sent to me regarding Search Engine Optimization, one thing struck me the most that of which is repetition in lieu of content sensibility. It doesn’t need to be expounded on, because true enough, this has been the common thing that most people have been doing nowadays, placing a ridiculous amount of similar words in a written article just to come out once a search query from search engines are done.

Blogging as well has become totally bearing no information as well. For one thing, blogs are totally unknown to most people, especially the ones who do not know what this is. For the Internet exposed people, this is similar to making written compositions or article that can cover certain topics or shared experiences by professionals. Some people, who are totally clueless, will not look forward to checking out blogs as well, for the reason that it sounds like something that was made up. For the people who love to investigate and satisfy their curiosity, blogs are something they would consider as a synonym towards article or content writing, freestyle most of the time, allowing people to fully express personal opinions paired with some research on information sites over the World Wide Web. Plagiarism is of course on thing that should be practiced, that of which is avoiding reproducing a certain content, photo or video made by someone. Violating copyrights is the best way to summarize what plagiarism is all about, soliciting the credit in place of the original people who actually poured all their hard work. Although the original content can be used as a reference material, giving due recognition and respect to the original author and creator can totally negate and rule out plagiarism practices.

Content writing on the other hand, is totally putting together what a person knows, stemming from research and experiences. The beauty and essence of effective content writing helps websites, companies and individual branding in a sense, spreading out proper information connected among them. Getting it all together for the proper deliberation of needed information that will definitely be needed by most knowledge seeking individuals, mostly students and business professionals, is something that should be immediately considered. 

Hence, article or content writing and blogging is something more than just an adsense trap to generate revenue. A nonsense article will surely be something that people would not waste time reading or referring to. If there is a glitch that Google may have overlooked, it all boils down to quality content from articles done. Most of the time, it requires manual intervention from the groups which use content writing and blogging as their main field of business. However, given time, it will not be surprising when one day, Google or any other SEO Optimizing affiliates and sites will add content quality as among the key aspects of quality made articles in quality handled websites.


