Title: 
Article Submitter

Word Count:
346

Summary:
Posting free articles to the major article repository sites is the fastest and easiest FREE way to make more sales, increase your Google ranking, and push your Alexa rating through the roof! 

And thanks to Article Submitter, you can grab all of these benefits without breaking a sweat! You can quickly and easily post your free articles to hundreds of the Internet's best article sites right from within your copy of Article Submitter.

Download Article Submitter With or Without ResaleRights!!


Keywords:
website article submitter, free online advertising, automatic income generator, mass advertising, article directory sites, ad submitter, 


Article Body:
Dear Fellow Internet Marketers/Business Owners,

Now You Can Drive Insane Traffic To Your Web Site Using The Magic of Article Submission... 
...and it all happens practically on autopilot!

 I was totally amazed when... 
... I finally stopped to add up all of the money I had been spending on advertising my web site. Fifty dollars here, a hundred there; pretty soon it had become a substantial amount of money and I wasn't seeing much in return. On top of all that, I was pouring more than I care to even think about into Google and Yahoo ads..  That's why I created Article Submitter!
 
You see, like many of you I had read all of the Internet marketing "how to" books, and I had become convinced that it took money to make money. Those books told me that I had to buy ads in the major search engines, rent e-mail lists and pay to insert ads into e-zines. So I clicked on the links to the programs that they recommended and I spent and I spent and I spent. 

I did EVERYTHING that the "Gurus" told me to do and I ended up spending more than I was making. I felt deceived! 
Does it frustrate you that you have been lied to, ripped off, and literally been taken advantage of by blood sucking MLM, and internet marketing program owners?

Article Submitter is the Fastest and Easiest way to get your articles posted on hundreds of article directories without spending hours and hours on the manual labor of doing so!

Use Article Submitter and your articles to establish yourself as an expert in your particular area. 

Use Article Submitter and your articles to make more sales.

Use Article Submitter and your articles to generate more traffic.

Use Article Submitter and your articles to increase your Google Page Rank.

Use Article Submitter and your articles to boost your Alexa rating. 

If You have always wanted to be able to quit your day job and break into the Internet Marketing world "Article Submitter" is a great way to do it!


