Title: 
Article Marketing Tips

Word Count:
598

Summary:
I have been writing articles and submitting them to various article directories for around a year now. When I started I felt very fresh and had plenty to write about. After a few months however, I started to get what is known as writers block. I could not think of anything else to write about. In this article I give advice about how to react when this happens, advice which I hope will help you to continue to write quality and original articles.


Keywords:
writing articles, self confidence, travel, business, anger management, stress, stutter, stuttering


Article Body:
I have been writing articles and submitting them to various article directories for around a year now. When I started I felt very fresh and had plenty to write about. After a few months however, I started to get what is known as writers block. I could not think of anything else to write about. In this article I give advice about how to react when this happens, advice which I hope will help you to continue to write quality and original articles.

My name is Steve Hill and my line of business is as a speech coach. I developed a stutter when I was four years of age and it continued to affect my life for the next eighteen years. I have managed to overcome this speech impediment and as a career I now help other people to achieve fluency. I feel I know quite a lot about the subject and found it quite easy and enjoyable to write about all aspects of stuttering. 

After a while I could not think of anything new to write about stuttering, which would be of value to people and made the mistake or re-writing some of the articles using different words. I must admit I was unaware that this was against the rules but now realise that each article needs to have original content, which I accept and understand.

I then wrote about some of the experiences from my own life, like how I coped when my now ex-girlfriend left me and even stories about my dog! A number of people have read these articles and have sent me some very nice e-mails stating how much they have enjoyed them.

One morning I woke up with very good intentions, I was planning on writing three or four new articles. I turned on the computer and basically sat there. Come on write something, I tried to tell myself. The problem was that I could not think of anything to write about. I decided to go back to bed. I seem to be able to think clearer from my bed, a bit weird I know.

I decided that I was not only going to write about my own life and experiences but I would also write about my family and friends. Other areas I could write about would be:

How to promote a website

Web design

Self confidence

Travel

World affairs

Sport

Exercise

Weight loss

Stress management

Anger management

Business

These are all areas I have a great interest in and even though they are not my main line of business, the articles should be of interest to people. Most of the topics which I have listed are things which I or people I know, have had experiences with. For example a lot of people who stutter including myself in the past, have issues with their self-confidence.

Weight loss is subject which is close to my heart as I have had many problems in controlling my own weight. I also run my own business and therefore have had to learn aspects about how to do this.

I also love playing and watching sport. This was therefore something else which I then concentrated on and I have now written articles on snooker and football.

To gain inspiration and to help me to write my articles, I read a lot of books and newspapers and I also like to watch the news and current affairs programs on the television.

I hope this article has been of help to you and please feel free to read and re-print more of the articles I have written.


