Title: 
Article Marketing Strategy - Select Only The Best Directories And Ezines

Word Count:
595

Summary:
Writing and marketing articles online is probably the most effective, most cost-effective way to publicize your website, and promote your products and services online. Articles found only on the website and not in their print publications means more opportunities for writers and experts.


Keywords:
article writing, seo, search engine optimisation, article marketing


Article Body:
Writing and marketing articles online is probably the most effective, most cost-effective way to publicize your website, and promote your products and services online. The Web is a printing press with an insatiable appetite for articles written by experts. There are literally millions of websites and ezines that are begging for good articles. They want people to submit good articles to them. They even search sites on the web for permission to use articles.

So, how do you know which sites to select?

Through my years of experience, and many conversations with the top Internet Marketers, in order to have the greatest impact, you need to use a 3-tiered article marketing approach targeting:

1. The major article directories like Ezinearticles.com, Goarticles.com, Ideamarketers.com and Articledashboard.com
2. Smaller niche directory sites that are related to your content
3. Niche ezine and website publishers who need and want quality related content that will add value to their website or email newsletter audience

My consulting clients ask me many times, &#8220; What is the best way to find ezines and websites that are the most read so my article gets the most exposure?&#8221; That should not be the first question you ask yourself. Yes, you do want to find websites that are highly visited and ezines that are the most read &#8211; but more importantly, you want to focus on finding websites and ezine publishers within your specific niche that have strong emotional connections to their audience.

Most likely, you are already visiting their websites or subscribing to their ezines. If you don&#8217;t know who has a great ezine related to your industry niche, there are plenty of ezine directories like bestezines.com on the net that can guide you.

Other strategies include:

- Research your competitors &#8211; where are there articles being published?

- Perform a Google search. Just type in your industry or article topic followed by the words article submission. That&#8217;s how I helped our client&#8217;s book jump to the #2 spot on the NY Times Best Sellers List. I typed into Google, &#8220;health article submissions&#8221;, &#8220;medical article submissions&#8221;, and &#8220;thyroid dysfunctions article submissions&#8221; and discovered (among many other sites) the contact information for an About.com editor &#8211; one of the top 50 sites on the net today. After receiving the submission, the editor blasted an email book promotion to her entire list, giving Mark Hyman MD 1500 additional opt-in subscribers and much higher sales in just one day.

- Think about which organizations, your audience may belong to. If you&#8217;re a sales lead expert, like our client, Mac McIntosh, then the chances of your audience belonging to an organization such as the American Marketing Association are very, very high. With more than 200,000 registered users and more than 2 million visits each year from a wide range of influential decision makers, Mac McIntosh&#8217;s soon to be published article on the American Marketing Association&#8217;s website will provide him with an excellent opportunity to connect with the marketing community.

- And, don&#8217;t forget to check sites for magazines within your niche. More and more publications, are looking for fresh, new content for their website, to drive traffic up in order to sell more print magazines in the long run. This constant updating of articles found only on the website and not in their print publications means more opportunities for writers and experts. An article written by you published on sites like Entrepreneur Magazine and Mothering Magazine will give your company the vast amount of exposure and credibility it needs.

Follow these strategies and you will have a sound article marketing campaign.


