Title: 
Article Writing - The New SEO Master Tool - Part II

Word Count:
338

Summary:
Article writing is now a major weapon in search engine optimisation.  If you have read Part I of this article you will see why previous linking strategies are failing miserably.  As the major search engine, Google now expects links in order to increase your site ranking to be:

1	Relevant
2	Varying Anchor Text
3	One Way Links


Keywords:
article writing, SEO, search engine optimization, search engines, article submission sites


Article Body:
Article writing is now a major weapon in search engine optimisation.  If you have read Part I of this article you will see why previous linking strategies are failing miserably.  As the major search engine, Google now expects links in order to increase your site ranking to be:

1	Relevant
2	Varying Anchor Text
3	One Way Links

These rules display that more of a natural linking strategy need to be evolved.  

Writing expert articles about the content of your website helps to achieve the three objectives above.

First of all, you are able to place links within the resource box of your article pointing back to your website.  Some article directories even allow you to place links within the article body itself.  Therefore any link text that points back to your website is highly relevant to the article content itself, and your sire.

It is possible to vary the anchor text from article to article while still keeping it keyword orientated and most importantly, relevant.

By submitting your article to article submission sites, you are not committed to place a reciprocal link back to the article site on your website.  This ensures that the link to your website is one way.

By writing many quality articles, you will start to be recognised as an expert in your field.

You can see how writing articles about the subject of your website can be a master SEO tool.  However, things get even better.

Ezine authors and webmasters also regularly scour these sites for fresh content for their ezines and websites.  Your article is free to be distributed and republished as long as it remains intact, with the resource box and all links live.

What this means is that each article can potentially create hundreds or thousands of backlinks to your website, each of them relevant, varying in anchor text and one way.  Not bad for about 30 minutes work.  So the advice is simple - get writing, or if you feel unable to write your own articles, get someone to write them for you!


