Title: 
Article Marketing To Boost Site Traffic

Word Count:
982

Summary:
You've been writing great articles for your website or blog, keyword rich, insightful pieces that should be studied in marketing classes. You've probably seen an increase in site traffic since you started writing using SEO. But there's another way to use the articles that you're already writing to boost traffic even more.

Publish them on other sites.

It's simple math. Your site receives 200 hits a day. Site B receives 500. If you get an article published on Site B, your...


Keywords:
aticle,articles,article marketing,traffic,targeted traffic,site traffic,online business,boost sales


Article Body:
You've been writing great articles for your website or blog, keyword rich, insightful pieces that should be studied in marketing classes. You've probably seen an increase in site traffic since you started writing using SEO. But there's another way to use the articles that you're already writing to boost traffic even more.

Publish them on other sites.

It's simple math. Your site receives 200 hits a day. Site B receives 500. If you get an article published on Site B, your site and marketing links are exposed to 700 people.

Unfortunately, this can be easier said than done. You have to convince the editor or webmaster of Site B that your article is more worthy of publication than Joe Schmoe's about the same subject. If you think you can, then you are all set to start your very own article marketing campaign and boost traffic to your site. Here're some hints to sell articles for your article marketing campaign.

ARTICLE MARKETING STARTS WITH THE E-MAIL TO A PUBLISHER SITE

E-mail has become one of those quick forms of communication. We type them out real quick, using the first words and phrases that come to mind, and then send them off without a second thought, like leaving a voicemail. But in the case of article marketing (and everything else you use e-mail for), the e-mail is the first writing sample a buyer will read. If your e-mail is not professional and well written, there is no reason for a buyer to move onto the actual article. You will have failed the ever important first impression.

This is a failure that can be avoided by taking the time to edit the e-mail. Make sure that there are no grammatical mistakes, that your sentences make sense, and that you don't have more words necessary. Other things like making sure the subject line is eye catching or addressing the e-mail to a specific person instead of a company or a "To Whom It May Concern" can make your article stand out in the crowd.

MARKET ARTICLES TO THE APPROPRIATE SITES

This one sounds like a no brainer, but at least now you can't say nobody told you. Make sure that you send your articles to places that will actually publish them. This obviously applies to content (don't send an article about high New York Society to a Mountain Climber's website), but this also applies to style and voice and things like that. If you're an edgy, sarcastic writer, you probably don't want to be submitting to a serious, boring site. They simply won't publish your article, and your article marketing campaign will be a waste.

Also, don't just write an article and then try to get it published. This method might produce some results, but they will be few and far between and will require a lot of time and selling. Instead, write your articles with a specific site in mind. Go and read other articles on the site. Know the voice and structure of the already published articles. Review the submissions guidelines. Be familiar with policies. In the e-mail, include reasons that your article is a perfect match for their site. An article written with purpose for a specific site or group of sites will be more successful than one written without a destination in mind.

GRAMMAR, GRAMMAR, GRAMMAR

The whole point of article marketing is to convince people to click on the link to your site that you've included in your byline. You will lose a lot of credibility if your article is full of grammatical mistakes and poorly thought out sentences. Write several drafts of your articles. Make sure you're saying what you mean. Once your article is perfect, have someone else read it to make sure you're not blind. You'd be amazed what you miss in your own writing, even if you're a professional editor. Doing this will A. Make editors more likely to accept your work and B. Give the reader the impression that you are professional, which will in turn make them try to find out what else you have to say.

REFER BACK TO YOUR OTHER ARTICLE WITH LINKS

If you can, include links in the body of your e-mail that will lead back to your site. After all, that is the entire point of article marketing. A good way to do this is to refer to an article that you've written in the past that is 'coincidentally' posted only on your website. People like more information, and if you tell them there is more on another site, chances are that they'll go there, and you just got another hit.

Be careful not to overuse this technique. Too many links will make them commonplace and readers won't notice them. Including one or two makes them special and probably worthwhile. Also, don't link to irrelevant articles. Readers will just get annoyed and not browse around your site. The object of article marketing is to get people exploring your site. If they wind up at a random article, they'll just close the window and go back to what they were reading, instead of stumbling across your affiliate marketing links.

SIGN YOUR WORK

Don't ever forget about the signature or byline at the end of your article. This should include your name, of course, but also a link directly to your site's homepage. You might also consider linking to a few related articles that are posted on your site. Anyone who enjoyed the article will take the time to see who wrote it and what their background or own personal ventures are, and chances are, they'll click on the link to read more by you. The signature section is the climax of your article marketing campaign. It is where you are trying to guide readers with your article so they will see your links and visit your site and make you money. It's that simple.


