Title: 
Article Writing:  Easy or Difficult?

Word Count:
670

Summary:
How a high school drop out who flunked english discovered he could easily create articles?


Keywords:
articles, writing, ebooks, info products, content, information


Article Body:
I'm going to tell you a story about a man that flunked out of school at the age of 16.  It was so bad at school that the only A's he got were in physical education.  When he was in junior high he never did any work in English because he hated it so much.  Of course, if you don't have good English, your reading suffers too.  

He didn't like school at all.  He would hook out of school and go to work; he was only 13 years old (he looked a lot older).  He went to summer school every year just to get through junior high.  I think they just pushed him through because he doesn't remember doing anything but showing up.  

Why am I telling you this?  Because the same man that flunked English every year and quit school at the age of 16 is a successful Internet marketer.  And guess what he does.  He helps people to discover multiple ways to quickly create content for websites, articles, autoresponders and any other type of content.  And you’re right - it's me. 

One day my best friend Lori, who is also my partner, was talking about starting a home business.  We both like to travel and we wanted our business to be portable.  We came up with this idea of working on the Internet.  We picked a guru program and put everything in it that we could. 

In the program, there was a lot of reading and writing.  I had cold feet right from the start.  Lori knew that I had problems with reading and writing. My writing was so bad that when I used spell-check I could swear the computer was smoking and I was dreading it.  Me.  Of all people.  

But Lori saw something in me and figured a way around it.  She had me first start just doing some research on keywords.  I wasn't too bad just checking out some single words or phrases.  After I did that for awhile then she said that our websites needed to be blogged.  What the heck is a blog?  Did I tell you that the only thing I knew about a computer was how to fly my flight simulator?  Not even how to write or send an e-mail.  When she mentioned writing a blog, I didn’t know what to think.  She told me that she would show me how to write just a few lines.

I’d write a few lines about our different web sites.  Every time I wrote a blog I would have to ask her to make sure everything was spelled okay.  All day long I would do research on keywords and I would try to write blogs.  Lori would read them and correct my spelling.

Then one day Lori said I should write an article about something that I have a passion about.  She said, don't worry about the spelling; just write down what you know.  I started doing what she asked.  I had no idea where she was going with this.  When your spelling is not good, your typing is even worse.  I think my top speed was about six words a minute.  It took me awhile to put things down.  But I did what she asked and didn't think about it anymore.

One night Lori said, Jeff come here I want to show you something. You are now a published author.  I said there is no way that I could be a published author.  Lori edited my so-called articles and submitted them.  See you can write, she says.  My response was, you must have rewrote the whole article and just put my name on it.  When I read it, it was my words but spelled right.  

I could not believe what she did.  It opened my eyes and made me realize that I can write articles and even e-books.  My point to all this is, if a high school dropout that flunked out of English every year can write articles and e-books so can you.


