Title: 
Boost Article Marketing's Search Engine Ranking Through Keyword Usage

Word Count:
798

Summary:
When writing article marketing content it is important to make sure the copy itself would be able to reach the intended and target readers.


Keywords:
article marketing, submit articles


Article Body:
When writing article marketing content it is important to make sure the copy itself would be able to reach the intended and target readers. That is imperative because obviously, no content or article marketing copy would ever succeed in attaining its purpose if it is not targeted well. No matter how informative, entertaining, engaging and interesting your article is, if it is not gaining a favorable and appropriate search engine ranking, it would not be disseminated and shared well to reach its target audience. Thus, it is important to know some methods on how you could effectively manipulate the use of keywords to meet your article marketing goals. 

To begin with, it is most significant to determine the right keywords for the subject you are writing about. A keyword is a main subject that would be the focus and theme of the entire marketing article. When using keywords in this regard, be reminded that keywords can be made up of a single word, a phrase, group of words or different sets of words that are put together. Keywords are important because that would be how search engines would identify, index and rank articles. 

For example, you are using the search engine to search for articles with ‘article marketing’ as the keyword. Upon typing the phrase into the search engine box, a page containing all sites and Webpage addresses containing direct links would be flashed into the computer screen. Notice that the listing consists of several or numerous listings. Also take note that those sites and links listed on the topmost portion would likely solicit and enjoy more search engine clicks from online readers. You surely would look first at those listed on the first few links. And for sure, you would be more likely checking them out than the rest. 

That is the wonder of using search engine ranking well. An article or a Website is enjoying a high search engine ranking if it is listed first on search engine results. You know for now that articles or sites with high ranking are more likely to enjoy higher page and readers review. As an article marketing writer, you naturally would be inclined to aim to attain that ideal search engine ranking. And manipulating with the working and operational keywords is the most likely key to that. 

To be able to understand more the role of keywords targeting and usage in making your article marketing copy really effective, it would be better to know more about some specific keyword concepts. The following are those along with recommended actions to make your articles work. 

Keyword density

This concept basically refers to the percentage or ratio of keywords within the overall volume of words that can be indexed within the whole Web page. Some companies and article marketing clients are particularly instructing writers to make sure the keyword density of the article is made ideal. In general, it is an unwritten rule or a strong recommendation from experts to make sure the keyword density is maintained at about 2% to 8%. This way, you can make sure that your article marketing output is well endowed and sprinkled with the most helpful and noticeable volume of keywords. Doing so would also help ensure a favorable and desired search engine ranking. 

Keyword frequency

This concept is basically referring to the total number of times a particular keyword or keyword phrases are used not just within an article but within the entire Website. As you know, online sites are not just consisting of the article content. Usually, Website designs and pages are consisting of logos and brief descriptions of the content or of the subject or content to which the site is focused at. In general, the more frequent a keyword appears in the online site, the more likely any search engine would allot a high search engine ranking for that keyword. 

Keyword prominence 

The term keyword prominence is not widely known and practiced but it is one of the most needed. It refers to the way prominent keywords are strategically used inside the online site. As a recommendation, experts advise article marketers to put significant keywords within, near or at the beginning of the online page, or at the first sentence, title or within what is referred to as the meta tag. 

Keyword proximity

The term refers to the proximity or closeness between keywords. With this regard, it is advisable that keywords be closer and more identical or synonymous with each other. For example, the keyword ‘search engine rankings, is proximate, close or equal to the keyword ‘rankings in search engine’. It would be advisable to use the two at the same time as operational keywords so that any way online searchers make their queries, they would be able to arrive at the same result.


