Title: 
Content Crazy by Duncan judson

Word Count:
904

Summary:
Article Spam or Content Spam is now a relavent problem for article directories, as well as content providers whom submit articles.  Content Spam is a resolveable problem, if dealt with in a moderte fashion.


Keywords:
content, article, search engines, 


Article Body:
Content issues today are very much an issues of either Tasmanian Article Submitters or Productive Elmer Fud Authors.  I write this article not because I want to slam anyone.  The sole purpose is to put the whole content issue with articles to a screaming halt; I hope.  I have read many reports claiming articles have a down side to the Internet, and that beast is Article Spam.  One interesting factor, Article Spam really is a larger problem than expected.  Article Marketing Spam has more components to it than just the (food) word spam.  As defined by Jason Potash in his recent report “Why Many Internet Marketers Are Dead Wrong About The Right Way To Use (And Profit From) Content In 2006 And How They Will Quickly Paralyze Their Businesses As A Result!.”

“Here's what happened: In 2005, the search engine optimization (SEO) community began to take notice of submitting articles as an easy way to generate much needed back links to their websites.

Google was cracking down on reciprocal linking (more specifically, poorquality incoming links generated from link farms or spam sites).  Everyone and their uncle began hiring ghostwriters, getting articles produced, and mass submitting them to dozens of article directories.  Their back links grew like crazy... so did their rankings, and suddenly their websites had "legs" since hundreds of other “authority” sites were one-way linking to them.

It worked like a dream for a few months... then article spam started to become a REAL problem.

Article directory owners across the world began to feel the pain of watching their weekly article submissions balloon by 400% (if not more). 

The problem?

Up to 40% of the new articles they received were pure garbage and had to be deleted on the spot. And even some articles that were pretty good still got trashed because many of them made silly (amateur) mistakes that could easily be corrected.

So, while the article spammers continue to submit dozens of crappy articles per week, the jokes is on them.

Only a handful of their articles actually see the light of day.

In fact, some article spammers even developed custom scripts/robots that go out and plow through article directories and force feed their articles to them a few dozen at a time.  Their gameplan is quantity over quality. Keep submitting and eventually a few articles will stick.

Yes, some articles will sneak their way into the article directories. If you take shovels full of cow dung and repeatedly hurl them at a barn door, some of it will stick.” (“Why Many Internet Marketers Are Dead Wrong About The Right Way To Use (And Profit From) Content In 2006 And How They Will Quickly Paralyze Their Businesses As A Result!” Jolt Marketing Inc.)  

Now Jason makes a very good point about the quality of reports written.  I must make a confession here, I attended a Siena Heights University, in Adrian Michigan and during the course of earning my education I wrote a bazillion and one half papers of all types.  I have learned to write and communicate my ideas in written form (I Hope!).  Now we are in the techno age, and writing is required from everyone who participates.  Basic knowledge of reading and writing is necessary to use the computer.  With a good word processor software on a computer to assist in the correction of basic grammatical errors anyone can write respectable article.  

Respectable articles require some time and effort to think through what you are writing about.  Structuring ideas to text, and formatting to a legible compilation.  Now, the hard part is spell checking by using your word processors spell checker.  When the writer eliminates all the green and red squiggles under their text, read the article out loud.  Reading the article aloud is the easiest method for checking the flow of an article.  If an article can be read without problems, you have got the article ready for submission.  

Submission is another point Jason makes in his report that creates article spam.  Like link spam the search engines do not like to see an excessive amount of back links added at one time.  Excessive back links is an unnatural progression to developing back links.  A successful strategy is to build your back links slow.  I personally choose about 10 links in 1 week.  Article Spammers do article submissions in bulk of 1000’s.

The same strategy applies to article submission back links, build slow.  Article submission using Article Submitter with greater control of how many submissions you do in a day, and control of the category your article is submitted into.  Building your article back links slower, creates a more natural building progression, the search engines will not flag your website as suspicious.  Slow submission is difficult in a time when we are so geared to doing all of our tasks fast to get ahead of the competition.

Getting ahead of the competition does not mean submitting 3,4,5, articles a day to the article repositories.  How can anyone write 3,4,5, quality articles in one day?  I am sure it is possible, but I desire to think my articles through and write quality articles.  

In conclusion, the natural way to build back links to your websites, also applies to article submission.  Good quality articles require some editing, and a little work but is necessary.  Article Spam can be avoided if submissions are done with quality tools, and submitted to a specific number of repositories in a single day.


