Title: 
Discover The Powerful Benefits Of Submitting Articles!

Word Count:
375

Summary:
Article directories are popping up all over the internet. You may wonder if this is a good thing or a bad thing. Allow me to ensure you this is a great thing for internet marketers. Below is just a few of the many benefits of submitting articles.

1. The ability to brand your web site business and yourself by submitting articles to article directories. You could include a link back to your web site in your resource box Along with your name and credentials.

2. You will ge...


Keywords:
articles,article directory,article submission


Article Body:
Article directories are popping up all over the internet. You may wonder if this is a good thing or a bad thing. Allow me to ensure you this is a great thing for internet marketers. Below is just a few of the many benefits of submitting articles.

1. The ability to brand your web site business and yourself by submitting articles to article directories. You could include a link back to your web site in your resource box Along with your name and credentials.

2. You will get your article published all over the web when you submit it to a article directory. They'll allow their visitors to republish your article on their websites and e-zines. Imagine if you submit your article to multiple article directories. Remember all your articles have a back link to your website.

3. You will be considered an expert on the subject matter of your articles. This will give you and your business added credibility which will help you take on your competitors.

4. Your article may also be placed on the article directory's home page. Some article directories post new articles on their home page. This will give you some extra exposure.

5. You may get extra publicity if the article directory publisher archives articles on their site. People may want to read older articles in their search for information or content.

6. You will get free advertising. This will allow you to spend your profits on other forms of advertising. You could purchase google advertisements or other pay per click ads. You could buy ads in e-zines.

7. You'll gain trust. If prospects read your article and like it, they will be far more likely to buy your product or service. Thereby increasing your earning potential.

8. You could allow website marketers to publish your articles in their free e-books. Since people give them away, your articles could multiply all over the internet.

9. You may get additional income from people wanting to hire you to write their articles, books, or even ask you to speak at seminars. This is a great way to grow your income exponentially.

By now you are no doubt convinced of the power of submitting articles to the countless article directories out there. So what are you waiting for get started now.


