Title: 
Distributing Articles Through Blogs

Word Count:
271

Summary:
These days, it is hard to find anyone, of any age, who does not blog. Business have even taken to blogging, from small ones to large corporations.  The popularity and simplicity of blogging makes it popular with everyone.


Keywords:
internet business plan, small business advertising, business newsletter, business location, business competitors, business website, search engine optimization, pay-per-click marketing, business marketing tips


Article Body:
These days, it is hard to find anyone, of any age, who does not blog. Business have even taken to blogging, from small ones to large corporations.  The popularity and simplicity of blogging makes it popular with everyone.

Using blogs to help with your sales is easy and recommended. It is simple to create your own blog on which to post your articles. You can find a webhosting company that  includes a blog in its webhosting package, or you can choose a popular blog site like Blogger at www.blogger.com . 

The most important thing is to make your blog viral.  Do this by creating an RSS feed and allowing readers to copy your blog to their own.

All you need to do is set up your blog and start posting your articles into categories of your own choosing. using pinging features will allow blog directories to keep  updated whenever you add a new post to your blog. You can also sign up at http://pingomatic.com/  to have your blog pinged with many different services all at once. This will help bring traffic to your blog.

Another way to make blogs helpful in your article marketing is to seek out blogs that relate to your field of interest. Upon finding a subject that relates to your article, add a comment and a link to the article asking other readers of the blog to visit your blog and read the article. 

Posting the actual article on someone else's blog is rude and not accepted. A simple link to an article that directly relates to the topic in question is perfectly acceptable.


