Title: 
Does Your Article Come With Re-Branding Right?

Word Count:
266

Summary:
Allowing your readers to change the links in your article and author's resource box to their own chosen ones is a completely different idea.  Most marketers work to keep that information in the article no matter what.


Keywords:
internet business plan, small business advertising, business newsletter, business location, business competitors, business website, search engine optimization, pay-per-click marketing, business marketing tips


Article Body:
Allowing your readers to change the links in your article and author's resource box to their own chosen ones is a completely different idea.  Most marketers work to keep that information in the article no matter what.

This may not make sense to you at the moment and you may even think it is a totally off-the-wall idea. Changing the affiliate links does not change your information as to your name and website link.  These stay with the article so you still get the recognition.
 
You will still benefit from the article and may find it even more profitable.  Other people will be more willing to publish your article if they can see a benefit to themselves.  Allowing this change of affiliate links gives them that incentive.
 
A situation that is especially beneficial is when you have affiliates helping with your promotion.  It also works if you are helping promote another's product and have affiliates under you.  They will feel more inclined to use the article and you will benefit by getting increased money from their added sales.
 
Depending on your ultimate goal from writing the article, it might even help if you allow your affliliates to change even the resource box.  They will add their own information there instead.

By allowing affiliates to keep your author name intact but changing all links, including the resource box ones you can still be recognized as the author.  This will allow you to be considered the expert on the subject, yet you will benefit from the increased sales of your affiliates.  This is a positive option all around.


