Title: 
Draw in Massive Amounts Of Traffic, From Search Engines, By Writing Articles About Your Online Business!

Word Count:
1130

Summary:
Getting large amounts of people to your web site can be as easy as writing a few articles. I have found that writing articles can bring in huge amounts of traffic when done correctly. You can literally find your articles in front of millions of web sites on the search engines results, for popular search terms. All this can be done for the price of a well written article.


Keywords:
Article directories,search engine, get noticed by search engines, traffic from search engines,writing articles


Article Body:
Getting large amounts of people to your web site can be as easy as writing a few articles. I have found that writing articles can bring in huge amounts of traffic when done correctly. You can literally find your articles in front of millions of web sites on the search engines results, for popular search terms. All this can be done for the price of a well written article. 

I have written many articles that have grabbed the attention of search engines. The reason the articles are placed on the first pages of Google, Yahoo, and, MSN is mainly due to the fresh new content that the articles possess. I have written quite a few articles, but one that I recently wrote was titled "Easy ways to get noticed by search engines" this article brought in an amazing amount of free traffic to my web site. I was shocked to learn, that when a search into Google was done for "ways to get noticed by search engines" Google came up with 20,800,000 results for that search term. Guess who's article at the time, was positioned in spots, #1, #4, #6, if you guessed my article you are right! 

The most important thing you should remember when you write an article is that "The Job of the Search Engine is to, Bring Up the Most Relevant Web Site, for a Particular Searched Term". 

Getting search engines to bring up your articles is, just one of the reason that makes writing articles for traffic so attractive. The content can be what ever you want it to be. Just remember to come up with a good title that is relevant to your article. For example if you make soap at home, you can write an article about anything that is relevant to soap making, and you can even use multiple articles, and topics, to bring in several streams of traffic to your web pages. You can write an articles that covers" how to make home made lavender soap." with a combo of another article written about "The history of LYE in soap making" If you follow the steps that I cover in this article, it is very possible that when a person searches for "lavender soap", and "Lye for soap making" it will be easy for people to come across your articles using the search engines. From there the reader is just one link away from your web site. 

For starters, understand that it is crucial to have keywords in the title of the article. It is also very important to have the same keywords in the body of the article. Try to use the keywords in the article as many times as possible, without making it obvious that you are loading the article up with keywords. 

If you do not get anything from my article at least understand this "The job of search engine is to bring up the most relevant pages for particular a search word, or phrase". Write a relevant article, and I can guarantee the article will find it's way to the first pages of the search engines. 

I will give you a few ideas on how you can use this to your advantage. No matter what your web site, or on-line business is about you can write an article about it. People are searching for almost every topic the world has to offer, in other words, if you write it, they will read it! 

Here are a few article writing tips that will help you to bring in massive amounts of free traffic from the search engines. 

1.) The keywords, that your article focuses on needs to be in the title. I found that "Easy ways to get noticed by search engines" worked extremely well. 

2.) Inside the body of the article you need to use the same keywords that are in the title. For the example I used earlier I repeatedly used the keywords "search engines, and noticed" etc.. as many times as possible. (don't go crazy with this step however remember it, is important.) The purpose of this step is to write an article that is relevant to those particular keywords, or phrase. ( I really can't stress that point enough I'll repeat that one more time!) The purpose of this step is to write an article that is relevant to those particular keywords, or phrase. 

3.) Submit your article to as many article directories as possible. Not all directories are created equal some have a popular appeal to search engines while other directories have no appeal what so ever. 

4.) All article directories have a resource box. This is where you can get your readers to your web site. Here is something that I might include in the resource box. I am Michael Ditch if you liked my article you might like to visit my web site at ( add the link htpp....) where you can learn great Internet Marketing tips, and learn hundreds of techniques to bring thousands of people to your web site. (I used this is just an example, you can write what ever you would like to, but what ever you write, it should cover the "why I want to visit your web site.") 

5.) Writing articles takes practice, but "practice makes perfect!" The greatest thing about writing articles you can write about anything, and you only have to write it once! 

6.) Remember not to forget the important things like the "Who, What, Where When, and Whys" Include a short introduction, body, and conclusion. 

(warning) Do not write an advertisement, no one likes to read advertisements. in the first place and, the article directories will not post your article if you write an advertisement. 

Here is another beauty of writing articles, web site owners need content. They will search, and search for new content to put on their web sites. If they like your article they will post your article in their blogs, on their web sites. That might frighten you, but here is the deal, if they use an article that you write, they have to include the resource box information. That is a big bonus for you because, you will have another link pointing back to your web site for no cost. 

Another benefit to writing an article, is just when the search engine gets tired of your article, and places it on page 5, or 6 that article can come back to life again, on page one, all because someone placed it in their blog, or web site. If you write articles about your business, or your web site, in time, you will have thousands of sites, that have links that point back to your web site. If that is not motivation enough to write than I do not know what is! 

So get out there and start writing relevant content.


