Title: 
Finding E-zine Publishers

Word Count:
273

Summary:
Networking with e-zine publishers in your field is a good business strategy. These publishers are one of the most important parts of your marketing and it is suggested you start building a list of appropriate e-zines now.


Keywords:
internet business plan, small business advertising, business newsletter, business location, business competitors, business website, search engine optimization, pay-per-click marketing, business marketing tips


Article Body:
Networking with e-zine publishers in your field is a good business strategy. These publishers are one of the most important parts of your marketing and it is suggested you start building a list of appropriate e-zines now.

There are ezine directories that can direct you to appropriate places.   Vist them and subscribe to several e-zines in your chosen area. Don't try submitting articles until you get a feel for the e-zine by reading a couple of issues. The Directory of Ezines at www.directoryofezines.com , along with several others,  even tell you information if article submissions are accepted, where to send them, and what rules tofollow. This information is priceless.

Contact the ezine publisher directly if you decide to submit an article.  Most e-zine owners like to know the person who is sending them an article for publication. Not contacting the publisher first does not create a good raport.

Send a personal note telling the publisher how much you like their publication. List something specific you especially like about the ezine. Next, tell the publisher you believe readers would like your articles and ask if you might submit one or more. Finding one specialized point within the general interest area will increase your chances of being positively received.

Don't send tons of articles all at once and overload the publisher's already full mailbox.  Limit yourself to sending only one article weekly, and sometimes even one a month. Make the e-zine publisher feel important by providing short articles once a week that you wrote just for that e-zine.  E-zine publishers like knowing they are the only place a person can find a particular article.


