Title: 
Get Your Traffic To Expode - Use Social Media!

Word Count:
402

Summary:
Learn The Hidden Secrets To Using Social Media To Drive Hordes Of Free Traffic To Your Website. Free Yourself From The Agony Of Having To Pay For Your Traffic!


Keywords:
social marketing,networking,internet,traffic,media,strategies,traffic videos


Article Body:
If you're like me, I got really tired of paying for my traffic and striving to get a higher search engine ranking. The competition is getting tougher and tougher. Although I am getting more successful with my Google and Yahoo Marketing campaigns and that's mainly because I'm getting more experienced at it. But believe me, I've wasted a lot of money going through the learning curve. 

But I've gotten smarter! I've found a way to generate a lot more traffic to my website and it's absolutely free! Yes, I'm going to continue using my adwords, but not as much as I have in the past. 

How did I get smarter? I kept hearing how social media was going to be the wave of the future when it comes to internet marketing. So I started setting up a couple of accounts on sites like Facebook, MySpace, UTube and Twitter. Started asking people to be my friends and guess what started to happen. You guessed it! I started getting a lot more traffic to my blog and websites, best of all, it's free traffic. I don't have to work at getting ranking anymore. The back links from my media sites helps me to rank even higher in the search engines than I did when I worked at it.

If you use social marketing correctly, it will drive big traffic DIRECTLY to your site from the social media sites that you get involved with…and that's huge. After all, that is really the holy grail, isn't it? 

We all want more traffic to our site, right?

You may not realize it, but social media sites have more traffic than Google. And if you use the right strategies and tactics to put yourself in front of that traffic, then you don't have rely on Google to get traffic to your sites.  And best of all, you don't have to worry about expensive AdWords campaigns or other forms of advertising.

Of course, let's be real here... just because you start getting big traffic directly from the social media sites doesn't mean you will abandon your Google rankings and stop all advertising. What it means is that you will be getting a lot more traffic, and the average cost of that traffic will plummet down to levels that are from the stone ages when it comes to the internet.... that’s what I call “back to the future”!


