Title: 
Getting More Out of Your Article Submissions.

Word Count:
555

Summary:
Wasting countless hours in article directories?
-Learn how to get your site all over the internet millions of times faster.
-Submitting articles to super concentrated dirctories


Keywords:
article, submission, gambling, web, site, website, traffic


Article Body:
Article Submission is a great way to get traffic to your site, but in some cases, articles are wasted in a directory that have so many articles on so many topics that people looking for a topic just get overwhelmed and look for something else. If you submit your articles to large directories with thousands of other articles about every topic, what is the chance that you article will be viewed? What is the chance that it will be published somewhere else? The truth is that it is not an easy thing to get your article discovered by a website owner and re-published especially if you are not a proffessional writer. The key to making your article submissions more worthwhile is to submit to specialized directories.

You might be thinking that these specific directories are not as good because they do not get as much traffic and they might not. The reality is that they probably get as much traffic or more traffic that is targeted to the specific niche. This way you know that every person that goes to that directory is looking for an article like yours. Broad article directories are great; I only use them when I cannot find a directory for the topic f my article (just like this one).

The idea of submitting articles to specific article directories is revolutionary. This is a way to get your articles published in a place where every single people is looking for an article similar to yours so there is a higher chance of being re-published.  I saw an example of such a directory when I was looking for articles to fill my site about “fishing”. What I found was amazing, the site had many features that a regular information/shopping site would have but they also had an additional area where you could submit and republish articles that they posted. I found a countless amount of information and in no time I had a 50-page website within the day and my site had already been spidered by Google by the end of the month after I wrote my own articles for that directory.

These article directories are not easy to find though when you type “article directories” in a search engine. They use different key words. This is a problem because it is hard to know what key words will be found by imputing a key word in a search engine. To find them you have to type in a more specific search phrase. For example, if you are looking for articles for fishing you might want to type in, “fishing article directory”. This will locate any fishining related website as well as directories for fishing packed with articles on the topic.

Submitting your articles to directories are a great way to get your site many backlinks as well as giving you a reputation for being an expert on the topic. If you send your niche articles to directories with a broad range of catagories and sub catagories and sub sub catagories, you will have a lot of trouble competing with the pofessional writers. What you want to do is find a specified directory with articles focusing on a certain topic, this way you have a higher chance to get you articles published  all over the internet faster then you can imagine.


