Title: 
High Impact Traffic By Writing Articles

Word Count:
319

Summary:
So you have a website but your traffic counters are not exactly burning? Maybe it’s not even turning! You may have tried reciprocal linking to gain search engine rankings. It's boring isn’t it! Reciprocal linking with other on-theme websites will slowly help increase your website's rankings in the search engines such as Google, Yahoo and MSN. However, it takes a long time and each time someone links to you, you get one link back to your site. I’d like to introduce you to a mu...


Keywords:
Article marketing


Article Body:
So you have a website but your traffic counters are not exactly burning? Maybe it’s not even turning! You may have tried reciprocal linking to gain search engine rankings. It's boring isn’t it! Reciprocal linking with other on-theme websites will slowly help increase your website's rankings in the search engines such as Google, Yahoo and MSN. However, it takes a long time and each time someone links to you, you get one link back to your site. I’d like to introduce you to a much more effective method. 

This method is very easy and not nearly as boring. Simply write an article about a topic that is relevant to your site; please make sure you include a link back to your site in the author’s by-lines. Then submit it to a submission service such as Isnare. They will then distribute your article and other websites will pick it up. So instead of your one measly backlink for a reciprocal link you could get one hundred, two hundred or even a thousand backlinks. 

Several things will determine how many people will pick up your article: 

1.) How many different sites you submit it to 
2.) How interesting and well written your article is 
3.) How catchy the headline is 
4.) How much public interest there is in the topic 

With the above considered, you can make your website very successful by submitting articles. I recommend submitting 3 articles in a week, and then continue submitting one or two articles a week for a month. This should get you a nice amount of traffic for a long period of time. Obviously the more articles you write, the more traffic you receive. This traffic is not only from people reading your articles but from the search engines, as your ranking will improve as you gain more links back to your site. So go on, get writing, the world's your oyster!


