Title: 
How To Effectively Use Articles and Auto responders To Market Your Product or Service

Word Count:
385

Summary:
Have you ever wondered how you could use your auto-responder along with your articles to somehow "spread the word" about your new website, product or service? If so, this brief article, will teach you exactly how to do just that. In addition, you will also discover the main benefits of writing articles and the basic steps you need to take to market your products and services effectively with articles and auto responders .


Keywords:
article, auto responder, advertising, marketing, promotion, SEO


Article Body:
Copyright 2006 Keith Gloster 

Have you ever wondered how you could use your auto-responder along with your articles to somehow "spread the word" about your new website, product or service? If so, this brief article, will teach you exactly how to do just that. In addition, you will also discover the main benefits of writing articles and the basic steps you need to take to market your products and services effectively with articles and auto responders . 

Writing articles to market a product or service is an exceptional way to build business. The article has to be profoundly informative, providing the reader with information that is related to a specific subject matter. The article most often includes a hyper link to a web page for additional information. The webpage, of course, is designed to sell a product or service that relates to the subject matter of the article. 

These articles are normally submitted to article banks, websites, and online newsletter publishers. This is one of the most effective ways to market a service or product on the Internet, and it can become even more effective when it is associated with the use of an auto responder .

Here's how to do it.

Start by inserting each of your articles into your auto responder . It is important that each article have its very own auto responder address, so you will need an auto responder service that will allow you to do this. Next, make a master directory of your articles, with the auto responder address for each article listed alongside the name. You can even add descriptions of the articles in your master directory if you desire.

Advertising your articles one at a time can take a great deal of time. But advertising one auto responder address; the one for the master list, won't take very much time at all. Just put it in your ezine and on your website. You can even grant other ezine publishers to use this as a free resource for their subscribers!

Whatever you decide to do, don't underestimate the benefits of marketing your products and services with articles and auto responders . Also, by using this technique, your website traffic will begin to increase exponentially due to your relevant content and back-links and your articles will spread like wild fire all over the Internet!


