Title: 
How To Make Money From Your Writing Skills

Word Count:
464

Summary:
I am one of many people who have realised the many benefits that writing articles can bring. Article marketing is now widely recognised as an excellent way of promoting a website, however there are many more opportunities out there to make money for the budding writer.


Keywords:
writing, articles, marketing, backward, links, cash, money, content, king, examinations, educated


Article Body:
I am one of many people who have realised the many benefits that writing articles can bring. Article marketing is now widely recognised as an excellent way of promoting a website, however there are many more opportunities out there to make money for the budding writer.

I just happened to stumble across the idea of writing articles around eight months ago when I was discussing different forms of website promotion with a friend of mine. I was looking at ways in which I could attract more visitors to my own sites and he advised me to commence writing articles.

The advice was sound and I have not looked back since. Writing articles is a superb way of gaining extra one-way backward links to your site and the readers of each article are also potential visitors.

I attempt to write around seven articles per week which is not easy at times but is something I am aware will help my sites.

In each article I try to give advice and attempt to make them enjoyable for any potential reader. 

There are other ways that people like myself, who enjoy to write can make money from their skills.

Other people are also aware of the benefits of article marketing but just do not have the time to write themselves. These people are always on the lookout for somebody to help them out, somebody who will write and submit an article for them. There are a number of websites where each writer can notify people of their services and where other people can post a project that they would like to be completed.

Other areas where people can earn additional cash from their skills is via writing freelance for newspapers and magazines. If your skills are of a higher enough quality and what you write is of interest to a wide audience, there is no reason why you could not earn money in this way.

Writing has never been more in demand and now is the time for people who feel that they have the gift to make the most out of this opportunity. There is a lot of rubbish being written on the web at the moment and quality will always stand out.

Many people might argue that they are not well enough educated to be accepted as a writer in certain quarters. This may well be correct for some people out there, however if you do not try you will never know. Content is king as they say and if your content is good enough and of interest, why would people have an issue with your lack of examinations etc.

Ensure that your content is easy to read and that all of the words are spelt correct. The world is your oyster, go for it.


