Title: 
How to find your natural keywords from you blog post and convert it to an article.

Word Count:
438

Summary:
You write natural keywords as you blog - why not extract those keywords as well as the text of your blog post and use it as an article? Read and find out how to...


Keywords:
make money online, blog, money, earn money, money making idea, napoleon hill, making money online


Article Body:
Here's a tip to find your natural keywords for your articles. 

The situation is this: you write naturally and normally on your blog. Often, when you finish, you have well over 500 or 750 words - perfect for an article or several.

The next step is to find an article which reflects keywords people naturally use - so they can find your article quickly. Since you've already ready written your soul into this, and it's exactly like you would talk to a person in front of you. You don't want to have to edit various paragraphs to get some keywords into play.

The solution is simple - use adwords.google.com - and this works only as you have individual webpage addresses (as blogspot does). You type in the exact name of that page, hit the "Get keywords" button and voila': all the keywords associated with that page are now exposed for your use.

At this point, you can then use these keywords to make a new article title (which you search for to finalize) and can even modify your blog post title so people can find your blog post more easily.

Now, interestingly, you can also then use these keywords as tags, labels, etc. Which in turn enable people to find your pages and your articles more easily.

I've just found a tool (which I'm evaluating) which claims to be able to scrape a site for an article. Now you can take earlier articles (blog posts) and then post them to a few hundred article directories, all with key search terms ready for you to incorporate.

All progress toward earning a great income online through article marketing - all from home.

(I wrote the above as a blog entry, let's see if it worked out... )

Update: Google Keywords found the following groups of keywords - blog, money, making money, earn money, money making idea, making money online, plus miscellaneous ones - napoleon hill, audio blogger, adwords software, adwords.

So a sample article title might be "How to earn money online through Google adwords - by using your blog and not spending a dime."

Searching finds that such a title doesn't exist. So I would be able to drop that into my article submission program and let it roll. Provided my bio linked to a relevant product, I'd be set for incoming clicks - and I didn't have to write from the keywords, I just had to let the keywords show themselves.

Now this doesn't take you into the niche keyword world, which is much more profitable, but that is just another research route to roll in on.

(And the number of words above - 411, plenty for an article. Nice.)


