Title: 
How To Generate Traffic Through Article Marketing

Word Count:
576

Summary:
Writing articles for article marketing is a good way to get traffic to your website. Articles provide information to your audience and allow you to show your expertise. By posting your articles in article directories, you can generate traffic to your site and also help create back links to it. The main keys to article marketing are to write a high quality content article, create a good authors resource box to highlight you and your site and to submit it to several article dir...


Keywords:
article marketing, submit article, submit articles, article directory


Article Body:
Writing articles for article marketing is a good way to get traffic to your website. Articles provide information to your audience and allow you to show your expertise. By posting your articles in article directories, you can generate traffic to your site and also help create back links to it. The main keys to article marketing are to write a high quality content article, create a good authors resource box to highlight you and your site and to submit it to several article directories for maximum publicity.

A good targeted article will get read with many page views. So write an article that will be read by many. Here are 5 important factors to consider when writing an article:

1) Writing on what you know is a pre-requisite to good quality content. If you don’t know enough about a particular topic, please do more research.

2) If you want people to read your article, make sure that it is interesting. Best is to write about something your target audience wants to know to guarantee article viewership. If there is a question that you are often asked or something that is often misunderstood in your field, then that makes a great topic. Solve a problem your target audience has through your article. 

3) Be specific and informative. Provide easy to follow pointers. Presentation styles to achieve this is with a “Top 7 or Top 10 tips” or a “How to” article with bulleted steps.

4) Make your article keyword rich. This does not mean you load it with keywords, but rather that you try to use keywords naturally throughout the article. Most search engines now avoid listing pages with unnatural keyword use, but they still reward good keyword usage. So it is important that you define some keywords and make sure they are used regularly throughout your article. Keywords are important as they will be exactly how your target audience is going to search and find your article. 

5) Don’t put readers off with bad English, grammer or spelling. This may sound basic, but there are many articles that do not even fulfill this requirement.
 
Once you have written your article, focus on the author’s resource box. This is the area at the bottom where you tell about you and you advertise your site. Use short sentences that grab attention. Do not sell here – your site will do the sales pitch. The author’s resource box is meant to entice your readers for the click through to your site. 

Lastly, you need to give your article high visibility by publishing your article on your site and also, submitting it to various article directory sites. For article marketing to produce good results, try to focus on newsletters or directory sites that will reach your target audience. Look into the content before submitting. As article submission to directories can be time consuming, it is best to either use a software to help automate or to use article submission services for this process. Compared to manual submissions, these will ensure that your articles get posted on hundreds to thousands of sites automatically, with the least amount of time wasted. 

In no time, after posting a highly targeted content article, you will find that there are many sites linking back to your site or article page. Through article marketing, you have not only generated traffic to your site via the resource box, but created links back to your site for higher ranking on the search engines.


