Title: 
How To Use Content To Drive 30,000 Eager Buyers To Your Site For Free

Word Count:
865

Summary:
Writing article is one of the proven ways to promote your business and expertise. Whether you’re just getting started or have long time experiences online it’s something you must use. 

Here’s why, the main reason people come to internet is looking for information, if that what they want then simply give it to them.

The Main Benefit of Writing and Publishing Your Own Article

The main benefit of writing and publishing your own article is you can lift up your status as ...


Keywords:
marketing, internet marketing, writing article, publishing article


Article Body:
Writing article is one of the proven ways to promote your business and expertise. Whether you’re just getting started or have long time experiences online it’s something you must use. 

Here’s why, the main reason people come to internet is looking for information, if that what they want then simply give it to them.

The Main Benefit of Writing and Publishing Your Own Article

The main benefit of writing and publishing your own article is you can lift up your status as an expert in relatively small amount of times. And it’s more likely for your prospect customers to buy your product since you’ve shown your expertise.

Not forget to mention of incoming links that will help boost your ranking up on search engine. If you do your job well, take confidence that there’ll be 4 to 7 PR sites that will put your article on their site and thus drive more traffic to your actual site which means more money for you.

7 PR is the term that derives from google to measure the importance of ones website, there‘s evidence that your site will be indexed around 72 hours when you get a link from relevant web site which have 6 to 7 PR. You can use google’s toolbar which can be downloaded freely from google‘s main site to check the PR of certain web site.

The thing to remember here is make sure you write something that valuable and not just put blatant advertisement.

Where To Find Your Article Ideas

If you don’t know what to write for, you can do some research through your favorite search engine just type in an appropriate terms.

Another way is you can do some research through many of “article directories” for your writing sources and write in your own words.

Or you can type in “ebook directories” and search for a topic that cater your industry. There’re a lot of good stuff there.

And in recent there’s a new trend called public domain name where you can use old material that has been ended the copyright. You can use it as a source for your article. Just type in “public domain” at your favorite search engine.

Paying for premium content or private label article can be the fastest solution to start your article marketing campaign. Private label article is a right to publish certain article with your name embedded as the author of the article. If you take this route just be sure to re-write the article in your own words. It’ll not make sense if 1000 people publish the exactly same article with you.

The Secret to Write Your Own Article

The secret to write your own article is write in the same manner as you would talk with your best friend. Just visualize that your best friend is in front of you and she’s asking you to explain some subject in your area of expertise.

What If I Don’t Like To Write

Perhaps some of you just not feel comfortable writing, for that reason you can go to a place like elance.com and hire a ghostwriter to write for you. 

Be careful when selected to whom you want to give this task. You don’t want to spend hundreds of dollars just for knowing that you don’t like the writer’s works. 

Ask them for their previous works and see whether you like their style or not. You can also ask for opinion of several people that have worked with them. 

How To Expose Your Article In Front Of Thousands of People Overnight

Later after you’ve finished write, you can submit your article to “article directories” and “article announcement lists”. This is 2 places where your article can get instant exposure to thousands of eager content searchers. Just do some research through search engine using 2 keywords above for some places you want to submit your article to.

Content searchers is the group of people that looking for useful content they can use at their website, ezine, or blog. Many of them do it in purpose of:

-getting income from google ad sense
-getting high rank in search engine
-for their newsletter’s content
-develop ongoing relationship through their blog
And more…

If you have some budget, to faster and exempt yourself from time-consuming tedious tasks you can use software or article submission service. Especially, because article submission service often have extended network of content publishers. Thus, assuming you use right service, you can expect to see some results in 1 week.

How To Tell People About Yourself and Your Business

Don’t forget to write your signature column describing about you and your business. Signature column is column in the end of the article that the author of the article can write freely.

However from my personal experience submit article to content syndication website (“article directories”, and “article announcement lists”) work only for certain topic that cater a lot of audiences, such as investment or fitness. 

For more specialized topic you can search related website and newsgroups and put the article directly to them, and use syndicated website as an extra traffic to your site.


