Title: 
I Hate Writing Articles - Isn't There An Easier Way?

Word Count:
1103

Summary:
Producing articles to promote your web site should be an everyday task for just about any web site owner. They are an amazing way to get your site noticed and generate huge amounts of back links.

But many web site owners either don't get the time to write their own articles, or get 'writers block' when they try. Here's a few ideas that could help you get going.


Keywords:



Article Body:
Let's face it, if you own, run or maintain an internet based business these days, your site needs articles. Plain and simple, everyone who has a web site knows this. Even those who don’t have sites but are frequent internet users know this as well. Why? Because the internet is all about information. It is the 'information superhighway'. And articles quench the thirst for information and knowledge that web browsers are searching for. 

It's a win-win situation. Your articles provide great content for your web site, and they can produce many other marketing benefits for your site too.

The marketing benefits that having articles relating to your web site can provide are huge, compared to the work involved. If your articles are picked up by the major article distribution networks, they can be shown all over the internet, each one with your resource box under it with a link to your site. This essentially does 3 things for you:

1. It provides you link popularity. These links are highly targeted because they follow your article. Your article is obviously relevant to your site, and so it stands to reason that anyone reading the article is interested in that topic. If they follow your link to your web site, that is targeted traffic at its best. With more links pointing to your web site, your ranking in the search engines will improve.

2. They present you as an expert. By writing knowledgably about your subject, readers can easily see that you know your stuff. When they follow your link to your site, they already have a level of trust and confidence in you, which will help you to convert more sales and produce more profit.

3. Gets you noticed. Many articles are also beneficial to both company and its traffic. When your readers like the articles, they are more likely to tell their friends, family and peers about you, and recommend your web site to them, providing for a larger volume of traffic. You get bigger sales if your traffic trusts and believes in you prior to the seeing your site. Your product or services would be much easier to sell when they know that you know what you are doing and talking about. 

So ok, we have established that articles are very important to your site and to your internet business. Articles are crucial and to keep ahead of the game, a site must have articles, it is imperative. There is one dilemma, though, not many people like writing articles. 

Many website owners would rather spend their time on something else, and unless you’re a big time company, you don’t have the necessary resources to use on a pool of article writers. Plagiarism or copying of other articles is frowned upon and could easily get you into trouble, worst case scenario; a hefty fine and jail time. 

So what are the other options? 

Well, for starters if you hate writing articles and you can’t afford to hire people to write for you, then don’t. Get free articles. The first place to look at for free articles is in the public domain.  Here you won’t have problems with copyright infringement and the potential penalties and fines if you get caught for plagiarism. 

Public domain articles are articles freely given to the public for public use. You can do whatever you want with them. You can place them on your site, name them as yours, put them in a newsletter; its your decision. Always remember, though, that you will have to choose articles that are very relevant to your site content.

The downside to public domain articles is that since they are free for everybody to use, many of your competitors may have access to them as well. Since every site needs to be original and unique, even though you have the same niche, this could be a predicament. You may also have to edit them a bit to place more keywords and keyword phrases to make them better.

To find public domain articles, do searches on Google for "public domain" + "your topic".

A recent trend has been to purchase 'private label' articles. Writers and authors create the articles and offer them to web site owners with the rights to edit and amend them. If you can obtain private label rights to articles surrounding your subject, you can present them as your own and sign yourself as the author. Because these writers are selling them to multiple site owners, you can usually get private label articles cheaper than hiring someone to write them specifically for you. Again, the problem arises that your competitors may also have access to the same articles, so a recommendation would be to edit them significantly enough to make them uniqe.

Do a search on Google for "private label" + "your topic".

Another way to get free articles is to allow other sites which have the same subject or topic as yours to submit articles to your site. This should be only to enhance your existing content or else all your articles would be leading to other sites, since these articles would have resource boxes with them that could link or direct the readers to the author's site. This method is ok to build up content for your site, but will not create the same viral effect that distributing your own uniqe articles can do. That’s why it is so important to have your own articles.

But, to truly feel the impact of what a good article to you, go for original ones. There are many article writers who do part time and freelance article writing jobs who charge only minimal fees. You can get good articles that have all the keywords and keyword phrases you need that people are browsing for.

The investment you made for these articles would be worthwhile because you could use them for all the benefits you could offer. You hold copyrights to them and you will be able to use them anyway you want. As your articles help you in building your business and your site, you will have more articles to write and maybe then you wont be having second thoughts about articles. 

A great source for finding ghost-writers (authors who write anonymously) is www.elance.com. Post your project on there, explaing how many articles you want an for which topic, and writers from all over the world will bid for it. Prices can be fairly low, and in comparison to the amount of marketing and traffic you can get from them, it is definitely worth the investment.


