Title: 
Is Article Marketing a Must?

Word Count:
327

Summary:
Article marketing is an effective way to promote your website and generate quality inbound links, which optimize your website. It takes some time to reach the goal but, it is one of the best ways to success online!


Keywords:
Article marketing, promote website, generate links, search engine


Article Body:
If you are seeking a way your website to get high ranked in major search engine, it is well known that you need as many back links as possible. Article marketing is one of the most effective forms of free advertising you can do online. Article marketing is not a new practice but, it is still a very popular means of generating website traffics, and also of improving the Page Rank of specific web pages. 

Article marketing is the act of writing short articles related to a respective industry or about a topic with the goal of getting the readers to come to your website. Because the technique behind article marketing is back linking, it became a common practice to submit articles to many different article directories to get many one way inbound links in order to optimize a website. Article marketing is also well known as a white hat technique and it is one of the best accepted ways to optimize a website for search engines.

Article marketing is all about good content. Writers or publishers need to put their names out there by sharing their knowledge and information. This means that your article has to be good enough to get published because none of the article directories guarantees to publish your article.

Downside of article marketing is that it takes so much time. Article marketing can be pretty easy if you already spend a lot of time writing for your blog. But, it will be a really time a consuming job to most of people. Some people feel that article marketing is a waste of time, but the bottom line is that if done correctly it can greatly increase traffics. 

Article marketing is the most effective way to promote your web business and to generate quality back links. The true key to good article marketing is to remain constant and consistent. It is a long-term strategy but, it is a powerful tool to success online.


