Title: 
Jack Up Your Site Popularity By Submitting Articles

Word Count:
747

Summary:
Article explains the reason why article publishing and marketing is so powerful that not only does it give you credibility as an expert, but it also helps your popularity with the search engines.  In the long run, doing so  brings in more real visitors to your site!.


Keywords:
Articles, article writing, article publishing, article submission, article marketing, writing articles, submitting articles, marketing articles


Article Body:
The popularity of a given site is a very important aspect in establishing which websites rank first and which sites rank last.  In the world of the internet,  popularity is gauged by how may sites are linked to yours.  Therefore, the more links your site has, the higher is your site’s ranking.  

But be aware though that simply establishing links is not all that matters.  What is just as important is that the sites linked to yours are very well related.  This factor weighs more heavily than the number of sites linked to yours but are not in any way related to the content of your site.

Believe it or not, there are a number of various ways and means which could increase your site’s popularity.  The focus of this article is on how the writing of articles for your site will help boost your site’s popularity by leaps and bounds.  

The following are very basic steps that you or anyone could take to make sure that your site increase or maintain its popularity.

The write way

One of the key main ingredients to improve the popularity of your site is through the writing of articles and letting these articles be published in other sites. 

Believe it or not, this method is a sure fire and tested way to make a particular site, especially yours, popular.  The process that others go through is this.  They write a particular article about a specific topic,  for example about caring for pets.  This article then gets published in the newsletter they may be making.  Later on, this same article will be published in their web site.  Plus, this will also be sent on various sites that accepts submitted articles.  

Be published and re-published and re-published

These sites are regularly frequented by a lot of webmasters as well as publishers of ezine articles because they are the ones who are constantly on the search for various articles.  When articles are published on such sites who do accept submissions, directories such as these provide the opportunity for these articles to be re-published. 

Link it and link it good

It is best that after each article that are re-published in other sites for free,  make sure that these re-published articles mention the source of where that article was originally located.  A box after the end of each article that has been re-published or a link to the original site of the article is the best way to establish your site and make it – if not keep it – popular.

The benefit of this method is that whoever or whatever site re-publishes your article,  this site is linked to your site.  

There are also publishers of ezine sites that archive every ezines that they put out.  So any articles re-published in such an ezine will most probably receive a link again if that particular archived ezine is accessed.  This automatically results in the generation of that vital traffic in your website.

The possibilities are limitless

Article writing is a great tool to use for the purposes of marketing.  Once webmasters and publishers of ezine re-publish your articles in their own sites,  other publishers of ezine and webmasters will also get to read your article.  Thus chances of them further re-publishing your articles is high, and when they do,  other publishers of ezine as well as other webmasters will get to read your article, and so on and so forth.  

All these processes, believe it or not,  again could very well result in tremendous traffic generated for your website.  

Credibility begets popularity  

The idea that websites linked to yours and vice versa are all related to each other in content, is a better situation and could generate more traffic than links that are not in any way related.

The connection of these written articles are in their content and the quality of the content.  Well written articles instantly create that valuable impression that you are a very good expert in that field you have chosen for yourself.  An image that is completely and credibly valid speaks for itself.  It automatically attracts people, making it easier for them to come to you than you trying hard to call or attract them in.  Basically, your work speaks for itself, and that says a lot.  

In summary,  article writing is easy and has benefits.  But good article writing requires relatively a lot more effort but the benefits are a lot better and the opportunities are limitless.


