Title: 
Let's Talk About Why You Need Article Marketing In Your SEO Strategy

Word Count:
442

Summary:
Article writing has become a very important missing piece to the overall aspect of your SEO and Internet Marketing strategy


Keywords:
Article marketing, Internet marketing, search engine marketing, Internet seo services, website marketing, Internet seo marketing, website traffic, online marketing


Article Body:
Extra extra read all about it!

Article writing has become a very important piece to the overall aspect of SEO and Internet Marketing. Providing solid information and how to advice for readers can convert traffic to your website while creating an expert status about you and your business.

Keep in mind that Article Marketing is not an ad, so you can not just start writing about how great your product or service is but rather supply helpful informative content for readers.

Here is were the true importance of Article Marketing comes in to play, IT IS VIRAL! Supplying this content for other webmasters to use on their websites and visitors can create a viral marketing affect.

Here is how:

Because search engines like Google love new content and seems to award websites that constantly update their website with new fresh content. Webmasters have taken notice of this fact not only for search engines but for their visitors, giving them fresh information will give them more reason to come back to there website. This makes your articles valuable to them and other website owners are on the hunt for your articles.

How do articles placed on other websites generate traffic to me?

Traffic is generated to your website from your signature box. At the button portion of your article is an area, which you dedicate for a signature line. This is were you can place a small but powerful message about your self and your business, almost like a text ad. Your signature line will contain atleast one active text link to your website which convert traffic to your website.

How do webmasters find my articles?

Article Marketing can be done through article distribution websites. These are websites that not only list your article themselves but also are places that provide your articles to other website owners for free as long as they include your signature. There are hundreds of these article distribution sites so one article if written with powerful headline and riveting copy could truly generate high amounts of traffic for a extended amount of time.

Note: Article Marketing is a great way to build your link popularity fast as other websites list your information, your signature line contains that ever important link.

Example: If your write three articles and distribute it to 120 distribution websites and it is picked up by 4 webmasters from each distribution site and even if each website only supplies 6 hits to your site per month your article marketing could convert over 8,400 hits per month. This is very realistic. Now imagine putting out dozens of articles on a regular basis, your traffic and link popularity could be amazing


