Title: 
Make Money on Internet: Promote the product not the program

Word Count:
327

Summary:
Allan Gardyne a well-known affiliate marketers on the Web, gives various pieces of advice in order to earn money online. Promote the product and not the program is one of these ones. However, some people seem to have not listened to this uttermost advice of one of the successful men on the net.


Keywords:
make money,internet money


Article Body:
Allan Gardyne a well-known affiliate marketers on the Web, gives various pieces of advice in order to earn money online. Promote the product and not the program is one of these ones. However, some people seem to have not listened to this uttermost advice of one of the successful men on the net.

For Gardyne there are thousands of ways to promote affiliate products, but the worst way of doing it is promoting the programs, since the important thing to do is to assess your own skills and interests, using your strengths.

He explains that he wrote and launched a newsletter. He also contributed to online forums and spent a lot of time answering emails at the beginning. Things that work for him but that have not to work for others.

For example, to earn money online he recommends to create ezine ads if you are good on that and then link them to a free report, that you divide into a series of articles in order to promote and place them on an auto responder.

But there exist other key points you have to look for before choosing an affiliate program to promote and make money online such as: a site that has a high conversion rate or looks as though it has, an excellent product that will appeal to your niche market, a high commission (40%-50%), programs that pay residual incomes or lifetime commissions.

Gardyne suggests also earn money online to try the product before promote it. He likes to study and use the products he is promoting, because if you like the product you will talk about it with more enthusiasm and your writing will show that, increasing your sales.

Despite other experts consider that is better to offer your own products by the Web to make money online, you don’t need to do that to succeed online, according to Gardyne though it’s an excellent idea, if you want to get ahead fast.


