Title: 
5 Powerful Tips for Getting the Help You Need Online

Word Count:
808

Summary:
If you spend any amount of time on the Internet, you'll occasionally need someone's help. The manner in which you ask for that help will determine the quality and the quantity of the help you receive now and in the future. In this article, I'll share with you five powerful tips that'll help you get the help you need, when you need it, and get it in a way that'll leave the door wide open for future help.


Keywords:
help, online help, help internet, get help, asking for help, ask for help, help tip


Article Body:
Copyright 2006 Tony Mase

In his book "How to Get What You Want", Wallace D. Wattles, best known for his classic masterpiece "The Science of Getting Rich", talks about the importance of "making constructive use of the people and things in your environment" in getting what you want.

One way you make constructive use of the people and things in your environment is to get the help you need, when you need it.

If you spend any amount of time on the Internet, you'll occasionally need someone's help...

It might be help with an online purchase, technical support for a product, or some other kind of help.

Regardless of the kind of help you need...

The manner in which you ask for that help will determine the quality and the quantity of the help you receive now and in the future.

You see...

There are two ways you can ask for help online...

One is "constructive"...

The other is "destructive".

When you ask for help in a constructive manner, you'll get the help you need, when you need it, and you'll "build" a relationship that'll keep the door open for future help.

On the other hand...

When you ask for help in a destructive manner, although you might get the help you need this time, you'll "destroy" any chance of a relationship and close the door to future help.

Based on the thousands of questions and support requests I've received and answered online, here are five powerful tips that'll help you get the help you need, when you need it, and get it in a way that'll leave the door wide open for future help:

Tip #1 - Don't lead with your chin.

Leading with your chin is a great way to get knocked on your...

Well...

You fill in the blank. :-)

The single most important thing you need to remember when you're asking for help online, whether you're asking by email or by filling out an online form, regardless of how angry or frustrated you might be, is that there's a real "live" person on the other end...

A person who has "feelings" just like you do!

Including phrases in your first request for help like...

"Are you going to help me right now, right this minute, or are you going to give me my money back?"...

Or...

"I'm starting to think this is a scam!"...

Or...

"If I don't hear back from you in one hour, I'm going to call my lawyer!"...

Might make you feel good, but they'll virtually guarantee whatever help you do get right now will be minimal, at best, and your chances of getting anything other than minimal help from that person again in the future will be somewhere between slim and none.

Tip #2 - Be polite.

For some strange reason, one I've yet to figure out, many people seem to think the rules of simple, common courtesy don't apply online...

Don't you be one of them!

A request for help written in a polite tone, using "please" and "thank you", will, more often than not, get you a prompt and courteous reply.

Tip #3 - DON'T SHOUT!!!

Whether you know it or not, typing your request for help in all capital letters is the online equivalent of shouting in the face of the person who receives it...

And...

The liberal use of multiple exclamation marks makes your shouting even louder and more emphatic!

Question for you...

Do you like it when someone shouts in your face?

Guess what?

Neither does anyone else! :-)

Tip #4 - Keep your request short and to the point.

Most people doing business online don't have the time to read long, drawn out messages trying to figure out what you need, nor do they have the time to keep writing you back over and over again trying to clarify what you need.

When you ask for help online, *always* include your name, contact information, order information, specific dates, specific details, and a clear, concise description of the help or information you need.

Avoid including any information that doesn't directly contribute to helping the person you're asking for help to give you the exact help you need.

Tip #5 - Say thank you.

After you've received the help you've asked for, a simple "thank you!" or "thanks, I appreciate your help!" will go a long way towards insuring the door will be wide open the next time you need that person's help again.

Once again...

The single most important thing you need to remember when you're asking for help online is that there's a real "live" person on the other end.

Treat that person as you'd like to be treated and you'll find as I have that, more often than not, you'll get all the help you need, when you need it, and that person's door will always be open to you should you need their help again.


