Title: 
5 Tips for Buying a Laptop

Word Count:
536

Summary:
5 Tips for Buying a Laptop – Considering how much the laptop has improved over the past couple years, it's no wonder that so many people are considering buying a laptop, or have already done so.  There are several things to consider when buying a laptop as there is more variety available when it comes to laptops than there is with desktop computers.  This article provides 5 simple tips you should ask yourself before making your laptop investment.


Keywords:
laptop, notebook, mouse, wireless


Article Body:
<b>5 Tips for Buying a Laptop</b>

Buying a laptop is a major investment decision.  As such it is not one that you should make lightly.  Below are 5 tips that will help prepare you for making the best and most well informed decision when buying a laptop.

<b>Tip #1 Size Matters</b>

Buying a laptop is a matter that requires some thought.  Consider the size and weight of the laptop.  How often will you be carrying your laptop?  Your answer will help determine which size and weight will best suit your needs.  If you will be carrying your laptop frequently, a lighter model will be preferable.  

The keyboard is another area to consider when buying a laptop.  Why is the size of the keyboard important?  A larger laptop will have a slightly larger keyboard area.  But keep in mind that if you worry about your fingers or wrists taking on too much stress from typing on a keyboard that is too small, you may want this to be a main factor in your purchasing decision,

<b>Tip #2 Choose Your Mouse</b>

A laptop it will come with a built in touch pad, an alternative to the mouse, whereby the pad is controlled by the user’s finger movement.  For some people, this type of pad is uncomfortable and not easy to work with.  Before purchasing a laptop, determine what mouse options are available.  Test each one and determine which one best meets your needs.

<b>Tip #3 Wireless Options</b>

Today, when many people think laptop, they think “wireless”.  No doubt people want to make sure that their laptop computer will be able to access the Internet with a wireless connection.  Many try to account for this by ensuring that their laptop has potential upgrade options, such as room for an expandable PC card or a USB port.  However, since so many laptop users are looking for wireless connections, many of today’s laptops come pre-wired for wireless Internet.  All you need to do is activate your wireless Internet service, and your laptop will take it from there. So depending on your needs, choose your laptop whether it is capable of expanding or if it is already configured for wireless Internet. 

<b>Tip #4 Check for Ports</b>

Peripheral equipment will be connected to your laptop through USB ports.  You will make your life much less complicated by ensuring that your laptop has adequate ports.  Connecting equipment such as printers, scanners, and digital cameras will be much simpler if you have the ports readily available.  If you are not sure, thoroughly read the specs for any laptop that you are considering purchasing.  

<b>Tip #5 Check Your Budget First</b>

Finally, when buying a laptop, beware that you do not overspend.  First create your budget and stick to it.  When you think that you have found the laptop that you want, do not rush into it.  Wait a day and check over your budget, requirements, and see if you are still as excited about the laptop in the morning, as you were when the sales clerk was showing off its specs.  If you still feel that it is the laptop that you want to purchase, then go for it.


