Title: 
A Discount Toner Cartridge is Better Than Ever and...You Will Save 50% or More

Word Count:
554

Summary:
Today, you can save 50% or more on toner cartridges without sacrificing quality or quantity of print.


Keywords:
discount toner cartridge


Article Body:
Having used discount toner cartridges for twenty years, there have been a lot of changes in the toner cartridge market. The market today is approximately a twenty billion dollar business. The savings today are significant. The quality of the discount cartridges is unsurpassed. To insure your complete satisfaction in purchasing discount toner, take a minute to make an informed choice.

Discount toner cartridges were originally sold as recycled toner cartridges. The basic recycling method consisted of drilling a hole in the cartridge and refilling it with toner. Once the cartridge was filled, the hole was plugged. This toner cartridge was then sold to the consumer as a great deal or a "discount toner cartridge".

The problem was that the drill and fill cartridges produced poor quality and printed fewer pages. They were very inconsistent from cartridge to cartridge. In short, there was no quality control. One discount toner cartridge might perform great and the next may not.

However, things have changed significantly. Today, discount toner cartridges are brand new cartridges made from brand new parts... the same parts specified in your OEM printer manual. The technology is the same as that used by major printer manufacturers. Today, a reputable discount toner company uses the same components as major printer companies. Their toner, drums and rollers are the same quality and specification.

Know What Type of Toner Cartridge You Are Purchasing

Discount toner cartridges sometimes has a dual meaning. When some companies use the term discount toner cartridge, they really mean “remanufactured” toner cartridges. When other companies use the term discount toner cartridge, they mean a “new” toner cartridge manufactured by a third party merchant.  Both types of cartridges could be a good buy.

Learn About the Toner Company

Be sure you learn about the company you buy toner from. All companies are not the same. Remember, a remanufactured toner cartridge can be as good of quality as a new discount toner cartridge. Both types of toner cartridges will save you a significant amount of money.

The best suppliers of discount toner cartridges have a quality control process in place. They insure that their toner cartridges are checked and double-checked so that you get high quality printing and the same number of pages or more. If a cartridge is remanufactured, any parts that do not meet their standards are replaced. You should be satisfied with the first and last page of printing.

You may not know everything about a printer company before you purchase, but you can find out exactly what type of discount toner cartridge you are buying. Look at our section on purchasing discount toner cartridges online. This will give you some basic information on what to look for in a toner cartridge merchant. 

Good companies offer good warranties. You should always get a strong money back guarantee. If a company does not warranty their toner cartridges for one year, you haven't found the right company.

Do your homework. Visit the websites of several reputable toner companies. Find your exact toner cartridge. Compare prices, warranties, shipping, service, etc. If you can talk with someone that has purchased from the company, do it. Once you've done your part, purchase a discount toner cartridge and test it out. Discount toner cartridges are better than ever and will reduce your printing cost by half or more.


