Title: 
Accounting Software – Which One Should You Choose

Word Count:
522

Summary:
Who hasn’t heard of accounting? I guess, nobody. This is the part any normal, functioning business should have to deal with the company’s money and investments. Its history goes back to ancient Greece, where a primitive type of accountants existed. Accounting’s modern history dates back to the beginning of the 19th century, when the big companies emerged. Initially, and by initially I mean up to twenty years ago, the entire process was done by hand and pencil. This changed wi...


Keywords:
accounts, accounting, software, program


Article Body:
Who hasn’t heard of accounting? I guess, nobody. This is the part any normal, functioning business should have to deal with the company’s money and investments. Its history goes back to ancient Greece, where a primitive type of accountants existed. Accounting’s modern history dates back to the beginning of the 19th century, when the big companies emerged. Initially, and by initially I mean up to twenty years ago, the entire process was done by hand and pencil. This changed with the emerging of personal computers. They changed the way people looked at accounting and accounts. But as the PCs evolved so did the accounting software. I will try to help you in your search for the best accounting software, by noting a few sites and a small review of their software.

www.accsoft-ch.com/ Account Pro

This is complex, yet easy-to-use accounts software. It comes in two versions: Account Pro (has every feature enabled) and Account Pro Lite (a simpler version). It is multilingual, multicurrency and can be linked on up to three computers. It can work with projects and cost centers and the discount and tax transactions can be done automatically. Another plus is that it can work with both the British and American type of accounting.

www.clarisys.ca/ Executive

Business requiring sophisticated accounting will benefit the most from Executive. Three types of invoices, multiple bank account capabilities and multicurrency system are just a few of the features the programmers developed for Executive. Eve though initial Executive can be used on one computer only, it can be upgrade to an unlimited number of users. Other features include: up to 5 currencies simultaneously and unlimited number of budgets. Any report can be printed in any currency and separate transactions journals are held for the different currencies as well.

www.simplyaccounting.com/ Simply Accounting 2005

This software has all the requirements of an multi-user, large business accounting software should have. It has specialized options for manufacturing, inventory and service. It is notable that the number of possible currencies can be virtually unlimited. Data can be analyzed and accessed simultaneously by multiple users. It has a powerful search engine to help you find just the record you are looking for. Reports can be created trough Microsoft® Word and Excel.

www.microsoft.com/office/ Microsoft Office Small Business
Accounting 2006

The latest accounting software from the giant Microsoft has quite a few pluses, such as a competitive price, it is easy to use and learn, well built accounting tools for small business and goes perfectly with the Microsoft® Office suite. Unfortunately it depends a little too much on the Office suite, making it inaccessible to people who use other productivity suites.

www.peachtree.com.Peachtree by Sage Complete
Accounting 2006

Peachtree Complete Accounting is multi-user, robust accounting software. It provides the user with valuable information on accounts and staff. It has advanced features like Bill Pay and Online Bank Reconciliation. Time and billing, fixed assets and job costing, are just a few of the basic features it includes.

The end
Whatever software you might choose just remember this: Accounting is the backbone of every business.


