Title: 
ACT! Software Takes Customer and Contact Management to the Next Level

Word Count:
487

Summary:
When it comes to software solutions that improve your productivity by enabling you to manage your contacts and customers, ACT! has proven that is unparalleled.


Keywords:
act consultants, act certified consultants, act 2008, act 2008 software, act help


Article Body:
When it comes to software solutions that improve your productivity by enabling you to manage your contacts and customers, over the past 20 years ACT! has proven that is unparalleled. According to ACT consultants, the software allows users to track sales opportunities, manage everyday responsibilities, increase effective communication, and organize contacts. 

The newest version of the software, ACT 2008, features an interactive dashboard that gives you a 360-degree view of your work. You can see the big picture, and then drill down for details, while also being able to write emails, view opportunities, and schedule meetings. The dashboard is available for all versions of the ACT 2008 software (ACT, ACT Premium, and ACT Premium for Web). 

For those needing a vertical software solution, ACT has a product for real estate professionals. ACT certified consultants note that the version for real estate professionals creates integrated information about buyers, sellers, and properties that is easy to reference. It also allows Realtors to take a property listing from the inquiry stage all the way through the closing stage with exquisite detail. Most importantly, it enables real estate professionals to access critical calendar information, as well as buyer, seller, and property information through mobile computing devices. Having relevant information at your fingertips - regardless of where you are - is a critical factor to your success. 

ACT's vertical solution for financial professionals is similar to ACT for Real Estate Professionals in that it provides mobile portability, but it also assists financial service professionals in collecting important, finance-specific information on clients. In addition, it helps those in the financial field comply with company-wide and industry standards. 

ACT also has a number of partners who provide add-on solutions to the already robust ACT 2008 software. These include data and document management, addressing and shipping solutions, email and direct mail marketing add-ons, faxing capabilities, project management and sales management, import and export solutions, and graphics and mapping add-ons.

When it comes to implementing ACT software, your best bet is to engage the services of ACT consultants. Getting ACT help can take many forms. For example, because ACT certified consultants are fully trained in ACT 2008, they can review your current business practices and suggest ways to customize the software to maximize your company's productivity. They can also utilize their extensive experience to train your staff or your systems administrator, who can in turn train new employees to use the system. In addition, ACT consultants can assist you in integrating everything from handheld computers to servers. Some are even remote sales force automation experts, and can expedite the process of gaining remote access to your databases. And, should the unthinkable happen, the best ACT consultants are also specialists in database recovery.

There's no question that ACT is the premiere customer and contact management solution being used today. Licensing the software and engaging the services of ACT consultants can transform the way companies work and can improve productivity and performance across the board.


