Title: 
Answers to 6 Common Questions About Ink Cartridges

Word Count:
429

Summary:
Here are answers to six common questions about printer cartridges and toner cartridges.


Keywords:
inkjet cartridges, printer cartridges, print cartridges, toner cartridges


Article Body:
Inkjet printers produce great quality prints, but buying inkjet cartridges can take a big bite out of your budget. The good news is that there are inexpensive ways to maintain the life and quality of your printer. Here are answers to six common questions about printer cartridges and toner cartridges.

1. Do I Have to Buy Brand Name Ink Cartridges?

Printer manufacturers have a vested interest in convincing you that buying brand name inkjet cartridges is the only option. The truth, though, is that compatible inkjet cartridges are a cheaper alternative to branded printer cartridges.

2. What are Compatible Print Cartridges?

Compatible print cartridges are generic ink cartridges that are made with entirely new components. They are manufactured to meet or exceed the standards of brand name cartridges, thereby retaining the quality and reliability of OEM (original equipment manufacturer) inkjet cartridges - at a fraction of the cost. 

3. What are Remanufactured Cartridges? 

Remanufactured printer cartridges are essentially recycled inkjet cartridges. They have been inspected, cleaned, and refilled with ink. They are typically print tested before they are sold to ensure that they are in excellent working condition. Remanufactured cartridges are usually less expensive than compatible print cartridges, which in turn are less expensive than OEM brand name ink cartridges. 

4. Are Compatible and Remanufactured Cartridges Made for All Printers?

The availability of compatible and remanufactured toner cartridges and inkjet cartridges varies, depending upon the brand and model of your printer. Cartridges are made for most models of Epson, Canon, HP, Lexmark, Samsung, Kodak, Brother, Compaq, and Dell printers. 

5. Won't Compatible Cartridges Hurt My Printer?

If you select the right supplier of ink cartridges, you can rest assured that the ink cartridges will be rigorously tested and that the ink used is of the highest quality. Compatible cartridges won't harm your printer, and the print life usually meets or exceeds that of OEM cartridges. 

6. How Do I Find a Good Source of Ink Cartridges?

If you want to save money by buying compatible or remanufactured cartridges, the best place to look is online. Not all online ink cartridge suppliers provide equal quality, though. Look for a supplier with a track record; one that has been online for at least seven years and that has supplied cartridges to schools and government bodies is a good choice. In addition, make sure that the supplier you choose will guarantee the quality of its products. Further, to save more money, select a supplier that offers free UK delivery and VAT inclusive prices. Finally, look for service that includes same day dispatch, no minimum order, and secure online ordering.


