Title: 
Becoming A DVD Repair Expert Online

Word Count:
414

Summary:
Many conventional colleges and universities are now offering online DVD repair courses, which are the exact same as those taught on a traditional college campus, to distance learners. Online education is generally taught through the use of several different methods, including online satellite feeds, correspondence or online lessons. This technique permits the student to obtain a DVD repair degree without ever having to step inside of a classroom. An online education, providin...


Keywords:
dvd repair


Article Body:
Many conventional colleges and universities are now offering online DVD repair courses, which are the exact same as those taught on a traditional college campus, to distance learners. Online education is generally taught through the use of several different methods, including online satellite feeds, correspondence or online lessons. This technique permits the student to obtain a DVD repair degree without ever having to step inside of a classroom. An online education, providing that it is granted by a regionally accredited college or university, is broadly accepted as worthy training for any job in the direct field of study.

Online education is approachable in many ways, but students often neglect the fact that it is much more economical than a traditional campus degree. Why? When factoring in the costs associated with student housing & meals, which often begins at a total of $6,000 or more every year, the savings are evident. With an online DVD repair education, students pay only for the courses that they are taking and they often choose to do so on a per credit hour basis rather than paying the full tuition each year.

The type of distance education degree that everyone should abstain from is what is known as a ‘diploma mill.’ In exchange for a specified sum of money, which is often $1,000.00 or more, they will issue a life experience degree with little or no investigation into the applicant’s background. These businesses often feature a very professionally designed website and appear to be very much legitimate. In fact, they even guarantee potential students that they are issuing legal degrees. Upon further examination of these so-called colleges, students will learn that they can even purchase a transcript with any letter grade that they choose. But, what is the basis for the grade? No classes were ever required, no tests taken and no valid grades were issued. Individuals who are interested in earning a legitimate degree should be very wary of any college or institution that offers to provide a life experience degree based only on the word of applicant and does little, or no, investigation into the student’s background.

The truth is that the only actual way to receive life experience credit is to take the CLEP test, which is given periodically at local colleges and universities. In addition, a number of universities are willing to accept portfolio assessments in exchange for possible life experience credit. These are legitimate ways to earn life experience, or knowledge-based, DVD repair college credit.


