Title: 
Buying a New Computer?  Read This First

Word Count:
493

Summary:
Brief guide of what to do when deciding to buy a computer system.


Keywords:
computer bargain, cheap computer, computer guide, discont pc, laptop computer, discount laptop


Article Body:
Ever had one of those days when you thought that you would spend a lot of time searching around for really good computer bargains?

I have had that experience many times and have found that I used to waste time doing endless and meaningless searches trying to find what I need.  But then, I found a solution!

Figuring out what to search for is half the battle won, but how to figure out whether the prices being displayed were bargain prices was another issue.  So how did I solve that problem?

Try and identify first what computer system you need to buy.  This really can be a struggle if you are not familiar with computers.  You can visit the nearest library to you and speak to a librarian to see whether they have issues of the Computer Shopper magazine.  Not only Computer Shopper, but PC Novice and PC Magazine as well.  I have found these to be quite useful and effective in helping me decide on the type of system I need.  

PC Novice is especially useful because it explains in layman's language what I need to know and gives recommendations on the alternatives to look for.  Terms such as motherboard and peripherals are usually explained in detail.  You should not worry however if you are not familiar with these terms.  Just understand that when you go to purchase your computer, you may find an enthusiastic sales rep asking you – “so how much ram do you need in this computer”; “you think you may need an Intel or AMD processor?”; or, “how many gigabytes do you need for your hard drive? --- Huh???

The magazines I have listed above will help you a great deal but don't get lost with all the geek talk.  You will be able to find complete systems available that will be sold with software.  Some systems will be sold with the box – the CPU portion, and the monitor.  Depending on where you are buying your computer from, the monitor may be at an extra cost.  Some systems will be sold with a printer and they will try and sell you a host of other things which are not really necessary.  

My advice therefore is to first figure out what you want to do with the computer and do some research!

Shopping around is the next best thing you can do to find the best prices.  I usually look at three to four different quotations to see which one matches my budget.  Most computers today will do what you want to do.  You do not need to get the most expensive system especially if you will only be surfing the Internet and checking email occasionally, so don't go overboard thinking that because you saw you neighbor with this expensive system you need to have one too.

Good luck and happy shopping!!


This article brought to you by
Eric Murray
<a href=http://www.computerbargainstoday.com>http://www.computerbargainstoday.com </a>


