Title: 
Common Printer Ink Questions Answered

Word Count:
322

Summary:
What are the options available for refilling my printer?
There are mainly two ways you can refill your printer – with printer cartridges or with ink refill kits. There are OEM cartridges, remanufactured or recycled cartridges and compatible cartridges. The cheapest option is, however, buying a printer ink refill kit and refill the empty cartridge.

Do remanufactured cartridges harm the machine?
Remanufactured cartridges do no harm to the printer. Remanufactured cartridges...


Keywords:
printer cartridges, ink refill, printer ink, printer inks


Article Body:
What are the options available for refilling my printer?
There are mainly two ways you can refill your printer – with printer cartridges or with ink refill kits. There are OEM cartridges, remanufactured or recycled cartridges and compatible cartridges. The cheapest option is, however, buying a printer ink refill kit and refill the empty cartridge.

Do remanufactured cartridges harm the machine?
Remanufactured cartridges do no harm to the printer. Remanufactured cartridges are nothing but recycled OEM cartridges. You only have to buy a remanufactured cartridge that is meant for your specific printer.

How many times I can refill a cartridge?
Many suggest refilling should not be done for more than 4-5 times. Printer cartridges come with printer heads and once these heads wear out, the cartridge needs to be changed. As long as you are satisfied with the print quality, you can go on refilling.

How to save printer ink?
Printer inks are very expensive and the best way to save money on printer ink is to use it economically. Plan and print. Often people take printouts simply to realize later that it is not required. Take printouts of only those documents, which are necessary.

Where to buy printer ink?
Printer inks can be brought from retail stores or from online stores. Buying from online stores will save you a lot of money – both on the product and on shipping and traveling expenses as well.

Does my printer warranty remain valid even if I use compatible or remanufactured cartridges?
Printer manufacturers like Hewlett Packard, Canon, Epson, Lexmark etc suggest that you use only OEM cartridges. Generally your printer warranty will be void if you use compatible or remanufactured cartridges. If you have ever used remanufactured or compatible cartridges, the printer manufacturer will not take responsibility for any damage done to the computer.

Summing up, I hope you found the printer ink info useful. I wish you a good luck buying a new printer ink.


