Title: 
Computer Hardware: Desktops and Notebooks and Handhelds - Oh My!

Word Count:
572

Summary:
Even though computer hardware is central to almost everything we do, it's easy to lag behind in the advances made in both hardware and software.


Keywords:
Logic Direct, Hardware, Software, Computer Add-Ons, Desktops, Handhelds, PDAs, Notebooks, Servers


Article Body:
Computers have become ubiquitous in almost every facet of our lives. At work, desk jockeys spend hours in front of their desktops, while delivery people scan bar codes with handhelds and workers in the field stay in touch with the central office via their notebooks. At home, we rely on our desktops and notebooks to do our shopping, to entertain us, and to keep us abreast of world events. We may not see our email servers, but we count on them to deliver our email whenever and wherever we want it. Our PDAs keep track of our hectic schedules, our to-do lists, our contact lists, and even entertain us with games while we're waiting for an appointment or to board a plane. Computer hardware weaves itself through the fabric of our lives.

Even though computer hardware is central to almost everything we do, it's easy to lag behind in the advances made in both hardware and software. Desktops that are four or five years old, for example, become obsolete. You may be able to upgrade operating systems or buy computer add-ons to extend the life of your desktop, but at some point the software, applets, and plug-ins you need to get the most out of your computer simply won't support your old machine. 

If it's time to get new computer hardware - whether desktops, notebooks, or PDAs - you'll be amazed at the computing power and the crisp displays that are available, as well as the incredible low prices. Take some time to shop around, and you'll soon discover that online computer hardware sources will save you money over traditional retail stores. When you think about it, it makes sense. According to logic, direct sales cut out the middleman and can pass along the savings to the consumer.

If you're in the market for new desktops, notebooks, or PDAs, there are a myriad of choices. Here's a rundown of some of the best systems available:

Desktops: First, you need to decide - as the advertising campaign so cleverly drives home - if you're a Mac or if you're a PC. If you're a Mac, the iMac Desktop with a 20-inch display can be found for just under $1,500. That includes a 2.16 GHz Intel Core 2 Duo, 1 GB RAM, a 250 GB hard drive, and a SuperDrive. 

If you're a PC, the Hewlett-Packard Pavilion S7700N Slimline Desktop PC includes an AMD Athlon Processor 3800 Plus, 1 GB RAM, 250 GB hard drive, SuperMulti DVD Drive, and Vista Premium - the new Microsoft operating system. Price? You can find it for a little over $600. 

Notebooks: If you love Macs, you'll adore Apple's PowerBook at just under $2,500. With a 15.2-inch screen at 1280 x 854 resolution and TFT widescreen display, the PowerBook gives you a lot of bang for your buck. It runs on a 1.67 GHz PowerPC G4 and 512 MB RAM, and has an 80 GB hard drive and a SuperDrive. 

In the PC universe, the Toshiba Satellite A135-S4427 is a perfect example of the computing power you can get at a very low price. The 15.4-inch widescreen notebook has an Intel Core Duo Processor T2250, 1 GB RAM, a 120 GB hard drive, a SuperMulti DVD drive, and Vista Premium - all for around $900. 

When it comes to computer hardware, it pays to shop online. Desktops, handhelds, PDAs, notebooks, servers, and even software can be found at incredibly low prices - so low that you'll want to upgrade all of your computer hardware to the fastest, clearest, best systems available.


