Title: 
Computer Consulting: Do Your Homework

Word Count:
341

Summary:
Computer consulting requires you to research your clients to give you a competitive edge. In this article, you'll learn why it's important and how to research clients to gain sales in computer consulting.


Keywords:
Computer Consulting, IT consulting, small business computer consulting


Article Body:
Beware of vendors who ask you to explain what you do in your business. Instead, give a basic explaination of what your computer consulting business is all about so a client can determine if he has any product or service that’s in your picture. Rather than be reactive, go to the interview being proactive! Know what they are doing before you go in and be prepared to help them with their needs.

Computer Consulting: Research to Prepare for Your Meeting

Even though it might take you 30 to 45 minutes to do some homework ahead of time, you need to do your research to increase your chances at closing the sale, either on the spot or within a week or two afterwards. For them to agree to your computer consulting services, you will have to build credibility and mind share with that prospect. It shows that you care about their business.  

There's really no excuse for not doing your homework anymore. Today, you can easily go to the Google search engine and type in the person's name or phone number or address and find out everything under the sun that you can about them.

Computer Consulting: What You Need to Know about Your Clients

You should really have a complete profile of:

-What their business is all about
-What industry they’re in
-What types of services they provide
-How many locations they have
-How long they’ve been in business 

Find Out Recent News about Your Client

You’re probably going to be able to find articles that have been in the local newspaper about them that might either show up in Google or you can find by going to the newspaper doing a search function there.  You want to look for anything you can that’s going to give you extra background and an extra edge so when you go in there, you already know what they’re doing.  

Copyright MMI-MMVI, Computer Consultants Secrets. All Worldwide Rights Reserved. {Attention Publishers: Live hyperlink in author resource box required for copyright compliance}


