Title: 
CyberScrub Privacy Suite Review

Word Count:
525

Summary:
Did you realize every picture, video clip, chat room conversation and website address you visited is written to your hard drive. Simply opening an email can put you in a compromising situation. Your deleted files are easily recovered using simple software tools.


Keywords:
CyberScrub Privacy Suite review, computer security


Article Body:
Did you realize every picture, video clip, chat room conversation and website address you visited is written to your hard drive. Simply opening an email can put you in a compromising situation. Your deleted files are easily recovered using simple software tools. Sensitive data, such as passwords, financials or health records are at risk. Don't allow discovery by a snoop, computer technician or unauthorized persons.


CyberScrub Privacy Suite removes all evidence of your online activity. It erases data beyond recovery, secures your files with strong encryption and enhances overall system performance. This award-winning program includes over 50 new features and enhancements. 

Privacy Suite eliminates all web tracks including pictures, video, history, websites visited, cache and temporary files, Internet Messenger (IM), chat, email, and others. It automatically removes newsgroup pictures and binaries, eliminates traces from popular Peer2Peer applications. It even removes Real and Windows Media Player, Photoshop and other media. You can even create your own customized areas to clean. Remember, just deleting is not enough. - "Delete" does not mean, "Erase". 

You probably already know deleted files can be retrieved using simple recovery tools. CyberScrub Privacy Suite employs erasure methods that exceed standards set by the U.S. Department of Defense. Federal agencies, the US Army and Navy, and the United Nations use privacy Suite. Privacy Suite also allows you to secure your files with powerful encryption to prevent discovery by unauthorized persons. A powerful new Scheduler runs functions at predetermined times or system events, (such as shutdown, start-up or even "when idle"). 

If you are a business user, you will appreciate the Permissions module that limits features to Users or Groups. Other new features allow the automatic removal of Thumbs.db and alternative data streams, as well as the ability to retain Restore Points when wiping free space. CyberScrub Privacy Suite also supports Internet Explorer, Netscape, Firefox, and Opera. This Suite includes excellent documentation and support.
 

CyberScrub Privacy Suite's New Features are many. Here are some of the notable enhancements:  Over 50 new features and enhancements; Full scheduler, which allows for the flexible management of tasks; Run any feature at system (shutdown, start up, browser closing, etc.) or scheduled events. You can even wipe free space "when idle"; Ability to retain Restore Points, newsreader support; New User Interface; New Welcome Screen; Quick Launch Icon; Secure Files with Strong Encryption; Retention of Restore Points; Stealth mode; Privacy Guard Auto Reboot; Destruction of file attributes from previously "deleted" files; Automatic Updates; New Privacy Guard design; Panic key; Allocate system resources from within the program; Generate and submit Support Tickets directly from Privacy Suite; Upgrade protection retains your prior CyberScrub program settings; and Task Shortcut Keys.

Computer System Requirements to operate CyberScrub Privacy Suite: 
•	Windows 98/Me/NT/2000/XP 
 
•	At least 16 MB RAM 

•	Pentium Processor 

•	At minimum 14 MB of free disk space.

CyberScrub LLC, a global developer of security Applications Company based in Atlanta, Georgia, is the developer of CyberScrub Privacy Suite. CyberScrub recently received a Dun & Bradstreet Open Ratings score of "94" out of a possible 100 for providing outstanding customer service. Overall, CyberScrub offers excellent protection via its numerous features and is an excellent value for Internet Privacy Protection.

MSRP $49.95


