Title: 
Dedicated Server: Essential Or Simply An Added Benefit?

Word Count:
474

Summary:
First lets talk about what a dedicated server is. A dedicated server is kind of what it sounds like. It is a server that is completely owned by its user and therefore avoids all of the usage and management hassles of a shared server. Often the management services are provided by the hosting company that “leases” these servers for an extra fee. They can be of all different sizes with anywhere from one to several different remote users being on the server at the same time.

T...


Keywords:
dedicated server


Article Body:
First lets talk about what a dedicated server is. A dedicated server is kind of what it sounds like. It is a server that is completely owned by its user and therefore avoids all of the usage and management hassles of a shared server. Often the management services are provided by the hosting company that “leases” these servers for an extra fee. They can be of all different sizes with anywhere from one to several different remote users being on the server at the same time.

The connectivity can be from one upstream link to several high quality links upstream depending on the quality of the dedicated server. Generally it is wise to pay more because you get the back up of several links in the event that one goes down and you are also able to have better connections often with other sites and other computers as you have several routes available to you with the different upstream links.

Benefits of the dedicated beyond the fact that you don’t have to share your space with anyone else are many. For one thing it is in a remote location. This allows you to connect and do your work from any other computer in the world that has connectivity to the internet. You also do this work with the benefit of an up-to-date processor and large memory capacity that does not depend on what you have available to you wherever you are. This allows you to do high quality and powerful work even from less than adequate computers that may be at your disposal depending on where you are. It basically provides you with another computer but for cheaper than it would be to invest in a new computer physically.

Another huge benefit that you get with a dedicated server is the company’s management service. You basically have a team of expert computer technicians watching your server making sure that it is secure and running smoothly. You also have them at your disposal when something is not working right or you are not sure what you are doing wrong. They generally are able to troubleshoot quickly and this service is included in the fee for the server itself.

So should you have a dedicated server? Well that depends on what your computing needs are. Generally the average computer user does not need the extra power and space and the larger companies have their own servers physically on location with their own staff managing them. So that leaves the small business owner who doesn’t want the overhead of staff and physical servers on location but need the extra power and space that a dedicated server will provide them. Typically these people enjoy the remote connectivity that these server’s provide so they can keep track of their work no matter where they are.


