Title: 
Does A Mother Board Still Exist?

Word Count:
401

Summary:
The answer is yes, and I am going to explain what a mother board is in this article so you can understand not only that they exist but also in what capacity that they exist. A mother board (or mobo for short) is the main circuit system in a complicated electronical system like a computer which is the most common thing in which they exist. It is the command station, if you will, and if you are going to add anything on to the system it will have to go through and be compatible ...


Keywords:
mother board


Article Body:
The answer is yes, and I am going to explain what a mother board is in this article so you can understand not only that they exist but also in what capacity that they exist. A mother board (or mobo for short) is the main circuit system in a complicated electronical system like a computer which is the most common thing in which they exist. It is the command station, if you will, and if you are going to add anything on to the system it will have to go through and be compatible with the mother board.

Since a computer is the most common location for a motherboard we will choose to describe the mother board as it relates to the computer. Usually it will consist of a processor (i.e. intel Pentium, or athalon, etc.), and a main memory, and then the circuitry that make it the main board.

Other names for the mother board of a computer include the main board, or the logic board, or the system board. It is the brain or the central nervous system of that machine what ever it may be. Other components of a computers hardware such as the monitor, or drives, or the keyboard, or the video card, or the modem (you get the idea but I need more words to give this article the proper length that is required) will be attached into the main board via wire connections. These devices need to be compatible with the system board if the user who installed them wants these devices to work on that computer. These devices are (in our previous analogy) the peripheral nervous system or the PNS that relays information to and from the CNS.

The reason that most people don’t know much about the mother board is that they only worry about it when they are looking to buy a new computer. And even then it is not in the terms that are being explained here it is merely in terms of the components of the main board. How fast is the processor? How many megahertz? How much memory capacity does it have? How many gigs? This is a sad fact because the mother board is perhaps the most important part of the computer and works so well that it never even crosses the mind of the user normally. Yet it gets no credit where credit is due!


