Title: 
Download Ipod Movies And Videos

Word Count:
598

Summary:
Download movies and videos to your Ipod is not always that easy for two considerations-1-A lot of people are unsure as to how to transfer content from their DVDs to their Ipods, and 2- Many people haven't got the knowledge they need of where to download all the free movies and games etc for their Ipod. Here in this article I will solve these two problems with a few easy steps!


Keywords:
free ipod movies, free ipod download


Article Body:
Download movies and videos to your Ipod is not always that easy for two considerations-1-A lot of people are unsure as to how to transfer content from their DVDs to their Ipods, and 2- Many people haven't got the knowledge they need of where to download all the free movies and games etc for their Ipod. Here in this article I will solve these two problems with a few easy steps!

Before you can begin to download movies from the DVDs to your Ipod you will need to get some decent DVD ripping software. Ripping software transfers the images of the content from your DVDs and lets you store it on the computer. As soon as you have the images on file, you can do what you like with them. I can't, in a short article like this, go into which of the software programs is the best, but two of the very popular ripping programs are the ones from Imtoo and Xilisoft. Do a search engine search to find out more.

As soon as you have made your choice and got hold of a DVD ripper, just take your time to learn how to use the program, and transfer whatever movie you want on your computer. These programs can give files strange names, so try to save the files to somewhere you won't forget, and with a name that is easy to remember. .

Often when you use these programs they will rip your film in AVI format-which your Ipod will not be able to play. It is not difficult to get round this, just use the ripping software to convert the ripped AVI file into a MP4 file. The Ipod will be able to handle this with no trouble whatsoever.

As soon as you have your film stored as an  MP4, the rest couldn't be easier. Open Itunes on your Imac or whatever computer you have, connect the Ipod, and transfer the saved MP4 to the Ipod just as you would with any film. It is very easy to download ipod movies and videos with this system.

This system, of course, will be of no use if you are looking to download free ipod movies and videos That needs a different method. Once you know the system, it is not difficult to do. A lot of people seem to think that it is easy to get free movies and videos from P2P sites and similar, but it is against the law, and the files you can download will usually contain errors, and will often contain spyware and malware, which could well cause damage your computer or your beloved Ipod.

The good news is that we are now starting to see the appearance of legal download sites. These sites give you fast access to virtually anything you would want for your Ipod-music, games, movies, tv shows etc. These are a totally diffeent ball game from the illegal sites. In order to provide fast, clean downloads, they have to charge a small administration fee when you join as a member. This fee is normally around $20 to $50, and from then on, you pay nothing. If you joined a site like this, do you think you would get more than $50 worth of free movies etc? It is easy, with sites like these, to get a lot more value than you ever paid for.

I'm hoping the tips in this article will allow you to download all the free ipod movies and videos you could ever need, but without breaking the law or risking ruining your computer or Ipod with viruses!


