Title: 
Download  Free Ipod Song

Word Count:
494

Summary:
Downloading free Ipod songs is not as simple as you may have first assumed.


Keywords:
download free ipod song, free songs for ipod


Article Body:
Downloading free Ipod songs is not as simple as you may have first assumed. When you first begin to search for free stuff to download to your Ipod, you feel like there are all kinds of websites just waiting to cater to your every need. Sadly, some of these free sites may wind up with you in trouble with the law, and also there is a good chance of damaging your Ipod too. Check out these tips to stay safe and legal!

Tip 1
Try and stay secure. It's very easy to get carried away when looking for free stuff to download, and some of the more unscrupulous sites will rely on this and use their downloads to infect your computer with spyware and viruses etc. When you use these sites quite frequently you will find that the things you download are not what they claimed them to be. This is because people upload their viruses and spyware and change the names to a popular file, in the hope that someone will download it by mistake.

Tip 2
Try not to break the law. No matter what people say, it is illegal to download from the torrent sites like that. It can be quite obvious as some of them look very shady, but then others try very hard to give the illusion of respectability. The authorities get a little bit better at tracking downloads like that all the time, so the risk of illegal downloads is more each day. Do you really want to end up in the slammer just to get a free song?

Tip 3
Take the time to find a legal site. The hardest thing about trying to find a free Ipod song download site is finding a reliable site that you can trust and is 100% legal. The main problem is that the illegal sites don't really like to admit that they are breaking the law or that they operate in a grey area-that would get rid of their visitors pretty sharp, and most of them use their visitors to make money by clicking ads or something like that.

Thankfully there is a much safer option these days. Lately there have been more and more of a new kind of download site emerging. These sites have excellent collections of Ipod songs, games, movies, anything you want really, and the downloads are all very high speed and in very good condition. The catch is that you have to pay an admin fee before you can get access, but it's usually not too much, maybe $20 or $40 or so. The fee then usually entitles you to a lifetime membership, allowing you to download anything you like as often as you like! Believe me it's easy to get $40 worth of free downloads once you get access to the inside of the sites!

Hopefully I've made you think twice before using the shady download sites that are all over the web-follow my tips and make sure you stay safe!


