Title: 
Download Free Ipod Nano Song

Word Count:
499

Summary:
There are two easy ways to download a free Ipod Nano song, or even songs for any other Ipod come to think of it. A lot of people are confused by this, so I'm hoping you will find that this article will help you.


Keywords:
download free ipod nano songs


Article Body:
There are two easy ways to download a free Ipod Nano song, or even songs for any other Ipod come to think of it. A lot of people are confused by this, so I'm hoping you will find that this article will help you.

The starting point for many people is to take the songs on their CD collection, and download them to their Ipod. If you start here, then you have immediately got some songs to listen to, and you don't need to pay any money to do it! It can be done like this:

Step 1-
Start your computer, and make sure you are connected to the internet. You need the Itunes program, so download that if you haven't already done so, and be sure you have the latest version. Neither the download nor the update take very long.

Step 2-
Now we need to rip the songs from your CD collection to get them on to the computer. This is not difficult to do, Itunes can do all of the work. It can take quite a bit of time if you have a lot of CDs, so allow an hour or two if you've got a lot of music to rip.

Step 3-
Use the USB lead to connect the computer and your Ipod. As soon as the two pieces of equipment recognise each other, simply use drag and drop to move your chosen songs onto the Ipod. Ipods are not necessarily quick, especially the Nanos, so you may have to wait a bit while the download finishes..

Step 4-
When you have finished this, you can listen to your downloads. That really is all there is to it for the first way to download free Ipod Nano song.

Another way of downloading free music is by finding a good free mkusic download site, and downloading some music from it. This is not easy though, as many of the sites claiming to offer “free” downloads will make you pay a per download fee, and some can even be dangerous to your computer or Ipod, by infecting them with unwanted software..

If you can find some download sites that you can trust, you will probably find it well worth your while. Most of the best sites will charge you a one off fee to join the site, which goes towards the upkeep of their servers and software. This should ensure that the site will have good quality downloads, and download at a reasonable speed. I have done some research into these sites, and ome of the best of these can be found in the links at the end of this article

I hpoe this article has helped you to understand better how to download free Ipod Nano songs. Once you have gotten used to the method, you should find there is no limit on what you can do with it. If you did find this useful, why not pass it on to a friend using the link at the top right?


