Title: 
Download Iphone Movies

Word Count:
520

Summary:
If you have been lucky enough to get your hands on an Iphone, you may be interested to know that it's possible to download movies for your Iphone from many different places.


Keywords:
free iphone movies, free iphone movie downloads


Article Body:
If you have been lucky enough to get your hands on an Iphone, you may be interested to know that it's possible to download movies for your Iphone from many different places. The Iphone's popularity has overtaken even the most optimistic projections, so it would seem that watching movies on your Iphone may well just be the new black!

It's actually possible to download movies for your Iphone from the internet, which is useful for a lot of reasons, the main one being the cost-it's very cheap compared to buying each movie individually etc. You will however need some specific hardware to get yourself going.

The first thing you will need is a computer. It doesn't have to be one that you own, you could quite as easily do this at a friends house or something. As long as it's a fairly modern computer specification shouldn't be an issue.

The other obvious thing is an internet connection. Specifications play a bigger part here, so you will realistically need the fastest connection you can find. That's not to say that you won't be able to download anything with a slow connection, but the slower your internet, the longer it will take for you to download the movies. You could still use a 56k modem if you wanted to, but be prepared for a download that may take a month or so!

The only other thing you need is a trustworthy download site. As you've probably noticed, there are myriad sites on the internet, from which you can download just about anything you can imagine. Most people are aware of the Peer to Peer or Torrent sites that have become popular over the last five years or so, but few people know of the danger they hold-using sites like this is illegal and can harm your computer.

If you have ever used a torrent site, you may have found that sometimes you download something and it isn't what was described at all. This is because torrent sites are the number 1 hangout for hackers and spammers, they upload files with fake names and then stuff them full of adware and viruses etc, leaving people to download them without knowing how dangerous they are. Is it really worth damaging your computer and your Iphone, or worse yet going to jail just to get a free movie download?

Thankfully there are some more sensible alternatives around these days. There is a new breed of download site where you can get not only movies for your Iphone but games and music too, and all for free. These ingenious sites work by having you pay a set fee up front, and then giving you unlimited downloads of whatever you want. The downloads are usually high speed and in good condition also. The price for these services is usually something between $30 and $50, and for that you get unlimited downloads for life. Sites like these are definitely the ones to go with if you are looking for downloads for your Iphone.

I'm hoping that this article has made you more aware of the dangers when looking for Iphone downloads.


