Title: 
Download Dvd To Ipod. How It's done

Word Count:
425

Summary:
If you want to avoid the incredibly high download fees that are charged by some websites, it may be a good idea to download your own DVDs to your Ipod.


Keywords:
ipod downloads, free ipod movies


Article Body:
If you want to avoid the incredibly high download fees that are charged by some websites, it may be a good idea to download your own DVDs to your Ipod. You can, if you want to, carry aroungd your entire DVD collection on your little Ipod, so you can watch it whenever you choose. The tips in this article will help you to do this

Download DVD To Ipod-Step 1-
You should start by getting hold of some software. The software you need is called a ripper, and it will rip the contents of the DVD, and change them into a format compatible with your Ipod. You have a bit of choice here, with programs available by, for example, Imtoo and Xilisoft. Use the search engines to get what you need, and make sure that the software you choose can convert the files into MP4 format, the format of your video Ipod.

Download DVD To Ipod Step 2-
Now that you have got hold of the software, just follow the developer's instructions for ripping the content from your DVD. Save the file to a place on your computer so it is easy for you to find it, and don't forget that the content of the DVD will need to be set up before you do the ripping, so if you need something like subtitles, make sure that is set up first. 

Download DVD To Ipod Step 3-
Once you have the ripped content on your computer, you can use the software that you have to change the content to the MP4 format. More often than not content that you rip from DVDs will be in AVI format, which is not compatible with an Ipod, and therefore you need to convert the file. 

Download DVD To Ipod Step 4-
Once the content that you have ripped is converted to MP4, you can open Itunes and upload the file. This is a different process for different versions of Itunes, so you might like to update to the latest version of Itunes before you follow the instructions. As soon as Itunes is pointed at the content you want to transfer to your Ipod, you can download it directly to the Ipod as usual, and watch it whenever you want to. 

There you have it, simple instructions for downloading from DVD to Ipod in only four easy steps! Hopefully you found this useful, and helpful in transferring your DVD collection to your Ipod. If you want to get some free Ipod downloads, you can check the link at the bottom of this article.


