Title: 
Dual Core Laptops: This Isn't Your Last Year's Laptop!

Word Count:
822

Summary:
Two is better than one. Dual Core Laptops are taking over the laptop market. Read to find out how all this extra power and performance will impact your next laptop purchase. This isn't your last year's laptop!


Keywords:
dual core,dual-core laptops,core duo,intel core duo chip,gaming laptops,


Article Body:
Copyright 2006 Titus Hoskins

The laptop world is seeing double. The next evolution in laptops is dual-core technology. Dual-core processors are quickly raising the laptop experience to the next level and laptop users are benefiting from the extra boost in performance.

Dual-core means exactly what you think it means, you have two processors or CPUs in your laptop instead of one. Theoretically this should mean twice the performance level for all those multi-tasking chores we call upon our laptops to do. However, you must have ways or technology (the platform) to utilize and handle all this extra power. There is some catching up to do but to keep things simple, Hyper-Threading, PCI-Express and SLI are all ways of harnessing or using this extra power.

With the recent introduction of the new Centrino Duo Mobile Technology, Intel has entered the multi-core arena. All this extra dual power and Hyper-Threading will finally put some punch into laptops and especially gaming laptops. Now almost on par with desktop PCs, laptops and notebooks can finally hold their heads high when it comes to performance. This isn't your last year's laptop!

How quickly things change, Intel expects the Core Duo chip will be in 230 different laptop designs in the first months of 2006. Intel also claims this Duo chip will deliver 68% more performance over the current Sonoma processor (many manufacturers say this will be around 30%) and reduce battery consumption by another 28% (Giving 5 hours for a standard battery and 10 hours for an extended cell battery).

Still, dual-core processors coupled with Hyper-Threading technology, will and does greatly improve the multi-tasking functions of your next laptop. The only minor hurdle, many of today's current video games can't use all these multi- applications features. But as more games come on stream which can take full advantage of all this new technology, expect your gaming enjoyment to increase. As with any new technology there will probably be a lag time before all the multi-applications can be applied to the majority of new games hitting the market.

Some major laptop makers now sporting the Intel Core Duo include Dell with its new "entertainment" Dell Inspiron e1705 line of high end laptops. HP with its Pavilion dv1000 line of laptops, which comes with a remote and you can play CDs and DVDs without booting up.

Nor is Intel the only player in town with a lot of chips on the gaming table. Intel's main rival AMD has introduced dual-core into its mobile Turion 64 X2 processors. Also keep in mind, in recent head-to-head CNET Labs testing, AMD's Athlon 64 X2 chip performed better than Intel's desktop Dual-Core chip. http://www.cnet.com/4520-6022_1-6410042.html

You're probably wondering, how will all this new laptop technology be applied? And what does it mean for the average laptop owner? What does it mean for gaming laptops?

Well, lets examine one sample notebook to see what all this next generation technology will do for laptops. Take for example, the Xtreme SL, a new gaming laptop designed by Rockdirect. Rockdirect, formerly known as Rock computers, is a leading UK laptop manufacturer who introduced some of the world's first dual core laptops last summer (2005).

Rockdirect's latest gaming offering, the Xtreme SL has specs or features which are rather awe-inspiring, even for the non-gamer. It comes with an AMD Turion 64 ML-44 2.4GHz processor, sporting 1MB L2 Cache and 2 Gigs of DDR 400MHz RAM. More importantly, it has twin NVIDIA GeForce Go 7800 GTX 256MB graphics cards with PCI-Express and SLI (Scalable Link Interface).

SLI lets you have two graphics cards on your laptop, working in tangent to increase or double your graphics performance and visual quality. Throw in a 19 inch WSXGA+ X-Glass TFT Screen and you have a perfect example of where gaming laptops are headed with all this new technology.

For those involved in gaming, this means the ultimate gaming experience can be best captured on a laptop with Dual-core processors and dual graphics cards using all the latest SLI or Hyper-Threading technology. And it is just not for gamers. The new mobile multi-core chips are turning heads for ordinary laptop users who want the best performance possible in their sleek shinny new laptops or notebooks.

Besides, why should gamers have all the fun, these new technologies will greatly benefit all laptop users. It means a sleeker, faster, and more powerful laptop for everyone. It also means longer lasting battery life for your laptop, a much needed improvement. For the demanding laptop user working in multi-media authoring, multi-tasking with video editing, spread sheets, large graphics... these dual core laptops offers a very capable alternative to the bulky and oh-so stationary desktop PC.

This new multi-core technology offers ultimate performance in a sleek, quiet package that buyers will find hard to resist. It will draw even more potential customers into the laptop market, looking for the ultimate in style, portability, and performance. Dual-core laptops may just deliver the goods.

This surely is not your last year's laptop.


