Title: 
Easy Ways To Secure Your Computer

Word Count:
519

Summary:
Just follow these simple tips; your computer will be free from virus and spyware.

1. Stop and think before opening any attachment you receive. 

If you don't know the sender, don't open the attachment - just delete it. It doesn't matter if the subject promises you'll see Britney Spears dancing nude on the kitchen table, just delete it.

Most of the devastating worms and viruses of recent times were distributed via email. These viruses feed on the curiosity and also the...


Keywords:
wireless usb,usb,adapter,wireless


Article Body:
Just follow these simple tips; your computer will be free from virus and spyware.

1. Stop and think before opening any attachment you receive. 

If you don't know the sender, don't open the attachment - just delete it. It doesn't matter if the subject promises you'll see Britney Spears dancing nude on the kitchen table, just delete it.

Most of the devastating worms and viruses of recent times were distributed via email. These viruses feed on the curiosity and also the ignorance of a huge number of email users. People will get an email from fakename@weirdsuspiciousdomain and they'll just open whatever file is attached to it.

If the email is from someone you know, always scan any attachments first before downloading or opening them.

If every email user in the world followed these simple guidelines the distribution of viruses via email will grind to a halt. 

2. Protect yourself 

Good protection on the Internet these days consists of 3 components: anti-virus software, anti-spyware software and a firewall.

Anti-Virus Software:

Good virus protection doesn't need to cost you a fortune. You can get excellent free anti-virus software on the Internet. Even the professional version of their software is very affordable. 

Anti-Spyware Software:

For spyware protection, you can get it for free on the Internet as well. 

A Firewall:

As for a firewall, Windows XP ships with a decent enough firewall. Just make sure it is always enabled. Alternatively you can visit a site like http://www.download.com and search for Zone Alarm, which has an excellent free version. 

The most important thing to keep in mind is that you need to keep your anti-virus software up to date. It is recommended that you update your anti-virus and anti-spyware software at least once a week. An anti-virus program that uses definitions that are months old is just about useless. 

3. Watch out what you download 

Spyware is embedded in a lot of software on the Internet - especially those related to ripping, converting and playing music and videos. That free MP3 player or DVD Ripper you just downloaded may have installed a bunch of harmful spyware without you even knowing about it. 

4. Keep yourself informed 

Major anti-virus software developers like Symantec and Grisoft updates their sites regularly with the latest virus alerts. Visit these sites frequently to keep yourself aware of what threats are doing the rounds and how to avoid them. 

Using these simple and software I have kept my computer virus-free for the past 3 years. It's not rocket science. Just stay alert, use some common sense and you too can stay bug free while still enjoying your Internet experience.

5. Stay clear of pornographic and illegal software sites 

If you want to pick up viruses and spyware quickly, visit some pornographic web sites. One wrong click on a subtle little pop-up or security warning window (which you'll run into often on these type of sites) and you'll have infested yourself with trojan horses, spyware, dialers and other unfavorable software that could leave your computer wide open to further attacks. 

Follow all these useful tips and your computer will be kept secure and virus free.


