Title: 
Easy Guide to Buying Cheap Laptop

Word Count:
517

Summary:
Laptop or notebook computer is a small portable computer. It is light enough to hold on your lap. Laptops can easily perform all tasks that desktops do. Buying laptop is not an easy task to do because there are so many important things that should be kept in mind.


Keywords:
Buying Cheap Laptops


Article Body:
Laptop or notebook computer is a small portable computer. It is light enough to hold on your lap. Laptops can easily perform all tasks that desktops do. Buying laptop is not an easy task to do because there are so many important things that should be kept in mind. Most common things are type of processor, speed of processor, amount of RAM, size of hard disk, brand and support.

You can easily move with your laptop from one place to another due to its portability factor. So check it carefully at the time of buying and if you don’t require portability you can prefer a desktop instead of laptop. Laptops are sophisticated and the perfect device for several business applications like record keeping, wireless networking, presentations and instant communication. 
 
Laptop technology is changing day-by-day thats why it is not an easy job to find the best. These are smaller and faster than the desktop computers. Some high-quality notebooks come with Wireless Fidelity and many with tri-mode 802.11a/b/g wireless system. You can also choose Sony’s latest ultra-portable VAIO VGN-T350P that offers world’s first built-in cellular modem. It can be easily connected to Internet by cell phone. 
 
Business laptops can be easily carried in a briefcase so while purchasing a new one keep in mind that its weight shouldn’t cause you any discomfort because sometimes you’ve to carry it whole day. You can choose lightweight and small laptop in the category of ‘Thin and Light’ and ‘Ultra-portable’. Laptops cost a lot and you can easily buy two desktops at the price of one laptop but keep in mind that you can’t take your desktop all day long. 
 
Some laptops offer a storage space of 60 to 100 GIGS hard drives but you can increase the space with an external hard drive. Laptops are very powerful and can do each and every difficult job but generally you need 256 MB RAM for Windows XP and Mac OS X. you should also check its battery life at the time of purchase because it is an important factor for a traveling businessman. Latest models of notebook computers offer 5 or more hours of power but while choosing laptop battery you should always select a battery with higher numbered cells. Keep in mind that more cells will provide extra longer battery life. 
 
You should also check security feature of laptop. You can choose one of the IBM/Sonoma ThinkPad series that can easily protect your sensitive and confidential company records and documents. Last but not the least factor is price that is extremely important at the time of buying laptop. You can try two or more shops for a reasonable laptop. Buying laptop on Internet is another option for you. You should try to bargain for a special price. Several manufacturers offer cheap prices if you’re buying in bulk. 
 
You shouldn’t sacrifice for the quality for a cheap price. Try to buy a laptop that can easily satisfy your all requirements. You should check speed, upgradeability, and serious gaming factors at the time of buying laptop.


