Title: 
Electric Shaver – Bidding Adieu To Safety Razor

Word Count:
415

Summary:
Gone are the days when you had to live with the cut and bruised skin. No cuts, no irritations whatsoever, thanks to electric shaver, shaving has never been easy for men who shaved to satisfy their wrongly nurtured & cultured notions of masculinity. Shaving your beard is o more a frustrating and a must-wash-face daily (?) routine.

How an Electric Shaver Works

Electric shavers have a rather simple construction that attending minor things like making a small solder or chan...


Keywords:
electric shaver,shaver,braun shaver,billy joe shaver


Article Body:
Gone are the days when you had to live with the cut and bruised skin. No cuts, no irritations whatsoever, thanks to electric shaver, shaving has never been easy for men who shaved to satisfy their wrongly nurtured & cultured notions of masculinity. Shaving your beard is o more a frustrating and a must-wash-face daily (?) routine.

How an Electric Shaver Works

Electric shavers have a rather simple construction that attending minor things like making a small solder or changing batteries is pretty easy even at home. If you open the back cover, you will see three main things inside. They are

1.A set of rechargeable battery
2.A miniature electric motor
3.A gear train system
And there are two significant things on the outside; they are the switch and the set of blades.

Batteries supply power to a circuitry printed on a fiber glass board called as printed circuit board (PCB) when you switch on the shaver. PCB helps organize circuits without messing up with the moving parts like motor and gears. PCB is an intelligent circuit which decides whether batteries need recharging and if the battery is recharging.

When you start, the motor powers the system of gears which are in turn connected to the blades in a particular sequence which means three gears drive the three blades.

The rotary blades rotate closely within their respective safety cages at speeds variable in two or three steps depending on the model you choose. Since the blades rotate, this type of electric shavers is called rotary shavers. Some manufacturers recommend using their shavers on wet face, but this does not mean that you need to use that foam or lather again. Just soaking the face is enough to moisten the beard. Most other models are dry type.

Who Makes Electric Shavers and How to Buy Them
Even a visit to your near super stores can quickly answer your question. There are numerous reputed models and then there are local and Chinese models available. The top selling brands are easily Philips, Braun, and Panasonic.

Check out the features before you buy. If you are looking for just a trimmer, you need not buy a shaver which hardly helps. Check for battery life & standby time and warrantee. Chargeable battery types will be convenient. Men’s shavers usually have three heads (blades) unlike the women’s shavers which are slightly different in construction. Check for ‘CE’ certification. Buy always from reputed shops. Check whether it comes bundled with cleaning accessories etc.


