Title: 
Finding A Computer Repair Shop You Can Trust

Word Count:
357

Summary:
Your have a computer repair that needs to get done right away. You are ready to take it anywhere. Question is, where should you take it? Does it really matter where you take it? I would suggest that it does. Here are some things you may have not considered before.

What kind of turn around time do they have? Some computer repair shops will take two to three weeks to return your computer to you. Are you ready to be without your computer for that long? If not, shop around. Th...


Keywords:
computer repair classes,computer repair training,computer repair


Article Body:
Your have a computer repair that needs to get done right away. You are ready to take it anywhere. Question is, where should you take it? Does it really matter where you take it? I would suggest that it does. Here are some things you may have not considered before.

What kind of turn around time do they have? Some computer repair shops will take two to three weeks to return your computer to you. Are you ready to be without your computer for that long? If not, shop around. There are computer repair shops that can get your computer back to you in as little as a few hours. Some of these faster companies can charge more but the speed is worth it if you are working on a big project that has to get done right away.

What do they charge for their hourly fee? Some companies charge really high fees and take a really long time to get the computer back to you. You want to take your repair to a computer repair shop that will be quick and will do the repair right the first time. Look for a computer repair shop that posts their prices. Most shops have a set price list for specific tasks. Look for a company that can give you a solid quote before they start their work. You should also make sure they will contact you for approval if there is any reason to increase their repair bill before they start the repair.

Is their staff A+ certified? The A+ certification doesn't guarantee that the computer technician knows what he is doing but it is generally a good indicator that they have invested the time into their craft to do it well. You should also find out if everyone on staff is A+ certified or only certain staff. Ask to have the certified staff do the work.

Trust your gut. If after talking with someone at the shop in person you don't get a good feeling about them, walk away. In any given town there are many people who do computer repairs. Don't be afraid of shopping around.


