Title: 
Five Reasons to Love Macintosh Computers

Word Count:
536

Summary:
I bought my first iMac in 1998, have upgraded twice, and am still happy as a proverbial clam. Here, then are five reasons to love the Apple Macintosh.


Keywords:
macintosh,  macintosh computer, apple macintosh, apple computer, macbook, adobe creative suite 3, cheap macintosh, mac p


Article Body:
If you've never owned an Apple computer, you don't know what you're missing. On the other hand, if you regularly use Macintosh computers, you understand that once you have a Mac, you'll never go back. An Apple Macintosh - whether it's a MacBook, a Mac Pro, or an iMac - takes personal computing to a whole new level. I bought my first iMac in 1998, have upgraded twice, and am still happy as a proverbial clam. Here, then are five reasons to love the Apple Macintosh. 

1. Cool elegance. If there's one thing Steve Jobs knows how to do, it's designing electronics that are ultra-cool yet beautifully elegant. Why have a cumbersome big box desktop computer when you can have everything you need in an elegant iMac? Behind that clear, bright 16:10 aspect ratio monitor is the entire computer, including a DVD drive and a 64-bit Intel Core 2 Duo processor. There's even a webcam built into the iMac so you can video chat or video conference whenever the whim strikes. 

2. Intuitive functionality. Even though Windows copied the friendly desktop interface from Apple Macintosh, they still haven't been able to get it right. Navigating the Mac's interface is truly intuitive, engaging, and just downright fun. With a mobile computing product like the MacBook, you can take full computing functionality wherever you go. And, wherever you'll go, you'll always be connected, since the MacBook automatically finds nearby wireless networks and gives you nearly instant online access. 

3. Digital living. Macintosh computers are designed to embrace the digital lifestyle. MacBooks and iMacs come with iLife, a wonderful array of applications that let you effortlessly share photo albums, record podcasts and songs, and even create and edit movies. You can even publish your creations on the Web with a single click. How cool is that?

4. Bug-free. If you've been wrestling with Vista the past few months (or any other Windows operating system, for that matter), you don't know the meaning of freedom. Macintosh computers' operating systems are bug-free, and as for upgrades, you get to choose when to receive software update notifications, and always have the choice of updating now or in the future. Mac simply isn't intrusive; you get to control technology, instead of having technology control you.

5. Workhorse. Macintosh computers are more than a way to frolic in your spare time. They're also workhorses. For years, graphic artists and publishers have almost exclusively used Macs for work. With the Mac Pro, you can get Adobe Creative Suite 3, a suite of tools specifically designed for creative professionals. Whether you're a web designer, a graphic artist, an art director, or a video professional, Adobe Creative Suite 3 will make your work easier, better, and more fun. 

There are those who say that Macintosh computers are limited in that much of the available software is only compatible with PCs. My experience is that my Mac can do anything a PC can do - and do it better. But for those diehards who insist that they can't live without Windows, the next version of Mac OSX, Leopard, will allow you to install Windows XP on the Mac. Right now, you can run Windows in emulation mode...although for the life of me, I don't understand why you would want to!


